Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Simon Property Group Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kathy and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Ms.
Shelly Doran Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Hello.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to our annual and quarterly periodic reports filed with the SEC for a detailed discussion.
Acknowledging the fact that this call may be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that our call includes time-sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date April 29 2011.
During today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC's Regulation G.
Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the earnings release or the company's supplemental information package that was included in this morning's Form 8-K.
This package is also available on the Simon website in the Investors section under Financial Information Quarterly Supplemental Packages.
Participating in today's call will be David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Simon.
Okay good morning everybody.
Welcome.
We're glad you took time away from watching the royal wedding and we're pleased to report FFO of $1.61 per share for the quarter an increase of 14.2% over the first quarter of 2010.
And in comparing that that takes into account the loss on extinguishment of debt that we had into the -- in the first quarter of 2010.
Our quarterly results exceeded the First Call consensus by $0.07 per share.
Total sales on a rolling 12-month basis were $500 per square foot up 8.2% as compared to $462 per square foot as of 3/31/2010.
Please note that this $500 per square foot is on more than 52 million square feet of GLA.
As of 3/31 occupancy was 92.9% 70 basis points higher than the year-earlier period and the releasing spread for the rolling 12 months was a positive $5.11 per foot.
Beginning in 2011 we changed our reporting of spreads comparing opening and closing rents on a same space basis.
The statistic is now also based on total base rent which is minimal rent plus the common area maintenance charge or CAM and we believe this new methodology will help give investors a better economic picture of certain of our leasing activity.
Our releasing spreads always have been and will be under the new methodology will include all in-line space including spaces larger than 10 000 square feet.
So it's all in-line space that that's compared to.
Comparable property NOI growth was 2.3%.
We believe just to highlight a few things first of all the growth in the quarter was virtually 100%.
Increase was driven by rents.
In addition to just compare the Q not to get overly worried too much from one quarter to the next but when you compare Q1 2010 to Q1 2011 I would just keep in mind that in '11 we had the significantly higher snow removal expense in the first quarter of this year as well as we -- as you recall last year we had a -- our credit loss was actually recovery and this year we actually had bad debt expense.
When you put the 2 together and normalize those our comp NOI growth would be over 100 basis points higher than the 2.3% that was reported.
Capital markets we've been busy as always.
We closed a lock rate on 9 new mortgages totaling $962 million.
Our share of that was $543 million.
The weighted average rate on the loans is 5.3% and the term -- weighted average term is 9.4 years.
During the quarter we also paid off $282 million of unsecured debt with our cash and we end the quarter with $937 million of cash on hand including our share of JV cash and our credit availability on our facility is $3 billion for a total liquidity position of nearly $4 billion.
And as you know in '11 we expect to generate more than $1 billion of cash after dividends.
Development activity.
We're pleased with this on a number of fronts.
First of all we opened our second Premium Outlet in South Korea Paju Premium Outlets located approximately 50 minutes northwest of downtown Seoul.
Early reports have been extremely favorable and the center is 99% leased at opening.
And just to put it in perspective our Yeoju Premium Outlet in South Korea continues to perform exceedingly well.
It is 100% leased and generates sales of $875 per square foot in U.S.
dollars.
We also completed the expansion renovation of Las Vegas Outlet Center.
And in conjunction with that we rebranded it Las Vegas Premium Outlets South and is located on Las Vegas Strip near McCarran International Airport.
We have 2 new developments under construction both Premium Outlets: Johor in Malaysia which will open in November of this year; and Merrimack in New Hampshire which will open in the summer of 2012 but I'm really pushing for the spring of 2012 but that's another story.
During the first quarter we started construction on 9 renovation projects and now have a total of 10 under construction.
And in 2011 we've been obviously very busy.
We plan to open 32 new anchors and big boxes including Herberger's Kohls Carson Pirie Scott Target Dick's Opry and Marshall's and H.H.
Gregg just to name a few which I did.
And we currently have 8 anchor or box deals scheduled to open in 2012.
Details on cost returns and timing for these projects are provided in our supplemental reporting package.
Now let me turn to Japan for moment.
Obviously we're very concerned about the people and what's happening there.
But to give you some perspective our portfolio is comprised of 8 properties 4 in the south 3 in the Tokyo market and one in the north.
You will recall that we own a 40% interest in these assets with our well-known and esteemed colleague and partner Mitsubishi Estates.
Sendai the smallest of our Japanese assets was damaged by the earthquake and has been closed since the earthquake.
Fortunately repairs are currently underway and we expect a reopening in mid-June of this year.
Costs to repair the center after the payment of our deductible are covered by insurance.
Since the earthquake 3 of our properties outside of Tokyo Gatemo Sano and Ami have been allowed to operate only 8 hours per day due to rationing of electricity.
This ended yesterday and the centers have reverted to their regular 10-hour operating schedule.
However given the environment there this could be subject to change.
It is too early to gauge the short-term impact of the earthquake tsunami and damaged nuclear facilities to our business.
Sales of the centers near Tokyo have been below year-ago levels since the quake.
As things settle down in Japan we expect these highly productive high-quality Premium Outlets to revert back to historical trends.
However we anticipate that softness will continue for the remainder of 2011.
Not to be undone by that earthquake the good news I will talk a minute about Opry Mills.
As you know we had a historical flood that ravaged Nashville and submerged Opry Mills and flooded it with several feet of water in the mall.
The good news is we've reached an agreement with our lenders to finance the restoration of the mall.
Opry Mills and its lenders will continue the litigation to have our insurance -- insurers comply with their obligation to pay all the amounts they agreed to in the event of a flood loss.
Repairs and rebuilding of the landmark property have begun and is expected to open in the spring of 2012.
Most of the previous anchor tenants have committed to be part of the reopening and many of the previous in-line stores have committed to the restored Opry Mills.
In addition many new tenants have agreed to come to open stores at the property.
We expect on a stabilized basis to exceed the NOI that was in place prior to the flood.
Based upon our results for the quarter and expectations for the balance of the year today we increased the low end of our 2011 FFO guidance by $0.10 per share and raised the top end by $0.05.
These increases in guidance reflects the improving business conditions we are seeing in the U.S.
our ability to execute our game plan.
However it is partially offset by the uncertainty in Japan and the continued closure of Opry Mills.
Finally let me just mention some management additions.
We have recognized that we are very focused in maintaining our leadership position and our desire to execute on many fronts.
So that we can continue to deliver sector-leading growth we can and should add to our executive team.
So accordingly we welcome 2 new additions to the ranks of executives: David Contis Steve Fivel.
David will lead our regional mall platform working with me and Rick and assisted by John Rulli.
His first day on the job is next Monday.
I'll be out of town by the way just to -- so -- Steve Fivel has been here since March and he's assisting Jim Barkley our General Counsel on all the areas he oversees.
We've all known David and Steve for many years and we're very happy to add them to our team to continue our contributions that we expect them to do.
So summary.
We had a very good quarter another one in our long string of successful quarters and we're ready for questions and answers.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JP Morgan.
A couple of things.
First of all looking at the leasing spreads they picked up considerably from the year-end mark up from about 4% to 10%.
If we're thinking about that is that more driven by say the fourth quarter of '09 just the dropping out of the mix of low rent openings? Or is it more driven by you had a good second half of year 2010 in terms of sales good 2011 so far so really the opening rent levels are kind of picking up there more? I would say it's more of that.
It's a 12-month period of time so it's representative of what's going on.
But look demand is better we're able to generate better rents.
It's still a very difficult process in doing that but we've got a good group of people and a very good portfolio.
And when you put the 2 together we're able to drive rents.
Got it.
Okay.
Over the last couple of quarters you put some money to work in terms of mortgage investments.
Can you talk a little bit about that? Is that more investments that we should think of as short term putting capital to work and you're getting a nice return on it and at some point you get the money back? Or is it more along the lines of there's a shot at getting to the real estate? Well given -- we did it initially with both in mind but the odds are based upon what's happening in the capital markets that we'll probably just get paid in par.
Okay.
And then last question I mean sales growth has obviously been pretty good over the past year or so.
I mean how far away do you think we are from new development on the traditional mall side? You've been active obviously on the outlet side but is that something that you're thinking about more these days? I don't see it.
In my -- I think it was in '07 maybe it was early '08 I had said a decade away back then.
So I may have been a little over dramatic.
But we -- Rick you can comment on this.
We just don't see new full-price retail being built any time in the near future.
And I think that one of the other companion trends to that is that the retailers as their demand for space picks up are being accommodated by redevelopments and expansions of the existing square footage and properties.
So the existing properties are getting a lot stronger and that in turn is going to make it even more problematic to institute new development going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan of Cowen.
LLC</strong> David one of your peers in this quarter talked about buying anchor boxes.
And I'm just curious if that's something -- I'm sure you're been doing it all along but I'm just curious if you're seeing more opportunity to do that now or if you're being more aggressive if the opportunities arise? I will tell you Jim that it's standard operating procedure here to reclaim the boxes that anchors that some of our tenants might have owned that closed.
So the strategy is not all that different.
We like to have tenants kind of secured.
We like to drive a tough bargain on it.
So it's not -- we don't call it kind of newsworthy events it's just kind of standard operating procedure that if we have the ability to buy and retenant it we will if it makes economic sense.
Rick you can add to that but we've done a lot of it over the years.
Yes just to that point the -- if you think about our portfolio in the industry over the years we've had the May Macy merger we had Lord &amp; Taylor abandoning substantial stores we have Montgomery Mall abandoning many stores Parisian.
Over the years we've redone about 75 department stores and you can go back in all of our 8-Ks and all that activity is tracked.
And in virtually every instance we have ended up with a replacement that is stronger.
But David's point we'd like to know what we're going to do with the box before we acquire the box and we want to make sure that we're getting an appropriate return on that capital investment.
And some of the -- Jim just to -- and you can see this in our 8-Ks over the period of time but we're doing 32 box deals in '11.
Some of those were purchased boxes some were lease expirations some were lease buyouts.
So that's just standard operating procedure here.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And kind of a related follow-up question on this point.
You have talked on several calls now for a long time about the double-digit returns you get from this kind of box redevelopment activity that you've done.
And Rick you've talked about it in detail over the years.
And then if I connect that -- trying to connect the dots if you will to the culling of the portfolio issue that -- this was talked about in the last call in reference to cap rate movement.
I think you David indicated that you saw cap rates becoming attractive on potential sales opportunities and of course you're in the market with a couple of assets today.
Is there much opportunity or do you ever connect the 2 i.e.
you look at doing a big-box renovation with the intention of and generating a double-digit yield with the intention of selling that asset when completed to a buyer that likes that type of property.
Is this...
Well all the time.
I mean let's just talk an example.
I mean if we have a -- take a in theory a mall that you could sell at an 8 cap rate and we redevelop the box at a 6 we've lost value.
If we redevelop that box at a 10 and we think it's an 8-cap asset then we've created value.
So we always take a difficult economic review of the redevelopment opportunity.
So the answer -- simple answer is absolutely.
And sometimes you want the ability to redevelop the box to sell the assets.
So again that just factors in to what we're trying to do.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of Macquarie.
So lately there's been a lot of talk about big-box retailers downsizing their square footage.
And I think you guys have a great perspective on this because you own both type of retail properties.
On the margin do you see some of that coming into the malls going forward minus the Best Buy mobile retailer? Well certainly there are some that are playing around with the size of their store.
Old Navy is a good example of that.
They went through a pretty significant period where they started at one size grew to another size and I think they're reverting back to kind of their original roots.
I think that some of the bigger category-killer types the Best Buy's of the world are all looking at their footprint.
We expect that some of the bigger stores ultimately will try to increase their efficiency.
So we're very aware of that.
And I'd say sure there are a number of retailers that are looking at the size of their box and what it needs to be going forward.
Rick I don't know if you want to add anything? Yes I would just say on the specialty store side there's no consistent pattern for every one tenant that says "Well I was 8 000 I think I want to be 6 500 in my new prototype." We have others that are saying "We were at 6 000 we need to be 10 000." It's really a function of the momentum in that particular business the number of lines that they're introducing that they want to incorporate into their stores and the way they want to configure their stores.
So I don't think that it is a broad-based trend across the retail space.
Okay.
And second question as you're sitting down with tenants during these negotiations have tenants started already -- started to show some level of concern regarding commodity price increases? Not just gas prices from the retail sales standpoint but maybe on the commodity input front like cotton prices which have doubled in the past year? Was that putting pressure on margins and maybe your ability to keep occupancy costs up? Well look I think their attitude right now is they believe they can pass that on.
And I think this year we'll get a good sense of whether they're capable of doing that.
And if that's the case then I think it's business as usual.
If they're unable to pass that on they're going to naturally look at other areas that -- to reduce their operating expenses and it may come after -- they may come after the landlord community.
But up to this point we have not seen it.
And our defense to that is that we have great assets and good people and we can hold our own in that kind of discussion.
But at this point they seem to think -- not universal but they seem to think that they can pass it on and the consumer is willing to pay for the good as long as the consumer sees value in that good.
And I would just add that historically the tenants will bring forth any fact that they can put on the table to try and argue for lower rent and we will -- as David said we'll do what we can to argue for what we think is fair rent and this is nothing new.
Today it could be raw materials.
Three years ago it could have been healthcare could have been gas prices.
Whatever the external circumstances that can broaden the discussion they will do.
And I think our results show as David has said we can hold our own in those conversations.
And last quick question.
Your lease spreads that increased pretty significantly.
I was wondering if you could give just the first quarter 2011 lease spread itself without doing 2012 month? Order no.
We look at it on a yearly basis.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann of Goldman Sachs.
With sales up as much as they are now year-over-year and obviously occupancy trending up 70 basis points where do you think you are now in terms of your ability to push rent versus retailers? And I guess how are they responding just given your sort of focus on top assets? Well look I don't like to talk about our negotiations with our clients in the public domain.
We're trying to create a fair deal for us and for them.
And as I said earlier it is still a challenge.
The retailers are very focused.
The impact of the great recession is not that far from their mind.
And so we've got a -- that we've got a -- we've got to deal with that fact.
And you got to try and create a win-win.
So the good news is the environment's better we're able to increase our rents and we're trying to find that right deal.
And the good news is our occupancy cost for the outlets and malls together is at 12.2% for the first quarter and that's pretty good.
So we're in good shape.
In a lot of cases we're under rented.
And in those cases we think we can still be able to increase rents and create profitability for the tenants.
Okay.
And then obviously with David Contis joining next week any sort of changes you anticipate in strategy or just really continue to focus on your platform? Well look I think we have so much to do that we wanted another aggressive thoughtful energetic real estate guy on the team to do what we want to do.
So we look at it as another experienced set of hands to get the job done.
And beyond that no he'll be a great fit.
He'll work a lot with Rick.
Between the way those 2 talk hopefully I'll be able to get a word in edgewise.
That's why I'm leaving the first couple of days next week.
So -- but no he'll be great.
And other than that I just think we got a lot to do.
The other thing for David he's had a good experience internationally.
So that's like a gift with purchase in terms of him coming on board.
Wouldn't surprise me if he or we find an opportunity internationally because of his involvement.
And he just loves this business.
And you want to have guys that love this business on the team.
And actually just on that point I mean your stock's up now almost 20% since mid-January obviously outpacing the RMC [ph] but how are you guys thinking about external growth apart from the redevelopment that you've announced.
I mean sort of is M&amp;A still on the table? Well right now M&amp;A is always something that we look at.
But Jay at this point we don't see much out there in terms of big M&amp;A.
But we're active and we continue to look at a lot of different things.
Our next question comes from the line of Christine McElroy of UBS.
Just a follow-up on a prior comment.
I see what you're saying about expansions redevelopment creating more space and better performing malls to accommodate retailer growth but if you're a retailer like Abercrombie or Ann Taylor and you're already in all the better malls in the country and you're actually closing stores in underperforming malls how do you grow from here? Is it new concepts? Is it straight retail? Well look I think for Abercrombie it's obviously international.
But I mean we're doing a lot of business with Ann Taylor so they obviously feel like there's places for them to go in existing portfolios.
A number of these retailers are also looking to get in the outlet sector to grow.
I mean Bloomingdale's is a great example of that.
I think we have 3 out of the first 7 or 8 right Rick? Yes.
So some are looking at international.
It's interesting when we first invested internationally we did it in '98.
And the theory was our U.S.
retailers would go abroad.
We didn't realize it would take them 12 years to do it.
But thankfully even though it took them 12 years to get there we made a lot of money in our pursuit of international expansion.
So they're finding avenues to grow.
I still don't think though -- Christy I still don't think the demand is so great that it will foster new full-price ground-up redevelopment.
When I say it won't I mean there's always going to be maybe a deal here or there that get done.
But in order to get that done you're going to have to have economics -- from our standpoint those economics probably to motivate the retailers to take a risk would be something for us that would be very hard for us to underwrite vis-à-vis the other areas that we can invest our capital.
But that could change.
And I expect it to change but I don't think it'll change in the next year or 2.
And just in response to that question in terms of how they grow and David alluded to this most of our retailers are now very engaged in brand extensions.
So Gymboree is growing with Crazy 8.
J.Crew is growing with Madewell and Crewcuts.
We've got American Eagle that is working with us on 77kids.
And those are just a couple of examples.
And when they are rolling out brand extensions they are using the metric of their existing stores performance.
So they are going to want to open their new brands where their existing brands are already successful and that is obviously playing right into our strength.
Okay.
And then just a follow up on your outlet comments.
Aside from Merrimack have you guys announced any other projects in the U.S.
in the pipeline? And can you just generally comment on sort of the uptick in potential supply growth for outlets in the U.S.
as more developers are targeting sites and starting new projects? Well look we have not announced the construction of any new outlet.
I know it's mostly public knowledge.
We are looking and working in Galveston Texas and we think ultimately there'll probably be -- the market there can only really support one outlet and you've got that in process.
We'll see what happens there.
But we're working on other sites but we really don't have anything at this point.
And when I say other markets but we really don't have anything at this point to announce.
But we're confident that we'll be able to find some other avenues to build ground-up.
And I think in that market in that sector there is more demand to build some.
But it's not -- there's not going to be a lot of these built because even with outlets in mind the retailers are very disciplined in where they want to go and on what basis they want to go.
And you've got competent developers like us and Tanger and others that understand that dynamic.
Okay.
And just lastly can you talk about how you're approaching shorter-term 1- to 3-year leasing versus a couple years ago? So what percentage of your leasing in the quarter was 3 years or less excluding temp tenants? Well what we have in our -- the leases that were signed in the first quarter we had -- the 2 years or less was 19% which is the same percentage that we've been reporting historically.
We are doing it so it hasn't really changed.
What we are doing is when we determine our term in our negotiations with our tenants we're looking at whether we think it's the right use the right rent the right tenant in that space.
Do we have space sitting next to it that's maturing in the next year or so? There are a lot of factors that go into that term discussion and it's something that we're very focused on.
But there has not been a material increase in our short-term leasing in the last several years and so we're pretty much normalized going into this part of the cycle.
Our next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
Just looking at The Mills portfolio as you look back to that transaction can you give us effectively a report card of how progress has been made? And what would you want to do or what do you want to do with The Mills portfolio going forward? Well I would tell you that I think The Mills -- there are 17 Mills.
We only show 16 because one doesn't -- is under construction that being Opry.
And it's exactly -- the underwriting is exactly what we thought it would be.
There's a couple that we knew going into that deal that were very difficult.
But the way as you remember Cedrik Mills didn't have much equity if at all in those a couple that were tough.
And we're making progress on those couple that are tough.
But the fact is they contribute very little cash flow to us and they're on our books for essentially nothing.
The others have gone very well and we've done a great job of improving them and we feel very good about the concept.
We've added full price.
We've added outlets.
We've added boxes.
We're close to announcing a full-line department store in 1 or 2 or 3 of them.
Sawgrass Mills we've done a great job of executing the outdoor high-end outlets there.
We've also -- you'll notice a decrease in the occupancy.
That's really associated with getting back the one anchor there the Wannado in Sawgrass which we've got great development plans that will increase the cash flow we think at that center by $4 million to $5 million just on redeveloping that box.
So aside from the 2 that we always felt were tough that were not great great locations we've actually been pleased with it.
Fairlon's [ph]  been a very good partner with it and it's gone according -- essentially according to plan.
The good news on the mall side is that we have -- I guess I can -- we have a big redevelopment that's going to be announced next week so we can't announce it this week on one of the malls and we've also started major work in Southdale.
So we are making really good progress on the malls.
And we've been pleased with it and it's gone according to what we thought with the major markets Potomac Gurnee all of those kind of going somewhat better than initially expected.
And frankly surviving relatively unscathed a great real estate recession.
And then so in terms of the 16 Mills themselves do you want to move even further to Howard's outlets  for those properties over time? Yes we think we're adding more outlets there.
They're -- usually they're in such great dominant super regional mall locations that we're going to do both full price and outlets in some of them.
And others we think we can move even more with outlet concept.
Our next question comes from Mike Bilerman of Citi.
Yes Quentin Vellely is here with me as well.
First question on the leasing spreads and appreciate the new detail.
I guess when you look at total leasing I mean how much of that was in the quarter because I guess moving now the same space but increasing to above 10 000 reduced the square footage that's being shown on the page.
And so I'm just curious when you look at the totality of it what sort of the trends were like in openings and closings? Michael it's Steve.
Part of your question is correct.
The premise is correct.
We did move the same space but we have always disclosed all GLA all small shop GLA in our leasing statistics.
But to answer your question the $5.8 million that we included on a same-space basis is about 75% of our total leasing activity over the trailing 12 months.
And I guess when you look at the totality so that 8 million square feet opening and closing would the spread increase or decrease from that up 10 000 just to get a perspective of -- same space is very important but I'm wondering if we can get perhaps both of them so that we can really understand the impact it is to the bottom line on the totality of the portfolio.
Yes Michael if we had included a cut at 10 000 feet or 15 000 feet the smaller space as you -- I thought it was the...
The question is if you include it all together.
That still would be substantially higher spread.
It would still be higher spread.
Can I assume that if it was higher than 10 000 or how much meaningful if you include all the leasing that you had completed? Well it's 75% of the total population.
So it's not going to move it a ton but it would be higher.
Look I think you see that in where the average base rent is going to right? So that gives you -- that's why that number is still out there because we want people to see what's happening with our average base rent.
That takes everything into account: renewals extensions new deals et al.
And that's why that number's still out there to be shown.
And then when you think about The Mills platform and the benefits you've been able to do since you bought it you do have a partner and any time you have a partner rather than owning it and a partner who's not going to be long-term owner of real estate retail real estate like you are it does set it up for -- you eventually have to pay for all the improvements that you did.
And obviously in a fair and negotiated way I guess how does -- how will that venture eventually be resolved and sort of the timing of doing that? Do you envision buying it? Do you envision bringing in another partner for a very [ph]  long stake? And how should we expect that to go? We'll all fair questions all good questions but very difficult for me to answer obviously because of the confidential nature of our partnership.
But I will say this.
They've been a very good partner.
They've been very supportive.
They've been very excited about what we've done with the portfolio.
They've been more than willing to reinvest in the assets.
So the partnership couldn't be better.
Are they a natural long-term owner like we are? No clearly.
Will that resolve itself in a win-win at the right time? Very very highly likely but beyond that Michael is very very tough for me to venture further.
When you say the right time is that next 12 months or should we be thinking 2 -- 3 to 5 years? I'd like your advice.
What would you like? Tell me.
I want the lowest possible price possible for the most accretion.
Me too.
As soon as possible.
Curious last quarter you gave me the bunny movie version of the Capital Shopping Centres and how that ended.
Why don't you give me the same thing on the outlet center and all the other guys who are out there trying to develop and how you think that's going to end at the end of the day with so much increased competition in the space? Well look I don't have a bunny reference today but I will say this.
There's a lot that can be spilt between the cup and the lip right? So my view of it is this.
Until somebody starts construction on whatever project that is full price redevelopment outlet all we are is yammering.
So we try to keep our yammering.
We're not perfect.
We yammer with the best of them.
We try to have the lower yammering quotient.
We try to be leaders in yammering.
But in the meantime until it starts construction to me it's just a lot of talk.
Hi it's Quentin here.
Just a question in terms of currency.
You commented on additional potential offshore expansion.
And just with the move in the U.S.
dollar I'm just curious how you think about investing offshore and whether you might change the way that you structure some of your potential offshore acquisitions? Well look.
I mean the interesting thing is you've got a couple -- it's twofold.
One is very tough to complicate or consider a major outside of the U.S.
investment right now if you have to use your currency to buy something right? So on the other hand you could argue "Well if we're in a further decline are we not better off having some of our assets outside the U.S.?" Now we have about 5% of our assets outside the U.S.
so naturally we get some marginal benefit on it.
But for us to do a major thing outside of the U.S.
unless there was the ability to use currency-dominated financing and in some markets you're able to in some you're not it's a tall order right now given how weak the dollar is.
So naturally I think at the end of the day when you factor it all in it probably curtails our investment.
I mean our greatest advantage right now should be our cost of capital but if we can't use that -- I mean besides all the ability to make assets better and all that stuff.
That's true.
But if we can't export our cost of capital because the dollar is so weak it's a challenge to do further major international expansions.
Yes we can build.
We're building in Korea.
We're building in Malaysia.
We're looking at other Asian markets and actually building stuff and making things happen there.
But to do a major deal we don't -- and if we can't finance it where we don't get the benefit of our cost of capital here and have to convert dollar investment into that currency I mean -- and so you could make a real estate deal but if the dollar does strengthen down the road you could get whacked and lose your value.
So it's a natural constraint that we've got to deal with.
And I guess on the flip side with the currency are you seeing more interest from offshore investors into some of your assets maybe some of the weaker assets or potential for joint ventures? And does that give you some kind of opportunity to maybe sell more U.S.
assets? Well look.
I definitely think there is a -- I wouldn't call them weaker assets but there's clearly the trend from a number of the international institutional investors who have a tendency to gravitate toward the highest quality and the major metropolitan markets is clearly moving away from that looking to want to be in the U.S.
for all sorts of reasons yield one maybe their view of the dollar ultimately all sorts safety whatever it is that they factor in.
And they are going down the quality spectrum to find investment opportunities.
So I do think that seems to be a trend that will continue at this point.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Just want to go to the topic of B malls.
You guys are marketing some stuff.
And it seems like every other retail company out there is marketing whether they'd call it Bs or non-core.
How much of the stuff do you actually think will trade? And for the buyers do you think the buyers will predominantly be financial buyers or do you think that we'll see like real real estate buyers.
Well I think it's too early to tell on what's going to happen out there that will trade and at what pricing.
But I think actually you're going to see probably an entrepreneur with equity either from opportunity funds or from other kind of institutional investors that are going to see the yield opportunity one maybe the ability to make the property better two.
And when they put it all together compared to kind of where they are on buying A plus they see that risk adjusted return worthy of taking that investment.
I would say to you though if the market's better the financing market's better -- the fact that we're selling 4 malls is not a big deal.
I mean we have sold 100 assets as we've been public.
So this is kind of a normal strategy Alex.
We clearly stopped that effort in '08 and '09 and '10 certainly for a period of time even though we did sell something in '10 at a huge gain for us in Europe.
So we're always looking to recycle capital.
It's not a transformational deal for like some of the others that might be out there.
But long story short is we'll have to wait and see.
It's going to be a combination of operators maybe even others some other real estate major real estate companies.
We're just going to have to wait and see how it shakes out.
L.P.</strong> Okay so if I understand what you're saying it sounds like you're a little less optimistic that there's going to be a lot trading.
There'll be some trading but it doesn't sound like you're expecting a huge amount.
Is that fair? Well I think the market's better and I think trades will happen.
I'm just not going to quote what I think cap rates are going to be because I honestly don't know yet.
But I do think there's going to be more velocity in you use the term the B assets.
I do think there'll be more velocity.
I think it's too early to speculate from our standpoint where cap rates will be.
L.P.</strong> And my second question is for Steve.
I think it was last call you commented on the pile of pitch books for converts that's in your office.
Sort of curious what the latest pile is and what are your thoughts on doing some more 30-year or if you have a view of the 30 non-call 5 [ph] if that's attractive to you? The piles are growing Alex.
The convert pile -- obviously the capital markets are very robust right now.
So unsecured debt markets are very attractive.
And one of the things that we need to take into consideration is one of the things David said in his opening comment we're sitting here with $4 billion of liquidity right now.
So we certainly don't have the need to go to the capital markets.
But having said that given the attractiveness of the all in rate now certainly on the bond side it is something that we monitor and we will continue to monitor.
Right now I would tell you we are not as enthralled with the convert market and I think it's not something that we would look at to put in the capitals back right now.
And look I would just say that -- just to add what Steve said I mean one of the bigger decisions we'll have to make this year is whether we want to warehouse capital given that capital -- we don't need it necessarily but it is relatively cheap.
And we do think -- I mean I think -- I may be completely wrong but I do think rates are going to up at some point.
And so one of the bigger decisions we'll have to make at some point this year is whether we go ahead and warehouse capital not equity capital but whether we warehouse other forms of capital on the theory that rates are going to go up at some point here.
And that's a decision that we think about all the time.
But it's tough because we haven't seen it but usually you don't want to be in the case where we react.
Real estate guys tend to react while rates are going up as opposed to when rates are low and we'd like to be a little -- at least -- we don't have to be perfectly smart but we'd like to be less stupid.
L.P.</strong> Sounds like a good strategy.
Our next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee of Stifel Nicolaus.
Just focusing on prime for a second.
Clearly you've had some good success leasing up some of the vacancy.
Can you talk about some of your success there in terms of driving rents and perhaps put a number to that? Well I know we won't put a number to it.
But look I think we feel really good about the deal we did obviously going in.
We're glad to have David as an OP holder.
He's been a great OP holder as well.
And it's just been a good win-win deal for everybody involved.
It's a good portfolio.
We expect to do some good stuff with it.
Nate it's tough for me to give you numbers.
I probably won't.
I know I won't.
But what Rick you want to add anything to it? The only thing I would say to you Nate is that what we've been able to do is as the new tenants enter the outlet sphere we now have an additional portfolio of properties that they can immediately open stores in and we're getting the benefit of that.
And we see it with tenants that we've had relationships with or like Coach is opening Coach Men.
Bare Essentials Vera Bradley.
I mean we're just taking these tenants now across a broader portfolio of properties and that's really providing incremental momentum both in rents but also in sales.
Because we're bringing in higher productivity tenants into the portfolio.
And I -- just to reinforce what Rick said.
I mean the greatest opportunity there is to increase the mix which drive sales.
And obviously that's the focus.
What's the occupancy costs currently? We don't separate that out.
But it wouldn't -- it's not all that different than what you'd see from the outlet sector.
And then just quickly in terms of your increased guidance.
Can you just quantify the change in your same-store NOI assumption? Well we didn't do it this year.
We didn't give a NOI -- comp NOI in our original guidance but right now we expect to beat our own internal budget.
It didn't answer your question.
No.
We didn't -- I'm sorry I'm not purposely frustrating you but...
I was thinking the wedding was going to put you in a good mood.
But we -- the fact is we didn't give specific guidance there.
We have our own internal budget and we hope to beat our own internal budget.
Our next question comes from the line of David Harris of Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Listen I was listening -- reading your annual review and on the international I know you fielded a couple of questions on this today but you make a reference to "We are proven to be valuable exporters of our know-how." I kind of read that and thought it was sort of a little imbalanced in the sense that I would've thought you would've learned a lot or could learn a lot from operating in overseas markets and taking best practices and exporting them around the globe.
I'm thinking in particular to overseas tenants have really sort of enlivened the U.S.
retail scene in the last few years as well.
Any comments around that? Well look our know-how if you look at what we built I mean the outlets that we build in Asia are essentially our outlets here in the U.S.
and they didn't exist prior to that.
I think if you saw the product that we built in Poland and the product that we built in France were actually highly U.S.
influenced.
So we certainly -- we learn every day here abroad and everything else.
But I think that the fact of the matter is we've had a profound and positive impact on what we've done and that's really what my comment was meant to be.
If you look at Gotemba in Japan it's really modeled after what we did in Woodberry.
If you look at what we did in Yeoju in South Korea it's very similar to what we did in other parts of the U.S.
So I think we've -- in fact if you go to Dubai and you look at what they built I mean they've taken the best of foreign shops and other malls in the U.S.
and replicated that.
So again that's not to denigrate the international marketplace.
And we've certainly seen a lot of wow stuff over there but we certainly contributed to all of the activities we've done overseas.
I think touching on the other side of your point in terms of the international tenants coming in to our domestic portfolios we've done a very good job of implementing them into our portfolio.
We just opened the flagship H&amp;M store forum shop.
We're doing a lot of business with them and have a very close relationship with them.
But it's not just them it's Pampolina from Spain Inglot from Poland Diva from Australia Aurecia [ph] from Canada.
I mean there is a lot of international tenants that we're doing business with across all 3 of our platforms.
The Mills the outlet centers and the malls.
Inc.</strong> I'm curious Rick actually -- I'm curious are there any ideas coming out of Asia? Because all of the international stuff seems to -- the fresh international ideas seem to be coming out of Europe.
Is there anything out of Eurasian context? What we're anticipating is the UNIQLO is going to be a major player here and they're building their flagship right on Fifth Avenue and then we expect that we're going to have a similar type of expansion that we've seen with H&amp;M.
They started in the major cities and now they're throughout the country and growing very rapidly and doing very well in their stores.
And you know the thing that we understand about the Asians is that they love to come to the U.S.
and shop.
And so one of the great things that we provide them in their travels is the fact that we have great places to shop so marketing to them is really really important.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Just on Asia and thinking a bit more on Japan.
I know you made your comments there.
As we sit here today would you be inclined to try and step up your investments in Japan notwithstanding those comments you had to make about currency? We have always -- we're actually expanding Ami right now which is right now somewhat affected by what's going on in the -- with the nuclear facilities.
But we have not looked at the full price market there.
We've had great success in the outlet market.
Cracking the code on full price in Asia has been a struggle for us.
Values the cost to develop full price there the size of the deals the ability to get the land in the right location.
So that's been the tougher one -- that's been the tougher code for us to crack.
We do think though our Outlet business in Asia can grow and we're excited about that.
Ultimately can we crack the full price thing in Asia? I don't know yet David.
It's tough because first of all it's not devoid of a lot of full price to begin with.
And second where you want the locations the land cost the infrastructure cost and the competition are all challenges that we have to deal with.
Inc.</strong> Well you may not want to respond to this but I mean surely your relationship with Mitsubishi Estates would be -- open a few doors for you on the full price wouldn't it? They are good partners.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector of Merrill Lynch.
Just want to follow-up on the comments about rates going up here at some time.
I guess can you be a little bit more specific on your thoughts when you say "some time?" Well I wish I knew.
At least what you're thinking.
Well look I think our -- I think it's conceivable that -- how am I -- look anything that we can refinance today we're refinancing.
We have certain mortgages that are obviously locked out to prepayment penalties so we don't think it's cost -- you're trading dollars essentially and it's not cost-effective to do that.
But the big issue for us if we do think rates are going to go up is whether or not we would do some kind of bond deal and warehouse the capital because right now we don't have -- if you remember what we did in '09 and '10 -- or in '10 I'm sorry '10 essentially is we bought -- we refinanced bonds and we bought them back and it ended up being at least in today's world an okay trade.
So the question is whether we want to do something like that.
Or we just hold on to the capital and wait for maturing debt to come do.
Jeff this Steve.
Just to kind of amplify on David's comments.
If you look at as a gamble where the benchmark 10-year treasury is today and you track it back over any length of time whether it's 10 years 20 years 30 years it's clearly at historically low levels and at levels where over a long period of time they have not been for a very large percentage of that measurement period.
So I think any time you're in an environment where rates are at historically low levels it does give you pause to reflect about do you want to go get more capital because history would tell you that the probability is those rates aren't going to be at that level forever.
And I think David framed it pretty well.
We've got a lot of liquidity.
We don't have an immediate use for the capital.
But if your view is that it may be more expensive down the road it may make sense to go after that capital now.
Okay.
And I'm not sure if you'll answer this question then.
Do you think that the market is properly pricing in higher rates when we think about today's current stock prices thoughts on cap rates the implied cap rate on the group? Well I think the market's probably anticipating a recovery and a stable interest rate environment.
Lack of yield in the rest of the world and there's a lot of...
And I think -- look I mean I think the fact of the matter is  that's been the reality.
So our view is recovery you're seeing a recovery we've been at it for a few quarters now.
Clearly interest-rate market's been very stable.
At some point that might change.
I'm not so much worried about the recovery as opposed to the interest rate environment.
Okay.
And turning to leasing I know you said earlier today on a public call it's tough to answer questions.
I guess can I just ask on -- in general in your negotiations are you focusing on sales the next 12 months or are you still negotiating on trailing 12? When we're negotiating with the tenants it is a very individualized negotiation.
We're looking at their growth in the last 6 months but we're looking at the use the space the size of the space the quality of the mall the space in the mall.
There's a lot of factors that go into how we price our rent and certainly sales growth is one of them but it is not the only one.
Yes and I'd just say it's -- really the biggest focus is the market value of that space right? You could have a retailer in that space that's not performing and I wouldn't want to tie the rent to that sales performance when in fact the market value is higher or would indicate a higher rent.
That -- leasing is an art like -- and certainly we try to make it as scientific as we can.
We're leaders in data generation here in terms of all of the tools available to us to assess that.
We assign market value for each space.
We use it sometimes.
We ignore it others.
At the of the day we have relationships to factor into it.
So at the end of the day we kind of all put it together and the best thing going for us is our judgment.
It's an art.
It's not a science.
It's not order taking.
It's what does it do for the center merchandise mix where we want to take the center and all those factor in certainly having positive sales history which is positive traffic all go into the blender and all make the job somewhat easier than it was a year or 2 ago.
But it's all those things that factor into what's the right -- what we're trying to accomplish and what the right rent is.
Okay.
And then turning to international.
We know David Contis has experience in Brazil.
We just did a tour there.
I mean do you think that it's too late at this point? Do you think you missed the opportunity on full price in Brazil? Not necessarily.
David the research we've done the biggest constraint that I see in Brazil is that -- the currency issue as opposed to the real estate issue and the cost of the financing there.
So you don't get -- we wouldn't get any much if any advantage on our lower cost of capital here to put money to work.
But I think that story on the real estate front doesn't seem to have changed at all.
The problem is you really do have a dollar currency issue that makes it a little more challenging to conceptualize a transaction there.
Okay.
And then last question where do you stand on '11 leasing? And what are some of your goals heading into ICSC? Well '11 leasing is for all intents and purposes on our renewal is done.
We're well into 2012.
For us frankly ICSC is much less important.
In fact the month of April and the month of May prior to ICSC are our peak periods of tenants coming to Indianapolis to meet with us because the volume of activity we have they'll come for 2 days in order to go over all the opportunities in the portfolio whereas at ICSC you're really limited to half an hour or hour sound bites.
So we're doing a lot of leasing.
We're focusing on our '12 renewals and leasing up the vacant space.
And so far we're seeing good momentum.
And I'd say this Jeff.
The biggest focus that we'll have is on some of our major redevelopments.
So included in that are like Nanuet Mall is a -- we are finally at the point now where we're going to start demolishing that center.
We have Quaker Bridge Del Amo Dadeland La Plaza Plaza Carolina Southdale Southridge Copley what we're doing on the island Laguna Hills Stamford we hope to push along a potential expansion of that center.
So -- and then we've got some things in the outlet side as well potential new projects that we could start talking about there.
So that would be -- of the -- and Rick's right.
I mean '11 is essentially done '12 lease renewals.
But I'd say the focus really for us is going to be on the major redos that we've got we're on the cusp of doing.
Our next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple of Hilliard Lyons.
What led to the decline in other income from the year-ago period? Yes we had big lease settlement income in the first quarter of 2010 Carol.
Okay.
And then this question's probably for Rick.
Are you seeing any and new and exciting retail concepts coming to the malls? Okay hold your breath.
Thank you for asking.
We are.
And what's interesting is that they're coming from all different places.
For example we're doing deals with Fiat dealers because they're not opening their new dealerships.
They're reintroducing the concept to the United States and they want to be where the people are.
We're signing leases with Tesla Motors the new electric car maker because they want to have their demonstrations where the people are.
We're doing deals with Microsoft the biggest Internet-based company.
They need to open stores where the people are and that's our malls.
I could go on but David will give me the hook.
I'll stop when David gives me the hook.
Well Love Culture is growing very substantially.
Francesca's has filed for a public offering relatively new concept.
Charming Charlie's Pandora just went public.
There is just a lot of activity going on in our portfolio and happily throughout the portfolio.
These are not just concepts that want to be in the top hundred malls.
These are concepts that have broader price points and want to have 400 to 800 stores in their ultimate build-out.
So it's very exciting.
Our next question comes from Ben Yang of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Just one quick one for me.
Maybe David do you have any thoughts on potentially teaming up with a partner to do outlet center development in Canada? Maybe starting in Toronto just a few miles away from another potential site? Just curious if you had any discussions with Callaway to potentially start a partnership there? Well we are looking into Canada Ben.
I can't say other -- I can't really put any more meat on the bones there.
We do think it's a pretty good market for a handful of centers but I can't really say anything more than that.
But we are looking into that marketplace.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I mean hypothetically if you were to form some type of partnership do you envision yourself as just maybe like a capital partner or would there be some type of development management leasing that you would share with your hypothetical partner? Well if we did a venture in the -- I mean this goes for any outlet venture whether it's U.S.
Canada Mexico Malaysia Japan Singapore China we would definitely add operational expertise.
We would not just -- it just wouldn't be our capital.
So that's kind of a -- that's it.
That clearly would be the case.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Quick question when I look closely at results for the quarter I mean you guys beat consensus roughly by about $0.08.
The midpoint of your new guidance is up about $0.08 versus your old guidance.
But it sounds like operationally things are getting better leasing spreads are getting better leasing velocity is getting better.
I'm just surprised guidance wasn't up more.
Is there anything unique in the first quarter in regards to the $0.08 beat that you expect will not be repeated in the back half of the year? Not really.
You know what we're a little cautious on Japan.
We have a very robust international Outlet business.
Some people forget about it but it's not inconsequential.
It's a great business.
So we're being somewhat conservative on what the outcome of that is.
It's sales dependent.
And we just don't have enough history yet on what's happening there.
The south is actually pretty good at Japan.
Sales have bounced back pretty reasonably.
But we just don't know and we like to be generally conservative in setting expectations.
So you put that together we still have to execute our game plan.
We're good but we're not infallible.
So you put it all together and it's where guidance came out.
With no further questions at this time I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Simon for closing remarks.
Okay thanks everybody for your time and your interest and we look forward to talking to you in the near future.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Now disconnect and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Simon Property Group Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Pam and I will be your conference operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the presentation over to your host for today's call Shelly Doran Vice President of Investor Relation.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to our reports filed with the SEC for detailed discussions.
Acknowledging the fact that this call may be webcast for some time to come we believe it's important to note that our call includes time sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date July 26 2011.
During today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC's Regulation G.
Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the earnings release or the company's supplemental information package that was included in this morning's Form 8-K.
This package is also available on the Simon website in the Investors section.
Participating in today's call will be David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Simon.
Okay good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us.
We reported FFO of $1.65 per share for the quarter which represents an increase of 19.6% over the prior-year period.
These results exceeded the First Call consensus by $0.07 and we now have met or exceeded expectations for 28 of the past 30 quarters which we believe is one of the best records in the REIT industry.
Of course I would like to talk about 2 of the quarters the 2 quarters that we did not do that.
One was an impairment charge which we took on liberty which is now fully recovered and the other was just the timing issue which we made up in the subsequent quarter and in fact in that year we exceeded our -- both consensus in our initial guidance.
So 28 of the past 30 quarters we have met or exceeded our First Call consensus estimates.
Let's talk about the portfolio.
Total sales on a rolling 12-month basis were $513 per square foot up 9.4% from $469 as of June 30 2010.
Occupancy was 93.5% an increase of 40 basis points higher than the year-earlier period and 60 basis points higher than the first quarter.
The releasing spread for 12 months was $4 -- positive $4.60 per square foot.
Our releasing spread continues to include all in-line space including spaces larger than 10 000 square feet.
Comparable property NOI growth for the quarter was 3.5%.
And I want to put that in context that in 2010 our second quarter comp NOI growth was a positive 1.9%.
So it was not off a low base given the fact that 2010 was still in recovery mode.
Let me turn to development activity.
We have 2 new developments under construction both the Premium Outlets.
Johor Malaysia which will open in November of this year and Merrimack New Hampshire which will open next summer.
Leasing activity is strong for both projects.
We have 18 renovation and expansion projects under construction with completion dates in 2011 and '12 and the restoration of Opry mills continues with the completion expected in the spring of 2012.
We currently plan to invest approximately $650 million in domestic and international development and redevelopment activities in 2011.
And our number though still in process is approximately $800 million in 2012.
As always details on costs returns and timing of these projects are provided in our supplemental reporting package.
In June of this year we sold the Jefferson Premium Outlet our Prime Outlets I should say for $300 -- oh I'm sorry $134 million.
We used $86 million of those proceeds in a 10/31 exchange last week to acquire ABQ Uptown a 222 000 square foot lifestyle center in Albuquerque New Mexico the center which generates sales of approximately $650 per square foot adds to our presence in a growing Albuquerque market area where we're also on Cottonwood Mall.
Let me switch to capital markets during the first 6 months of 2011 we close our lock rate on 50 new mortgages totaling approximately $1.6 billion of which our share was $1 billion the weighted average interest rate on the loans is 5.1% and the weighted average term is 9 years.
As of June 30 2011 we have $1.1 billion of cash on hand including our share of JV cash and our availability on our corporate credit facility at $3 billion for a total liquidity position of $4.1 billion.
And as we said before we still expect to generate $1 billion more than $1 billion of cash from operations after dividends.
Japan let me just tell you that we've reopened Sendai Premium Outlet which was damaged by the earthquake and closed on June 17.
The center reopened and the response of the shoppers has been very positive.
Costs of the repair of the center other than the deductible is covered by insurance.
For our other 7 centers in Japan things are returning to normal and we continue to like the prospects in our Japanese business and admire the will of the people in Japan as they rebuild and grow their country after some of their tragedies.
Now let me turn to guidance.
Based upon our results for the quarter and expectations for the balance of the year we increased the low-end of our 2011 FFO guidance by $0.10 per share and raised the top-end by $0.08.
The midpoint of the range of our current guidance is $0.165 above the midpoint of our original 2011 guidance that I provided in February.
Let me just mention in Main Street Fairness Act you've seen some editorials.
In fact in The Journal today there is an article in The Journal.
You saw the Indianapolis Star wrote an editorial on it.
And let me just say that we've been very vocal about the unfair advantage that Internet retailers have and not being required to collect sales tax.
We are urging Congress to introduce and pass the Main Street Fairness Act which will allow states to end the subsidy being provided to retailers such as Amazon.com.
Let me be clear this is not a new tax but would merely require Internet retailers to collect sales tax on behalf of the states where they do business something that brick-and-mortar retailers and even those who sell on the Internet have done for years.
And this is required by law.
The economy is helped by having a level playing field allowing an open market to determine consumer behavior without government subsidies which we believe is occurring for the online retailers.
Now just a few concluding remarks before Q&amp;A.
We are certainly proud of the size and scale of the portfolio we have at SPG.
As we have said it many times our businesses where scale can be truly an advantage.
And I believe that our industry-leading operating results growth and profit margins are absolute testament to that.
I do think however that sometimes the quality of our portfolio is not fully appreciated.
Our portfolio is second to none in our industry.
We own more of the countries' iconic shopping destinations and centers by far.
And to help illustrate this fact I will point out a few facts.
First of all in the mall sector.
The 20 malls from which we get the most EBITDA provide approximately $800 million of EBITDA annually and this is our share.
As of June 30 these 20 properties generated sales of $777 per square foot.
Now let me turn to our top 20 value centers from which we get the most EBITDA provide over $600 million of annual EBITDA again this is our share.
And as of June 30 these 20 properties generate sales of $721 per square foot.
And just as a reminder given the focus on the value in outlet sector that seems to be occurring in the marketplace our share from projected this year from that platform will generate approximately $1.5 billion that's $1.5 billion of EBITDA from our value-oriented centers both mills and the outlets.
So with that operator we're prepared to answer any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> David since you left off with the outlet center I guess I'll start there.
First here at home there's been a growing push to recast busted malls or retail projects as outlet properties.
Are you concerned that supply of new product could exceed demand in some markets and segments? And how do you think about differentiation in that sector to a sure success? Is it location size price point what you do you think? You broke up the first part could you -- I didn't hear it at all.
Could you...
LLC</strong> Yes that's fine.
I was saying that there's been a push here at home in the U.S.
to recast retail properties as outlet-focused property.
Do you think there's some risk that the supply of assets could surpass the demand in the next few years? Look my own view is that I think it's going to be a challenge to build many of the new outlet centers that are being bandied about.
There has been a list of 50 outlet centers out there that are in pre-development stage for several years.
We think obviously demand is good but the retailers and manufacturers are very sensitive to where outlets can be put.
And so we think the market should be circumspect to the amount of new outlet development that's being talked about.
There will be some I think it'll be more challenging than what people believe.
I do think there'll be some mistakes made but I don't see a redux of the lifestyle center development.
Never put it past real estate developers to overbuild but I'm hopeful that year after year experience will lead to a better judgment.
In this case I do think the retailers and the manufacturers are very sensitive to their full price operations.
And I think that's a governor here that probably will not be a redux of what we saw in the lifestyle center area.
And I think the redevelopment of existing enclosed malls to do this again will be in that same category and more challenging than people lead on.
LLC</strong> And sticking with outlets where do you see the development yields on Johor compared to say the projects in Japan and Korea? And I'm just curious thinking down the road ultimately how big of an opportunity do you think there is across Asia for outlet properties in your portfolio? Well the yields there are actually -- we think they're going to be fantastic.
The yields in Japan have been very high I mean higher than in the U.S.
Malaysia we're projecting to be higher than the new development yields here.
And we think all of the -- everything that's lined up to build there is -- the consumer is there the growth in income is there.
They love the American European brands.
So it's all lined up to continue to grow that.
We've been successful in everything that we've built from Korea to Japan.
We see the same thing in Malaysia.
As you know we're back to really seriously thinking about China for outlets.
So we think there is an opportunity continue to grow that business in Asia for us.
Hard to put firm numbers on it yet but the good news is we've got 10 centers soon-to-be 11 and we've got a good good solid business already up and running.
And we've been at it for several years.
LLC</strong> And just one last question on asset sales here at home.
You guys have been in the market with some malls recently and business and transactions on A malls.
I'm curious where do you see pricing on sort of A B and I guess I'll say C assets right now because we've heard some A malls actually touching 5 caps or lower and I just love your perspective.
Well we have seen some -- again we've seen some price talk on some let's call them A assets I'm not sure whether they're a mall or an outdoor center or however you want to describe it.
A couple of these we think are more salty than they should be because we don't see the growth that other people that are buying them see.
We could be wrong they could be right but we think pricing on some of these individual assets that are out there are still what we see is very aggressive given the lack of growth characteristics in some of these assets.
Now on the B and C Jeff I would tell you we're still all in the discovery mode in terms of where the market is.
Obviously we've told you we have nothing to announce in that area though we do have a very small amount of malls for sale as part of our strategy that we've had for years to sell assets here and there.
We the B and C assets are more dependent on financing the financing market in that area continues to be somewhat volatile.
And I still think we're in price discovery on those kind of assets.
Our next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citi.
It's Michael Bilerman here with Quentin.
David let's just start with you.
Obviously during the quarter you had your employment contract set up under a long-term basis.
And I won't just focus just in terms of the length of time that it got to take to that place and obviously when the proxy came out in April it was disclosed that you were working with the board towards something.
And then in the disclosure you talked about the taking -- that you've had negotiations for 18 months.
And I'm wondering if you can just talk a little bit about what transpired over 1.5 years in terms of setting the goals that you wanted achieved and that the board want to achieve and I guess how you ultimately got it resolved perhaps back a couple of weeks ago.
Well it -- look I think Michael it took longer than it should have.
And I think part of the length of it is just the care that the comp committee took in deciding what was appropriate.
We -- obviously these kinds of things are very sensitive very focused given the -- rightfully I've no problem with the scrutiny that something like this comes with.
And I think again I wasn't privy to the comp committee's deliberations but my guess is given the -- what was going on that they took a lot of time to feel comfortable with it.
Now -- and also there has been a lot of volatility in the world during this period of time.
So -- and obviously my primary focus over the last 20 months has been running this company and this has not been the #1 agenda on my plate.
I do think again I was not part of the comp committee deliberations but my guess is they studied past performance.
I'm sure they looked at some of the recent comp deals that were out there for new and existing chief executives.
I'm sure they considered if for whatever reason they had to replace me what it would cost for a new CEO.
And just generally what are the requirements that the company needs to lead the company from a CEO in the future.
With all that said I think they concluded that the deal they struck with me was in the best interest of the company.
And the share amount was generally the same for that long period of time.
And so the size of the apparent transaction so it's an 8-year deal which I think the market sometimes loses sight of got bigger because obviously the stock performed -- has performed well over that period of time.
So I don't know if that answers your question but they were sure they were very deliberate in their efforts.
I was very focused on running the company and we've been living in a very volatile world.
You put all that together and it takes a pretty pretty long time.
From my standpoint look I've been doing this for -- I've been running this company for 16 years and I -- it was appropriate for me to kind of assess where I was what I wanted to do in the future.
And I wanted to work out a deal that recognized what I brought to the table.
And over that 16 years I want you to realize that I've never had an employment agreement.
I've never had a deal and both from my standpoint and I believe the comp committee standpoint though I can't speak for them we both felt it was appropriate to negotiate something for a longer period of time that delivered a certainty and that we all felt myself included because I'm a shareholder that was in the best interest of the company.
And you get to do 32 more earnings calls.
Yes.
I can't guarantee the performance we've had in the past 30 but hopefully we'll have some level of success along those lines.
That's helpful color.
Just diving into the portfolio stats you gave at the end of the comments the top 20 is the top 20 malls and the top 20 value the value you are saying are what? Mills and outlets centers? That's how you're combining that? Yes we are now.
It included a couple of mills but generally we included both.
And so you're looking at for those top 40 assets or about $1.4 billion of EBITDA on a basis of call it $3.5 billion $3.6 billion so 40 assets 20% of the asset base is generating 40% of the EBITDA is that the way we should think about it? Correct Mike.
And that's our share as well.
Right.
And then so when you step -- the rest of the portfolio probably is mid-400s in terms of productivity? Well look we gave you some facts today maybe we'll give you more facts later.
But that -- we thought that would be helpful for people to understand.
At least again people lose sight of kind of the quality that we have embedded because of the size we understand that.
We don't like the tier assets even though Rick does and it bothers me but I let him do it.
But we want people to know that our top 20 assets in these categories generate a lot of cash flow.
And I think over time we'll be more descriptive to everyone kind of how we look at it.
But that's what we want you to start thinking about at least today.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Haberman with Goldman Sachs.
Maybe following up where Michael just left off on the top 20 on both the malls and the value centers.
Can you -- are you willing to share David perhaps some of your near-term outlook? What you think NOI growth could be perhaps for some of this top tier assets relative to the rest of the portfolio? Well I don't have a specific number but it's safe to say that these are under-rented and they're going to grow faster than our average and they possess a lot of upside.
But I don't have a record.
Steve do you want to add anything? But I don't have anything more to say other than that.
They certainly historically have generated significant EBITDA growth better than our average.
And maybe even just stepping back broadly for the entire portfolio if you think about this recovery to date combined with sort of where the economy is today and somewhat mixed what's your general perspective in terms of where we are for rentals going forward in the cycle? Well I would say we feel pretty good other than -- there are a couple of tenants out there that again -- I'm not going to name names because we certainly shouldn't be in that business publicly.
But there are -- a couple of tenants there that are sizable mall operators.
When I say mall that could be both outlet and full-priced malls that are still haven't had the benefit of the recovery that are going to put pressure on the industry and us included in terms of renewals and potential store closures and the like.
And that's the biggest headwind.
Now we've had that headwind hasn't gone away so we've been managing our way through that headwind.
But that to me is the biggest headwind that's out there for us in terms of what we have to deal with on a day in and day out basis.
Our leasing people obviously understand that.
They know that and they're out humping to find those replacements either through voluntary or lease expirations or to the extent that even 1 or 2 of these guys could end up in a Chapter 11 so that's the governor right now that we see.
The consumer actually -- I feel a little bit better about what we all know.
We live in a extreme volatile world we could witness last night and understand that what happened on TV last night.
But I would say that's the biggest headwind that we've got to deal with.
And the only thing I would add it's Rick is that our portfolio is not static.
So as you look at the potential for NOI growth we're renovating 20 properties we're adding a considerable number of additional anchors.
We just announced in today's press release 3 additional department stores as we continue to lease up our properties with more productive and impactful tenants and restaurants.
We're enhancing the market share and the better we make our properties the faster our growth is going to comp.
And we've got some major redos that are in works that we may take some space out of service that we're redoing the food court all sorts of that stuff.
That again is not overly material but it might have a somewhat of a governor on our EBITDA growth.
But we're performing -- the point is we are performing better today than we thought we were and we're bidding our budgets and that's the good news.
And I guess Rick sort of took my last question but if you think about the $650 million of development redevelopment of this year and $800 million I guess you're planning redev for next year.
It sounds like that $1.5 billion target you guys had outlined for 3 years you're perhaps cannot well exceed that.
Is that a sign of you just want to reinvest more in the existing portfolio rather than look for acquisitions at this point in the cycle? Well I think those process at this point greater opportunities for us.
We've always felt taking what we've got and making it better is a huge priority.
One of the reasons why we brought David onboard was to help us do all of it is there to do with the existing portfolio.
And we're -- I'd say from that standpoint we're very pleased with the amount of activity that our teams are generating.
And that's not just the malls the outlets I mean we've got expansions in the outlet side that we feel good about.
Like in Seattle and Chicago potentially in Woodberry Commons Allen just to name a few.
So the best thing we can always do is take a good property and make it better.
And now that we feel good about capital and feel good about what our teams are doing that's the #1 priority.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Billings Ramsey &amp; Co.</strong> Just on international I just want to get a feel for how you're thinking about the investment landscape outside the U.S..
I mean you have your Asian developments but have you thought more recently about acquisitions? I mean a lot more U.S.-based mall retailers are looking to grow outside the U.S.
I don't know if that's having any input into that way you think about international investment but both kind of from an acquisition perspective and then maybe anything that would lead you to accelerate your development pipeline beyond the sort of a couple other time you've got going in Asia.
Well the development side internationally you're talking? Billings Ramsey &amp; Co.</strong> Yes.
Look I think the big frontier there is whether or not we do something in China on the outlet side and that and we're spending a lot of time on that front.
And we've got at least a couple more Japanese outlets to do and we're looking at another one in Korea.
And so the answer in the Asia new development is I mean we still want to dot Is cross the Ts but there's more to do there.
And that could be accelerated to the extent that we do something in China.
International generally when you talk about acquisitions we mostly talk about Europe and potentially what's going on in South America.
And I will tell you that we're thinking a lot about it it's very interesting.
When we initially went into Europe in '98 we had this premise that the U.S.
retailers were going to come fact of the matter is they didn't come now they're -- but we were still successful.
Now they're coming so there is some industry logic to do it.
We have felt comfortable we could add value but the deal is there to do a sizable dealer.
We don't want to just buy a one-off here and there.
We think we would really want to try and create or invest in the platform.
Those deals are not easy but it's on our radar screen.
We spend a lot of time thinking about it but it's very hard to predict or -- in fact whether or not anything will ever transpire there.
And the math is always a challenge and -- which we don't feel compelled to plan a big flag there because we've got lots of stuff to do here and lots of growth opportunities with our existing platforms including Asia.
Billings Ramsey &amp; Co.</strong> But the focus of this right now is kind of equally like develop Europe and South America say...
Yes.
I mean I think we've studied a lot in both markets.
We actually have a trip scheduled Contis knows Brazil pretty well.
He served on the board of BR malls for a long time.
That's a market we're not in who knows? I have my own view.
It looks a little toppy [ph] but I mean long run long-term you've got to look at all these things.
Billings Ramsey &amp; Co.</strong> Do you think we'll have news about kind of what you're thinking about doing in China this year sometime or...
Potentially.
Billings Ramsey &amp; Co.</strong> Okay.
And then my last question just maybe for Rick.
Could you walk through maybe some of the -- we're not hearing much about that many new concepts in the malls compared to maybe other points in the cycle I mean could you talk about who sort of your -- you've been doing deals with and particularly anything that might be a growing concept? Well we've got a lot of going on with a number of our traditional retailers.
And -- but in terms of the new ones Love Culture Pandora Lego Sperry Francesca's Divona Cotton On Made Well lululemon Michael Kors Tilly's those are all relatively newer concepts and they're all growing very aggressively in our properties.
So from that regard it's very encouraging and when you also take into a fact that recently we had the Fresh Market Francesca Pandora went public Divona I think is going this week.
So the equity markets are being very receptive to providing growth capital to our retailers and that's certainly benefiting us.
Billings Ramsey &amp; Co.</strong> Some of the existing concepts have been trying to downsize lately I mean are you seeing it kind of work both ways? I mean are as many concepts looking to grow or is it kind of a general theme of trying to get your space to be more efficient? I think that for the more mature concepts that are saying our store camp perhaps is too large or not as productive we've got people that are very focused on growing.
And the fact that our occupancy keeps going up is a testimony to that.
Our next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Looking at the activity on the big box side obviously you've added a lot of big boxes and -- or you will be adding a lot of big boxes in the near-term.
David do think it prevents some mall development when you have the likes of Macy's adding a lot of space in existing malls? Yes I think so.
Rick you want to...
I think that one of our main strategies is trying to maintain the viability of market share of our properties.
So to the extent that there is demand in a given market to the extent that we can capture that demand by expanding our existing properties it's a win-win for us.
As David pointed out earlier that's the surest way to get appropriate risk-adjusted returns.
And in addition we're making our property stronger.
Yes.
And I think the demand from the boxes to go into proven retail centers including the malls is just greater.
So we're taking advantage of that trend.
And the pressure out there -- certainly there's pressure on certain malls but there is a lot of pressure on a lot of strip centers just because if you lose an anchor or 2 in a strip center that thing comes under immediate immediate pressures.
So the boxes seem to want to relocate where the action is and in many cases that being closed shopping center.
Okay.
And as far as preventing development in the future centers do you hear from some of the big-box retailers in particular department stores that by committing to so many existing malls it's probably delaying their interests in committing to future developments? Well it's interesting.
I just -- we still -- a little bit but I would tell you that the biggest issue on new full-priced retailer demand is probably not from the boxes but more just to make the numbers work and what the real small shop demand is to make the numbers work.
That would be my Rick you can add to that but that would be more of the governors and some of the boxes.
That wouldn't you -- don't you think? I agree with that.
And just to give you an editorial comment one of the things that we have heard from our department store and big-box clients that are the retailers is that 2008 2009 taught them that who their landlord is matters.
And what we're finding is that there is a higher degree of interest in coming in to properties where they know the landlord has the commitment has the capital and has the ability to renovate as needed bringing new retailers and maintain the market share of those properties.
And as David said there is very little new development out there because there is not enough demand to generate a 300 000 or 400 000 square foot new projects and so the retailers are looking to come into the established properties.
Okay that's helpful.
Switching tracks just talking about outlets for a little bit you struck a JV with Tanger in Houston last month.
Is it some -- is this a partnership you'd like to extend to other markets or was it a one-off event? Well right now we're focused on Houston.
It's been a very positive discussion with Tanger.
There -- we made a handshake and got documented quickly thereafter.
We're excited about Houston.
We're going to start construction probably in less than a month in August.
And we would never rule out doing more business with Tanger.
But that's the #1 focus right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just staying on the outlet centers for a minute 2 quick questions.
As you look at some of the centers that have been announced or been in the press and the relation -- the position relative to some of your existing centers specifically to some of the Mills' assets can you talk about what you've been able to do with the Mill's leases since you acquired that in terms of building in radius restrictions close to what you have at the Chelsea centers -- or the Premium Centers sorry about that.
From the -- this is Rick.
From the Mills perspective what we have been able to do is really demonstrate the synergy between our platforms.
Because the mills their motto in their advertising campaign is Mills Means More.
We've been able to take the outlet tenants that we have relationships within the premium platform and bring them into the Mills.
And we've also taken a number of full price tenants that we have relationships in the mall business and bring them into the Mills.
As a result you've seen very good growth in the Mills and you have seen substantial increases in the anchors and the market share in those properties and this month the announcement of Macy's building a full-line store Gurnee on a pad that used to be occupied by Circuit City is the best demonstration of how we're able to really bring all of those varying tenants under the Mills outlets.
In terms of the radiuses they are less relevant in that property type.
Yes.
And I would say this that we're not overly worried that any of these new -- if I caught your question right we're not overly worried about any of the new outlets being developed is going to have a material impact on any of our existing Mills.
So I don't -- I'm not worried about that at all.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just given the success that outlets have had there's also have been a bit of a move to move the outlets closer into major metro areas and closer for full-priced retail.
Do you see the retailers pushing back on that given the success that they've had at the outlet centers? I think that's harder to do than some of the new entrants in the outlet market you're talking about.
I think that's a major issue for retailers and manufacturers.
And I don't think they're going to jeopardize their full-priced operations.
I do think that when you have a tourist market like a Las Vegas one or an Orlando as an example you are able to because you have new customers that come in every week.
Essentially you're able to avoid the traditional rules.
I think that it's -- if a lot of the outlet developers think -- these new entrants so to speak think they're going to get retailers and manufacturers to ignore kind of the old rules we don't see it because frankly when we've looked at a number of deals we get pushed back on sensitivity all the time.
And we -- I would say we know the business reasonably well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just moving to the full price we've heard anecdotes over the last few months coming out of ICSC that there's been a willingness on the part of the retailers to move the stores to mall levels that they wouldn't have thought about 6 to 9 months ago.
Can you talk about that you've seen in the Simon portfolio? We certainly have been able to take advantage of the better macro environment to expose our retailers to other market and other properties where they currently don't have stores.
So to that degree yes we are finding that we are able to bring those retailers that maybe in the past would not have looked at a market or a mall that would -- did not have the type of sales potential they thought and try it.
And happily what has happened is that as they have opened these stores they continued to perform and that makes them more optimistic and confident about doing additional locations in that type of property.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I have just one last  question.
The mobile web-based marketing system you've been talking about can you just update us on what progress you've made in there and what direction you think it might go? Yes.
Happy to without divulging anything overly material.
I mean we are working with The Boston Consulting Group and our retailers as we speak in the design of the product and we're making very good progress.
The retailers that we're in discussions with have been very supportive of what we're trying to accomplish.
Those discussions are ongoing.
And we are hopeful that by 2012 we will have a product that we will be testing in a few malls and we'll take it from there.
So the goal is to have something of a test nature in '12.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So you're more likely to develop something on your own versus purchasing? Well I think you'll see a combination thereof.
I mean there is a lot out there that we don't necessarily have to build completely by ourselves we can partner.
It's too early to say.
If I had to guess today it'll be a combination of build and produce ourselves and partner some of the aspects with others.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So what type of capital are we talking about in terms of investments? Too early to tell but we can handle it.
Our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
David just wanted to follow up on a comment that you made earlier regarding the volatility in the financing markets and maybe this is more a question for Steve as he's on.
But can you comment on what you've seen in terms of financing costs and availability for A assets versus B and C assets in the last month or 2 especially in light of some of the recently weakness in the CMBS markets? And how is demand for some of these lower quality assets in the market being impacted as a result? Well Christy thanks for asking me a question.
I was feeling lonely.
Listen I think you have a couple of things going on.
#1 there is still overall some more and more financial institutions restarting CMBS platforms.
And so I think overall the trend line is still good as what happened in the last of couple of weeks with spreads gapping out and maybe a couple of deals not getting done quite as well as people had hoped.
It's probably just an indication that it is still an evolving maturing market in its reconstituted face.
With demand for the different quality of properties I would echo I think the comment that Rick or David made earlier.
And the fact is your better properties grow faster they're higher productivity.
There's clearly more demand for lend against that type of assets holding all other variables like loan-to-value constant.
But the fact is we're seeing pretty good demand for products across all the different quality spectrums.
And if you've got a good asset and you're reasonable on your loan-to-value you can get it financed.
Okay.
And then question on outlets.
Can you provide some additional color on your Toronto project? I know you have zoning approvals but are there any hurdles from a construction standpoint that could potentially delay construction? And I'm sure you've had discussions with potential tenants about the project but what's been the retailer feedback so far as it relates to your project versus Tangers? Well look I think the good news is we've picked the market where an outlet center wants to be built.
And we're competing hard against the alternative.
We've got the site.
I think it's just going to be a competition.
We're hopeful that we'll get the job done.
There is no guarantees that we will.
Tenant demand is interested for sure in building an outlet center there it's a great market.
So there's no real roadblocks from ability other than -- we've got to get the leasing and I'm sure Tanger needs to get the leasing.
And we feel like we're doing pretty good but we're still got a ways to go.
We are hopeful that '12 we start construction.
I mean that's our goal and we're moving fast to accomplish that no guarantees on that.
What percentage pre-leased is Texas City given that your breaking ground next month? 50-ish but it's -- we're very confident in that deal.
Okay.
Ross is on line with me as well.
I'm sorry.
I was just going to say Ross is on line with me as well I think he has a question.
Just a quick question on Mills it looks like you've got about $2 billion gross value of debt maturing over the next 18 months.
How does that number relate to where Fairlawn is in terms of their potential monetization? And with that $2 billion of debt do you guys in the partnership need to pay down any of that to get the refinancings done? Well the vast majority of that is the senior loans and our mezz loan.
And the fact of the matter is there's no issue on refinancing the senior loan.
It's -- coverages are very strong and the same thing with our mezz loan.
So it's really not -- the refinancing of that is really not much of an issue in terms of how we look at it.
The exit of Fairlawn is a different issue and I -- it's really -- I'm not at a point where we can really discuss that.
They've been a good partner they're happy with the investment they've made and we'll see where it goes.
But I wouldn't be overly concerned about the ability to refinance the existing debt coming up.
Is it fair to say we should expect a monetization of your partner's interests at some point move sooner rather than later here in the next year or so? It's certainly in the realm of possibilities.
So it wouldn't surprise us if that happens but there is obviously a chance that they stay in the partnership and we continue to do what we do which is grow the NOIs invest in the properties for the future.
And can you just remind us how does the partnership work in terms of that monetization? They have a certain ability subject to right of first offer on certain assets and they have an ability to sell their interest subject to a first of right -- right of first refusal.
They have some ability to sell certain assets subject to a right of first offer.
And then if they want to sell their interests it's subject to right of first refusal.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I just hope -- I wanted to look at the acquisition the Lifestyle center.
I'm just wondering if -- are you seeing select opportunities in these high productive Lifestyle centers relative to maybe what is aggressive pricing on A malls? I was just for example thinking of Plaza Frontenac.
When I back out the Yankers I'm talking about roughly 220 000 square foot of in-line space.
I'm guessing the productivity is comparable as is the occupancy yet you're only paying $86 million and I'm assuming Plaza Frontenac will go for far greater.
Well let me just say look we like the deal we did in Albuquerque it's very well positioned and consumers love it retailers love it and we think there's upside.
We saw one I don't know what it's called the Lifestyle center in Carlsbad that went for based on how we looked at it and underwrote it very little growth for a much more aggressive price than anywhere near what we did Albuquerque for.
And the other asset you mentioned we just didn't have any interest in it.
So I let others whatever happens to that no idea.
But we just didn't have an interest for it.
And is there an opportunity to let's say on the cost of occupancy at ABQ? Yes...
Or is there expansion? Yes there is potential expansion and there is we think re-tenanting it as well.
And just -- I guess one last thing other than that.
Are you thinking of breaking up the borders or are we leasing it as the box that it is? We're working on both the alternatives.
We've already identified 3 or 4 potential users that would take the whole box but it's very well positioned in the assets.
And so there is also the potential to break it up and bring in a couple more restaurants and a couple other small shops.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Just quickly on the AAA the depths of talks you have in Washington.
If the rating agencies follow through and actually downgraded the U.S.
do you think there's any impact to either Simon or any of the retailers as far as financing? Apart from just a general shift in the market are there any contracts that you -- treasuries as an underlying reference or any of the factoring that goes on that maybe disrupted? Just trying to get a sense of what the impact would be in your world if that should happen.
I don't think so.
I mean we do lease space to the government.
And I will tell you that they -- I'm known for checking our accounts receivable every month when I get the report and they are always 30 days delinquent so I'm hopeful that they can rectify that.
But it is very interesting to note they are always 30 days delinquent.
I mean I guess in theory we'd have some risk that that would not be paid currently but beyond that -- I mean the numbers are immaterial frankly.
But beyond that we don't see any real risk.
I mean look spreads will invariably widen for all of corporate America and for all asset classes so we'll be a participant in that.
But beyond that we can't see anything as we study that that's going to be anything material.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
And then just as a second question is on the discussion of the taxing the Internet sales in folks like Amazon.
Is this -- I mean it seems like it's almost something that Amazon-specific because a lot of the retailers have bricks and mortar presence and they also sell their goods online.
And I'm thinking about like a store like Apple where they've had tremendous success rolling out physical locations.
So it almost seems like Amazon is unique as far as more retailers would seem to want to have a physical presence in which case they have to collect sales tax.
So just curious if the tenants are indicating that it's more than just Amazon that there's a huge amount of sales that they're losing or if this is just something more Amazon and perhaps books/electronics related.
Well there is a number of pure online retailers beyond Amazon like guilt.com I'm just naming Blue Nile just to name a couple.
So clearly Amazon is the 800-pound gorilla in this area but there are other pure line -- pure online retailers that are taking great advantage of the government subsidy that's occurring.
L.P.</strong> But do the retailers have a sense of how much business they lose? Well they're all very focused on it so they're feeling the lost -- I mean what we're hearing is the number of customers go to their store learn all about it and buy it online because it's 10% savings so it's a real issue and we need a level playing field.
There's no reason whatsoever that there should not be.
And it's not a new tax and it levels the playing field.
And the fact of the matter is if a customer wants to buy online over bricks and mortar and it's a level playing field then that's the breaks of the game.
But if they're doing it merely to avoid an 8% or 10% sales or use tax that they're required to pay but the Internet retailer ignores it that's not fair that's not what this government should be all about.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Could you give us how -- remind me how much NOI you generate from the strip centers that you own? And if you can give an update on if there's any momentum in the small shops space.
Ki Bin this is Steve.
The strip centers in the aggregate contribute about 3% to 4% of our NOI which is just -- it's in the low hundred million dollar range like $120 million.
On the small shops side there is a relatively small amount of space allocated to the specialty stores in the strip centers.
That business is primarily driven by the big box leasing end.
If you look in our supplemental filings we are seeing momentum there and adding boxes to that platform.
So it's more in the box space not on the -- kind of in-line -- under -- the small shops space then? The small shops space is a relatively smaller percentage in that platform than in our other platforms.
Okay.
And turning to your 2012 lease expirations.
Could you give us some color on what is the advantage on average of what's expiring in 2012? And if you can what was the on the apples-to-apples basis the sales productivity based on the advantage historically? When you look in our supplemental filing if you look in 2012 we have 9 700 000 square feet expiring.
So you can expect that that is going to be a very fair cross-section of our entire portfolio.
And just as an aside the rent for that is $30.22 so that gives us substantial room to roll those over at higher rent given our current average rent.
Right.
I mean that's all leading towards -- so could we expect reasonably in the mid double-digit range? It is hard to project.
It's really a function of the specific state it's their role but we've been showing good momentum in our spread over the last few quarters.
Okay.
And last question how do guys calculate when you add new anchors to your existing malls? How do you calculate your expected yields from that? Is that purely from if they do pay rent the rent you're expecting? Or is there some kind of formula for the increase that will [indiscernible] that would generate an -- or impact in the mall...
You know it's old-fashioned.
It's called a cash-on-cash return.
And we do not take into account the hope and prayer of -- that it'll mean something to this tenant and that tenant.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Just a couple of quick questions.
Steve bad debt expenses continued to stay low is that expectation for the second half for the year or do you think there's a turnaround in that number back to more normal $4 million to $5 million figure? You know Steve the answer might be somewhere in between to the 2.
David mentioned there are a couple of tenants and actually larger tenants that we have on our watch list we're paying attention to.
But the overall receivable environment right now is pretty good.
Receivables are down really half of what they were a year ago at this time.
And so I -- with the exception of a couple of tenants that we're paying attention to I think it will be a relatively modest the second half.
Okay.
And then David I know you said you don't like to characterize the malls Rick does that so maybe I'll throw the question to Rick.
But could you guys just talk maybe about regional performance and kind of what you're seeing across the country? And I realize you don't give the breakdowns of sales and rent growth between the malls and the Premium Outlets but is there anything that you're seeing I mean that noticeable trends between A B and C in terms of rent growth sales growth and I guess anything by geography will be helpful.
Well but I'll comment on the geography.
All of our regions were stronger with good sales growth but the strongest regions were the mountain which is Vegas Southwest Mid-Atlantic and Florida weaker but still growth where the plains and the Great Lakes.
Across all the platforms those properties that are located in tourist market have been substantially outperforming even the overall portfolio performance that we have talked about.
Okay.
And then lastly David just talk about the dividend.
I mean your payout is exceedingly low and I'm just wondering what your thoughts are to maybe bump in the second half or is that something that you just kind of wait till the first quarter of next year? No.
We're going to -- Steve we're going to -- as you recall last year we bumped it up materially in the fourth quarter.
So we're going to follow the same procedure in the fourth quarter.
It's going to be based upon our taxable income.
And based upon taxable income is certainly -- there is certain amount of volatility with taxable income.
But based on what I know today we're going to have an increase obviously subject to board approval but I'm sure our board wants to stay a REIT okay? We're going to have a meaningful again subject to board approval and subject to what our taxable income is but we're going to have a meaningful fourth quarter dividend increase like we did last year.
And then going forward in '12 our annual payout now is $320 million but my guess is that as part of that fourth quarter we'll also set the expectations that what our annual -- our quarterly dividend will be in '12 and again I would anticipate that there'll be a true-up in the fourth quarter of '12 and that will kind of be the normal routine that we'll get in.
Obviously the true-up will never Hopefully every be down but we'll set a number and then as taxable income gets more clarity we'll bump it up to the extent that we don't we're not meeting that.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of questions with regards to price discovery.
The Albuquerque New Mexico asset could you just give us a sense of what cap rates that was on -- at? And then also any update on King of Prussia and what could happen in that end? Well we're not going to disclose it but with Albuquerque but I think you'd be pleased.
And we're not going to disclose what's going on with King of Prussia other than we're having discussions with our partners.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then next question recent article on SNL just talking about you potentially selling some of your shopping centers.
Just curious if you had seen that and if you could make any comments? Well we've got a couple of centers on the market and we're in that process right now.
But we don't -- we won't announce anything till we have a deal that's essentially done and at this point we're in the discussions and still going through that process.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Is there anything thematic about the assets sold? Are they being so weak? No.
I think the only important thing to point out is just we do this -- we've been doing this for several years.
We did not do it in '09 and '10 because obviously the market was in major restructure recovery mode.
And so this is part of our ongoing process that we tend to look at some assets.
We try to sell a couple here and there every year.
It's consistent with what we've done in '08 '07 '06.
You have all that data out there historically.
And it's not a dramatic shift like say and it's not an overly material the deal like say what's Westfield is trying to? It's just an ongoing process that we do essentially every year assuming the market conditions are acceptable to sell assets.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then just 2 quick ones to Steve.
Steve can you guess what occupancy costs were as of 2Q? Yes.
They were 12.1%.
Inc.</strong> And this is a combined number for the malls and the...
It is yes.
Inc.</strong> 2Q in the centers okay.
And then in the quarter other income there was other within other income of about $30.5 million? Correct.
Inc.</strong> Could you just give us a further breakdown of what's in that number? It is a lot of the miscellaneous stuff at the mall Tayo it's everything from stroller rentals sales of lottery tickets and all that that various over the last year was interestingly enough going back to an acquisition that we did many years ago we held the key main life insurance for a former director who passed away.
And that was a couple of million bucks.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> And just kind of a quick follow-up Steve on that other income line item.
As you compute same-store NOIs as I understand that other income is in there is that right? If it's related to the property Jim it is.
But like for example this proceeds from this life insurance policy that I mentioned would not be in there.
LLC</strong> Okay very good.
And then second question on same-store NOI pretty significant increase quarter over quarter up from the low 2s to 3.5 and I guess teeing off of what David have to say about feeling better about the outlook for the balance of the year I guess that's reflected in your guidance but the 3.5 number this quarter should we be assuming that that number of data is achievable in the second half? Well I'll say this Jim.
As David mentioned it is -- that was off a base that was positive last year as well.
And if you look at the second half of last year our comp NOI growth as I recall was in the low- to mid-2s.
So we're coming off of higher bases.
I think the good news if you just look at the composition of the 3.5% 265 basis points of it is percentage -- or excuse me is minimum rent.
I think Rick and David have both mentioned about deal quality continuing to get better and 50 basis points of it is overage rent.
We'll see where sales head but if sales continue to stay at the percentage increase that we're seeing it's reasonable to assume that there would be some pop from the overage rent as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple with Hilliard Lyons.
I just had a question.
In your press release it didn't mention anything about the outlet you all announced in May in Phoenix.
Is everything still on track for that center to be built? Yes we're still moving on that correct.
Okay.
And I know at least 2 of your peers have announced that they're interested in that market.
How many outlet centers do you think Phoenix can realistically hold and support? Well if they all get built somebody will be a loser how's that? That works.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Yang with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> David in past year you talked about only buying and owning franchised assets which I thought included a minimum size requirement as well as anchors.
But given that you just bought an unanchored center that was only 220 000 square feet.
Is this possibly a signal that you're maybe more open-minded about what you want to buy and own and maybe in light of the aggressive pricing for high quality assets that you were talking about earlier? Well look we are -- it's a very good question.
The answer is a couple.
One is we really like this asset and we've looked at a lot of assets like this.
This was an off market deal so it wasn't -- they didn't hire Eastfield to create projections that the people bid on and believed in and put in crazy cap rates so we think we bought it right.
We still would prefer the bigger better deals but some of those are -- there's not a lot on the market.
And two the numbers are very very aggressive.
And I think the other important thing on this is a good -- a very good market.
We're in this market so we know it we cover it.
And as I mentioned to you this was part of a 1031 -- again we love the real estate we think it's got a lot of potential but it was kind of an off-market deal very good real estate fair price for the buyer and the seller upside good market.
1031 we're very happy to buy it.
And we have looked at those kind of centers but even some of those are just being bid up to what we think are very aggressive levels.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I mean why would the seller necessarily not market the deal and potentially leave some money on the table by selling it off-market to you guys? I mean it's no secret that pricing is pretty frothy overall.
So I'm just curious how you guys step in and how you present yourself and how you end up winning these types of opportunities? Well believe it or not we have -- had a history of it.
We like those deals the best.
That's how we got into the Outlet business.
We bought Chelsea.
It was  a negotiated deal.
I bought the -- but low -- it wasn't an option.
We've done most of our work in that way.
And that's the way we prefer it doesn't always work out that way.
But in this case our guys did a good job and people know that we're going to close.
So they know when we have a deal they know we're going to close.
And we're fair on that side of the equation.
So they have faith that they just know we're going to get the job done.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And just last question.
It looks like you meaningfully reduced the small shop tenants that were on month-to-month leases.
Over the past quarter it looks like it's down about 1.4 million square feet.
Is this seasonality or were you able to convert the bulk of this to permanent tenants? Permanent tenants.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Can you give a breakdown just to give a rough idea of how much demand there might be for those temp to perm? Well in this case we had a couple larger national retailers that we've been going back and forth.
And I think the bulk of it has been the fact that we just finalized those leases and extended them and redid them or whatever.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And what was the average spread for those temp to perm conversion? We don't have that in front of us.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> But it's included in the overall metric? It was.
Yes.
Of course.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with J.P.
Morgan [ph].
Real quick David just on the dividend again I just want to make sure I heard this correctly.
Fourth quarter dividend increased slightly assuming the board approves it.
Is there -- were something similar to a special? And then you would give a sense as to what 2012 could be more on a run rate basis.
That was the right way correct? Yes.
Let me -- yes let me just restate it because it's obviously important.
We pay $0.80 a quarter times 4 that's $3.20.
It's very likely that we'll -- in the fourth quarter dividend declaration which will be part of our third quarter earnings announcement in November payable in November we'll include a dividend higher than $0.80 that will be driven by what our taxable income is.
Remember if you don't pay your taxable income you can't be a REIT that would not be good.
We're going to pay our taxable income out right? That will -- by then we'll have a good sense of '12's taxable income and our quarterly run rate for '12 will probably be outlined in that context as well.
So obviously it'll be probably higher than $0.80 per quarter but at that point we're still we'll have a better sense of that by the end of the year.
Got it okay.
And then last question.
On Opry I'm looking in the supplemental share cost for the restoration it's about $60 million.
Is all of that out-of-pocket? Was there insurance proceeds that are coming to play as well I mean how do we think about that? Well just -- we've actually worked very diligently and very hard with our lender.
They're providing those funds and we're suing Aon who's been our broker for a number of years unfortunately has withheld the additional coverage that we think and we know we're entitled to.
And that litigation continues.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert McMillan with Standard &amp; Poor's.
Can you give me what percentage of your 2011 2012 leasing activity has been completed? 2011 is substantially done.
2012 we're probably about 35% completed already.
And how is that compared with normal? We're a little bit ahead of where we've been historically over the last couple of years.
And can you comment on what retail sectors are doing particularly well and which ones are doing particularly poor and which ones you're more optimistic about? The one that have shown better growth have been the sporting goods jewelry women's better apparel and accessories.
Weaker areas obviously books women's moderate and junior apparel.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC.
LLC</strong> I got to say I like the acquisition of the best asset in Albuquerque which is my hometown as it turns out.
And I'm curious beyond the obvious plans for the center itself.
Across the street there is kind of a defunct old regional mall asset.
And then across the other street there's 1/3 tier general growth asset that's a regional mall as well.
And I'm wondering if you're thinking beyond the center itself maybe crossing one of the 2 streets in the future? Well I think it's -- I think the -- it's not -- look we've have not -- discussions with general growth so I'm not --  we're not going to speak on that asset.
But I think you do point out that there is potential on the other one and we're cognizant of that asset and what the potential there is.
But certainly not the general growth asset I mean I have no comment on that essentially.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So you haven't talked David to the private guy that owns the old Winrock Center? Well we're aware of what -- that could be an interesting situation but it's too early at this point.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Because that's a great area obviously for a broader retail place it seems like.
Okay second thing is I'm curious why did you say you don't like to tier assets? That seems like from your guy's standpoint obviously you understand all the assets.
From the analyst investor standpoint it's usually helpful to see the kinds of stats that you threw out at the beginning of the call on a more defined and formal sort of basis.
I'm curious why not put that tiering together? Look I just believe that to me $1 of cash flow is $1 of cash flow so and I just don't like essentially sometimes what it means internally but it's not a big issue.
I mean we do it we look at it we'll give you data that we think it's important to understand if we think the market is not appreciating what we've got.
And we'll continue to do that we can cut it 1 000 different ways.
Our average is obviously mean something because of the size of the company.
So it's not -- our averages are not insignificant because it's over a big broad-based.
And you know math.
You know how math works right? So it's not just 20 assets that 3 or 4 or 5 could skew the results one way or another.
So -- but the important thing is look tell us how you'd like it we'll factor it in.
But we've got a business to run internally and I don't like to characterize assets by tiers because the fact of the matter is I want every asset we've got to be better and the best it can be or we should let somebody else try and achieve that.
Okay.
Good.
I got you.
And then did you guys look at that Niagara Falls outlet center that apparently Matridge has or is it [indiscernible] Yes.
We're more focused on Torano [ph] than Buffalo frankly.
We do -- and again I don't really know what the deal is but there are reports that it's in the -- we don't see it necessarily as a top 25 outlet center.
We've pretty good familiar with the outlets that are out there but I'm sure they'll do fine with it but our focus right now is Torano [ph] not Buffalo.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
And then last thing I had Steve I wasn't quite sure if you kind of hit on this you might've but percentage rent this quarter were up sharply and certainly well above what we had anticipated.
And what was the reason for that do you think? Well it could have been your anticipation.
So that could have been the problem.
Yes indeed.
But no.
Rich I think we're just seeing the benefit.
I mean obviously percentage rents are tough to predict because you have tenants coming in and out of overage rent all the time.
But the fact is if you have the sales growth that we have now seeing for the last 4 or 5 quarters in a row it has begun to manifest itself in higher percentage rates.
It is as simple as that.
Okay.
So the -- what we saw in the second quarter could continue to some extent for the foreseeable future? Depending on what your assumption is about sales growth going forward sure.
Our final question comes from the line of Caitlin Burrows with Credit Suisse.
It's Gautam Desai.
A couple of questions on the international front.
With the recent weakness in U.K.
retailers do you guys think like your dodged a bullet there? Well look we know what we're doing whether we dodged a bullet or not I don't know.
We offered what we offered on Capital Shopping Centres a price that we thought we could make work based upon our industry knowledge and history of past performance.
They didn't consider it.
I know that the stock.
Please standby your conference will resume momentarily.
Again please standby.
[Technical Difficulty] Sorry about that.
I don't know if you heard the last part of my response but let me just repeat it.
In terms of dodging the bullet on CSC let me just say this we all heard a price that they weren't interested in.
The stock obviously has not gotten that price since we offered it.
Our offer was subject to due diligence but we felt comfortable in offering that because we have the history of making acquisitions work and -- but they were not interested.
So that's really all I can say on that.
I don't necessarily think we dodged the bullet.
We're very comfortable in underwriting.
We understood the U.K.
market that's why we thought they should have seriously considered our offers subject to due diligence.
They chose not to.
But had we done due diligence and felt comfortable with it we would've made the deal work like we have every other deal.
Good.
Sounds good.
And my last question is what kind of demand are you seeing for international tenant expansion within the U.S.? Pretty good.
In fact one of the leaders is here the last 2 days talking a lot of business with us.
Rick and just -- but if -- I'd say it's very positive.
Yes.
We're doing a lot of business with H&amp;M and they're literally here right now.
We're doing business with Desigual Inglot Cotton On Aritzia AllSaints those are all international retailers that are looking to expand their footprint in the U.S.
and we're getting the benefit of that.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session for today's call.
I would now like to hand the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you everybody.
We are very sorry for that technical glitch.
We can blame that on David Contis because he took our -- my technology room for those of you who have visited Indianapolis I gave him by office so we're in a new room.
And we'll obviously work this out.
But have a great rest of the summer and take care.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Simon Property Group Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tanya and I will be your conference moderator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to hand the presentation over to our host Shelly Doran Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to our reports filed with the SEC for detailed discussion.
Acknowledging the fact that this call may be webcast for some time to come we believe it's important to note that our call includes time sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date October 25 2011.
During today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the earnings release or the company's supplemental information package that was included in this morning's 8-K.
This package is also available on the Simon website in the Investors section.
Participating in today's call will be David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Simon.
Thank you for joining us today and I'll just give you a quick update on some of the highlights and then we'll open up for Q&amp;A.
First of all we reported funds from operations of $1.71 for the quarter which represents an increase of 19.6% over the FFO in the third quarter of 2010 as adjusted for the third quarter in 2010 which adds back -- add back our debt extinguishment charge.
This result beats First Call consensus by $0.05 per share.
We have now met or exceeded expectations for 29 of the past 31 quarters.
Let me talk about some statistics.
Total sales on a rolling 12-month basis were $517 per square foot up 9.3% from $473 as of September 30 2010 which is nearly 60 million square feet of GLA.
Now that we've owned Prime for year this quarter we have begun to include the Prime portfolio in our statistics and so we've adjusted our September 30 2010 to give you a sense of comparability.
There were a couple of analysts out there that suggested that our average base rents went down sequentially.
Keep in mind that we did not go back and adjust 630 numbers for Prime.
So that reduction in base rent is all associated with adding Prime into our portfolio.
And in fact when you add Prime in on 630 we've had -- we did have sequential average base minimum rent growth and Shelly can give you those details later.
Occupancy was 93.9% 10 basis points higher than the year earlier period and 30 basis points higher than the end of the second quarter.
This was achieved despite the loss of over 160 000 square feet due to liquidations of Borders and Anchor Blue.
The releasing spread for the 12 months was $4.77 per square feet to positive 9.6%.
Our releasing spread continues to include all in-line space including spaces larger than 10 000 square feet and most importantly comparable property NOI growth was 3.8% for the quarter and 3.2% year-to-date.
It was driven by increases in minimum and overage rent.
Development activity.
Quickly we have 3 new developments under construction all are Premium Outlets 2 in the U.S.
and 1 in Malaysia.
We have 22 renovation and expansion projects under construction in the U.S.
with completion dates scheduled for this year and 2012 and the restoration of Opry Mills continues with the completion expected in the spring of 2012.
We also have expansions significant expansions underway at 3 Premium Outlet centers in Japan.
As we have discussed with you in the past couple of quarters our development or redevelopment programs in the U.S.
and abroad are accelerating.
We're seeing good value creation opportunities.
We expect our share development spend to approximate nearly $500 million in 2011 and the potential for 2012 again depending on timing could approximate $1 billion.
As always details on the cost and returns and timing on these projects are provided in our supplemental reporting package.
On the acquisition front we continue to demonstrate our ability to strategically invest capital.
We completed 2 in this quarter.
First of all in July we acquired ABQ Uptown a 220 000 square feet -- square foot lifestyle center in Albuquerque New Mexico.
The center generates sales of approximately $650 per square foot and adds to our presence in the growing Albuquerque market where we're also on Cottonwood Mall and in August we acquired a controlling interest in King of Prussia one of the truly iconic shopping destinations in the U.S.
increasing our ownership from 12% to 96%.
In addition we have the contractual ability to acquire the remaining 4% interest in the fall of 2013.
This acquisition will be immediately accretive to our earnings and the property has excellent growth prospects as we expect to increase the NOI at KOP by approximately 30% in the next 3 years.
Capital markets.
We closed on -- in early October on a new unsecured revolving credit facility well ahead of its maturity date that increased our revolving borrowing capacity to $4 billion with the ability to increase it to $5 billion during its term and can be extended to October 30 2016 at our sole option.
The interest rate is LIBOR plus 100 and the facility provides for money market competitive bid option which we expect to even more lower the indicative pricing of LIBOR plus 100.
We also have lower pricing grid from our previous facility and the new maturity as I mentioned up to 5 years which further enhances our already strong financial position.
We also have nearly $930 million of cash on hand including our share of joint venture cash.
On dividends.
We're very pleased to announce that our common stock dividend for the fourth quarter will total $1.10 per share.
This is comprised of 2 separate dividends.
First of all we've now increased our regular quarterly dividend to $0.90 from $0.80.
This represents a 12.5% increase of the dividend that's payable on November 30 to shareholders of record on November 16.
We also announced the special cash dividend of $0.20 per share.
This dividend is payable on December 30 to shareholders of record on December 16.
These 2 dividends as I mentioned to you earlier total $1.10 for the quarter and increases our total payout from the $3.50 for the 2011 calendar year which we expect to approximate our 2011 taxable income.
The new $0.90 quarterly dividend rate also positions us to have a trajectory of at least $3.60 per share in 2012 and we would expect to revisit our dividend again in October to ensure that we're paying 100% of our 2012 estimated taxable income.
Now let me turn to guidance.
Based upon our strong results for the quarter and expectations for the balance of the year we increased the low end of our 2011 FFO guidance range by $0.15 per share to $6.80 per share and raised the top end by $0.12 to $6.85 per share.
The midpoint of our current guidance is now a full $0.30 above the midpoint of our original 2011 guidance provided to you in February.
Before I open it up for questions let me just conclude by saying we're pleased with 2011 thus far with our performance.
We've had strong performance at our core properties accretive acquisitions.
We continued to strengthen our already industry-leading balance sheet all of which will serve us well in 2011 but also position us for more good stuff in the future.
We're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> David or Rick with respect to Gap's plans to close a chunk of their stores specifically where are their rents relative to the $54 level you've been signing leases at? And maybe from a broader perspective do you see this is a trend to some of your older more established chain of rightsizing their store counts now that they're coming up upon lease expirations? Well let me start and then Rick can add.
First of all I think with respect to Gap Ross it's very important to put in perspective.
They've been shrinking their fleet for the last few years and I think the recent announcement was nothing new to us and in fact as I mentioned to you we've been seeing a reduction in their fleet with us for the last 3 or 4 years as they continue to add very anemic sales per square feet as well as decreasing sales per square feet.
Now just to put The Gap in perspective to your next question it is kind of where do we think rents are with Gap.
They were very effective in being able to negotiate a large amount of space a great space in highly productive malls at below market rents when they were going through their growth phase.
Now obviously those days are over and even though we're likely to lose some space in less productive malls we will more than make it up and I think we've already have -- I don't want to get too granular in rollovers with certain Gap stores but we will more than make that up as we reclaim the space in the higher producing malls that we will either shrink their footprint or in fact eliminate their brand in those centers.
It's a trend that we're seeing outside of Gap and the answer to that is not really but it's a trend that we have seen years and years of experience where concepts tend to get bigger than what they should and it's a natural evolution in retail but frankly they're the only one going through this kind of downsizing in a material -- on a material basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
And then my final question there's been a few what we'll call A malls that have traded this year.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> But the trend in B malls changing hands didn't occur.
Can you talk a little bit about the pricing differential between those 2 categories? And do you think that they've been overdone on both extreme? Well I can only speak to our point of view.
I mean we were able to buy King of Prussia and though we don't talk about individual mall transaction we're extremely comfortable with the going in yield and the expected yield that we will get from that asset.
As you might know we didn't really run the property.
We kind of ran it through a joint venture and that was a terrific relationship over the years with our partners.
The fact is we're very comfortable that there's a lot of upside to achieve from that asset so I can only talk about what we've bought and there's absolutely no concerns on my behalf in terms of what we paid and the growth that we have from the assets that we bought.
The B malls look I think we're still trying to figure out kind of where that market is.
There's not right now natural buyers so it is going to require a group of opportunity type funds or entrepreneurs that are going to want to gobble these up and a lot of that is dependent upon financing.
There will be strategic assets here and there that certain mall companies might buy but I still think price discovery is going to eventually occur there and I don't think it will be all that earth shattering in terms of cap rates.
I still think kind of where the talk is.
Assuming the market comes back on financing we'll ultimately deliver the values that people are kind of circling in those -- for those assets.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Maybe the first question is for Steve.
When I kind of look at the implicit fourth quarter FFO that you're giving given the full year number it's just up a little bit from the first -- fourth quarter of last year and I'm just trying to sort of understand why earnings would only be up 1% or 2%.
What was nonrecurring last year? Just given the strength in the core business the acquisitions that you've done and probably some savings on refinancings.
So you're accusing us of being conservative? If that's the case I hope you're right.
One thing that you do need to think about Steve is that the Prime acquisition does anniversary and so it is in the full fourth quarter of 2010 and so that will make a difference.
Research Division</strong> I understand but if you -- and I understand you won't be up 19% again but at the midpoint of your new range you're talking about earnings of kind of $1.85 against $1.82 so I know you like to be conservative.
I know you've got a very good track record of beating but is there anything else that's one-time that occurred last year like lease termination fees or gains that may not come up in the fourth quarter this year? Well lease termination fees generally speaking were higher in 2010.
We've had very little lease termination activity in 2011.
The other thing that you do have is that in 2011 and I'd have to look at the fourth quarter specifically Steve but bad debt expense turned out to be a credit for most of 2011 where -- because of some of the bankruptcies that have occurred this year we have seen -- while still a below normal level of activity we have seen some bad debt expense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then David maybe can you just talk about some of the international opportunities.
I guess there's been a lot of chatter just about your interest in Brazil and you're up over the last 3 to 6 months and as you kind of traveled around the world and look for opportunities.
As we kind of look through the European business in terms of the assets that you own occupancy was up a bit but the sales were kind of flat.
I'm just wondering how you're thinking about some of these markets today in light of sort of the dislocation that's going on in Europe and the stronger growth in the emerging markets.
Well look I think Europe is going to be in for a challenge for sure.
So we still like the outlet business worldwide and right now that continues to be our primary focus worldwide.
We had a worldwide franchise in the outlet business so that's the primary focus to take advantage of and that could be Europe that could be South America and certainly Asia.
We want to -- you see all the stuff that we're doing in Japan expanding that platform.
Korea we think we have another deal on the horizon there.
Malaysia we open up in December.
So I think from a international point of view the priority will continue to be the outlet business.
Look I think -- generally I think we've proven that we have a unique model that allows us to acquire develop and improve real estate worldwide.
We certainly want to look at everything that's out there to do it.
We do believe that there is some -- if there's a company that could really turn into a global retail real estate company it's us and that's going to require us to look at everything there.
There could be dislocation in Europe that could create buying an opportunities.
On the other hand sometimes those things never come to fruition but day to day we're looking at how to grow the outlet business internationally.
That's the #1 priority.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David just back to the original question in terms of store closings.
If you think about leasing spreads over the next 12 months is your assessment that there really should be a minimal impact I guess maybe in your leasing spreads and occupancy? From The Gap or generally? Research Division</strong> Yes just in general from some of the store closings that have been talked about recently or planned store closings.
Yes.
Look I think not everything is robust in retail real estate.
It never seems to be and every year we got to fill the book again from people that are scaling back but we believe strongly that that as we look at our rents and our occupancy cost we will have the ability to increase our rents as we recapture space.
We've proven that almost 20 years now as a public company so I don't expect that to change at all.
I think The Gap is a great opportunity.
They're underperforming.
A lot of those spaces are well below our average rents and we look to take advantage of that as well and we're going to look at those one by one individually so I would expect our ability to produce rent spreads assuming we generally have a decent economy to certainly be produced again next year.
Rick? Yes the only thing that I would add is that we're focusing on a Gap announcement but there is a significant number of tenants that are doing well are looking to expand and in fact have already come to us and said "Well if you get that Gap room back we want it." So I would not just view this through the prism of a Gap contraction.
You have to also bear in remind all the tenants out there that are doing well looking to expand and the fact that there's virtually no new development so whatever demand is being created among our retailers it's going to be satisfied out of the existing inventory in the industry.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And Rick maybe as well can you give us some sense of perhaps demand for 2012 or commitments at this point? Or is it booked early? Well we're in the midst of our leasing now and demand has maintained pretty stable.
There are a number of tenants I've just said like Apple Forever 21 Loft Love Culture that are expanding.
You've seen a significant number of IPOs being done by retailers that are active in the mall area and they're recapitalized and looking to grow and we are sanguine about our prospects but as David emphasized we are at the mercy of the macroeconomic environment.
So if things stay as they are we should be okay.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just final question in terms of some of the Class A transactions that we've seen in the mall category.
With the 30% increase in NOI are you really looking at stabilized yields of 6 plus percent? Oh yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Michael Bilerman as well.
Just in terms -- just going back to the international question I believe you were down in Brazil recently and it sounds like internationally you're more focused on the outlet center business but I'd be just curious to get your takeaways on the mall business in Brazil and whether or not that something that could interest you at some point? Well it's a vibrant economy.
The malls there produce a significant amount of cash flow higher cash flow per foot or per meter however you'd like to look at it then they do in the U.S.
which to me was very interesting.
They charge for parking which is very interesting given that you've got an emerging customer there that you would think would be hard to charge for parking but a lot of positives.
I think long term Brazil is -- I'm sure there will be lots of ups and downs given its historical nature but long term I think the country obviously has got a tremendous amount going for it.
There are some worries because the cash flow per foot or per meter is so high.
It's counterintuitive versus say an emerging market.
You would think it would be low and growing but despite that I think a lot of that has to do with supply and demand.
It's a very intriguing market.
Lots of supply coming on so it'll be interesting to see how that all shakes out but an impressive group of companies and malls and overall an impressive marketplace.
Research Division</strong> David its Michael Bilerman speaking.
Just a question on the dividend just thinking about how you sort of thought through the process in terms of paying out a special to get to a 100% payout ratio versus setting sort of a dividend run rate without doing this sort of top-up specials at the end of the year and how you discuss that with the Board and sort of how you came to this decision And I assume you could have paid out the bare minimum to 90% but you went to 100% and to thinking about where you stand and how you think about next year.
Well look I think this year to put our dividend in perspective there's a thing called bonus depreciation that we took advantage of and the reason we -- so our taxable income is lower probably than a normal run rate because the fact of the matter is that we took advantage of the kind of the bonus depreciation that has -- the Congress has put forward to kind of stimulate the economy.
Whether that's worked or not that's for another debate.
Next year we don't know if that's going to be there or not and I think we told you from Day 1 we want to pay out our taxable income at a bare minimum so our run rate now is 360.
We probably will have a higher taxable income than that next year and I kind of like having a run rate that's going to grow over time and then the ability to top it off based upon our taxable income which includes a lot of different things so I actually think it's the more elegant way than raising it significantly and beyond the kind of where the raise was and then in terms of a few taxable income ends up less than that you're paying out more than that and given what's going on with taxable income for corporate America today we thought this was the best more prudent.
It also reinforces our strategy to provide a growing dividend.
Not many REITs are growing their dividends.
Certainly not many are growing on a 12.5% basis and being able to use the extra capital that we have to fund our business and generate even more earnings and I think it's a pretty good cycle to be on.
So I read your thing.
I was confused that you'd said disappointed.
I don't know.
I've had a lot of shareholders that we're very happy including the Board.
Research Division</strong> But it's a question more or so of do you get paid for a $0.20 special at the end of the year? Or do you generate more institutional interest especially from generalist investors about having a consistent quarterly dividend that increases over time? Well it did increase.
It went from $0.80 to $0.90 and if we had -- we have to pay out $3.50 and so if you take the logic of what you're saying is that we would have to pay out $1.10 in the quarter and that would be $4.40 for next year and that's not kind of the trajectory that we really want to convey.
So I think it's the right thing to do.
We appreciate your input on it.
We're very pleased with the outcome of it.
Research Division</strong> What was the bonus amount the depreciation in terms of how much it affected taxable income for 2011? It was roughly I'm going to say $0.25 something like that.
Yes about $0.20.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Right so you're set up for $3.75 for next year so you're already...
No.
I think next year will be higher than that and that allows us to be put on a trajectory higher than that.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
So if you guys take a broader view of the economy it seems like for one of a very few times in history it seems like retail sales are doing very well despite the lack of consumer confidence.
How long do you think this divergence can last especially in light of today's pretty bad print? Today's what? I didn't hear the last question.
Especially in light of today's bad consumer confidence number.
Well I think we have a bifurcated consumer and generally the people that shop at our malls are -- the unemployment for the college educated is in the 4% to 5% range.
Certainly we would like all the people to be benefiting from a growing economy but the general view of our business is that we want to attract the better consumer that does have disposable income to spend and we've been successful in doing that.
We don't always do it.
We have certain properties that don't do that but generally I think as long as the economy continues to at least have some GDP growth we'll be able to continue to attract the better customer that has -- that I think has disposable income to spend.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on a previous question what would your sales per square foot and same-store NOI numbers be without the Prime inclusion? Well Ki Bin this is Steve.
The sales without Prime I think would have been $3 a square foot higher and the -- excuse me $7 a square foot higher and the comp NOI number does not include Prime.
It won't include Prime until the next quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> We know from what the retailers have been saying on their calls that there's...
Paul can you speak up? We can barely hear you.
Research Division</strong> We just know from what the retailers have been saying that there's been a lot of demand for the As and what they comment about the As and Bs they talk about [indiscernible] still but from your perspective has there been any shift in the negotiations for space in the Bs this year as retailers maybe get a bit more encouraged by their sales? Or is it still much harder slogging than in your top kind of quartile? Paul this is Rick.
I think we have always seen a pretty direct relationship with the productivity of our properties and our ability to drive our rents.
As we have been able to increase the productivity of our properties we're making them more attractive to retailers and we have been able to drive occupancy and rents in those properties.
We put in our press release the fact that in 2011 we're opening 39 new anchors and big boxes or almost 1.7 million square feet across the portfolio.
We're renovating another 18 properties.
All of this is making our properties more attractive driving market share driving sales and helping us lease the property.
Is it always going to be a function of the market position and productivity? Sure but we think we're creating better product for our leasing guys to sell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just sort of on a similar thing as I look at the expiring leases for 2012 at $32 that's like 20% almost below where you’re in-place average is.
How should I think about -- I mean is that an opportunity to take releasing spreads higher from where they are now? Or is it maybe representative of the big portfolio but could be representative the type of malls where you have more expirations? How do we think about next year based on the $32 number? Well I think it's very positive right? So -- look our size is such that these numbers actually mean something whereas others with smaller portfolios may have statistics that could indicate something other than what it is just because they're smaller.
So the fact is at the end of the day that rollover is a great opportunity for the company and we intend to take advantage of it and we've said consistently that our leases are under market.
I think that helped us perform in the Great Recession.
Recall if I could Paul that we did not have negative NOI growth in our portfolio during the Great Recession and I think that that is a good statistic that creates the insurance policy of our ability to generate comp NOI growth.
The size of that spread is dependent upon a lot of macro things but the bottom line it's a great spot to be in and additionally it lasts for a long time so it's not a 1-year event.
So let's hope we can continue on the track that we've demonstrated for the past several years.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Actually this is Jeff Spector.
I'm here with Craig.
We have a few questions.
If I could just ask a couple first.
David I guess just thinking about the bumps in 2011 in your guidance what were some of the surprises I guess you felt happened during the course of the year? And as you're laying out your 2012 budgets I guess from a macro standpoint what are you thinking at this point? Well the biggest surprise a pleasant surprise is that we've had comp NOI that's been higher than the budget.
To me that's the most important thing that we can do.
Sometimes it's out of our control because it's tied to retailer sales.
Bankruptcies could impact that.
We've had some -- we've had more of that this year than the last year if you recall.
So to me that's always the #1 focus is how do we increase the cash flow on a comp basis from the properties.
So with that said -- I mean that's the focus what -- Prime is -- we have outperformed on our Prime portfolio in terms of our underwriting and our expectations there that helped fuel our growth.
Rates were a little lower than what we projected as well and so those were kind of the material things we had.
Offsetting that was some bankruptcies less lease settlement income but that's kind of the ups and downs.
Research Division</strong> And how are you then thinking about your 2012 budget from a macro standpoint? I know you're not providing guidance but anything you could comment on? Well look we're just about to start that excruciating process.
Don't remind me.
We actually do bottoms up property by property so if we look a little dazed if you see us at the end of Thanksgiving we kind of get dazed by that time but we actually do that work.
It's a little early.
I mean I think the fact of the matter is the biggest caveat that we have is all about the macro.
Where is the economy? Where is consumer confidence? The election year throws a whole set of psychological issues at the consumer none of which are positive but you know what? We will figure it out and I expect to have another good year and another year of growth but we're right now in that process.
As you know Jeff we do that beginning or kind of right when we do our year-end results so -- but we'd expect to have another good year.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just one more question for Craig.
I'd ask his.
I guess thinking about the different formats it's pretty clear that Premium Outlets continues to shine outperform.
I guess can you -- any -- could you provide any information I guess on your shopping center portfolio versus the malls as we head into Christmas the holiday season? Any feedback from tenants whether it's the smaller tenants or the big box? I'll let Rick.
Rick go ahead.
A couple of things.
One all 4 of our platforms are positive to both budget and to actuals last year.
So they're all performing well year-to-date.
In terms of the holiday we literally have 4 tenants in here today and talking to them they're all anticipating up probably 2% to 3%.
Inventories are very tight.
People are not chasing sales.
They'd rather leave a few sales on the table and make sure that they drive their margins and are not over inventory.
Then the only other point I would say is there is a -- and as we think about our world there's are pretty high correlation to the better retailers and how the S&amp;P 500 does.
So we're to a degree I think really focused on how that better consumer is thinking about their position and that will be reflected to a degree by the S&amp;P 500.
Research Division</strong> I guess -- this is Craig.
I had a question on the King of Prussia the potential 30% increase in NOI.
Clearly the conversion of Strawbridge would be a big part but is there other things that will be helping you push towards that goal? Well I think that is part of that Craig for sure but additionally it's just we believe that in -- putting in all of the Simon programs that we didn't put in previously because of the partnership limitations all of that led to that cash flow and whether they're all of our marketing programs going to fix cam [ph] as an example we feel like the rents weren't at the level they should be given the quality of the asset so all of that -- plus it's really interesting and it's probably somewhat premature to talk about it but I'll go ahead is that we are looking to put Strawbridge aside because as you know that's under construction but our ultimate focus in this property will be to combine The Plaza with The Court with additional retail and we have the FAR ability to do that and we're just discussing that concept with the Village but we think that's a great opportunity to really integrate both of these properties and make it one unbelievable shopping destination beyond what it is today.
But just to be clear Craig.
This is Steve.
That's not in the 30%.
The 30% is just executing the redevelopment of the Strawbridge and then finalizing the property by doing some of the things that David talked about like the conversion to fix cam [ph] and the full implementation of the marketing programs.
Research Division</strong> Great and then just one last question.
If you could talk a little bit about what you're doing with Nanuet Mall.
I mean I understand that maybe more of an outdoor or mixed-use and if you're going to be doing any kind of repositioning by the future tenants? We are about to demolish the mall in the next month or so and we will end up creating a -- what I'll call for better or worse a lifestyle center an open-air center that will be anchored by Sears Macy's.
They will stay in place.
It will be a road and retail kind of through the property.
We'll add a health club where we'll add a high-end food operation restaurants and specialty retail and all systems go there.
We're just about done with all the planning and the demolition as I said should occur here in the near future.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan with Cowen and company.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question -- first question for me it's in the area of the several other questions have kind of been on and maybe coming out of from a slightly different angle David looking at your average portfolio base rent and average sales.
Obviously sales trends have been very very positive in spite of the negative productivity contribution I guess from Gap and your average base rent in the portfolio is now at 7.5% about as low as it's been in a long long time now.
We know the outlet center portfolio is included in that metric now and I just wonder if you could help us think about how you think about that 7.5% number over the course of the cycle.
In the past it can run up to the mid-8s or higher and do you think it will have that upside potential given the change in the composition of the total portfolio? There's no reason assuming we have a stable economy growing economy that we're not going to work our way back to that level.
Now retail I mean there's a lot of pressure in retail.
We have the consumer under pressure.
So it is going to take work.
It's going to take some level of stability.
It's going to require the mood to get a little bit better generally in the country but I'm actually feeling that these things will work their way through the system in that way and it's hard to give you a specific number but we do think that that presents a lot of opportunity on the rent.
There's no question about it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess going to the point about Gap given that Gap's productivity trend is negative to the rest of the portfolio.
Presumably the sooner you get that space back the better off it will be in terms of that metric.
Yes.
There's no doubt you will have a step backward and then 2 steps forward because as you reclaim the space you're going to have downtime and in some cases it's going to take a little bit of period of time to lease it up but at the end of the day -- we've done all sorts of analysis on this.
At the end of the day we just think there's tremendous upside overall.
It's not to say there aren't going to be some holes that will be generated as we lose some of The Gap stores Gap brands whether it's Old Navy Banana or just The Gap brand but over a -- not a long period of time but over a 2-year period of time as you lease up the space that we reclaim there's going to be tremendous upside and even in A malls their productivity does not allow them to essentially pay market rents where others do and the benefit that we see in A malls from them there versus others has been diminished somewhat as they shrink their portfolio appetite.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a quick question regarding the projected rate of return on development spend.
In the quarter the projected stabilized return on the anchor big box segment of the development went down a little bit from 12 to 10.
I know there was movements in and out of what's on that schedule.
Was there any changes in cost projections on projects or was it  simply -- it's the lower number simply because of what came out in the third quarter? It's just a matter of the mix of projects Jim.
In fact we've had very good forecasting in the overall environment.
Our construction costs have been coming in at or below what we have been using for our capital allocation approvals.
And I think -- I would say one thing.
Jim our people are used to -- hopefully the conservative nature and how we present ourselves resides throughout the building and certainly when we approve projects -- I mean the level of sandbagging in our projects depends on who's doing the project but it's institutional in nature.
So I would hope over time that we would produce better results in that but Rick's right.
It is in the mix but we're being very aggressive and really focused on trying to make our properties the best as they can be spending a lot of time.
A part of the reason to do more quicker are the reason why we hired Contest [ph] to help in that area.
He is very focused on and so -- but hopefully we will outperform those numbers.
Now Jim you did mention in one of your reports -- I tried to address it.
I garbled.
I'm not very good at reading those things but you -- I do hope you realize that the 630 base rent did not include Prime.
When you do we actually do have sequential growth so I just wanted to reinforce that with you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And final question for me.
David the Marketplace Equity Act recently introduced in Congress I know it's a modification from the prior bill that was post or proposed.
I just wonder if you would like to make a comment about it.
I don't know if you're hearing anything from people you work with about what kind of success it might have.
Well look I think we're very focused on it.
ICSC is very focused on it.
I'd like to thank David Henry and ICSC for finally recognizing.
I think David's been the key to this to really to get -- to create a level playing field.
There's 2 or 3 or 4 different approaches on how to do it.
The good news is I think Congress is beginning to understand the difference.
The fact that the level -- the field is not level.
We're still educating certain congressmen and women about the fact that this is not a new tax.
That's going through its process.
Everybody that we talked to understands the fairness of it and I think even Amazon with their different deals that they're doing state by state recognizes that the days are over where they get the level -- where they get the unfair advantage but it would be much better to do it at a national level.
That's what's really being cried for than to do it on a state-by-state level.
But as you might imagine it's a process but we're actually feeling -- Rick is involved too.
He can add to it -- but we're actually feeling like there is hope to get something out there that can be passed by Congress.
And the only thing I would add is that you're talking about billions of dollars in lost revenue from the states and it's a tax that's already on the books.
So the combination of factors are coalescing that I believe it's going to happen in this cycle after it being in the conversation for 12 years.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could actually stick on that topic David the Marketplace Equity Act are you concerned that solution could actually prove to be something of a Trojan horse? And that by leveling the playing field that really the door is open for online retailers like Amazon to actually provide same-day delivery service to major markets because...
Well look I think they're looking to do that anyway right? So that's going to happen.
I wouldn't be surprised if people like ourselves play a role in that.
Believe me we're focused on that.
So Jeff the fact is that's what Amazon wants to go to.
We've got to create the mall version of that but we still not want to give them the benefit of exemplary sales tax.
I don't think it's a Trojan horse.
I don't think it's going to hugely change the fact that Internet shopping is important but the fact of the matter is there's a lot of people the more research you do -- that do lot of -- it used to be they researched online and went to shop physically.
Now they go shop physically.
They understand the difference that they don't have to pay the sales tax and actually go to the physical environment do all the research and buy online.
All you have to do is ask Best Buy to get their perspective on it and I think that needs to be eliminated.
There's no reason why Amazon and certain others need that benefit so same-day delivery is a different issue as far as I am concerned.
And the only thing I would add is that our retailers that are operating the malls are also very focused on fulfillment and allowing their customers that want to have an online experience to fulfill those purchases at the property and that just emphasizes one of the benefits we have of being able to facilitate those things in a much more efficient manner.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I think I would agree and it's not necessarily all one or other online or bricks and mortar.
I mean in some ways you saw that there's a Gap announcement whether it's a scaling back on our mall stores but I think ultimately retailers are trying to find a way to provide value and in that case you saw The Gap increase or looking to increase their outlet store count.
They kind of switched gears to that.
I mean do you think that -- you mentioned that you did not see a trend among mature retailers looking to scale back their store count but do you think we're at the beginning of maybe another secular growth period for outlet demand as retailers maybe begin to discover that channel if not here then maybe I call it more broadly outside of the U.S.? Well look I think the outlet business has been going strong for a number of years partly because I think we had a little bit to do with it if I could in that we took it out of the back room more into the front room.
We personally -- Rick and I personally talked to a number of retailers talking about how it's not brand negative but brand positive for them and what's brand negative is when they do want to sell merchandise to sell it in their store their full price store it creates all sorts of promotional issues and in a lot of cases clouds what they're trying to do at the full price level.
So that change has been going on for a number of years plus the quality of the product that we build how we executed the tenant mix the marketing kind of all has been upgraded it to the next level and we're still making improvements on it to make it the best experience that we can make it.
So I think that trend continues.
They still want -- there still is a high amount of outlet demand.
We're seeing a lot of demand in our Mills portfolio because that's representing an outlet distribution channel.
So I think it's -- we're seeing that internationally.
I just happened to talk to a worldwide retailer that was talking to us about -- wants to talk to us about China outlet which I've always a little bit worried about for all sorts of reasons but for crying out loud we're building an outlet in Malaysia right? It's going to open in a month.
So it's there.
We expect to take advantage of it in other markets as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I can just ask a last question back on the B and C mall topic.
As a property investor what realistically is the bull case for B and C mall investment today? I mean do you think it's a fundamental story about occupancy and rent? Or is it really a capital market story about leverage because your earlier comment it's more of a play for the entrepreneurial crowd.
It kind of implies non-attractive risk return profile and not to leave Steve out I was curious what does the state of the capital markets look like for B and C products because there a lot of anecdotes out there that the traditional equity and debt capital providers do to mall space.
They really don't look at malls anymore under $350 a square foot in sales.
Well look it's very simple.
The operating story is that if it's a B and C mall and there's a reason for it to exist it's going to have a stable cash flow.
And in fact if that area continues to have economic growth that cash flow will grow.
And the fact of the matter is if you have a appropriate management running it you are able to add to the critical mass of that B&amp;C property.
The market may not be overly exciting but the cash flow ought to maintain itself and in fact if you execute appropriately you may even increase market share because there's a lot of -- where the market share got the fuse where a lot of the strip centers that are -- then in a lot of cases are suffering from oversupply and not clear winner and loser in a lot of box movement back and forth.
So from that standpoint I think you're going -- and I think frankly from our B Malls they've actually performed reasonably well in a lot of cases in the Great Recession.
Obviously depending on the cap rate and depending on the financing there is a pretty good return on equity that they're generating and I think the ability to gain market share is all part of the story.
Today the CMBS market 1 week it's on 1 week it's off.
We're getting bids so I think it's back on.
Last week it wasn't.
I still think that that market still has a lot of -- it's more affected by what's going on in the risk on risk off trade than it is what's going on in the real estate world.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a -- we're coming up on roughly the year anniversary of the Capital Shopping Centres saga and looking at their stock price performance over the past year looking at your stock price performance I'm just curious if any of their stockholders have sort of called you up and said "Hey if you make another run you have our blessing and we'd be supportive." Well that's not the British way is it now? To admit that they may have made a mistake.
The answer to that is no but again we have no interest in doing that either.
We put our best foot forward.
At that point the Board for whatever strange reason turned down that deal they shouldn't have in hindsight.
We felt comfortable that we would have been able to execute a better gross story than they would have had by themselves.
We’re still waiting.
We're still shareholders.
I have more faith frankly today than I did before because at least Mr.
Whittaker is a large shareholder.
I think he is a very capable gentleman to reignite that company.
So we're assessing how that proceeds but we have no interest in buying the company.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> So right now you're more of just a passive shareholder who obviously would be there for advice but you're not looking to get active in the company.
Is that correct? That's correct.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Then sort of following that trend what's your strategy for -- is it just simply now a stock investment? Or is it something that you would look to unwind then? Well I think in this case we'll look at all of our options.
That market is relatively depressed just from a lot of macro issues.
So we're kind of adopting a wait-and-see approach.
That could change but right now it's wait and see.
I do think Mr.
Whittaker is the kind of entrepreneur that that company needs to get it reinvigorated.
So we're kind of waiting to see whether or not that can happen.
And look we're certainly an important shareholder.
We're certainly there to help anything we can do to make the company perform better.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question is recently there have been a number of items sort of public-private whether it's -- obviously Westfield going back into World Trade.
There's the Willet's Point here in New York where it looks like Mays Rich [ph] and Topman are looking at putting together bids.
The journal this morning featured the Fulton Street subway stop adjacent to World Trade where maybe there's an opportunity for a retail landlord to come in and manage some of that retail space.
I'm curious from your perspective you guys have spoken a lot about development redevelopment but none of it has involved public-private.
Just sort of curious if that's by design maybe it's not worth the headache or the opportunities are -- the yields just don't make sense or if those opportunities are truly few and far between for the real out of the park type situations? I'd say all of the above.
I mean we've never been -- we've never -- we've kind of always adopted the approach not to do RFPs whether it's from a private -- whether it's just a private company or individual that's looking to sell his land whether it's a public entity trying to redevelop something.
We just don't really like the RFP process.
We won't rule it out but the fact of that matter is I've never personally gotten excited about it and the public-private stuff is hard to make money.
I think if we felt like we didn't have a lot of opportunities with our existing fleet of assets and our ability to look at things throughout the world maybe we would resort to that.
But at this point we just -- I just have never personally gotten excited about it.
Our next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple with Hilliard Lyons.
Research Division</strong> The only question I have that hasn't been answered is relating to the income statement.
Is there a reason why G&amp;A grew so much in the quarter? Well a part of that is our recent LTIP program that we've had with the senior management.
Research Division</strong> So is that a good run rate going forward then? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure I saw it disclosed anywhere but what was the investment in King of Prussia and how is it financed? That -- again we don't disclose individual mall transactions and it was financed I think we announced that partly cash and partly in the line of credit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly the leasing spreads of about 10% for the 9 months -- or for the year-to-date spreads of 10% what is the difference between the cash spread and the GAAP spread? Michael this is Steve.
That is a cash spread.
That is ending cash rent at the time the lease expired or terminated to beginning cash rent with the new tenant or the renewal of the existing tenant.
So if you convert it to GAAP it would be higher.
Research Division</strong> Yes about how much higher roughly? Michael I don't have the number in front of me.
It's not something that we tend to look at because as David had said on many many occasions his laser focus tends to be cash but let us take a look at it and I will get you a number.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve following up on that for a second the line of credit is at about $1.8 billion at this point.
What are you guys thinking there in terms of -- I mean you have about $900 million from the last quarter I assume again mostly because of the acquisitions.
What are you thinking about in terms of terming that out? Well as you know Rich the spreads in the bond market gapped out late summer and have been in kind of wide for the year over the course of the last 2 or 3 months.
The good news is they have gotten better.
The tender in the bond market has clearly gotten better so it is something that we're paying attention to and the good news is have the flexibility to be patient but as we think about that level of outstandings on the credit facility if the bond market continues to improve we'd love to term it out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so doing CMBS it sounds like it's not really something that's an option at this point but maybe an unsecured note over the next 6 months would be the way to go.
Rich the CMBS market as David mentioned earlier we're getting quotes and on many assets we're getting very good quotes but where we're focused there is primarily just to refinance existing mortgage debt that comes due as opposed to put mortgages on current unencumbered assets.
I think...
Yes and I'd just add.
Rich this is David.
Even with all of the ups and downs of the capital markets both unsecured market and the CMBS market it is more cost-effective in the unsecured market versus the CMBS market for sure especially as you look at -- factor in fees amortization any...
Audit costs.
The whole 9 yards.
Appraisals.
Yes.
And Rich you made a comment about our sequential average base rent you are clear on that now I hope.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
You made that very clear.
Let me ask you guys...
That's part of my job.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes -- no that was good.
I got you on that quick.
On the redevelopment scene I think you guys have said you were looking to do a couple billion dollars of deliveries over the next say 5 years.
I mean should we think in terms of $500 million kind of average per year deliveries as we look out to 2015? Is that sort of a scope of the redevelopment scene? Well I think -- Rick can elaborate but I think right now '12 could shape up to accelerate some of that so it could end up in '12 that we would have committed $1 billion in our redevelopment portfolio so it would actually -- that number could accelerate Rich in terms of the timing of it.
Yes and Rich this is Steve.
If you recall the number that we floated out was a quarter or 2 ago and it was primarily centered about the 17 or 18 what we called transformational opportunities.
I think number one we've added to that list as we've continued to examine the portfolio; and two the ordinary course of business stuff like Rick mentioned with 40 boxes and all that is kind of on top of those transformational opportunities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good and would you -- are you guys doing any densification sorts of efforts.
I didn't really see that.
I'm guessing they're in there somewhere but where you add apartments or you add condos or office that kind of thing.
Well we are very focused on that and if you look at the projects that we have opened several of them have both office and res multifamily and hotel components the primary one being domain where we have a Weston [ph] plus multifamily in both phases plus office in both phases and obviously we're working right now on the approval process for a very substantial residential tower over Copley in Boston so it's very much a part of our focus and we in fact have a dedicated team looking to bring those incremental uses into our property.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good guys.
And then the last thing I have was David it seemed that on the last call that the Chinese outlet scene was a little closer than you made it sound just on one of the previous questions here.
I mean how close are you guys are doing something in China with -- as far as outlet centers go? Well I think we'll make a decision here in the next couple of months.
So it will either happen or won't but it won't drag on for 2 or 3 years so it's -- we're in the serious discussion phase and that will either come to fruition in the next couple of months or it won't.
Our next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
David listening to your comments earlier in regards to B malls or at least those that are legitimate in terms of their existence given the quality in the market and their ability to maintain cash flow I know I've had another question perhaps in the past but do you feel more inclined to be a consolidator of B malls space at this point? Or is it still something that's far in the future? I don't think we will be other than we'll always look at what's there and if there's a strategic fit for us we could do a few deals.
That's not to say we run away from the product.
It's just that we've got a lot to do within our mall portfolio as it exists and unless there's a strategic view of that asset or something that do really -- something special with it we probably wouldn't and the fact of the matter is what? We've grown in the mall business frankly through M&amp;A.
We'll never rule that out and when you tend to do bigger deals you tend to get -- despite what we all say in the mall business we don't all have A properties.
Nobody does.
So you tend to -- if there was ever deals to be done or kind of on the broader more portfolio basis we'll tend to get some Bs in that area and that would be a natural way for us to have more exposure in that product which is we're fine with but to go out and look to grow that business on a one-off basis just doesn't excite us as much as taking what we have and making it better.
And just to emphasize David's point on not running away from it if you look at our capital expenditures we are actively renovating redeveloping and adding anchors to a number of the properties that are perhaps lower productivity just because they're in smaller markets but they're providing very stable cash flow and with renovations and anchor additions and opportunity to contribute to our comp NOI growth.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Yang with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have another question on the international plan.
David you did make a few comments on China and I realized that's not an immediate priority but one of your peers recently purchased a real estate consulting firm based in China.
So I'm curious you mentioned maybe building outlet centers here but if you ever decide to re-enter China do you see yourself maybe taking a similar path as this peer? You broke up on the last part.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I'm just wondering.
I mean you mentioned maybe building out with centers in China could we possibly see you buying a company already on the ground there instead? No.
It would be our people.
I mean we would likely joint venture with an existing Chinese company whether they own the land or whether they were in the development business or retailer much like we did when we built the Wal-Mart stores but we would not buy a company to do that now.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just last question you mentioned The Gap closing more stores than they had previously planned being no surprise to you and since it sounds like they're basically not renewing upcoming leases and I assume you can look through their portfolio to figure out how many leases are expiring over the next few years where they are located good centers or bad what's your expectation for store closures from The Gap and how many of the spaces there are spoken for today? Well let me just clarify what I did say.
I mean they're not closing all their stores.
They're closing certain stores that they want to close and we're taking over space that we want them to close and we're trying to find a happy middle ground on the majority of the stores so -- but -- so that's the first point that I just want to clarify but the -- and I will tell you that I don't think their acceleration of store closures is all that different than what they've done in the last couple of years.
Now it may be marginally accelerated but it's not all that different than what they have been doing frankly since '09 '10 and '11 and going into '12.
So that's -- the second point is at the end of the day when we look at everything there we've got all the real estate back for whatever reason they want to get out we want them out they decided not to do any U.S.
fields whatever the reason at the end of the day we think the income stream that would come from those spaces would be higher than it is today that they're paying.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just remind us how many Gap branded stores are in your portfolio? And of that amount what do you -- how many do you think are going to close based on this? Let me just say this.
If you look at our schedule we have 386 stores if I'm right.
Take away 138 of those because those are in the outlet business so that gets you down to kind of the whole breadth whole Gap fleet.
So that's like 240 and then I would say roughly 50% is Gap 25% is Old Navy and then the balance is Banana somewhere in that range.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds pretty modest overall? Well it's a big relationship but we're certainly focused that we're going to replace as much of the real estate where we don't think they're paying market rent.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of questions have been answered but I have just 2 very quick ones.
Going into Christmas I know you talked a little bit about just what you're seeing from your retailer perspective but in regards to the typical temporary tenants that show up during Christmas what are you seeing demand-wise from those guys to take up space? Demand has been pretty stable.
We are finding that happily there are more and more national tenants that are also now looking to establish stores on a short-term basis as a way to seeing if there are customers located in that property and so that demand is constant pretty much year-over-year and we're very pleased with where we are today on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful and then just in regards to the recent deals that you've done Steve I know you -- pricing-wise you went talking about King of Prussia but could you give any pricing details on Albuquerque? Again we don't do individual mall deals but we're great stewards of capital.
Both of these deals will -- are very accretive and they've got good rent growth in both of them.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one more last question with the Davis Street [ph] asset any reason why you were not involved in those deals? Is that something you were interested in but you just didn't play obviously a part in that process just given that class A malls don't come up that often in the market? We just had no interest.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any reason why you didn't have an interest? No interest.
We have no additional questions at this time.
I would now like to hand the conference back over to management for closing remark.
Okay.
Thank you.
Listen we're very pleased with the quarter and we're very happy to be paying our shareholders $1.10 in cash this quarter and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today's conference.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Simon Property Group Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Cathy and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call to Ms.
Shelly Doran Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC for detailed discussion.
Acknowledging the fact that this call may be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that our call includes time sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date February 3 2012.
During today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the earnings release or the company's supplemental information package that was included in this morning's form 8-K.
This package is also available on the Simon website in the Investors section.
Participating in today's call will be David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Simon.
Good morning.
We reported FFO of $1.91 per diluted share for the quarter which represents an increase of 6.1% over FFO in the fourth quarter of 2010.
FFO for the fourth quarter was $0.065 higher than the midpoint of our increased guidance range provided in October of 2011 with our third quarter results.
These results exceeded the First Call consensus by $0.01 per share and we have now met or exceeded expectations for 30 of the past 32 quarters which is an 8-year run.
This quarter capped off a great 2011 for SPG our FFO growth per share was 14% for the year expected to be amongst the highest of all the REITs.
Our FFO of $6.89 per share was $0.365 higher than the midpoint of our original guidance provided in February of 2011.
For our malls and outlets total sales on a rolling 12-month basis were $536 per square foot up 10.7% from $484 as of December 31 2010.
Occupancy was 94.8% which was 30 basis points higher than the year-earlier period and 90 basis points higher than the end of the third quarter.
The releasing spread for the rolling 12 months was $5.20 per square foot a positive of 10.5%.
Our releasing spread continues to  grow at a steady pace as deal quality continues to improve.
Resulting -- the following resulted in our comparable property net operating income growth of 4.5% for the quarter which had a positive impact from overage rent and our year comp NOI growth came in at 3.4%.
During the fourth quarter and subsequent to year end we completed several property transactions.
We dissolved our joint venture with the Macerich Company and exchanged our 15% ownership interest in 6 malls and 1 community center with them for their ownership interest in 5 malls and 1 community center.
No cash was exchanged other than customary net working capital adjustments.
We disposed of our interest in 3 properties; Gwinnett Place Factory Merchants Branson and Crystal River Mall and this transaction led to a reported gain as disclosed in the financial statements.
For the full year 2011 we invested approximately $1.8 billion in acquisition activities with the acquisition of one property and the acquisition of initial ownership interest or increases in ownership interest in 12 properties.
For the full year we disposed of our interest in 10 malls 3 outlets and one community center for a total value of $550 million.
And during January 2012 we acquired an additional 25% ownership interest in Del Amo fashion center which now increases our ownership interest to 50%.
We're extremely excited about the upside potential from this transaction given the redevelopment opportunities that exist there.
And also in January we sold our 49% interest in GCI which is our Italian interest investment.
As a result of this transaction we no longer own any interest or any assets in Italy.
We received aggregate proceeds of $378 million for our equity interest and we will report a gain in the first quarter of 2012 associated with this transaction.
On development we opened one new development in the fourth quarter.
Johor Premium Outlets in Malaysia it's 100% leased.
Initial sales are very good and we plan on working on Phase 2 of that transaction -- that development.
We also have as you know 2 new outlet projects under construction in Merrimack New Hampshire and Southeast Houston Texas.
Both will open later this year.
We currently have 23 renovation and expansion projects under construction in the U.S.
with completion dates scheduled for 2012 and 2013 including which is the major restoration of Opry Mills which is scheduled to open March 29 of this year.
We are very excited about that.
That event has been a long tough road to get that mall back to where it will be a very productive asset for us.
In 2011 we spent approximately $400 million in new development redevelopment and renovation activities.
We have identified 20 new development expansion and renovations where we expect to begin construction in 2012.
Three that I want to highlight importantly in our Premium Outlets projects.
First today in fact or maybe yesterday depending on how you're thinking about Korea's time zone but we marked the groundbreaking of a 240 000 square-foot outlet center in Busan in Korea which is scheduled to open in the fall of 2013.
It will be our third project in Korea.
We also will begin construction in April of our 360 000 square-foot Phoenix Premium Outlet Center which will open in the spring of 2013.
Additionally we plan to begin construction of our 360 000 square-foot premium outlet in Toronto this spring with our partner Callaway and that will open in summer of 2013.
We're seeing very good value creation opportunities in these new developments and redevelopment projects and we are anticipating spending $1 billion in 2012 with all the activity that's going on.
That estimated rate at this point we anticipate being approximately $1 billion in 2013 and $1 billion in 2014.
As always as construction commences we'll detail all the cost returns and timing for these projects in our supplemental reporting package.
Let me turn to the capital markets.
As you know in October the fourth quarter we closed on our new unsecured revolving credit facility that increased our revolving borrowing capacity to $4 billion.
This facility can be increased to $5 billion during its term and can be extended to October 30 2016 at our sole option.
The base interest rate is LIBOR plus 100 basis points.
On November 10 2011 we completed a $1.2 billion senior note offering which resulted in historically low coupon rates and effective yields with an average weighted all-in yield of 3.6% interest for 8 years which we are very pleased to do.
And let me turn to our dividends.
In the fourth quarter as you know we increased our -- fourth quarter 2011 we increased the quarterly dividend of our common stock from $0.80 to $0.90.
I'm pleased to announce another increase in the dividend today from $0.90 to $0.95.
Our quarterly dividend now has increased 18.8% since the third quarter of 2011.
This puts us on a trajectory to pay dividends of at least $3.80 per share in 2012.
This morning we also released guidance for 2012 of $7.20 to $7.30 per share.
This guidance includes the near-term dilution resulting from our sale of our GCI business the proceeds of which have been utilized to pay down short-term floating rate debt currently until that capital is more permanently redeployed.
It also reflects downtime with some of our better assets that are undergoing major redevelopments in 2012 including but not limited to the Fashion Mall at Keystone here in Indianapolis South Dale Center Dadeland Quaker Bridge and Walt Whitman malls to name a few.
And it also reflects the impact of expenses we will incur in connection with the development of our proprietary consumer marketing initiative.
In the fourth quarter of last year I recall that my conclusion addressed concerns voiced by some about our ability to grow in light of our size.
We generated funds from operation of an aggregate of $2.4 billion in 2011 a record for us and the industry.
This represents an increase of nearly $320 million over our 2010 FFO.
By comparison -- by our standards we have only researched 15 U.S.
REITs that in fact have an FFO greater than $320 million in 2011.
We will continue to grow our company and deliver excellent results.
Our common stock once again outperformed in 2011 generating a total return to our stockholders of 33.6% as compared to the RMS return of 8.7% and an S&amp;P return of 2.1%.
We have now outperformed the RMS for the last 11 consecutive years and have outperformed the S&amp;P 500 in 10 of the last 11 years as well.
We're very well-positioned for 2012 with a strong portfolio irreplaceable assets and a very attractive pipeline of new and redevelopment projects.
We look forward to another strong year and our focus remains on enhancing long-term shareholder value.
With that we're ready for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Michael Bilerman as well.
My first question is maybe for Rick.
Just in terms of J.C.
Penney's announcement of the main street concept in the 80 to 100 branded shops that they're thinking of introducing into their department store boxes Rick I'm just keen for your thoughts on what you think the overall impact might be on the mall? Well let me just take a step back.
We obviously are very excited about anything that'll make our properties better and we want all of our tenants to be as good as they can be.
And certainly Ron Johnson and his new management team have energized all the constituencies based on the introduction of the strategy.
And we hope they can implement it.
As to your specific question the concept of having the in-store shops is certainly not a new one.
And if you walk our mall and walk the existing vendor matrixes of our department stores you're going to find dozens of retailers that have wholesale presence in the department stores along with very robust in-line full-priced specialty stores in our malls.
Just an example: Nike Skechers Coach Sephora Bare Essentials Kiel's Art of Shaving I could go on and on.
So the answer is that we don't think it's going to be a particularly negative impact and we hope it's going to be a lot stronger to enhance the market share of our properties.
Let me just make it even simpler than that.
He's a great retailer we think it will be great for the mall environment.
We look forward to working with Ron who we know well during his -- both his Target days and his Apple days.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And David just regarding  your capital shopping center stake.
There were some related party transactions announced regarding a plant in Glasgow and an option on land in Spain.
I understand that you're sort of now a passive investor in that REIT.
But I'm just keen for your thoughts on those transactions and whether or not that changes the way you view earning the stock? Well that's a very good question.
Needless to say I think we're in -- we were disappointed in the Spain transaction.
I think the company needs to focus on improving the U.K.
shopping center environment and its centers.
And even though the transaction is not overly material I think it's a bad use of management's focus to go ahead and spend time in Spain.
Needless to say we all know what's going on in Spain in terms of unemployment retail sales.
And certainly as a large real estate owner we understand that we want to look at things on the long-term basis.
But in my humble opinion this management team has no business being and pursuing projects outside of its native territory in the U.K.
And it is -- puts doubt into me the strategy that the company is undertaking.
Obviously I don't have to reiterate how they viewed our offer and whether or not they acted in the best interest of shareholders.
At this point I think we have the better argument in that case and I'm waiting for an explanation as to why.
In fact they're pursuing looks to me like just the divergence of focus.
Whether or not it'll impact our stake it's too early to tell but I am waiting for some kind of explanation from the management team.
Research Division</strong> David it's Michael Bilerman.
Just one quick question you talked about cost relating to proprietary customer marketing initiatives and it sounds like that's all the Simon Groupon-type stuff that a lot of the customer data and technology stuff that you've been doing.
Can you just elaborate a little bit more about sort of what you intend to spend and sort of timing of when things will come to fruition? Yes look the spend -- we have allocated in our budget a spend that I don't want to get too specific but there will be an investment that we will spend.
We'll have some obviously we're going to be expensing all of these so there's no capitalization of it.
It's not going to change the materiality of the company.
And given the prospects of a successful creation of a product we think it's worthy of the investment.
Now our goal right now Michael is to debut this product in the Northeast for the fourth quarter of this year.
And there is not complete certainty that we'll do that just because it is complicated and we want certainly a handful of important retailers to join in our effort but that's what we're anticipating to be.
We would prototype this and debut it in up to 5 properties in the Northeast and look to see what kind of adoption or what kind of product acceptance we get and then tweak it from there.
But that's the goal.
The materiality of it -- materiality is in the eyes of the beholder.
I will just say it's not going to detract overly.
It's certainly more than a rounding error but it's something that we want to invest in.
Connecting with the consumer understanding the consumer is I think critical to the future of mall ownership so this is where we're going to embark.
We'll see where it goes from there.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just focusing on the anchor stores for a moment and maybe just back to sort of Quentin's question on J.C.
Penney.
As you think about sort of leaders in the category and I guess you could put Macy's Nordstrom and certainly the positive news on J.C.
Penney how are you thinking about potential closings over the next couple of years and perhaps capital that might need to be invested as some of the sales or market share erosions for others that are declining -- or accelerating sorry? If you look at our capital that have been spent and we show you every quarter all the activity we have this is really an ongoing process.
Over the years we replaced probably over 60 anchors from all the different consolidations.
And in virtually every case the property ends up stronger and we've been able to generate good returns as a result of that process.
We don't envision that this time period is going to be any different.
Research Division</strong> So you're not concerned about the number of closings accelerating in the near-term? We frankly based on all the announcements from Sears that included none of our properties.
And Ron Johnson and his presentation reiterated his strong belief in malls and the significant opportunity that his stores have in malls.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just switching gears a moment I mean David you mentioned the very strong performance over the last decade.
And clearly U.S.
sales have recovered and more than some since the last downturn and your stock now at an all-time high.
How do you think about sort of the best opportunities for growth or new investment over the intermediate term say the next 3 years or so and specifically you've talked about Brazil you've talked about China and obviously Europe's been in the cards as well? Well look Jay it's absolutely clear to us that the best thing that we can do and why we added to the executive range here is redevelopment in our core business.
And we anticipate again things can change and I think I am pleased that we got confidence coming out of the economic upheaval sooner than a lot of folks that this year we're going to spend I mean always things take longer than you want and things flop from one year to the next and redevelopment -- development.
But this year we're budgeting $1 billion.
And it looks like we're going to spend $1 billion next year and these are all very high return on investment activities.
So to me that the absolute #1 priority we've got 2 new outlet that are going to open this year.
Let's not lose sight of that.
We've got the restoration of Opry which has been closed for I don't know how long but too long 2.5-plus years.
And we're starting construction in 2 outlets Phoenix and Toronto in the next 60 days as just example.
And then we've got all sorts of expansions on the outlet side and the mall side so to me that's the focus.
I think you'll see something from us in Brazil something from us in China but it won't be a big grand huge unique big investment on either one.
But I think you'll see us enter those markets thoughtfully.
And we're out of Europe right now and I have -- at this point I have no regrets from that decision.
So Europe is a different animal.
Research Division</strong> You timed it well.
Just in terms of the starts on the premium outlet side can you talk about the pre-leasing at this point? And maybe Rick just sort of where you are on '12 lease rolls? Well on the outlet side Galveston is frankly substantially leased.
We expect to open that thing almost 90% with a great collection of tenants.
And Merrimack is opening this year.
And we're frankly almost -- we're 95% leased there.
In terms of our rollovers we're about halfway through our '12 and with very good momentum in that business.
Our next question comes from the line of David Harris of Imperial Capital.
Can you just elaborate a little bit more on the dividend? I for one was a little surprised that your board chose to increase it again -- I mean having increased it last quarter? Well David it really boils down to simple calculus which is we are chasing our taxable income.
And it is likely that we're going to have to chase our taxable income all year.
So we're trying to do it in the most thoughtful way.
We did listen to the marketplace about the special dividend the world was less than excited about it.
To me $0.20 of cash is still $0.20 of cash but we listened.
And we're looking to chase our taxable income the rest of this year and then in the future.
So -- I mean it really just boils down to that simple calculus.
So it's reasonable to expect there could be another review subsequently this year? We're -- I think it's reasonable to assume that every quarter it's going to go under -- taxable income for any entity any big company is complicated.
It's certainly in our case complicated because not only do you have taxable income from just a normal business but you've got acquisitions sales obviously we're going to get future depreciation from all the investment we're in et cetera but the fact of the matter is it's going to have to be under intense scrutiny each quarter from here on out the rest of this year.
And it's likely we're going to have to chase it a little bit this year.
And the good news it ain't going down.
And with regard to Europe your comments do they include or exclude the U.K.? I would say they -- I would include -- I've been more impressed frankly with the U.K.
government's actions.
So I think just from a macro point of view I almost feel little bit better about kind of what they're trying to do macro there.
But put that aside because I'm certainly no expert I would throw them in the same bucket.
One final question I think it was on this call a year ago that you talked about the biggest decision you were going to be looking to make this year i.e.
in '12 -- I'm sorry '11 would be whether to really tap the capital markets.
I know you raised the $1.2 billion of unsecured and you looked to your revolver.
But it didn't really -- the market didn't really kind of force that decision I mean how do you look at the world today particularly in the light of Bernanke suggesting that -- or telling us that the Fed is going to remain on hold through the end of '14? Well I think we have the ability to be extraordinarily thoughtful and patient there.
I mean we have no capital needs.
Really '12 and '13 if you look at our balance sheet other than typical refinancing of mortgages which the market has gotten somewhat better at.
And look if there's a transaction out there is when we'll factor something like that but right now even though the capital markets are attractive at this point we don't see any reason to warehouse capital.
Dave it's Steve.
I'll just add one thing to what David said which is we do as as ordinary course of business rollover a lot of secured debt and we've been very active with extending duration and locking in rates given the environment that we're in.
And in fact I just happened to look at this this morning our weighted average borrowing cost over the course of the last 12 months went down 20 basis points and on $24 billion of debt that's a pretty meaningful move.
So while the headline "large raise of bond proceeds" we did just once in '11.
We were doing a lot of nicking and nacking it around -- rolling over our debt and it did affect the profile of the balance sheet.
And while -- just while I've got you Steve and I'm sorry to take up so much time.
I know there's a lot of other people waiting.
I mean today is the company kind of where you want to be in terms of leverage? Or do you consider yourself to be under-levered or whatever metric you want to use to think of your debt to equity? Well it's certainly a broad question.
I will say this.
If you look at our coverages today which are 3x and you look at the stability of the cash flow that was demonstrated during '08 '09 I think the strength of the balance sheet is pretty evident and the stability of the cash flow has been demonstrated that.
I mean typically we're going to naturally de-lever because of the cash flow we generate absent the transaction.
And as David said we have the opportunity given the transaction to be very aggressive in the capital markets with the way the financing environment is right now.
And I would just say I like de-levering.
It's not a bad thing.
So I have -- again I mean we're good at doing deals and making money from doing deals.
The spot that we're in right now where we can de-lever invest in our good real estate is a good spot to be in and I like that position.
Our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy from UBS.
Research Division</strong> In the process with Macerich of dissolving the JV as you came to an agreement on the value of those assets in determining the appropriate split? Can you just talk about the range of the cap rates that were used to value the malls and what was the median cap rate of the portfolio? Look I don't have those numbers right in front of me but these assets were appraised a while ago and we basically use those appraisals as the basis but it's much more simpler than that.
The fact is Macerich expressed an interest in unwinding the deal.
We said fine suggest to us how you would do it.
They came back and said well you can choose between the 2 pools of assets.
The one that they manage and the one we manage.
We looked at the real estate we looked at the relative values and we chose the pool that they were managing and it was really -- since the appraisals were done I don't know a year-plus ago when we were -- we had a discussion about the same kind of topic.
At that point it was just what -- whether or not we wanted to proceed on the basis that they suggested and we did.
And it's as simple as that and it wasn't a -- we didn't sit there and negotiate values.
They gave us an option A and an option B and we chose option A.
And they were left to decide whether what they offered was good and we were left to decide whether or not what they offered was good for us.
And we're pleased with the outcome.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with regards to the sale of the GCI portfolio I'm wondering if you could disclose the cap rate? And can you talk about your -- sort of IRR over the life of that investment so what was your undepreciated cost basis in GCI? Well we'll -- you'll see the gain in the first quarter.
It was an okay deal.
It was not a great deal.
The cap rates sale based upon '12 is around a 6.5 cap rate.
We learned a lot.
It was good experience.
Ocean was a good partner.
The reason we got out we were more worried about the macro environment than they were.
The redevelopment that was offered was less returns than what we wanted.
And we had a mutually agreeable way to unwind very similar to Macerich.
That's what happens sometimes.
And the cap rate was 6.5.
It was an highly levered entity.
That's why will have dilution this year.
I think Steve $0.06 $0.07 in our numbers.
So had we not sold it we would have had guidance higher.
But we think in the long run it was the right thing to do.
It was an okay deal not a great deal.
I don't know what our IRR was but the gain you'll see in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly regarding the debt coming due on Mills this year.
You have the $655 million senior facility and then another I think $1 billion of mortgage that's coming due.
Can you talk about plans for refinancing all that are you having preliminary discussions on the facility? And would you expect any resulting changes to the partnership this year? The mortgage refinancing is all in process so we anticipate that happening again.
You've got to remember some of those deals Mills is TMLP our partnership with Fairlawn is a small partner in some of those assets.
So the gross number sounds bigger than what the actual TMLP's responsibility is.
And if you then look at our responsibility as half the owner of TMLP it's even smaller.
The senior and the net debt we are just starting discussions with the senior lenders.
No issue there.
We expect -- we built up a significant amount of cash in TMLP to deal with any refinancing requirements that's in process.
We'll spend the next couple of months doing that.
And the last one look you never know partnerships sometimes are built to last a long long time.
And sometimes they unwind in a very positive way.
And I would expect that we'll have a positive outcome.
It's been a good partnership and it will either continue on on a very good basis or we'll figure something else out.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa of ISI group.
Research Division</strong> Steve I had just a couple of technical questions as it relates to Page 15.
I guess the interest and other interest and dividend income went down.
And I guess we were under the impression that you were due a dividend from CSC and I'm just wondering if that's the case whether there was a timing or something else is going on in that line item? There's something else going on it Steve.
If you look at the balance sheet you'll also see a decrease in our deferred cost and other assets.
I think we had mentioned on prior calls that we held some mortgages as investments on other shopping centers.
And those mortgages were paid back at their maturity date.
We were really bummed on that front.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly I just noticed that down on the other expense line item the other figure jumped quite a bit for the quarter and is up pretty significantly for the year.
Is there anything you can sort of talk about does that relate to any of these projects David that you talked about in terms of this consumer marketing initiative? Or is there something else in that line item? Steve it's really a function and you'll see the line right above it on Page 15 as well the professional expenses was up quite a bit in the quarter.
We've got a lot of transaction activity going on some of which materialized in the fourth quarter some of which David alluded to it's potential activity in '12 and it's just a combination of costs related to those.
Some are professional expenses some are related expenses but they are all driven by transaction or potential transaction equity that we've got in the hopper right now.
But it didn't -- we have been using BCG to help us work scope out work on this initiative that we hope to prototype and debut in the fourth quarter.
And so some of those expenses are also rolling through that number.
Research Division</strong> So it's fair to assume that the 12-month number's maybe inflated or you do you think those are good run rates? No I think the '12 -- I think the fourth quarter number Steve is higher than what you would see on a run-rate basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe I missed it did you guys -- I know you gave guidance but did you give the same store guidance for the year? No Steve we really decided to change the -- we've decided in '10 if you go back in '10 we decided not to do that any longer just to give you kind of the gross number.
And so the answer is no we did not do that.
And obviously we feel confident it will be positive this year.
But we decide -- we do not give that number out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just in terms of leasing spreads is there anything you could sort of talk about in terms of how it progressed throughout the year? I'm just trying to figure out if you kind of exited the year at a substantially stronger rate as you kind of go into '12 and does that kind of 10.5% 11% number sort of have kind of upward bias to as you look into '12? We did have positive progress throughout the year quarter-over-quarter in our spreads and we are seeing better demand as we enter into '12.
We've already made very good progress towards our '12 renewals in the mall business so we anticipate a positive bias in that spread.
And look Steve we -- I just wanted the retail real estate business is still tough okay.
And we are grinding like no other time.
And our results our sales our occupancy and our rents are all obviously very positive.
But it is a grind and there are retailers that continue to downsize and continue to -- we continue to have struggles on leasing some of that space up and getting the market rent on some of that space so we still feel positive about it but it -- there is still work to be done.
And it is not -- it's a lot of work to produce these results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My last question could you just circle back on the Toronto project? I mean you were pretty adamant when you were starting that project and I realized there's kind of been a head-to-head competition up there.
What can you sort of tell us about leasing or kind of the state of the site any more details about that project? Emphatically we're going to start in the spring so we're -- we feel we're permitted to go.
We're finishing it up.
Leasing look we're in a different spot than others in the outlet business.
We have the -- we can rely on the experience and judgment of having 70 Premium Outlets Mills assets throughout the world.
We don't necessarily need to pre-lease.
We're pros.
We're experts in this business.
The answer is we've got real interest.
We've got certain commitments and barring something unforeseen both of those that I mentioned we will be starting construction.
So we're a little different.
We understand this business very well.
We know the risks about starting construction whether you're fully leased or not.
We've done it in the past in the outlet business and we're good to go on both of these deals.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to the dividend a little bit.
I mean you've got -- based on kind of where you are now your FFO payout ratio is only 52-some percent.
You got a big portfolio as you burn through your depreciation basis you said you're kind of chasing taxable income.
And I kind of wonder I mean do you have a feel for I mean your guidance for FFO is relatively narrow.
Do you have a feel for kind of where -- how much you might have to grow the dividend is dividend going to be growing at a materially-faster pace than FFO going forward short of the deal...
Well look Paul it's an entirely appropriate question and obviously this is a great dialogue at the board level.
So it's hard for me to be really specific.
But based upon what I know it's -- we're going to have to I would think continue to raise our dividend the rest of the year.
It doesn't give you a guidance on how much and when.
But we want a little bit more data coming in with the first quarter ops.
We want to understand what if any transactions transpire or happen or what have you that may have some impact on that.
But what I know today obviously subject to counsel with the board $0.95 will not be enough per quarter to pay out our -- 100% of our taxable income.
Research Division</strong> Does -- I mean you generate a lot of free cash flow right now and kind of fought over the years to grow that half the dividend.
Does -- I mean does this make it any more -- make you anymore inclined to pursue deals? I mean because obviously that's one side benefit of a large transaction? Only -- look not at all really because -- and I mentioned it early we've got so much going on with the existing portfolio and all of the redevelopment and new development.
And again there is nothing wrong with generating the cash increasing the dividend de-levering and just keep doing what we're doing.
So I feel absolutely no need or pressure to do any deal whatsoever.
And I like kind of the model we've got that's not to say we won't.
If we think we like the real estate that we would get at the end of the day but I am -- I don't like parting with our cash right now.
I like reinvesting it in our portfolio.
So we're entirely pleased with what's going on here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on that note you've got $700 million or so in -- what your supplemental talks about as being kind of renovation and expansion.
Doesn't really say much about which kind of malls are being expanded but it kind of implies $70 million of incremental NOIs essentially? Can you provide some color on kind of where that's coming from or any kind of big expansion to drive that it's just looks like sort of renovation but...
Yes I mean for instance in the outlet side we expect to start in Las Vegas and in Orlando and in Desert Hills and Seattle.
Seattle is under construction so those are 4 in that side.
In the mall side we're undergoing a massive extension and redevelopment of Walt Whitman Quaker Bridge we've got Opry Mills we've got King of Prussia.
We announced as you know at KLP that we're going to connect the 2 malls.
We are in planning phase on that now obviously working with the town on approvals.
Those are just -- Nanuet is -- the mall has been shutdown.
We're going to start construction there finally.
La Plaza we're going to add a second level on.
We've got major redos new department stores new food courts examples with Keystone Dadeland and Southridge in Milwaukee.
Plaza Carolina has been -- several boxes have been added.
So those are just off the top of my head.
When we start construction we put it in the 8-K and I think you'll see addition to that disclosure as the year progresses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just my last question on occupancy.
You ended the year I think maybe it's not your highest number ever and -- are you reaching a point at kind of 94A [ph] I know some of it is seasonally high but where you're sort of at a frictional max? How much farther do you think you can drive portfolio occupancy? And if it's not much farther does that mean you can start pushing rents harder? Well I think -- yes you're right there is the frictional number.
This year will be a little bit interesting because we do have a lot of movement going on with the portfolio as you might imagine with all the development spending.
So -- but put that aside I think there are some improvement.
But I think now the focus is on improving the quality of the 95% that were leased.
And we didn't have that luxury obviously in '09 '10 and to some extent '11.
We're still going to feel pressure in '12 with certain retailers but I think the focus now hopefully is to marginally improve that occupancy.
But it's really going to be taking the existing occupancy maybe stabilizing that as it is but really improving who's in the space.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I'm impressed you guys are in with all the stuff going out there in Indi.
Well we're so focused on what we do.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I figured you guys would be renting out the parking spots for additional FFO.
That's true.
We've got sponsorship on our building that may have a big impact on our fourth quarter -- first quarter.
But we're so focused on what we do we have blinders on this -- for this week in any event.
In fact we are so focused on what we do that we forgot that the Super Bowl with this so when I planned our board meeting and our earnings call.
We could have probably picked a better week.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly it sounds like in Europe obviously the macro situation didn't help any but it sounds like the yields that you were seeing over there from your investments just were not meeting your expectation and the macro situation just sort of was the hair on the camel's back.
As if you think about  Brazil and China what are the returns or what are the return premiums over what you would invest at in the U.S.? What are you looking for in those different markets? Well I think the development returns in Brazil are well-articulated.
And I think in our view in Brazil what we would do is develop as opposed to buy there.
And I think the development yields that they try to achieve the 15% kind of return on cost would be where our focus would be.
And China is -- we've got opportunities.
I was over there in December.
We're working on a couple of outlet deals but the numbers side of that equation all that kind of the financial due diligence is still in a work in progress.
But if it's not a premium to what we do here we just -- there's just no reason do it.
Even though you might argue that the NOI growth will offset that I still want to invest at higher levels than I can here that's the frustration let's say going to Europe and doing a lot of redevelopment but we do see as we pencil out China and Brazil just like we have in -- seen in Japan seen in Korea seen in Malaysia all of those are higher development yields than we would gather here -- garner here I should say.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So by implication then when you were considering the capital shopping then despite the low going in yield that the U.K.
commands from your underwriting you were seeing returns that were in excess of the U.S.
is that fair? I was really referring to new development okay? I think what we saw there and again recall that our deal was subject to due diligence.
We saw at the end of the day yields comparable to what we would pay here on acquisitions yet once we got our hands on the fact that management operations could be improved and so I just -- I don't want to confuse development yields with acquisition yields and we saw kind of comparable acquisition yields in the U.K.
comparable to what we would pay here.
With supply issues they are a lot different than they were here.
So on that basis it was worthy of pursuing it to get to the point where we could validate that initial conclusion but we weren't access to the books and therefore we did not make a formal full bid.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the second question just going back to the dividend EQR went to a policy where they paid a steady first second third quarter dividend with a true-up in the the fourth.
Is that -- as you guys contemplate the dividend is that something that would be that you think would be helpful or would investors be receptive.
Well look that's what we did in '11 and the fact is the more we talk to people the less they liked it so my view would be to try and not do that really create a dividend that equals taxable income and that as that grows your dividend grows.
So we would like to get away from the special dividend based kind of the true-up dividend which in our case was represented by a special dividend.
We would like to get away from that and make it more what I said.
Now look sometimes you never rule out if you sold $5 billion of properties and you had a big taxable income you may -- there may be certain circumstances that you'd have to that but the fact is we would like to not do that and that's what we're going try and achieve in '12 but certainly as we catch up to our taxable income we will get away from the special true-up dividend.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of Macquarie.
Just a follow-up on Alex's previous questions about Brazil.
From a levered return standpoint would you be funding it locally or is there some arm of opportunity using your cheap cost of corporate debt to fund development out there? Well we would use our -- the cheapest capital we have is this cash on the balance sheet.
What are we getting.
Billion dollars a year.
No but what are we...
Forecasting? Investing.
Oh 20 30 bits.
20 30 bits so the fact of the matter is any development that we would undertake in Brazil we're just going to cash-fund so we wouldn't use any leverage.
Okay.
Is that typically -- would you by JV or by yourself? Right now we're contemplating a JV.
And that's probably likely what -- how we'll do that And in China as well if we get to that point in China.
Okay.
And last question if I look at those sales per square foot increases in your portfolio consolidated versus unconsolidated it seems like the -- your JV probably is a lot better up 22% year-over-year versus your consolidated which is up only 9%.
Still good but lording your JV assets.
So how should we think about the opportunity for additional JV takeoff in terms of -- are all the JVs at one point in time are they all opportunities for you? And broadly speaking if you could talk about cap rates not deal-specifically but for the best assets where could we see cap rates for these assets and I guess kind of going down the spectrum of quality? I would just say part of the difference between the growth in a consolidated and unconsolidated -- we can get a better answer for you on that than just the quality because some of the mix change and that we put more -- we add more outlets in there now that we put prime in our numbers.
But I think we restated 10 for that in any event.
So -- but we can get you a better answer on that.
So I think the mix -- our mix in our wholly-owned properties is great.
And so there's no real issue between what's in our JV and what's in our consolidated I mean just -- in our consolidated you have Roosevelt Field King of Prussia Forum Shops Woodberry all of the outlet business.
So put that aside that's not to say we don't have some great JV assets but the basis much bigger in the consolidated than the JV.
So don't read too much into that now going to your question cap rates on A assets is -- got to be -- there's not a lot being done in that whole area but they continue to move lower given that the fact that investors believe in NOI growth for high-quality retail assets.
So you tell me I mean it's low -- it's lower than -- it's in the 4s maybe.
That helps? Yes it does help.
And I guess one part of that question is...
...Assets I got that we'll be buying in the 4s so because you know but I think there are people out there that would clearly buy in the 4s.
So even for your A assets that you're managing something in the 4s wouldn't be a price that would clear at or a takeout? Look I don't know.
I mean it would have to be something really really unique to get to that.
I mean King of Prussia we did not get to that number there's nothing like that asset especially given its development.
So look it all depends on circumstances but I do think there are institutional investors out there that would feel comfortable at those kind of iconic assets to be in that level.
Whether we would or not it would take an interesting set of circumstances.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually can you just talk about the volume of move-outs that have happened subsequent to quarter end? Is that in line with prior years and then just on your guidance where did you guys peg your year-end occupancy? Well on the move-outs we have basically been consistent historically.
We didn't have anything out of the ordinary.
Well -- and this is Steve Jeff.
We've also year-to-date as you've seen very little bankruptcy activity as well so...
LLC Research Division</strong> And what did you say within your guidance maybe for year-end occupancy as the target? Well we don't -- we're really getting away from those kind of specifics.
We do it asset-by-asset to build up to our budget.
It's -- in our own budget it's a slight improvement but we don't give specific numbers Jeff.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just while I got you guys and on Sears just more obviously more focus on Sears holdings.
You're de minimis I think direct exposure to base rent but do you have an estimate of what your ultimate financial exposure is through cotenancy rights? We -- yes I would just say if we do give cotenancies with retailers we do in some cases and not really happy about it but we do do it.
It's rare that it's going to be tied to a Sears operating usually it's 3 out of 4 and something like that.
But I would say that particular issue would be de minimis.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just maybe you could talk a little bit about your exposure there.
Is there a theme to it if you will maybe the majority of your exposures in single- or two-story stores or there in malls of a certain sales production just curious? If you look at our Sears portfolio they are very well situated in our better properties.
We have obviously significant numbers so throughout the portfolio.
But again this is nothing new.
I mean this is we're working with Sears.
We are strategizing if in fact the eventuality comes we want to deal with it we're lining up demand.
There is happily substantial demand.
And we're just going to have to see how this unfolds.
To date none of our stores have been impacted.
And we try to monitor their volumes and our portfolio as a whole is above average both in terms of gross volumes and sales per foot.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just last 2 questions.
One is on Del Amo are you able to share maybe a cap rate or rough cap rate on that transaction? And then maybe Steve can you talk about what you've seen change in the financing market for I guess I'd say second-tier market malls or those with below-average sales production any movement there? I can take the second part of the question first Jeff.
We continue to see really pretty robust demand on call it for lack of a better term the middle-quality malls.
And interestingly enough it's come from the banks in anticipation of a restart of the CMBS market in 2012 and the ability to syndicate some of these.
Pricing has been pretty decent.
And as I said we've been out with 2 or 3 assets and the demand has been very good.
Look Jeff we don't do individual cap rate things malls other than we really feel like we made a fair deal and one that we'll be able to add value with as we move very aggressively on our redevelopment plans there.
Our next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple of Hilliard Lyons.
Research Division</strong> Are there any updates on the St.
Louis potential outlet development? We're working it but the short answer is not really.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Steve I know that G&amp;A expense was up in the quarter.
Was that something that's just this quarter or is that a good run rate going forward? It's a little bit of both Carol.
There's part of it where it's just the full year impact of compensation plans but then there is -- a bit of it that is probably not going to repeat in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you all talked about you feel no pressure to do acquisitions and you think renovations are a better reinvestment of your capital at this point.
If you decided you wanted to do acquisitions is there anything out there on the market that you have any interest in? Do you have any ideas? Research Division</strong> No I don't.
I like the renovations at your old malls personally.
The answer is usually they come about when you least expect it.
So again we -- it's not a high priority but we look at just about every and any alternative and though the good news is but you got to be really disciplined when you have this ability.
The good news is we could look at basically any real estate company in the world and decide whether or not it makes sense for us.
So -- but comes with that a burden not to screw up.
So what's better you could look at every deal or you're in a position where you can't.
I'd rather be in the fact that we can look at every deal but with that comes some discipline here that we better not make a mistake.
Our next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David earlier you talked about some of the challenges that are still out there when it comes to leasing space in your properties or in the mall business in general.
Can you quantify it for mall categories if you will so what do you observe of A malls versus Bs and Cs? Well look the risk in the A malls is really not a risk because if you do get that space back you're going to -- you have plenty of demand to lease that up.
But it is going to be in the kind of the -- however you want to characterize I hate listing malls A B and C but it's certainly going to -- the pressure that we have as an owner will be on what people call as the B mall category.
And it's surfacing because of tenants like The Gap the -- PacSun wearers of the world that are still and continuing to connect with the consumer.
And again I don't like naming names and pointing retailers out that's only representation of a couple of retailers that in fact themselves have said they're closing stores.
But the fact is that's where the pressure in the portfolio occurs and is occurring and that's what we're working to offset.
If we get the space back and the fact of the matter a lot of A malls retailers that are downsizing we're taking the opportunity to help with that downsizing by not renewing them in the A malls.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it the same with the B malls who are the replacement tenants when a Gap or a Paxon exit the property? Well there are a lot of people that are very aggressively growing their footprint and that leads to David's point.
We're doing deals throughout the quality spectrum with Loft with Love Culture Crazy 8 Izumi Chiles Cotton On Francesca's all of the -- Cabana all of those tenants are -- H&amp;M.
So we're doing with a lot of these tenants throughout the portfolio.
And one other point that I want to make is this billion dollars that we're spending in our portfolio is certainly giving us more attractive properties in terms of the tenants wanting to be in them.
It's no accident when we're adding over 35 anchors in our portfolio when we're renovating 20 properties when we're getting substantially higher growth that's making us have a better product for our leasing agents and that's hopefully going to bear fruit and enable us to deal with the space we get back from the tenants that are shrinking their footprint.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to finish in terms of the Italian sales are there any circumstances or tax circumstances associated with repatriating the capital to the U.S.? None.
Our next question comes from the line of Benjamin Yang of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> David you talked earlier about how the joint venture with Macerich was carved up but I don't think you mentioned was there any consideration to selling those assets outright? Not really.
The answer is no.
Look Dave we're off on our own with each other so we never really talked about selling the whole portfolio.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that's just why Steve's comments that the financing market for these mid-tier malls is coming back? I mean is it anticipated that you might end up selling them or selling more above and beyond what you just got from Macerich? Well the fact of the matter is the portfolio that we got we think there's upside.
So we're pleased with the outcome.
We think we can move the needle on those assets and we have no intention at all of selling those assets.
So look we're going to still prune the portfolio.
And I think as Steve said that the fact the financing market is getting better I think that will help us.
It's been obviously that's been a challenge to sell kind of the smaller malls.
But with respect to specific -- respected IBM there's absolutely no desire or interest to sell those assets.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching gears you have made some comments also that you guys are different.
You don't need to pre-lease to start the construction which to me it sounds like kind of a shot across the bar to the competition so I was just curious can you...
I didn't say -- I said we take a different approach.
You use the word different so I don't think I said the word different but I'd love to go back I could be wrong.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I'm just wondering can you talk about how retailers have been evaluating the multiple options in those markets that you identified where there is competition.
I mean it is just the stalemate that kind of forces you to what looks like go to do some spec development outlets.
Well I think every development is different.
A lot of cases the retailer is using the competitive scenario to drive down rents and we're seeing that a lot.
So the retailer is very adept very skilled at using the leverage of competition to drive rents down.
And in some cases they're sitting on the sidelines saying "Well I want to be -- I want to have an outlet in this marketplace but you guys figure it out they're on the sidelines." And in some cases they have they faith in us they want to go with us because we've got this knowledge base of all of these assets.
And in some cases they want to go with the other guy because of whatever other reason.
So it's all over the board.
The fact of the matter is we don't really pre-lease period.
We're doing Nanuet and we've got -- that's not an outlet -- and we've got certain commitments from very important retailers.
But are we sitting there leasing up the small shop up to a certain percent to where we lease the answer is no.
We should be able to use our judgment our experience whether or not we can get something leased at what rent and that's just the way we operate.
Certainly not meant to be a shot across the bow for anybody.
Everybody can do whatever they want.
I have no influence on that at all but that's how we operate.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful but at what point do you end up actually buying the land.
I mean is it satisfund [ph] that you've actually purchased the land in Phoenix in Toronto in St.
Louis is that...
Phoenix we have signed the ground lease.
I was down there I don't know was it last week or 2 weeks ago.
It's a ground lease.
We're on Indian land and by the Wildhorse Casino there.
So that ground lease is signed.
And Toronto it's all documented and signed land closing is forthcoming.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> What type of delta is that when you ground-lease something like that versus buying the land outright? It tends to have a better return in a lot of cases.
Obviously when we're on Indian land you can't really buy the land so that's how it works.
And we thought -- we liked the site enough given that that was -- that was a good outcome for us on that deal.
Our next question comes from the line of Gautam Desai of Credit Suisse.
I will take another retailer example Williams-Sonoma was amongst your larger tenants 5 years back.
And now roughly 40% of their business is online and about a quarter of their leases are expiring over the next 2 years.
And what I'm hearing from multiple conferences is that they are planning to negotiate the rent in those expirations.
And if they're not successful they just plan to move more of their business online.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on it and if this is  like indicative of a changing trend in retail in general? I don't believe there's anything out of the ordinary with your example.
Williams-Sonoma happens to have a great real estate and great properties.
And if their business strategy is such and their productivity is such that they cannot afford to maintain the space that they currently have they're going to come in and offer us a rent that enables them to maintain their occupancy.
If we don't believe that rent is fair market value they're going to move out and we're going to replace them with somebody that has got a productivity and a business strategy that will enable them to pay what we believe is fair market rent.
Right.
It makes sense.
And another question are there any acquisitions included in your 2012 guidance? Acquisitions? Yes.
No there are none.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of questions on Del Amo.
They obviously are very large asset and I think David in your prepared comments you talked about a redevelopment or an investment in that asset.
Understood you have just recently increased your share in it.
I'm just curious if you can tell us whether the $1 billion for this year and next year of redevelopment includes Del Amo number one.
And number two if you could talk a little bit about your plans for that asset if you feel able to at this point.
Well the $1 billion does not include for this year because we still think we are in a spot where we're going to use this year for '12 to plan what we're doing and part of that depends on outcomes with certain discussions with certain stores but it's a complicated asset.
I'll turn it over to Rick to explain.
We have a lots of different options.
It's complicated and it's probably better to show you physically than words but I'll let Rick take it from there.
Just very briefly it's midway between Sentry City and South Coast Plaza.
It's positioned to serve all of the great communities on the Pacific Ocean that have -- we have a trade here of 1 million people with $90 000 household income.
So we believe there's an opportunity to add fashion anchors.
We believe there's an opportunity to add some full-line anchors and completely redevelop the property.
It's over 2.275 million square feet.
So we've got a lot of FAR and a great market and we're very focused on bringing that forward.
And it's certainly going to be part of the capital spending that David talked about in 2013 and 2014.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first one is a Steve/Rick combo.
I just wanted to find out what occupancy cost of sales was in fourth quarter.
And for new tenants signing leases what the target is on that number? The occupancy cost in the fourth quarter for the malls and outlets was 11.8%.
And really the way we price our real estate is a function of who's the tenant what's the productivity of that tenant what's the mall what's the space in the mall.
So we have a very focused process and all of those factors feed into it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Could you give a range? It's very hard to do.
I think if you look at our -- the leases that we signed I believe in the fourth quarter were $50 and change starting rent.
So that gives you a pretty good barometer of the type of activity that's undergoing in the portfolio right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then in regards to guidance you talked about the $0.07 dilution from GCI.
Could you give us a sense on what the dilution is from the consumer marketing initiative and as well as the downtime from the redevelopment? We did -- we're not going to give specifics on that but it's all in our numbers.
Our next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Rick can you give us a quick rundown of the new retailers and concepts entering the Simon portfolio? Well the ones that are coming in that we're working with -- are examples of drygoods that's a  division of Ron Mauer Vince from Calwood Sea Wonder Running Company is a new concept that Finish Line is working with Versona from Cato but I certainly don't want to ignore like you look at a Limited Brands and they had a great report and they're aggressively looking to get more space to take care of their pink concept so the fact that a brand is mature doesn't mean that it still doesn't have a significant growth potential.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one quick final question.
Now that we're 5 years of the peak of the market are you noticing any pressure from releasing the leases signed 5 years ago? No.
No.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I know you don't like breaking up the portfolio in terms of performance but can you talk generically about how the mall portfolio is performing versus the community center portfolio and maybe thinking about 2011 and 2012 is the gap any closer these days? They're both performing better than what we expected in '11.
The outlet business continues to have higher comp NOI growth than the mall business.
But I'll tell you I think we're generally pleased with both segments.
And the gap is certainly less -- certainly it's been reduced compared to '09 and '10 levels.
I think that's safe to say that the outlet business was stronger in the height of the significant economic downturn.
So that gap -- that growth rate gap has certainly narrowed.
Research Division</strong> And that's fair between a traditional mall and community center as well? In our community center we don't you mean the...
The growth rate.
The growth rate.
Yes the mall business grows much better than the community center business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back to non-core asset sales.
Could you just talk about generically about how big the potential pool of assets that you would like to sell over time is? Well I think historically this year we basically disposed of assets around $500 million.
If we could continue to sell $200 million to $300 million to $400 million of assets a year in terms of pruning I think that would be the level that would be desirable.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Spector Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Few questions.
If we could just start off I guess with the big picture Rick just wanted to follow up from our ICSC dinner in December.
Can you talk about your more recent conversations with tenants the retail sales seem to be stronger than expected.
What is their latest view on these new store openings or new concepts? I think that David alluded to earlier it's very much a tenant-by-tenant analysis.
Sales were better.
There were some pressures on margins.
We've detailed earlier in the call a number of tenants that have very aggressive growth profile and there are others that are retracing a little bit and reducing their footprint.
Generally however the balance sheet remains strong.
They are still generating cash flow and we're still able to drive demand from the types of tenants that we'd like to have in our properties.
Research Division</strong> So I guess where do you stand on pricing power at this point? I know David said business is still tough.
Is it still a tough negotiation or you feel like pricing power is coming a little bit more back to your side? There is never a negotiation that is not tough.
I mean look we're fighting over the same dollar.
And that's been that way for 40 years and it will continue that way.
And ultimately do we have some better power? Look as the productivity of our properties get better as we improve our properties as our occupancy gets stronger just fundamental supply and demand there's virtually no new construction that certainly plays into our strengths.
Research Division</strong> And I guess thinking about the budget and your guidance I guess David your thoughts in the consumer or economist keeps saying that consumer spending is going to slow second half of the year.
When you thought about -- I guess when you finalized your budget how were you thinking about the consumer? Well look I think our budgeting is -- it reflects -- it's round-up so it reflects the general nature of the fact that we are cautious in how we put our numbers together.
So I think in a sense that reflects also that -- what's going on in the macro environment.
The -- so I think we take that into account.
There's no guarantees in anything but I do think we take in the fact that it is generally still a very cautious environment.
We would -- we have a lot of work to do to make our numbers.
On the other hand we always want to beat our numbers.
And we're at the point now where we're giving you our view of kind of what it is given what transpired with the GCI sale et cetera.
We always want to beat our numbers but we're generally cautious.
So -- and I think that reflects the consumer.
This year you do have a certain added uncertainty with the general election and all that crap that follows with it.
And on the other hand there are reasonable I mean it's very confusing signs out there but there are some reasonable ones.
Jeff you're aware obviously of what happened with jobs today.
On the other hand you see more layoffs that have been announced over the last week or 2.
So it's -- my view it's still a very confounding tough environment to kind of decipher through.
I do know though that the program that we have in our internal investments will pay rewards for our shareholders in the future.
So that I'm not worried about.
And we would like to see better income growth and job growth.
That would give us a cushion that we haven't been able to really have over the last couple of years even though we produced terrific industry-leading results.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I just want to clarify David you mentioned you're going to spend $1 billion this year in development next year a $1 billion.
And I think you also said 2014 is that strictly redevelopments new Premium Outlet Centers and expansions at your existing Premium Outlet Centers? Correct idea.
That's all in.
That's new development and redevelopment.
Research Division</strong> But not -- just to clarify not new malls? Yes well -- unless you got a site you want to show us where the new malls I still think are ways away.
I think -- I still don't see a real demand for a lot of new malls.
Now Nanuet is a good example.
You could consider that a new mall in a sense but we put that in our redevelopment category.
Research Division</strong> And then Brazil should we be -- should we assume it's full price in China Premium Outlet.
Did you day that? I did not say that and you should not necessarily assume that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with the Phoenix announcement...
On both fronts Jeff on both fronts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question on Phoenix I guess with your announcement have you heard anything from your competitors on their sites? I assume they're -- our assumption is they're going to go full steam ahead and we are going forward will have no impact on what they do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Actually I'm sorry one last question.
Do you still have the ownership stake in value retail in the U.K.
and Europe? We do.
Research Division</strong> You do.
Okay.
Anything with that at this point with the sale in Italy or you like that small investment keep it as is or is there any chance to increase that or do anything more in the outlet front I guess? We like that investment.
In fact we have an investment at the holding company more or less.
And then there's investors in various outlets that in some cases are different than the investors at the holding company.
And in fact we just increased our ownership interest in 2 outlets at year end.
Research Division</strong> In value retail? Correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to push a little more on Del Amo.
Do you think that investment could be north of $200 million? Yes it could be.
It could be.
And if you want to see all the options we'll let you spend.
It's at your own peril but we'll let you spend time with David Contis.
And he could -- we could actually use your help Craig.
Research Division</strong> And it sounds like...
That will be at your own peril and may take a long time so reserve half the day.
Research Division</strong> It's sound like you're talking to fashion anchors.
Are they positively inclined at this point? Everyone acknowledges the importance of the market and the fact that it's not adequately penetrated under existing stores.
Obviously we're now in an environment where people are considering more capital investments and we're optimistic.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then prior to my meeting with David Contis is it still going to be done in phase there was one time I thought you'd focus on the northern end first? It will still be done in phases based on when we can get the right critical mass.
And right now we're focusing on what and how we're going to start it.
But it is again a very big project so it is going to take a number of phases and a number of years to bring to fruition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just shifting gears slightly in terms of the outlet business I'm wondering if like the malls are the higher-end ones doing better than the more moderately-priced ones? Or are outlets strong just throughout the price point spectrum? I would say they're generally strong.
But the tourist outlets are the ones that are really kicking a**.
With no further questions in the queue at this time I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Simon for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Okay.
Thank you everybody and thanks for your patience on the call and have a good weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Simon Property Group Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Derek and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Shelly Doran Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC for a detailed discussion.
Acknowledging the fact that this call may be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that our call includes time-sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date April 27 2012.
During today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the earnings release or the company's supplemental information package that was included in this morning's Form 8-K.
This package is also available on the Simon website in the Investors section.
Participating in today's call will be David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Simon.
Okay.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today.
The scope and breadth of our company can be best described by a high-level overview of our activities and accomplishments during the first few months of 2012.
First of all financial and operationally let me just state that FFO was $1.82 per share up 13% from the first quarter 2011.
We exceeded the First Call consensus by $0.14.
We have now met or exceeded expectations for 31 of the past 33 quarters.
For our malls and Premium Outlets comp NOI grew 5.7% and you'll recall that our comp NOI for first quarter 2011 was up 2.3%.
Tenant sales were up 11.2%.
Both individually the malls and the Outlet portfolio were up double digits.
Occupancy was up 60 basis points.
Average rent per square foot was increased by 4.4%.
Releasing spread was a positive 9.7% or $4.74 per square foot.
Now let me turn to transactions.
As you know we invested $2 billion in purchasing shares of Klepierre the second largest owner of retail real estate in Continental Europe.
With assets valued at a portfolio EUR 16.2 billion we now own nearly 29% of the company.
I'm Chairman of the Supervisory Board and we control 3 of the 9 board seats.
Our investment provides opportunity for significant value creation through exchanging operational best practices creating synergy through our leasing and marketing efforts and the generation of ancillary revenues.
We'll be actively involved in the Klepierre capital allocation decisions including allocation of capital amongst the various assets and the countries in which they do business and we'll be providing guidance on investment and divestiture decisions and balance sheet management.
We view this investment as having significant optionality for us given the countries in which Klepierre operates the large number of assets that it owns and manages and the successful operational platform that it possesses.
From a capital point of view it essentially replaces our previous European investments which were liquidated at a significant gain to our shareholders over the past couple of years.
Now let me turn to Mills.
As you know we acquired the interest of our joint venture partner in 26 of 36 assets of The Mills Limited Partnership for $1.5 billion.
Transaction completed at a good cap rate for us and reinforce that this has been a good deal for us and our partner Farralon.
We believe there is upside in the assets with growing NOI and we'll continue to pursue many of the redevelopment opportunities in the portfolio.
At the end of the day both of these transactions will be immediately accretive to FFO.
To fund Klepierre and Mills transaction we sold unsecured notes and issued common equity.
We sold $1.75 billion of senior unsecured notes in 3 tranches.
Rates on the 3 tranches of notes were the lowest ever achieved by a REIT by an average of 76 basis points.
We issued 9.1 million common shares at a price of $137 per share and our rating of A- A3 were affirmed by all 3 rating agencies.
In addition we weren't done with that.
We acquired another 25% ownership interest in Del Amo Fashion Center where our major redevelopment is in the planning stage and we sold our interest in Gallerie Commerciali in Italy at a gain to our investment.
Development activity if I may turn to.
We successfully reopened the fully restored Opry Mills to a great public reception.
Space at the center is approximately 90% leased and committed.
In addition we started construction on 4 new Premium Outlet Centers all scheduled to open in 2013: Shisui in Japan our ninth Premium Outlet in Japan; Phoenix serving the greatest Phoenix and Scottsdale areas; Toronto which actually the groundbreaking was this week our first upscale Outlet Center in Canada; and Busan in Korea our third Premium Outlet in Korea.
In addition we signed agreements to develop Premium Outlet Centers in Brazil with the well-known and well-respected BR Malls and in China with the well-known and well-respected Bailian Group.
And we're focused on a site adjacent to the Disney Shanghai.
Continued construction on 2 new Premium Outlets that will open in the U.S.
this year Merrimack New Hampshire and south of Houston Texas.
We continued construction on 25 renovation and expansion projects in the U.S.
and in Japan with 2012 and 2013 completion dates and we continue to expect our share of development spend to approximate $1 billion in 2012 '13 and '14 respectively.
Let me turn to the dividends.
As you now know we've announced our third consecutive increase in quarterly dividend from $0.95 to $1 per share.
Our dividend is now fully 25% higher than it was one year ago at this time.
In addition we are very pleased and honored to be added to the S&amp;P 100 Index in the first quarter joining the likes of Nike Starbucks Honeywell and DuPont all well-known companies where equity market caps are comparable to ours.
Guidance.
We increased the top end of our 2012 FFO guidance.
Initially as you know in February we had guidance of $7.20 to $7.30.
Our range now includes a range from $7.50 per share to $7.60 per share so we increased both the top end and the bottom end of our guidance.
Factors contributing to this increase: essentially stronger operating performance and recent investment activity.
Now let me just conclude and we can talk about any questions you may have.
Our portfolio of high-quality irreplaceable assets continues to deliver strong results and is second to none in our industry.
Just to illustrate that I know the size sometimes of our portfolio is somewhat overwhelming and all of our activity obviously is hard to appreciate sometimes.
But let me just put this in perspective.
We have in our portfolio of assets 12 that generate over $1 000 per square foot.
Our top 30 U.S.
average -- assets average over $1 000 per square foot in sales and provide 1/3 of our SPG NOI.
Our top 50 U.S.
average $886 per square foot in sales and provide 1/2 of our SPG share of NOI.
And importantly our top 100 assets average $700 per square foot and provide 3/4 of our NOI.
Needless to say we're off to a good start and active and we're ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Christy McElroy from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Given GGP's recent deal with Sears to buy back some boxes and leases I'm wondering if you're having any discussions with the retailer to do the same? And of the 119 Sears boxes at your malls are there any that you would specifically point to where you would say we could unlock pretty significant value at that mall if we got the box back? Well look we're not going to get into discussions that we have with our individual retailers.
We have a good relationship with Sears.
We expect over time for a number of those properties to be reclaimed or redeveloped but nothing really to report beyond that.
And look we do think there's value there.
We'll be conservative in how we value the real estate and how we look at it.
But I think over time it will provide an opportunity for the company.
Research Division</strong> We've heard recently from some specialty retailers that lease negotiations for Class B malls have started to move in favor of the landlords again.
Can you discuss your ability to raise rents at B and B- types of assets? And if I think about your rent spreads being 10% across the portfolio how would that break out between sort of the Class A stuff and the Class B stuff? One thing we don't like to do is go through Class A and Class B.
We're very focused on increasing the cash flow in all of our assets.
Obviously the ones that have higher sales per square foot we're able to drive a little bit better bargain.
We look to win-win for the retailers.
We're doing a lot of business with retailers throughout the portfolio.
Our rent spreads -- our averages mean a lot because they're not -- with a portfolio of our size we can't have one particular center rollover or one center doing so much more business that it's driving the statistics of every other at the portfolio.
The business has firmed up and we're pleased with where it's headed and where it's going.
Retailers are looking for growth so I'd say things are all pretty good.
Rick you want to add anything? I would just underline David's point.
If you look in our 8-K and see where our renovations are and where we're adding anchors and department stores it's throughout the portfolio and we're increasing market share across the board and that is enabling us to drive that pricing.
And to underline -- quantifying David's point on the square footage when you look at our sales and our statistics that's on the basis of almost 60 million square feet.
So there is no way for outliers to influence that.
It's a broad operational trend that we're reflecting.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly how much capital do you envision investing in outlets in China and Brazil over the next 5 years? And what kind of projected returns are you forecasting? Well look it's safe to say that we would -- every international development that we've done in the Outlet business has had double-digits return in the 15%-on-average range.
We would expect that that's kind of the hurdle we're shooting for.
In any event we would expect those to be at least double digits.
Brazil generally we think the market can support in the 10 to 14 opportunities initially.
Cost of those will on average be in the $100-million-plus range.
As you know we are partners 50-50 with BR Malls.
That gives you the scope of the situation.
In China right now our focus is on one particular development and that we're going through the numbers on that.
It's a little bit early to give you kind of the scope of magnitude of that but we think it's a great site having visited it personally.
It's a great opportunity for the company.
The demand from the retailers is very strong.
China is -- you got to be extra cautious there.
We've had an experience where we learned a lot in China.
But generally I think it will be consistent with the build in what we've done in Korea and what we've done in Japan.
Cost of construction land values are all kind of the same there but I don't want to pin those numbers down just yet.
Your next question is coming from the line of Jeff Spector from Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-up questions on Brazil.
David did I hear you say you had 10 to 14 potential sites? Over -- yes over a period of time correct.
Research Division</strong> And I'm not as familiar with all of the different markets in Brazil.
I mean is there any change in the site criteria? Or are you saying in your first analysis you feel that there are 10 to 14 sites that really fit that Premium Outlet-type criteria density-wise? Correct that's correct.
And we've got currently -- so that's over an extended period of time.
We've got one site identified in São Paulo.
We're not in the position to disclose that yet.
If all goes according to plan we have the chance of opening that in late '13 but more likely early '14.
And then we're currently evaluating another 4 additional sites.
So that 10 to 4 (sic) 14 is over an extended period of time but we've got 1.
We're very close to moving forward on and then another 4 of that are further along than that.
Research Division</strong> And for now in Brazil just sticking with the outlets or you're still looking at mall opportunities full price? This is the primary focus right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching to your investment in Klepierre you -- I think you carefully said that right now you're actively involved on the balance sheet divestitures.
You didn't talk about operations at all.
Well I did mention that.
You may not have picked it up.
I mean we've had some very good beginning discussions with the senior team there.
We've owned the stock for 6 weeks so you have to put it in perspective that their senior management team is actually coming here next week.
But we're going to coordinate certain retail leasing at the Shopping Center Convention coming up in May in the U.S.
-- Shopping Center Convention.
So it's early days on that front but it's safe to say that there are 3 or 4 areas of focus for us: operational synergies; leasing synergies; cash flow enhancement all of that in one category; capital allocation in another category.
Along with that is what assets should they be involved in? Where should the focus be? What countries our long-term holds then balance sheet management and then investment divestiture decision.
So all of those are kind of the 3 or 4 buckets that where we're focused on both as directors and as shareholders and the cooperation has been excellent.
There's nothing so far that in our short involvement that has caused any concern for us.
Look Europe has got some macro headwinds.
We knew that going in.
The fact of the matter is these opportunities surface when the going is tough but we're in this for the long haul.
And we think it's a very good platform that we can help continue to move in the right direction and actually have bottom line impact improvement on.
But that's going to take time.
Research Division</strong> And are you personally spending a lot of time on that investment? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Going forward? Okay.
And then my last -- I'm sorry.
No.
Sure.
I mean I'm Chairman of the Board.
And like I said yes we're very involved not just me but my team as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question on development.
Anything -- any new potential sites on the full-price side mall side the Lifestyle center side for you? No.
Research Division</strong> U.S.
I'm looking at Rick and the answer -- we're just making sure we're both saying no.
The answer is no not really.
We think the returns in order to really induce the full-price guys with the cost of development are just too skinny still.
Demand is still not quite there.
And the fact of the matter is with our redevelopment pipeline we got great stuff going on I mean really good stuff going on.
And with our development or our Premium Outlet development we are under construction.
Let me just reinforce this.
We are under construction in Phoenix.
We are under construction in Toronto.
We are under construction in Korea and Japan.
We're looking at a couple other areas.
We're busy and these are all very good returns that we are building new too.
So at this point why chase full-price retail at lower returns when we got our plate full of assets.
Your next question is coming from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael.
I'm here with Quentin Velleley.
David I just wanted to start you think about Klepierre $2 billion but you're an $80 billion enterprise today so its 2.5% of your asset base and it is taking up a lot of your time.
You've been to Europe twice in the last month.
How do you sort of balance something that's a smaller part today of the enterprise and driving value for the other 97.5% of assets? And then taking it one step further you own 30% of the entity today.
You're in this for the long haul.
You obviously want to see a lot of improvements.
The price you're going to have to pay for the other 70% if you do want to consolidate could be meaningfully higher benefiting Klepierre shareholders rather than Simon shareholders.
I'm just -- how do you sort of balance all this? Well just on the first point Michael that's what I do okay? So the one thing that I think amazes folks given the scope of this company is that that's what we do.
Rick looks at whether we're getting market value on a new Gap lease.
I mean as weird as it sounds that's just what we do.
So I still think a $2 billion investment ought to warrant my serious attention.
So that's just what we do.
We've got -- we've added a few people to help.
We added Contis.
We added Fivel so we could leverage a little bit my time and Rick's time to do it.
But that's what we do.
We sweat the details.
That's all we know how to do and we don't see changing from that.
And I view -- look the thing about Klepierre it's got a portfolio.
Its share of this is not quite that.
It's about EUR 14 billion.
But the portfolio that it overseas is EUR 16 billion.
That's a big opportunity for us.
And Europe is in a state of flux which is an even better opportunity for us ultimately to reinforce our company's position as a global brand and there are great benefits to being global.
Many of our -- if you look at our peer group in the S&amp;P 100 and I just read you a few names they're all global.
Our retailers are going global.
And I think it's great great opportunity.
It's a great potential platform for us to really have a significant presence there and create kind of a sister or fully integrated Simon company over there.
We've never had that opportunity.
I don't know that this can be that but it's certainly worth the opportunity.
And I think coming in at below NAV even with all the macro headwinds I don't see how we'd lose.
But it's possible we do but we don't.
But when I go through this list of companies in our similar cap range News Corp Nike Colgate-Palmolive Lilly Starbucks Ford Disney Union -- well Union Pacific isn't because it's all railroad Boeing they're all international global companies.
And I think it's important for us to be in that spot.
And so look Flowers one of the great value financial investors there is is moving to London because of European opportunity.
So this is a great platform.
We'll see where it develops.
It potentially could go -- it could end here.
On the other hand we could take this investment and make it something special.
And I have no problem as long as our shareholders are rewarded along that process and sharing the wealth.
Research Division</strong> It's Quentin here just a question on the outlets in Brazil.
With U.S.
fashion merchandiser sort of 3x to 5x more expensive in Brazil how do you expect the international retailers that are going into your outlets how do you expect them to I guess compete given the improved U.S.
visa process and also the improvements in Brazilians' ability to purchase over the Internet? Well look there are more and more international retailers landing in Brazil and dealing with the tariffs.
And certainly from a customer point of view if we can land those tenants and deliver more value to the customer then -- that's why I think we feel like these outlets will be very successful.
It will not have the percentage of international grounds like China Japan or Korea will because of that particular issue.
While we think there's enough there -- and with the Brazilian retailers as well to populate those centers.
And there's been one kind of outlet that's been built there and it was successful.
I think you're going to have to go small do this in phases.
But I think over time you'll have more international penetration.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just switching to Europe maybe if you could just comment on the health of the hotter markets in Europe.
How do you think they're going to change their business models and evolve to some of the challenges they're facing? Well I think that -- look it depends on the retailer.
I mean we were as you know partners with Ocean and their business model has been very successful and they continue to do very good business.
Carrefour as you know is a big partner so to speak with Klepierre.
And they've gone through some fits and starts in terms of where they want to go.
I think they've got new leadership.
It sounds like they are back to focusing on being very price competitive and that we think will drive traffic and we think ultimately will help us with the Galleries which we own.
And it's very interesting Quentin just you know because you got a funny accent.
But the hypermarkets there they're disappointed when they do EUR 80 million to EUR 100 million whereas if we have a department store or anybody that did  EUR 80 million to EUR 100 million in our shopping center we'd be very thrilled.
So it's all relative.
I have all the confidence in the world with where Carrefour is going that they'll continue to be a very worldwide class retailer.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Cedrik Lachance from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So just one follow-up with some funny accent.
Just maybe a quick one on The Mills.
Just in terms of how you're organizing information right now.
A number of The Mills properties were moved into other operating properties.
Is there anything we need to read into that? Well I think what you would read into that is that we're probably not long-term owners of the 3 assets that are still owned by TMLP.
One of those actually we're evaluating that and that is we're hopeful that over time we can reposition that asset but a couple of them were probably not long-term owners.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In regards to your ability to market to market those assets is it a -- timing and ability to market those assets what do you think that would be? I would think it would certainly be clarified in the not-too-distant future.
About 12 months or so.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and thank you also for the sales disclosure.
In regards to the decision there on the sales front it includes the outlets is that correct? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
if we were to exclude outlets from let's say the top 100 category what would happen to the sales productivity there? It probably wouldn't matter all that much but I don't have that in front of me.
But I'd give you a sense of this.
It's probably a 75 to 25 split roughly to give you a sense of order of magnitude out of 100.
Next call we can get really specific but I don't have it entirely in front of me.
But I think that gives you the general nature of it.
Your next question is coming from the line of Paul Morgan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just sticking with that top 100 is 75% of your NOI.
Any thoughts given the B mall sales that have taken place by some of your peers that you might be interested in culling the kind of the other 120 there or 25% of the NOI making any efforts beyond kind of the -- kind of single-asset-type brokers? Well I think the good news is that that market seems to be firming up.
There's more players in it.
And so I think historically Paul we've always wanted to call the portfolio.
As you know that's been a relatively tough exercise.
But with now Starwood hasn't closed yet but assuming it closes you've got a couple other players out there that are looking to invest.
I would expect us to continue to play in that game.
We did sell one mall at the end of -- it really actually closed at the very beginning of this year Gwinnett Mall in Atlanta.
So we are -- we would expect to do that.
I think there are more players there and that's the good news.
We're trying to understand what their strategy is going forward and I'm sure we'll over time continue to cull the portfolio to some extent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can just go back to Klepierre.
As you look at kind of the leasing platforms and you mentioned some kind of the global element to the retailers I mean do you think having the time you had spent with them and then looking at their portfolio of tenants do you think there's more opportunity to bring their tenants here and your tenants there? Or given your express[ph] strength in Europe you think you've kind of already been well on top of that and it's not that incremental from here? I actually -- I think that probably the more likely opportunity is to bring U.S.
retailers there.
And as you walk the malls in Continental Europe they're not -- they're okay.
They're not greatly merchandised.
I think it possesses a great opportunity for a number of our retailers.
Again that takes time and there are some that are making inroads there.
But generally I would think the opportunity will be more U.S.
to Europe.
But and Rick can comment on that but there are also opportunities as you know for retailers there to come here.
And they're actually making progress to get U.K.
retailers.
As an example Primark which is a well-known very good U.K.
retailer to add to the European retail mix there.
So I think it will be a little bit of everything.
But I do feel that our U.S.
retailers do think Europe is an opportunity for them.
Rick you want to? And I would say to you just on the other way if you like there's no doubt that the relationships that we've created in dealing with the H&amp;Ms and the ZARAs and the Legos are going to stand up some very good stead because we're just now an incrementally more important part of their global footprint which is what we have always aspired to be.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly sticking with the Europe.
I mean how do you think about other opportunities for investment now on the continent given you have a minority stake and you might have a different capital position but how would you handle the kind of the conflicts with looking at outlets or looking at other opportunities that come up via Klepierre or independently? Well look the outlet business Klepierre has no involvement in.
So I don't view that as any particular conflict.
I think it gives us a great opportunity.
There are so many options on the table for us now that we've got -- have an investment in a very fine company like Klepierre.
Other way they're very good developers.
They build great product.
I encourage you to look at some of the stuff that they've built.
I mean they're a first-class organization.
We think we can respectfully add to that but they're not -- they're damn good on their own.
And I think as we look at opportunities we'll sit with them and say okay what makes sense.
So it could be within Klepierre.
It could be in a joint venture with Klepierre or it could be completely on our own.
But we certainly want to see Klepierre our investment in Klepierre appreciate.
I mean that's the #1 goal.
And I just will say on the outlet side that we -- they have no presence in that.
That's really not something that they're really going to do and I would view that as kind of a separate path for us to look at what our opportunities there are in that sector.
Your next question is coming from the line of Alex Goldfarb from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> It is pretty telling of a French organization to appoint an American to be chairman so that's a pretty strong statement in and of itself.
Question on -- you guys took a major stake in Klepierre and yet when you went to Brazil you just did a JV with BR Malls.
Can you just speak about the opportunity or your thoughts on taking a stake in BR Malls? I mean speaking to people there's a lot of respect for BR Malls that the Brazilian market seems to still attract a lot of long-term interest.
So sort of curious why you opted for just a more of an asset JV rather than more of a corporate JV the way you did with Klepierre? Well we really didn't talk about that too much and Brazil is -- I think we want to get our feet wet in Brazil do it a little bit more methodically.
The values there calling up a tremendous amount and BR Malls is a big company okay.
And then you get into the currency risk though it seems that their currency seems to only appreciate versus the dollar but put that aside.
So there's lots of issues there but we really never got into that kind of dialogue.
At this point we're focused just on building out the outlet the platform with them.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like it's more of a learning curve whereas you've had many years of European experience you want to build that experience in Brazil? Is that...
And I think so and look remember we had exposure in Europe.
And I almost view this as kind of replacing what we had.
Yes we put a little bit more money in it but with a better company with better growth long-term growth prospects even though the world is a little wacky there a proven organization lots of optionality on where to take that organization a way to hedge our currency investment because we can borrow in euros.
So there's all sorts of math associated with it that works a little bit easier than in Brazil.
Just a quick response.
I mean it's a very complicated question but just a quick response to your question.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separate and along the same lines your comments David were about China were rather tempered about just focusing on one site.
Just sort of curious especially given the recent political scandal over there.
Has that made you any more cautious or what is driving your hesitancy about China? Well it's obviously just a big big market and a very complicated market but what's driving us it's very simple.
The international brands are just -- they're kicking ass there.
And just -- if we can get an outlet built in the right location we're very confident we can lease it up.
And we have we think partnered with a good person to partner with.
But we still have to prove the math prove the ability to make the numbers work and all that.
And it's just a big complicated market.
And they take -- when they like something they just build it as you know right? So supply and demand sometimes is not as thoughtful there as it might be in other more mature markets.
So we just got to make sure that we can make money doing these things.
So I think doing 1 or 2 thereabouts is probably the right way to go for us right now.
Your next question is coming from the line of Steve Sakwa from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Rick I guess just first question as you're talking to kind of the larger tenants the Targets the Costcos and the like I know you guys have done a lot.
You've replaced a lot of department stores and anchors and added.
I'm just wondering how much more activity do you think there is from them and I guess as you look through kind of the top 100 how many more assets can you sort of touch meaning how much more sort of inventory do you think you can sort of touch and put -- and are these tenants also looking at kind of the bottom 100 properties or are they really focused on sort of the top 100? In fact it's throughout the portfolio.
And if you just keep track of what we've done in the 8-K this quarter we've got 51 anchors that are being added throughout the various platforms and that's up from the 30 that we've listed in the fourth quarter '11.
And on top of that we're on another 38 anchors.
Target is still looking for opportunities.
We're adding them at Coddingtown.
We're adding them at South Hills in Pittsburgh.
And we have a number of other opportunities that we're discussing with them but also with a whole range of other potential users.
We've added Arhaus Furniture.
We opened a new Lord &amp; Taylor.
We're opening Macy's at Gurnee.
We're opening Last Call Neiman Marcus at Ontario.
So it's across the board.
And we're working with supermarkets.
We're opening Fresh Market at The Falls.
We're opening Wegmans in Montgomery Mall in Montgomery County in Philadelphia Earth Fare in Hamilton.
So we're across the board and there's still a great deal of interest and we have opportunities because in a lot of instances we're moving out weaker anchors and replacing them with stronger ones.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it does seem like it's kind of permeating down into kind of the B mall product as well? Well it's throughout the portfolio.
Again we don't like to categorize A Bs and Cs.
It's throughout the portfolio.
When you look at the scope of what we've been doing and just we've identified every one you can see it's throughout across the quality spectrum.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dave I guess I'll bring up the question because I asked Bobby as well.
But just in St.
Louis I mean I realize the outlet business has been fairly competitive.
You've certainly won your fair share of battles in different markets.
I'm just wondering kind of what your thoughts are in St.
Louis.
And is that a situation where only one project gets built and is it just kind of a race to the -- just kind of the start line here? Well I'm surprised it took that long to bring up.
But look St.
Louis is a good opportunity to build  an outlet center.
I'll just say this when we get approvals we will build an outlet center in St.
Louis.
We don't have approvals yet.
We expect them in the near future but we will build there.
And we're very confident in our ability to lease it and provide a very good return for our shareholders.
So we've got to get approvals.
That's the only road block that I see in terms of our building the center.
Research Division</strong> And if I'm not mistaken I believe there's something on May 9.
Is that correct when you're supposed to get some final approvals or is it further out than that? Yes let me -- I'll turn that to Rick.
He can briefly give you but we've got -- we're very confident we're going to get approvals but we still have to finalize that.
And then when we do we're building.
So go ahead Rick you want to? So there is the hearing on the 9th and the final hearing is on May 21.
And then we can start the development at the site.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess David just lastly on just kind of other outlets within the U.S.
market.
I mean kind of what does the shadow inventory look like or pipeline or potential deals that you might be looking at? Yes.
Well look just briefly Phoenix as you know is under construction where Rick? 60...
60% committed.
60% committed so that's all systems go.
Toronto there's been a lot of discussion.
We're wildly excited about that.
That's under construction.
60%.
60% committed.
And announced The Bay.
And announced The Bay which is a well-known department store there.
We think that's important because that will facilitate a lot of the wholesale accounts so it's all kind of going according to plan.
St.
Louis and Phoenix both announced a Saks' Off 5th as part of our new development there.
We have one site in Florida which we're finishing approvals there.
I'm afraid to didn't mention the city because there'll be 6 guys on sites so I've got to refrain to do that.
But needless to say we are really excited about that.
And that could actually start Rick don't you think this year maybe? Yes yes.
That could start in late this year.
And we also have Merrimack Middle East over by Dubai.
It's opening on June 14 and it's 100% leased.
And we have Texas City that's opening in October.
And that's substantially leased and what gets lost...
Yes go ahead that's where I was going.
In all the expansions that we're doing in some of the -- that's outlet centers in the world.
The outlet -- Premium Outlets is under construction opening in June of next year.
Chicago Premium Outlets we're expanding.
Desert Hills Premium Outlets is starting next month.
We are expanding Orlando Premium Outlets down by Disney to third quarter this year.
We're expanding Woodbury.
And we're expanding Las Vegas - North Downtown and that's starting in October of this year.
Well those 6 expansions combined there are probably 2 or 3 additional new products adding square footage as the most productive outlet centers pretty much in the world.
We've got -- we're working closely with the town but Woodbury is really -- could be really exciting.
It's the best outlet in the world.
And what we're thinking about doing there working obviously closely with the town.
But assuming we make progress and get some approvals there I think we take that asset up to yet another level.
Your next question is coming from the line of Ki Bin Kim from Macquarie.
This is Ki Bin.
Just going back to your acquisition of Klepierre and going back to your comments about corporate level synergies -- not synergies but sharing best practices and of that sort.
I'm guessing the brainpower would shift more from you to them in terms of expertise and best practices.
So how do you get compensated for that given that they still technically owning an equity investment and not close to any kind merger [ph]? Well let me say this we are never too proud to learn from anyone.
And in fact they're a very accomplished company so I would expect us to learn a lot from them.
And I think that's absolutely part of the order.
I mean part of our investment philosophy is we're going to learn a lot from them in terms of how they run the business and operate.
And it's all part of being a global company in that you take a little bit of everything that you learn across the world and you make everything you have across the world a little bit better and that can drive the needle.
So I would hope and I would expect that they could actually show us a few things here.
So that's very important that I say that.
And at the end of the day if we can add value there that's fine too because our shareholders will benefit from our investment.
And I mean that's just part of -- it is a little bit risky to go into Europe right now so we had to weigh that in a sense against taking on the whole enchilada and what's the best way for us from a capital allocation point of view.
So those are the trade-offs.
And I think we're satisfied today kind of where we're at.
I know at a 30% stake you're still far from an M&amp;A but is there any sharing of personnel? At this point no but we do have the ability to add a senior management person to the management board there.
And I think that over time as we assess what the areas where we could be most beneficial we'll figure out what that -- who that person might be.
And I think that will develop over the next few months.
So I do think there will be the opportunity there.
We do have our Vice President of International Operations basically coordinating and liaising I think is the word right our activities there.
He'll be in the office there so we would hope to have some input on that kind of basis.
And just to -- if you clarify one point I know it's a $2 billion equity investment but the overall size of the investment is closer to over $4 billion on Klepierre.
So could you actually comment on the FFO yield on investment? I don't know where you get the -- we look at it as a $2 billion investment.
Oh I'm saying if you include the leverage of the company.
Well we don't look at it that way.
When we're an equity investor we have $2 billion at risk.
We don't have $4 billion at risk so I'd argue that completely with you.
But let's put that aside.
Your question again I lost it.
It's back to the FFO yield accretion.
Well look you can do the math.
I mean it's a public company.
But it is accretive certainly to lower yield given where we -- what the multiple we bought it at versus our multiple and where our cost of funding was for the deal.
Your next question is coming from the line of David Harris from Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Are you hedging this in anyway this investment? Yes we have hedged.
Steve how much have we hedged? David we left $1 billion U.S.
out on our line dominated in euros so we're 50% hedged on our equity investment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does the prospect of President Hollande sit you [ph] with any terror? I mean you did make references to the uncertainty but I think the prospect of a socialist President of France is perhaps a little larger in the...
You know what look why is that different than the U.S.
right? So...
LLC Research Division</strong> Well I have heard specifically David that there has been talk around the firm -- the French REIT structure coming under attack? No absolutely not.
Look I don't think that that -- when you look at the properties and how their merchandise is mixed I'm not -- I don't think that changes the consumer behavior.
What's going to change consumer behavior is where the economy goes and whether that's better under Hollande or Sarkozy is up for debate.
I'm certainly not in the position to say who's better at what.
But what fascinates me about Europe and what they're going through is the one thing that I will say is that with respect to Europe at least they're tackling their deficit problems.
David you're very familiar with what's going on in the U.K.
You can certainly argue it's too much or too soon or however they're doing it but we're in complete denial here.
LLC Research Division</strong> We have the world-reserved currency which allows politicians to behave as they do here.
Sure.
But at some point that changes.
So look I'm not losing sleep about the French elections and in fact nor the U.S.
elections in a sense that I think the economies of both can overcome bad politics.
Look at the -- we could argue about the level of recovery but the fact of the matter is you can't keep the American business environment and the American entrepreneur down.
We want to grow we will grow.
And look I don't view that the French economy all that different.
LLC Research Division</strong> Back on a more perhaps mundane you've raised the dividend 3 consecutive quarters and that's obviously been pretty impressive.
I know it's hard to pin down your tax liabilities and such like as we go forward.
Is it reasonable to think we're going to get this every quarter now? Well at some point not every quarter.
We're still chasing our taxable income.
So the answer is at some point we'll catch up.
But I shouldn't really say more than that other than at some point it will -- we're still chasing it.
At some point we'll catch up but we're still chasing it.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean is it any way possible to characterize the growth in the dividend relative to the FFO? I mean I know it's probably too nefarious at this point to do that.
But if you would degrade your FFO by say 10% growth in the dividend is going to be the order of 12% or 13% in the most general terms? I mean there's a lot that goes into it especially with asset composition changing.
But put that aside I mean the fact is our earnings are really growing and our dividends really got to grow.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's going to grow faster okay.
It's Steve.
There clearly is a correlation between your dividend growth and your FFO growth.
It's not a perfect correlation because as an example in an acquisition we may get a step up in assets which allows more depreciation expense.
So you may not have as much taxable income growth as you do FFO growth but there is a high correlation.
Your next question is coming from the line of Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just actually focusing on the core multiple portfolio.
Your sales have been growing double digits quarter after quarter yet the rent spreads they're strong but still aren't back to where they were a few years ago.
And it's still an uncertain world and you have some tenants downsizing.
But what point given the sales productivity can you say to the tenants "Sorry we're going to demand rents to reflect the sales progress " and see that acceleration in the rent spreads? Rick you want to? Yes.
There are a couple of things that are relevant in evaluating the spreads.
One if you look at the growth in our average rent it has been going up considerably every quarter.
Secondly we are building into our leases annual increases in rent.
If you go back historically before we did that when a lease expired you had a much lower base rent because we weren't getting consistent guaranteed bumps in minimum rent over the term of the lease.
And that has been a major advantage for us in order to take the risk of tenant performance out of our financial matrix.
And when you look at the spreads that we're having build that in it's been a considerable benefit.
And I would -- look Nate I would also just add that look sales are important but it -- there is also I mean let's face it everything is going well we're running the business better.
You can always get better but there's still a number of retailers that are having margin pressure or comp sales pressures.
And that puts pressure on our business and so that's why the spreads aren't -- not everybody in the retail world is hitting on all cylinders.
And they may have margin pressures which puts pressure.
We want them in the center or we don't have backups right away.
So there's still -- obviously our average is really important because of the size and they give you a real good indication.
But the reason it's not $8 or $10 is because there is a handful of retailers that are important in the portfolio that are under margin pressures or sales pressures.
And instead of just telling them "Get lost " we're still working with them as they try to improve their business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just quickly on the Halton Hills.
You've only announced one tenant.
Can you give us maybe a little more detail on it? Sure.
Rick will list you some tenants.
Yes.
We're basically 60% committed now and leases that are going Banana Brooks Cole Haan Converse Gap Levi Nike Puma.
We talked about The Bay Under Armour Calvin Klein Hugo Boss Michael Kors.
It's going to be an outstanding selection of retailers and we're going to create what is going to be the unique Premium Outlet environment in that market.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So given that tenant mix another competing center perhaps a few miles closer to Toronto you think people will be willing to drive past to get to yours? Well look I'm not going to really comment on this other potential site other than to say there are a lot of merits to our site and Nate we're opening next year okay.
We don't have to get any approvals we're done we're under construction and we'll lease the center so I don't know what else I can tell you other than that.
And you can draw your own conclusions.
We're done we're moving and we have no worries.
Your next question is coming from the line Ben Yang from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> David going back to your comments on the new players making a push into the mall industry.
I'm just curious what you think these newcomers might mean to the small industry longer term given that it's an oligopoly that obviously benefits from fewer rather than more owner-operators? I missed part of your -- can you just restate it because I just -- the connection wasn't that good.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just obviously private equity trying to make -- increase their presence in the mall space.
It's an oligopoly.
Fewer owners are better than more owners and I'm just curious to get your thoughts on what this might mean to the industry longer term? Well I certainly don't use oligopoly as any -- by any stretch of imagination.
I mean retail if you want to hear my -- I'll save you a lot of diatribe here but retail is really competitive.
Malls compete with all sorts of retail online strip centers Lifestyle centers.
So that may be your view of the world.
It's not mine because we -- it is really a competitive industry across the board and it's tough very tough.
So the more the people want to come into the business and put capital into it I think the better for us.
I'm not sure I answered your question.
Look at the end of the day operating your real estate is -- the key to success in retail real estate primarily is to contract at the sale [ph] office.
Has been operating it better versus buying it right and then finding the right time that cap rates are x and waiting for cap rates to move in your favor.
That's not always the case.
But generally unlike office where it's really more of a potential timing where it can help.
So the answer for a lot of those folks is just how do they operate it? And can they operate it effectively? And if they can maybe they'll make money which I think is -- which is good.
It attracts more capital.
Institutionally and Steve can comment on it I mean institutionally the level of interest from deep money institutional investors in high-quality retail assets has never been higher and price is secondary because they look at the returns -- I shouldn't say price going in yield is a secondary consideration.
It's really the growth of the NOI.
And I mean it's never been higher frankly.
But again the need for us to look at that source of capital is not critical but it's never been higher.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess the difference this time is that unlike a passive attention [indiscernible] that gives you guys money.
These guys are trying to actual platforms to run their businesses but that is helpful.
But just moving along you also made comments that the B malls are firming up.
I think Rick mentioned retailers are generally opening up across the board.
You're obviously always trying to cull the low end of the portfolio.
But does this make you maybe more or less inclined to sell your B malls maybe taking advantage of mall buyers out there but maybe at the risk of missing the recovery in the B mall space? No.
Look I think we're good enough to know what we believe in in the future and what is better in other people's hands in terms of just a poor allocation of our human resources.
And sometimes it's okay to sell and let somebody redevelop it just because we've got enough to do and we want to allocate our resources elsewhere.
So I think we can handle that issue in particular.
And I said I like the fact that there's more people coming into that market might lead to a few more sales from us over a period of time.
Your next question is coming from the line of Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> David on Klepierre can you buy or build something together in a joint venture given that you guys sit on the board of Klepierre? Sure.
I mean it would have to be subject to approval of their board without us participating.
But certainly sure.
I wouldn't say -- yes absolutely.
I mean if we had a development or acquisition and we could certainly partner.
It would have to be approved by the board without our involvement but sure.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
Good.
And then on Del Amo that has always struck me as very good real estate.
I used to live out there in that area.
And yet nothing has ever -- nothing seems to ever come on that asset.
Yes we know we know.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean what are you guys thinking there? I mean what is the plan? You said you were working on a big redevelopment there.
What is the idea? Well I'll let Rick start.
But you're 100% right.
It's been a source of frustration for us.
I mean we were working on some plans when we bought Mills in April of '07 right.
Those got derailed by the '09 crunch.
They're back up and running.
We have real confidence in that.
Otherwise we wouldn't have bought.
That was ahead of our bigger deal with Farralon.
Rick this is Contis's baby.
He's not here to tell you about it because it might take 10 minutes.
But Rick can give you the highlights of what we're doing and we would hope definitively to really start this thing next year.
But let Rick can give you the high level.
Just a couple of bullet points.
One you can change everything about a property other than where it is and it's in a great great market that is really underserved by fashion retailing.
We've got interest from a couple of fashion anchors.
We've got great support from the city and we're looking at a total redevelopment of the property that would substantially change its character by keeping some of the existing anchors replacing some of the anchors adding anchors and the best thing is we've got substantial demand from retailers and restaurants.
So there's a lot to do.
We're spending a great deal of time on it.
We have people based out there that are working on it on a constant basis and we're very optimistic we're going to be able to do it.
And the only thing I'd say given the size of the property it's going to be in a couple of phases.
But the first phase we would hope to start in '13.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this is probably a few hundred million dollars in total something like that? Yes I think that's probably right.
LLC Research Division</strong> And do you think we'll get that fashion department store that the previous CEO of Mills promised us about 6 or 7 years ago? We'll let you know.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes good.
And then a couple quick questions for Steve.
Were there any acquisition expenses this quarter? I mean I can't figure out where they might be.
I thought they might be in G&amp;A but I didn't see anything in there.
They were not Rich.
Under the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles when you make an equity investment you capitalize those expenses so they've been capitalized as part of the investment in Klepierre line.
And I'd just say we have de minimis cost on that Farallon deal that we just put in other expenses.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the percentage rents in the joint venture jumped pretty significantly and I'm assuming that's because there's more percentage rents in the Klepierre portfolio.
Is that right? There were no -- we did not record any results associated with Klepierre in the first quarter Rich.
So that's organic activity related to the portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> So why would those be so high? They seemed abnormally high.
Maybe I'm missing something but they seemed unusually high.
Well there's -- we have a number of venture properties in very very good markets that have been benefiting from the influx in visitors and that's what you're seeing.
We've had great sales programs.
And also that includes the Japan -- some of the Japan expansions and all those are -- in Japan they're all basically and in Korea they're all percentage rent deals.
So we've had great success there.
The one thing on our...
In fact that's a good point David because part of the results driving the JV line Rich are if you remember last year was the earthquake in Japan so we had much better results coming out of Japan first quarter of '12 compared to '11.
And one thing just to keep everybody in perspective when I mentioned all these assets our international outlets on average do about 1 000 a foot.
And those are not in the numbers that I stated at the end of my prepared remarks.
Your next question is coming from the line of Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just one question.
You obviously have been very complementary of Klepierre and you seem like you want to be in Europe longer term.
So just thinking what would cause you not to step up and increase your investment over time once the option period becomes effective? Is it just what's going on with the sovereign issues in Europe or is it something else? Well I mean it's hard to know exactly where we are and what we're doing but look I think as I said to you that what we have done there and what the company all the assets and intangibles that the company the company being Klepierre possess I think just gives us tremendous amount of optionality on the whole of Europe and we'll see where that goes.
Your final question will be coming from the line of the Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
Brazil and China did you guys talk about potential yields on those developments what that could look like? Not yet because we do that once we start construction but I would say to you Brazil -- I said it a little bit earlier I mean we would expect them to be consistent with kind of mall yields there double digits.
And China we would expect that to be consistent with our Asian development which have all been in the mid-teens.
But we'll give more clarity to that once we start construction on something.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on the Phoenix construction could you talk about that in relation to Arizona Mills being so nearby whether that creates any issues in regards to trying to lease up that asset? Not really.
We view them as 2 separate distinct markets.
Arizona Mills is more of an infill project.
It's actually weathered the Phoenix situation pretty well the Phoenix economy pretty well.
And we think they'll hopefully be a little bit complementary and we'd expect given the infill location and the fact that the outlet will probably drive more tourism where Arizona Mills is probably more -- considered more of a regional mall in the sense in terms of less tourism that they'll both be able to prosper as the economy continues to improve.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's despite the fact that Arizona Mills has a whole bunch of outlet-oriented stores in it already? I think you need to focus.
Arizona Mills is almost 1.3 million square feet.
It's got a substantial entertainment component with a theater and sea life.
It has a number of tenants that are as David said regional mall-type tenants.
There's a Penney outlet.
There's Forever 21 there's H&amp;M.
So it really is focused on a much broader market.
And while there will be some overlap it's a relatively small percentage of the square footage in the merchants of Arizona Mills.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's helpful.
And then to Klepierre is the European market dramatically different such that the Simonization process that you guys are so good at in the U.S.
is that easily transferable to these assets from generating ancillary income banner income like all the kind of other things that you kind of established as industry practices here in the U.S.
How easy can you really translate that over to their stuff? It's certainly more of a challenge than it is here but we have had some success in our previous European investments in doing that.
And what's interesting it's changed a lot in that the retailers are now much more global than the ones that we deal with in the U.S.
and in Europe.
So I'm hopeful that it won't be as easy as it is here in doing that.
I mean when we buy something that we don't own it's a pretty easy transition.
There it's going to take more time but I think the opportunity exists.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one more last question.
In regards to this question about A malls and B malls I think they've all been pushing trying to get confirmation from you that there is demand similar to the B malls.
But you don't quite seem to want to confirm that.
Just kind of curious one way or another why that's so? Well I think all we said is we don't like to say A or B malls.
You know our portfolio.
You can decide what you think of it.
We like it a lot.
And our statistics that we report on each quarter would have to -- given that it's a huge asset base it would -- the averages are meaningful and I don't think we could produce these results if only the top end of the assets were producing results.
So how does that answer the question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well said.
Okay.
It's hard for me to -- I appreciate the conflict because that's a real challenge sometimes.
At this time I'm showing no further questions in queue.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
David Simon for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks for your time.
Hopefully we didn't take too long and we'll talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great weekend.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2012 Simon Property Group Conference Call.
My name is Cosmic and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Shelly Doran Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC for a detailed discussion.
Acknowledging the fact that this call may be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that our call includes time-sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date July 24 2012.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the earnings release or the company's supplemental information package that was included in this morning's Form 8-K.
This package is available on the Simon website in the Investors section.
Participating in today's call will be David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Simon.
Okay thanks.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased with our strong results for the quarter and I'll just go through some highlights.
First of all funds from operation was $1.89 per share up 14.5% from the second quarter of 2011.
Our FFO exceeded the First Call consensus by $0.08 per share.
For the malls and the Premium Outlets our comparable property NOI grew 5.1%.
Comp NOI growth in the second quarter of 2011 was 3.5% so a very healthy trend.
Tenant sales were up 9.9% to $554 per foot.
Occupancy was up 60 basis points to 94.2%.
Average rent per square foot increased by 3.7% and the releasing spread was a positive 10% or $4.77 per square foot.
On the capital market side on June 1 as you know we completed a new $2 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that supplements our existing $4 billion revolver resulting in $6 billion of total capacity.
The facility matures 2016 with a 1-year extension option at the same rate as our other facility which is LIBOR plus 100 basis points.
In the secured market we've been very active year-to-date.
We have closed a lock rate on 17 new mortgages totaling approximately $1.9 billion of which our share of that debt is $1.3 billion.
The weighted average interest rate on the loans is 4.3% and the term is 7.5 years on the average term.
And last Friday we redeemed 2 million units of our operating partnership owned by an affiliate of JCPenney at $124 per unit or share.
On the acquisition side June 4 we acquired a 50% interest in Silver Sands Factory Stores a large and highly productive upscale outlet centered in Destin Florida.
The 450 000-square foot center generates sales of approximately $500 per square foot.
We've assumed leasing and management duties and in the coming months it will be re-branded as a Premium Outlet Center.
Development activity is very strong.
First of all we grand opened Merrimack Premium Outlets a large outlet center in Merrimack New Hampshire on June 14.
Strong opening.
We're 99% leased great-looking center.
Construction continues on 5 additional Premium Outlet Centers all scheduled to open this fall or in 2013.
They're located in the U.S.
Canada Japan and Korea clearly demonstrating the global nature of our company in our Premium Outlet platform.
First of all 2 in the U.S.
are in Texas City suburb of Houston which opens this fall; and then Chandler Arizona a suburb of Phoenix which will open next year.
We're continuing construction in Toronto which opens next year.
Another outlet center in Japan which will be our ninth near the airport outside of Tokyo; and Busan our third Premium Outlet Center in Korea.
We started construction on July 11 at St.
Louis Premium Outlet Centers.
We announced the strong lineup of tenants and are opening this plant for the fall of 2013.
Progress is being made under our agreement to develop Premium Outlet Centers in Brazil with BR Malls.
And importantly construction is underway on 25 redevelopment expansion projects at the mall Premium Outlet and Mills platforms in the U.S.
and 2 Premium Outlets in Japan all with 2012/2013 completion dates.
We continue to expect our share of the development and redevelopment spend to approximate $1 billion this year next year and 2014.
Let me just turn to Klepierre and give you a quick update.
As you know we bought 54.4 million shares or 29% of the French public company in March.
They are the largest -- second largest owner of retail assets in Continental Europe with assets valued at EUR 16.2 billion.
They will be announcing their earnings later today.
Their business has been remarkably stable considering the turmoil in Europe.
They have made excellent progress in refinancing debt selling assets and creating additional liquidity.
And I have been very involved in the development of their future strategic direction.
As they accomplish their goals there's no doubt in my mind that they will be poised to take advantage of future growth opportunities.
Turning to dividends.
As you now know we have announced the fourth consecutive increase in our quarterly dividend from $1 per share to $1.05 per share.
Our dividend is now 31% higher than it was a year ago and well above our previous all-time high before the onslaught of the great recession.
I'm happy to announce that we've increased our 2012 FFO guidance again.
Initially as you'll recall we were at $7.20 to $7.30 per share.
Our new guidance now is $7.60 to $7.70 per share.
Primary factors contributing to this are strong operational performance and the impact of our recent investment activity.
Now just to highlight another important factor in what's happening with the company we continue to add to our very talented management group.
As you know in 2011 we added Contis to our mall platform Fivel to help us in our legal and deal business.
And obviously I'm very pleased to announce the most recent addition many of you know Matt Lentz.
Matt is our Chief Investment Officer which is a new position in our organization.
He brings a great and extensive broad real estate background both from a bricks-and-mortar point of view but also from a securities point of view also very been involved in reviewing many international opportunities in his previous roles.
He'll focus -- his job will primarily assist myself and others in the management group in pursuing strategic growth opportunities for the company.
And Matt's first day on the job was in fact yesterday and as far as I know he's still here.
But actually his wife is about to give birth so I hope he's not at the office.
Concluding let me just say last second quarter I addressed the unfair advantage that the Internet retailers have in not being required to collect sales and use tax on remote sales.
I believe our efforts and others have made significant progress at the state level but our tenants need Congress to act to level the playing field on a national level.
In the past year the Marketplace Equity Act was introduced by a bipartisan group of senators and similar legislation has been introduced in the House to address the inequality in today's marketplace and level the playing field between bricks-and-mortars and online retail business.
We support these proposals.
We'll continue to be very focused on making this happen and we appreciate all -- everybody's support in showing their strong support of this very important legislation.
So with that said we can turn it over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first  question comes from the line of Mr.
Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> David just going to the JCPenney for a second $1.24 [ph] is certainly below where you guys are trading.
Just want to get a little more color on one who approached who first and two just want to try and understand why someone would take $124 versus where your stock is trading in the open market.
Well look let's just say we have a strong relationship with Penney.
They're a very important retail partner of ours.
I know -- Rick and I know Mr.
Johnson and we also know very well members of the board.
So I'm not going to get into the particulars but just so you understand I mean the unit holders have the ability to convert their units on a one-for-one basis for common shares.
And we view it essentially as common stock equivalents because obviously they can convert it on a one-for-one basis.
When they do that then they -- we have the option to give them fully diluted stock or cash and it was through that discussion that we negotiated the deal.
And I'm very convinced it's a great opportunity for the company and I think it met Penney's strategic goals in terms of their focus on what they're trying to do with their business.
So we're pleased with the transaction and beyond that there's not much to add to it Alexander.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Brazil Equity International sold their stake in BR Malls.
Just curious if you guys took a look at buying their stake or if there's any discussion around that.
Well we've looked at a lot of things with BR Malls.
We've looked at a lot of things in Brazil.
The good news is we're very close to approving our first outlet there which will start construction here potentially within the next 30 to 60 days and open -- it's outside of São Paulo and open late next year.
That's not in this list that I've described to you but it is moving a pace and I expect that to -- I expect that to happen and I think we'll get our first outlet center built and open next year.
So we're pleased we're making very good progress on that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a final question just with the recent economic data.
Has there been any change in the conversations with tenants? Are they still full steam ahead in terms of leasing space in their program this year next year and further out? Alex this is Rick.
There really has not been any change.
They are still coming in and aggressively looking for new opportunities across all the platforms.
The next question is from the line of Mr.
Ross Nussbaum from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk about the dynamics that you're seeing in the department store sector as you look ahead to next year? Obviously you've got one big transformation going on at JCPenney and then you've got another different type of situation over at Sears.
At what point do you guys -- or do you believe there's still needs to be some rationalization in terms of the number of boxes that are out there? Well I put Penney in a completely -- Rick and I put Penney in a completely different category than Sears.
I mean Penney is very focused on delivering value to their customer.
They have a very talented management team.
We expect -- obviously they are going through a transformation.
But we expect Penney to be a viable mall anchor in a fashion that they have been historically.
Sears is a little bit different.
I mean the fact of the matter is Sears needs less space.
I think we've touched on this the last time.
Sears needs less space than what they currently have and I think there'll be ongoing discussions with us and Sears and the other mall people that will rationalize that space creating opportunities for both the landlord and Sears.
I really really would not lump them in together.
They're 2 different companies on 2 different paths.
And at the end of the day look it's going to be -- Sears will be a lot of work but we feel confident as they probably reduce some of their space that that will ultimately benefit us in the long run.
Rick anything you want to add? I would just add if you look at today's landscape in the department store universe their equity their balance sheets their credit profiles are all dramatically better than they were just a few short years ago.
You have Lord &amp; Taylor that's been recreated into a very viable and aggressive growth vehicle.
Dillard is very well situated.
Macy's is well situated.
Carson's has a new leadership and great financial upward trajectory.
So candidly we're in a better position now than we have been and with no new development these stores are maintaining their existing stores because they want to really enhance their top line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question is -- and I've gotten this question over the past couple of days from some of your investors.
Does the hiring of Matt reflect in any way a signal that you intend to accelerate your international expansion or is it more of a reflection that you just needed another body or 2 in the door given everything you've got going on? Well it's really a function of what we've got going on.
I mean we -- believe it or not this is a big company and just like -- I am never satisfied with the portfolio and where we've taken the company.
I'm always going to try and add talent to the organization.
I've known Matt a long time.
We talked on and off.
We wanted to fill this position lost probably in late '08 and then the world ended so we put it on a back burner because we said well we're going hunker down.
I just think there's so many opportunities for this company.
It's very important to continue to add talent another pair of hands another deep thinker.
He fits in great with the team.
So to me it was a no-brainer.
And we'll take it wherever it goes wherever we think we should invest.
Who would have thought we would have bought our stock at $124 3 months ago? But that's -- we saw an opportunity.
Who would have thought we would have invested internationally 4 months ago get paid? I'm getting paid.
Most people pay for options.
I'm getting paid as I think about that company as optionality.
What do I mean by that? If you look at the cash flow that we'll get from their dividend against the cost that it took both in equity and debt we're going to get paid $55 plus or minus million a year to decide what we want to do with that stake.
That's a good spot to be in.
There's not many malls you can build that can generate $55 million of cash flow.
So having another guy to think these things with our team I think is exciting.
I also think it -- with David and Steve we hired Larry Krema to run our HR group.
I think it also demonstrates that this company is a neat place to work and be part of.
The next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> The pace of outlet development it actually seems as high as it's ever been.
I'm wondering if that's sustainable going forward in 2014 and 2015? On the new development or the redevelopment? Research Division</strong> The new development.
I still think the full-price new development still is not -- it's still a ways away even though there are a couple announced ones here and there.
The outlet business still has some pockets but again I think we discussed the last time.
I mean I don't -- I know there's all these ones that are being bandied about but I think it's going to be harder to do.
So I think pure new development is still going to be a little bit -- still be less than everybody thinks.
The redevelopment though has the potential to really pick up and that's where -- thankfully between Rick and Contis that's where a big big focus is.
That has Craig a little bit of potential to do more than what we're doing.
But Rick you can add to that thinking.
Yes.
Just on the outlet side right now it's being driven by explosive demand among a number of tenants that are not in the business that want to get in the business.
And I don't want to lose sight of the fact that this demand is going to help our existing portfolio dramatically and that you're seeing that in our result.
There's got to be a finite end to the arc of new development.
There's a limited number of new opportunities.
On the redevelopment side when David articulated I believe it was last year or the year before our redevelopment program we identified some for you.
Literally 3 quarters of them are under construction right now and we're in the process of reloading that pipeline with the next wave of opportunities.
So there's a lot going on and if you look in the 8-K we're producing low double-digit yields on those which on a risk-adjusted basis are even better than they are on just a return basis which are terrific in and of themselves.
Research Division</strong> I guess when I look at your portfolio you have between Westbury -- Woodbury Orlando San Marcos centers that are at 700 000 square feet and larger.
Is there the capacity in your portfolio to take some as large as that? I think that it's in the outlet side.
That's still going to be few and far between.
I mean we're making Orlando bigger.
We're making Vegas bigger.
We're making Desert Hills bigger.
But these are I hate using this word but iconic outlets.
Those will all be bigger.
Those are all -- Seattle's getting bigger.
Chicago will get bigger.
So these are all -- that is probably underappreciated opportunity for this company.
Just like -- Craig I mean people talk they're going to do this they're going to do that.
People are focused on a company having this particular lease here and there.
We've got 5 outlets under construction.
We just opened one.
So people talk about well we're about to or hoping to lease the space.
Hello we got 5 under construction so...
And you just mentioned expansions of many of the best outlet centers in the United States.
Right.
And that coupled.
So there is a lot to what we're doing.
That's why we have great here.
The next question comes from the line of Caitlin Burrows from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> We saw a report that Bank of America is not renewing its deals to keep their ATMs in Simon Malls this year.
Because of that or for other reasons do you expect any material changes in your ancillary income? No.
In fact we've already replaced them with another operator.
That's been in the works for really a couple of years.
No big deal.
Yes I was surprised it got the press but no big deal.
Research Division</strong> And then also you reported land sale gains of over $6 million.
Could you tell us who you sold that land to? Yes I don't have it in front of me but...
We sold a piece of land in Northwest Houston for a supermarket right next to our Houston Premium Outlets and that was a pretty substantial gain.
The next question is from the line of Cedrick Lachance from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just going back on outlets in regards to Silver Sands you got a loan there from the bank at a rate under 4%.
Can you give me a sense of the appetite for mortgage financing in the outlet space at this point? Yes Cedrik most of our portfolio in the outlet business because it's wholly-owned is unencumbered.
But where we have shown the products to the mortgage market whether it's the banks or the life companies I think they recognize the quality and the stability of the cash flow so I think about Philadelphia Premium Outlets we had a mortgage on.
We just got some financing on the -- we've got a construction/mini firm on Toronto at very attractive pricing.
So it's a very attractive very viable product for that market.
Yes I mean -- and I would just say Cedrik throw that in for the Mills projects too.
I mean we're -- some of these are locked out but the ones that are open and the ones that we bought out of the TMLP are extremely financeable and that financing rivals any A mall that there is out there as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just going back a little bit looking at the big picture where do you see the most fertile ground for investments today? Is it primarily in publicly traded companies or is it in malls or outlets that are owned privately? Well that's a tough one Cedrik to be honest with you.
At this point I would probably say that outside the opportunity that we saw at Klepierre it's probably the private deals that we see as the most -- the biggest opportunity primarily because the private owners are going to have a much more difficult time to get financing and/or the private individuals that may want to monetize their business for whatever reason or their asset for whatever reason.
I would say that's probably the biggest opportunity that we see though it doesn't rule out that eventually there may be some more public opportunities.
But I would say to you as we think about what we're looking at they tend to be more private-oriented and it's either financing issues or state issues or whatever that's driving the need to do it.
Now philosophically we will not -- we don't rarely -- and I don't blackline everything but we don't participate in bidding when -- if there's a banker or a broker and it says "Bids are due at 2:00 p.m.
Please send in your letter." We don't do that.
I mean I can't remember the last deal that we did where we'll participate in an auction.
I mean we just don't do it.
We don't need to do it.
We have no interest in doing it.
So these are people that want to do business with us and then we -- it doesn't mean that they're not represented by bankers or whatever but those bankers know that if there's an auction they can send it to the next mall guy.
We're not going to play.
The next question is from David Harris from Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the appointment of Matt Lentz how much experience has Matt acquired outside of public securities over the years? He's had -- he used to be a broker.
He's been in the bricks-and-mortar business so I think it's pretty good.
I mean we've got a group here that any -- not that I think there's any holes there but we've got a lot of guys here that know about bricks-and-mortar that will help him.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Will his compensation details be made public? I believe it'll be whatever this -- I can't keep track of all the rules but I think he will be one of the...
He'll be a named executive officer.
Yes I think he'll be a Form 4 5 -- I don't know.
Whatever the rules are he'll be part of the rules.
LLC Research Division</strong> So that will be in next year's proxy? Potentially.
I'm not going to guarantee it because I really don't know.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then turning to Klepierre if I'm doing my numbers right it sounded like you were down about $200 million on your investment here about half is the stock depreciation and half is FX.
You did put in $1 billion against $2 billion gross investment by way of a hedge by way of your -- I think it was a credit line facility.
Have you expanded that or hedged your position against the currency any more since then? I mean it looks like all the risks are to the downside David.
Yes well David look we don't -- I don't think about -- the good news about -- for the investors is I actually think about the real estate long term not quarter-to-quarter.
So yes the euro is down a little bit.
The stock we did buy it at a premium to where it was trading.
That gap has been closed.
In fact it's been up since -- where we bought it.
We kind of look at where we bought it versus the net asset value and we still think the net asset value is higher than when we bought it.
I'm not going to panic about the euro.
It's a good portfolio.
It's stable.
You'll see the results later today.
So to me this isn't -- it's not a quarter-to-quarter gain.
So that's of no concern to me no consequence to me.
But we did increase our hedge and we're about 60-some percent hedged.
We did that before even the latest euro depreciation.
But I think the other point is that -- and if I could put it in real estate context the real question is what happens in the principal.
But this is not -- we didn't do this based upon short-term trading patterns.
But if you look at the dividend and our cost of financing just a simple -- go back you know real estate right? LLC Research Division</strong> A little just a little.
Cash on cash returns.
We're going to get roughly and this is even with the lower currency we're going to get $55 million added cash flow while we decide whether we love this company we want to maintain our investment whether -- who knows what we do with this investment.
But the fact of the matter is we're getting paid while we help make it a better company which we're doing today.
And I think about what it takes to build $55 million of additional cash flow and I think it's a good trade.
But look the proof will be in the pudding.
We'll see.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Another question on Klepierre.
Since the election of Hollande there have been a raft of tax changes including increases in the dividend tax.
Have any of these prompted you to recalculate your pro forma after-tax returns? No no.
None of those at this point will have an impact on us.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On the sales growth trends that have been continuing to impress I mean maybe you could answer a little bit of the composition of it.
I mean clearly they're above what a lot of retailers are reporting on a portfolio-wide basis.
So I mean how much of the increase is a same-tenant basis versus sort of shifts in the mix within the mall? And then maybe on a trend basis kind of how is the tourist spending side of your portfolio going? Let me unpack that a little bit.
One the  tourist aspects of the portfolios are still very strong.
We're still seeing a lot of activity from a number of the tourism groups but the only one that's softened at all is Japan.
So that is still a major contributor and we are out-weighted in tourist market.
Secondly when you think about the contributions of any one tenant our sales base is over 60 million square feet.
So when you get a number out of us it's a broad-based trend.
It's not going to be materially influenced by the out-performance of any one or any collection of tenants.
Thirdly I believe this reflects the fact that we're doing a good job making our properties better and hopefully taking market share from other properties operating in our markets.
And that comes from adding better tenants adding additional anchors adding renovations and making our physical plants better and all of ose things are feeding into what you're seeing as our bottom line sales growth.
And Paul this is Steve.
I'd just add one more comment that if you componentize that growth a bit the rate of sales pace growth that we're seeing in the outlets in the malls is pretty much on top of each other.
Research Division</strong> And so I mean would you say that the kind of the non-same tenant number is maybe -- if your 10% comp year-over-year is it -- half of that is due to change in mix or...
Let me just say this.
Our comp numbers and our rolling 12 are right on top of each other absolutely right on top of each other if that's what you're getting at.
The comp sales and the rolling 12 are exactly right on top of each other.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on terms of new concepts I mean there's been good growth from -- a lot of the public chains have sort of gotten back into growth mode.
I haven't as many new concepts at least relative to the kind of '04 to '06 period.
Maybe that's sort of what spurred a lot of development that you're not seeing now.
But maybe Rick are you seeing signs that we're about to see an acceleration of new concepts? Well there's a couple of things that are happening.
One a number of retailers that were new concepts say x years ago are now public and they are substantially accelerating their growth because they have a very firm capital plan.
Francesca Teavana Tumi Five Below Fresh Market.
We also are seeing a number of concepts that were again relatively new a while ago that are being aggressively grown by their companies Crazy 8 PS by Aero.
But we're also seeing a number of new concepts Versona by Cato Dry Goods by Von Maur Vince by Kellwood C.
Wonder Hearts on Fire Tesla.
Hot Topic is doing Blackheart.
We get it.
We get it.
So I'm going to wear you out.
But there's a lot of stuff that's going on in that sector still.
Paul we all cringed because this gives Rick the opportunity to list all these tenents.
Okay so...
The next question is from the line of Steve Sakwa from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> David I was just wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit more about some of the synergies and maybe best practices that both Klepierre and Simon are kind of sharing with each other.
And I realize it's still kind of in early days but are there any sort of success stories or things that you could sort of talk about that kind of show how things are kind of transforming kind of across both companies? Well look the fact is we've been very focused on the balance sheet.
As you know they've raised a lot of money in the bond market at much lower spreads than where they were beforehand.
So that's a very tangible very important credible and important thing that we brought to the table.
I'm not sure that absent our investment that they would have been able to do it.
We've also reduced the reliance on their funding from BNP.
And I mean those are real tangible -- in the bounds of the organization making happen.
Operationally I mean we're helping them think about all the promotional other income opportunities.
I mean that's going to take time but we are now talking to certain sponsors on a global basis.
We've helped them with a few tenants and a few areas on a global basis.
Their head of leasing was in our -- at our shopping center convention the ICSC.
We had a number of global meetings with him and our people with the global brands including H&amp;M Apple just to name a few Hollister.
So it's happening.
That stuff's going to take time but the bond business is tangible.
It's there it happened and that's only been in 4 months.
Now strategically you'll see changes with this company over a period of time.
And the management team there has been very very good very cooperative very interested in replicating what we have and listening to what we have to say.
So it's working.
It's a lot of work.
We spent -- I spent last week there touring assets with them going through strategy going through numbers going through developments.
Actually it's a scary thing helping design some of the extensions.
It's scary because I was helping them and that's -- but there's certain things I've learned over the years too.
So it's happening.
It's going to take time.
There's a lot that we're providing.
There's more that we'll provide over a period of time.
We're also respectful.
We've been there 4 months.
We try not to be Attila the Hun.
We want to be -- we want to learn as much as we can.
But the cooperation the synergies are available.
They're there.
The chemistry between their managers and ours have been great.
The only negative is that every morning I have to hear about Europe every day.
Harris reminded me of some of the ups and downs that go with the territory in trying to create value.
We're big boys.
We know nothing's easy.
But I look at it I'm getting paid to make this company better and I've got a board and a management team that wants to get better and we've got people here that can help make them better.
And it's happening and you can see it in the bond yields right away.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess second question last quarter we talked a little bit about the St.
Louis project and kind of where you and the other project from Taubman were.
Now that you guys have kind of started construction and had your groundbreaking I'm just wondering kind of maybe being first out of the ground has the leasing dynamic changed at all? And can you kind of provide us with maybe an update on where you are leasing on that project? Well we announced a whole host of tenants on July 11.
We've added a few more to that mix.
I mean look they're -- Taubman's a formidable competitor.
I'm sure they'll announce certain tenants as well.
We anticipate that they're going to build their project.
We're going to build ours.
Our numbers are -- we're comfortable with our investment.
This is not driven by ego by any stretch of the imagination.
We expect to get our lease.
We expect to have double-digit returns.
Taubman's a very formidable competitor.
I'm sure they'll feel the same way about what they're doing.
And it's most likely that we're going to have 2 outlet centers there.
But I think as I said we're comfortable.
We've got a lot of experience in the outlet business.
I've been at it since '98.
We were -- people scratched their head when we did our first joint venture with Chelsea.
People scratched their head when we bought it in '04.
I got confidence in our team.
We expect to build a very high-yielding outlet center and we're moving forward with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question on kind of the international outlets I see.
I think if I did my math right that Japan sales were up kind of 5% to 6%.
And I'm just wondering how do you kind of look at Japan in terms of potentially new outlets? And maybe talk a little bit about just how Korea's performing and also the new project in Malaysia and any update on the China project.
Sure.
Generally Asia is very strong.
I mean there's supply and -- and even with all the -- it gets down to kind of almost Europe to some extent.
I mean even with all the macro headlines in Japan I mean they're still doing roughly $1 000 a foot.
And there's just not that many and they're just not going to be that many.
We've got our ninth that will open next spring.
It's in a great location.
We have a terrific partner in Mitsubishi Estate.
So I don't think that 9 is going to go to 18.
There might be 1 or 2 or 3 more to do in the next few years.
We're also -- as you know there we phase a lot of stuff in so we'll do 3 4 5 phases there.
Japan so even with all the headwinds and everything else we've got a wonderful niche there and we'll continue to exploit it and increase the cash flow there.
Korea's the same thing.
There's 1 or 2 formidable competitors but our outlets there are probably -- what's the -- $700 a foot? $800? $800.
$800 a foot.
The brands that we deliver are great.
We have a very good partner there as well.
So it's fine in Malaysia.
It's exactly what we thought it would be.
It's really trying to get access to a Singaporean market.
We have a great partner there.
They're doing stuff worldwide which we're talking to them about some other opportunities and it's meeting our expectations there so so far so good.
China is a little bit not as far along as we would like it.
It's still a very complex place to do business.
We're still hopeful that we'll get one started there.
But it is more complex and we're being more cautious given the -- if you think there's a robust pipeline in the outlet business here you happen to think that pipeline has been around for years and years and not much will get -- not much of it will get built.
The pipeline there expands daily.
So we're trying to really underwrite it smartly make sure this is something that we want to do.
We do have a good partner in Shanghai.
But we're going to be very very judicious in how we ultimately build something there.
The next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> David I appreciate all the commentary on Klepierre.
I have one other question.
As I recall their 2011 asset sales were completed at about a 5% premium to appraised NAV and I believe at the beginning of this year they talked about planning EUR 1 billion of additional sales for this year and next.
I wonder if you could tell us number one if that disposition plan is still in place and what the pricing expectations are relative to NAV.
Well look they're going to announce probably shortly here.
But generally I'll say this and I want to be very careful.
Everything -- they're ahead of schedule and NAV by and large has not been an issue in terms of being able to sell the assets at or above their NAV.
But you'll see their results.
I don't want to -- I just want to be very careful here because they do report or they may have already reported.
I think they go out at 6:00 Central European Time.
But so far so good.
And it's still on plan perhaps ahead of schedule and it's moving right along.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question on Woodbury which you mentioned earlier and you mentioned also in the last call in terms of the expansion potential there can you indicate whether the plan is to add square footage on land you already own or at land you otherwise control? It's land that we own.
So it's really reconfiguring a number of spaces decking some of the parking and creating additional space on the land that we own.
It's about a 60 000 square feet addition primarily reconfiguring the additional -- the existing formats and just substantially upgrading the whole physical plant.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately on Amazon David you touched on this in again your prepared comments.
But as they prepare to pay sales taxes in several large states this quarter and open more infill DCs have they had any discussions with you about opening outlet or full-price stores? Not with us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question just a line item in other income maybe for Steve.
The interest and dividend income was down materially on a consecutive-quarter basis.
I wonder if you could tell us what's going on with that line item.
A couple of things Jim.
Number one the dividend from our U.K.
investment CSC was a second quarter event last year third quarter this year just the timing of their payment of that dividend.
And then we had some investments in some loans that were in fact paid off earlier this year so interest income is down.
Yes we're bummed out about that.
LLC Research Division</strong> So on a full year basis so the loans that were paid off it sounds like they're variable on a year-over-year basis.
On a year-over-year basis that's correct.
And then the other point is we did -- as you know we did have the mez loan with Mills and obviously that got paid off and retired as part of that whole transaction so you're seeing that as well Jim.
The next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just another Klepierre question.
David your involvement in forming the strategic direction for the company does that involve acquisitions at this stage or is Klepierre somewhat held back by levering cost of capital at this stage? I don't think that they are.
I don't know that it should be their #1 focus.
And we actually did discuss at the recent meetings a couple of opportunities that are out there.
But I don't think  it should be their #1 focus.
But I don't think it's too far off in the future that we could be -- it could be up there and we do think there's going to be a number of opportunistic deals.
And again it doesn't mean Klepierre.
It could be Simon.
It could be all sorts of things.
But there are going to be a handful of those things to do and I think it should be on the agenda but probably not at the top of the list.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of Brazil could you give us an update on discussions with retailers regarding the Brazil outlet industry? And in particular I'm interested in some of what the domestic Brazilian retailers' thoughts are on the outlet industry and the outlet channel given I guess the infancy of that industry down there.
We had a almost say 30 days ago kind of a presentation to a number of Brazilian plus international retailers about our outlet pipeline with BR Malls.
It was very very well attended.
The international retailers are growing there daily and certainly the high-end guys that we think are important to bring into the outlet properties are gaining entrance into Brazil on a weekly basis so to speak like Tory Burch just opened a store at a new high-end mall in São Paulo.
So very very well attended.
The Brazilian retailers are very excited about the pipeline and we expect them to populate these outlets aggressively.
So it's very very encouraging kind of what's going on down there.
The next question comes from the line of Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Wes Golladay.
A quick question on the outlets.
We've heard the number 100 outlets in 10 years.
Do you think there's actually more capacity than that for development in the United States? No and I wouldn't put much credence in our opinion we could be wrong but certainly we don't think there's 10 outlets in -- or 100 outlets in 10 years.
Not a chance.
We don't see it that way.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I guess maybe how would you view it the total opportunity for development? Look I think there'll be a handful but I don't see 100 outlets in 10 years not a chance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And turning to the malls what are you guys seeing in terms of traffic trends for the last quarter? Traffic has been relatively flat to up a little in all the platforms.
The next question comes from Christy McElroy from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Sorry for all the outlet questions I just have a follow-up.
Given the pipeline in the U.S.
with competing projects and quite a few private developers in the fray I'm wondering how influential the core group of outlet retailers are in the center actually getting built.
And while demand for space is obviously very strong today how are the deciding factors for retailers signing a lease and a new project different compared to what they were 5 to 7 years ago? Well look we are living this every day.
I would say to you it is still quite a challenge to convince outlet retailers whether they're manufacturers or full-price retailers.
This is our experience and we have a pretty good portfolio pretty big one.
I think it's still quite a challenge to convince them to go to new centers.
That's why all this talk about this unbelievable demand and all of this hundred centers and this that and the other I've got to tell you we work our tails off to convince the  retailers that this is worthy of an outlet center.
So I don't think it's by any stretch of the imagination simple and easy to do.
When we do it we have confidence we'll do it.
But it is not like you can plop these anywhere by anybody anywhere by anybody and it'll be successful.
It's just not going to happen.
And I think the retailers that have a high understanding of this business whether they're manufacturers or full-price retailers understand that and will also govern.
They're open to buy very seriously.
The only thing I would add is I think we would hope that the retailers have a high regard for the consistency of what we produce.
David and I were just up in New Hampshire and visited Merrimack.
That is an incredibly well-executed well-leased well-marketed project and hopefully we have that going for us when we approach retailers about our new project.
They have confidence that we will -- they know what we will deliver and know that it will produce.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on your property operating expenses they seem to run a little bit lower than normal again this quarter.
I know in Q1 there were some favorable comps given weather and such.
I'm wondering if there was anything specific in Q2 that you could point to any trends that favorably impacted OpEx this quarter.
And is there a way for you to break out your same-store NOI growth between revenue growth and expense growth? Well there's a way to do it but we don't.
I assume we know what drives our business.
Look where size and scale -- when we talked about this company 15 years ago or 17 years ago or 18 years ago we thought size and scale matter for a couple of different points.
Retail relationships ability to run efficiently ability to cover our overhead at the executive level over a huge asset base more efficiently than our peer groups that's what it takes to generate comp NOI growth and that's what we do.
Nothing jumps out as we're reviewing it right now that is worthy of mention.
But we are very focused on our operating margins and our size and scale and quality of assets allow us to do that.
The next question is from the line of Tayo Okusanyo from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question in regards to any early indications about what back-to-school may look like this year? It's really too early to say at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then David any other market -- I mean you guys are seniors in many key markets but any other markets internationally that you might be interested in? Let's see.
Look we have a big investment in Klepierre and I think internationally that's the big focus.
We have got to make sure that that turns out to be a profitable investment.
That's the #1 priority.
The outlet business in Asia continues to progress.
I explained that in detail to you.
But that's really the focus.
I mean Brazil Latin America I mean I do think will present more and more opportunities not just Brazil but all of South America for the company.
And so I think you'll see us hopefully do some smart things down there over time.
And Steve is whispering to me but you can certainly jump in there.
But we do have -- we are building Canada Toronto.
I mean Toronto there was a lot of talk about it.
There's not a lot of talk about it now.
We are under construction.
We're going to have a great outlet there.
We've got a great partner.
We're looking at another deal in Canada but hopefully that will be a market that will possess -- present a few more opportunities for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just the last question.
In regards to the supplemental line of credit the additional $2 billion should we be reading something into that in regards that you guys are seeing something out there that you need that additional source of capital for? I would just say it's consistent with our philosophy to be as prudent and opportunistic as we possibly can be.
I mean you're always trying to balance prudence against opportunity.
They tend to kind of conflict each other.
When you should be prudent there's a lot of opportunities so you try to get that right balance.
And the world -- let's face it.
The world is going to continue to be uncertain for I think a few years to come.
If not that's just the world we live in.
So there's no reason not to be -- not to have the ability to be both prudent and opportunistic.
And then based on how we read the tea leaves figure out where the primary -- who wins prudence or opportunity.
The next question comes from the line of John Kim from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the Main Street Fairness Act.
Do you view this initiative as ultimately a revenue booster for your centers or is this more of a defense mechanism? Look I think it helps -- I think it's going to help our merchants.
Anything that helps our merchants ultimately helps us.
Look Congress should not -- look this is a states' right issue.
I think most people in this country believe in state rights.
So that's one aspect of it.
But also the government Congress should not be picking creating winners and losers.
And this certainly has helped fuel the online against the bricks-and-mortar.
Certainly we're not -- oh this is going to mean x million of revenues but if it helps our merchants it's bound to trickle down to us in some way shape or form.
Research Division</strong> So for the states that have already begun collecting tax from Internet companies you haven't really seen a noticeable difference in sales? It's so early in that effort that I would -- certainly we haven't seen anything but it is just beginning.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On Klepierre I don't see the second quarter numbers out yet but in the first quarter retail sales in Spain were down 6% Italy was down 2%.
What's the bull case for the company to potentially turn these markets around? Well look I think the bull case is that supply and demand will be in their favor once demand picks up because you cannot expand.
It's very hard to get the right to build there.
And the other point is they've got a great portfolio in Northern Europe which is somewhat insulated from what's going on in kind of the Scandinavian areas somewhat insulated from what's going on in Continental Europe.
I think operationally there are things that we can do to help the company increase its cash flow.
And an operational focus from the company we think will increase the cash so I think that's the bull case.
The negative is look they're going to have to weather tough environment.
The one country there that continues to be difficult for them is Spain.
And again it's not all Spain.
It's certain assets in Spain.
And we'll weather that storm and I think as things stabilize we'll get back to being able to generate cash flow growth from those assets.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And maybe just a follow-up to David Harris's question if the euro continues to decline how would that impact your decision to potentially acquire the remaining part of the company? We really -- at this point we're pleased with our investment and that's the focus.
I can't really speculate on that going forward.
Certainly it makes it cheaper right? Research Division</strong> Yes well that's the potential outcome.
Sure.
The next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the same-store growth I assume a good portion of that is coming from the 3.7% average base rent growth.
Can you give us some detail on where the 3.7% growth is coming from especially given your spreads are right around 10%? We're basically in the position of one increasing occupancy; two we're adding considerable number of anchors that are generating revenue.
But see it's just re-leasing our space at higher rents.
And when you look at our expiring rents and look at what our average rent is we've got a nice spread in there.
And as our product gets better we're able to take advantage of that and generate the higher rental revenues.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The 3.7% is in your small shop correct? Correct yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the 10% spreads I assume across maybe 10% to 13%.
Yes Nate this is Steve.
We've had this discussion before on calls but one thing we calculate our spread in the most conservative way possible which is what is the ending cash rent that a tenant was paying compared to the beginning cash rent that the new tenant or the same tenant on the new lease is paying.
And that is a much more conservative approach than the GAAP method of which you're preparing financials which would include the straight-lining of both the old lease and the new lease.
So that's going to have some impact on it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I understand.
Even on a cash basis the delta between let's say 1.3% to 1.5% let's say from your spreads to 3.7% across a very large portfolio is still pretty wide.
Well you got overage rent.
I mean you got lots of things that...
You're taking overage rent and you're capturing it in the new base rent.
I mean you got a lot of things going on.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final question a follow-up on St.
Louis.
Can you give us some insight on how the tenants are viewing the 2 projects? Are there any tenants that you're aware of that have said no to you because they were going next door? Yes yes.
There are a handful of tenants that had said no to us absolutely.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And are there any tenants that have signed in both? There are some that have expressed that they're prepared to do both.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so is it safe to say you're not putting in normal radius restrictions or you're not having the success putting them in...
I think it's a tenant-by-tenant discussion.
I don't think there's any -- it's a tenant by tenant -- we're going to tend to get that for the people that commit just to us like we do for every other outlet center.
And the only other thing to say is we have announced as David said we're now 62% leased and committed.
So that is certainly consistent with the kind of leasing progress we have had on all of our new projects.
The next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from Macquarie.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
First on leasing.
Could you comment on -- I know you figured releasing spreads that you quote are on a cash basis.
What would that look like on a straight-line basis for that 10% number? Ki Bin we don't calculate it on a straight-line basis.
As David has said I think gazillions of times on this calls the laser focus is cash flow and so that's the way we look at the spread.
It would be higher though.
It would be higher.
Yes that was what I was trying to get at.
We're still getting steps in all of our leases.
And if it's possible could you comment on what is the average vintage of the leases that have been expiring this year? Are they like 7 years old? And the second part of that question is if you could calculate what would the on a like-for-like basis the sales per square foot be back then versus today? I want to caution you on 2 things.
One and Steve touched on it earlier when we roll over we've done a very good job over the years getting much more focused on our breakpoints on our overage rent.
So when you look at the relationship between the spreads and our comp NOI growth there's a comp NOI being generated from sources other than just our spread.
And David just said we also build in all of our bumps over the course of the leases so the ending rent has already been impacted by our ability to raise the base rent over the existing terms.
But if you look at '04 '05 sales per square foot they were in the $400s and we're rolling leases over.
I mean our expiration aren't in front of me but it's the mid to high 30s.
I mean that's -- so now we're at $550 and we're getting in the 50s.
I mean that gives you a sense of what's happened on that.
I think that's what you asked.
Yes.
I just want to clarify that.
So you're saying roughly on a like-for-like basis...
In other words if you look at the leases we did 6 7 years ago are rolling off today.
These are rough rough numbers but they were $38 $37 $38.
That probably was just under 9% -- probably under 10% probably 9% of sales.
And if you look at where we are today we're $550.
And that relationship is probably still pretty the same but therein lies the spread differential.
That's what you're thinking about.
Yes.
And just last quick question in respect to your comp sale 1.5% 1.4% treasury rates and maybe risk premiums offsetting some of that decline.
How has that impacted B mall pricing and have you seen any additional activity on that front? Well look I think -- and I think this applies which is great.
I mean this is what PIMCO -- this is what Bill Gross said.
I mean the fact of the matter is unless the real estate is going out of business okay the fact is people are going to need cash flow growth right? And that's the world that we live in.
In a slow growth environment rates are going to stay low cash flow is going to be stable.
I mean if we proved anything to you over the years it's that this real estate is -- it doesn't mean that certain things don't turn against us and they have okay? We've had centers that we've lost for whatever reason.
But these things are sticky cash flow is stable and yield is there.
And you're seeing it by opportunistic investors.
You're seeing it -- I mean in Europe you're seeing it.
I mean the stuff that Klepierre is selling is to yield-hungry investors.
Why would they want to buy the German bond when they can get a 6 yield or 5.5 6 yield on a stable asset? I think that's great for us to be in not just us but all real estate companies.
And that's a very attractive feature one of the reasons why we're increasing our dividend.
I guess maybe do you expect any kind of reignition of the transaction market for BMO in the second half and maybe specific to you too? With those -- with the outlook the way it is the answer is yes and it's happening slowly.
I mean you're starting to see the market pick up.
The next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley from Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael Bilerman.
David I just want to come back to the unit purchase from JCPenney and I think most would agree with your comment that units think of them as one-for-one common stock equivalents.
So being able to buy something back and create $60 million of shareholder value is impressive given the fact that there's still another 61 million units outstanding.
And so is there something particular about this OP agreement with JCPenney that -- where there was restrictions or something that would have caused the value of that stake to be 20% less than what the market is? No.
There's only one operating partnership and all the unitholders are treated the same.
There's a preferred unit but we're getting rid of that soon.
But all the unit holders there's no separate different agreements.
They're all the same.
Research Division</strong> So then going back to the question of getting a 20% discount was there a time lapse effectively if they came to you and said "Okay I'm going to exercise -- I'm going to put my notice in to redeem units " and now you have the option of delivering them stock or cash.
Was there a time that they saved on that? The time actually is very quick but put that aside.
We actually didn't get noticed technically.
But there was a discussion about -- relatively simple.
If they give us -- they did not give us notice.
They give us notice they get the stock and they can market it.
We actually -- Shelly correct me.
But we actually have to register the stock I think right? [indiscernible] So it's freely tradable we register it boom done.
It was in the discussion that obviously it turned to cash.
And we part -- believe it or not we part with our cash.
We're very tough whenever we write a check out of this building.
We are very focused on parting with our cash.
We like cash and that's what happened.
Research Division</strong> But if they were to take stock how quickly could they have monetized that stock? Two million shares I assume it's pretty quick.
Research Division</strong> Why would someone leave $55 million on the table? I mean it's not like small potatoes right? Well look I'm not going to get into that.
Let's move on Michael.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there other opportunities that you have with -- you still have 61 million units.
I recognize a lot of them are family -- there's a bunch of family units in there.
But is there other opportunities where you can buy back stock at such an accretive discount? Look there's nothing that I can really add to that other than what I've already said.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just curious what the board's course of action has been since the proxy and the shareholder vote.
Well look I mean it is -- the board obviously has taken the vote to heart.
They are very focused in talking to shareholders about it.
The good news -- look I mean the fact of the matter is we're putting this -- our focus our #1 focus and that's me Rick Steve the other members of our team is on the business okay and obviously our performance over this year last year for as long as we've all been together is pretty good and it speaks for itself.
And we have all the confidence in the world that we'll continue to deliver very good performance to our shareholders.
There's no guarantees but that's the focus.
The vote given our performance was extremely disappointing and we didn't understand the vote and there's enough precedence out there to suggest it was -- we just didn't understand the vote.
But we'll be talking to our shareholders about it trying to understand the way they voted it.
And I will say that we've had some discussions.
There's not a clear consensus as to why we voted -- they voted against it.
We've had a number of shareholders that were supportive of it but the board will take its job very seriously.
We welcome any shareholder comments.
We've had discussions with shareholders.
We expect to have more and we'll take it from there.
But the #1 focus obviously even though we're disappointed because we've been such stewards of capital and performance continues to be how do we make this company better and we do it every day.
But we've had discussions and we'll continue to have more discussions with shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly hopefully this is okay from JCPenney but should we expect any other announcements between you and JCPenney in regards to maybe buying anchor boxes or other sort of ventures with them in the future? Well no.
This thing was just really focused on the transaction that we did.
We'll talk to them like we talk to all of our retail partners but nothing -- I wouldn't expect anything out of the normal course of business.
The next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Most have been answered but just one question.
David in the past you cut up the U.S.
portfolio based on sales just to show how concentrated it was x percent of your NOI comes from over $800 over $500 a foot in sales.
When you look at the Klepierre portfolio how concentrated is it on that basis? It's really not up for me to do that but I'm sure they'll welcome the question.
I will say this they do a very sophisticated analysis of their portfolio buys hold redevelopment.
But it's really not up for me to do it.
But I do think the quality is there the opportunities for enhancing the operations are there but it's really not up for me to do that.
I will tell you though they're very sophisticated in how they slice and dice the portfolio and what they want to do with the assets.
Sir you have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
David Simon.
Thank you.
Thanks for your questions and we look forward to answering anything else you might need over the next few days.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Quarter 3 2012 Simon Property Group Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Julianne and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Shelly Doran Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC for a detailed discussion.
Acknowledging the fact that this call may be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that our call includes time-sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date October 25 2012.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the earnings release or the company's supplemental information package that was included in this morning's Form 8-K.
This package is available on the Simon website in the Investors section.
Participating in today's call will be David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Simon.
Good morning.
Our results for the quarter were excellent.
Here are some highlights: FFO was $1.99 per share up 16.4% from the third quarter of 2011.
Year-to-date FFO was almost $2.1 billion or $5.70 per share up 14.7% over 2011.
FFO once again exceeded the First Call consensus by $0.07 this quarter.
For our Malls and Premium Outlets comparable property NOI grew 4.7%.
Keep in mind our comp NOI growth in the third quarter of 2011 was 3.8%.
Our comp NOI growth year-to-date was 5.3%.
Tenant sales were up 9.3% to $562 per foot.
Occupancy was up 80 basis points to 94.6%.
Base minimum rent per square foot increased by 3.8%.
The releasing spread was a positive 10.4% or $4.86 per square foot.
Capital market activity.
As you know on July 20 we redeemed for cash 2 million units of our operating partnership owned by an affiliate of JCPenney at $124 per unit or share.
We've been active in the secured debt markets.
Year-to-date we've closed or locked rate on 24 new mortgages totaling $2.6 billion of which our share is $1.7 billion.
The weighted average interest rate on the loans is 4.1% and the weighted average term is 8.1 years.
Subsequent to quarter end we disposed of our investment in Capital Shopping Centres and Capital &amp; Counties Properties generating total proceeds of approximately $327 million.
Development activity.
Last Friday was the grand opening of our new outlet center in Texas City.
Very strong opening 97% leased.
The traffic was great on opening day with backups long lines.
Coach Nike Michael Kors and several other tenants have reported very strong sales numbers.
Construction is underway on 5 additional Premium Outlet Centers all scheduled to open in 2013.
2 are in the U.S.: Chandler Arizona which is a suburb of Phoenix; and Chesterfield Missouri a suburb of St.
Louis.
One is in Canada in Toronto.
We have one in Japan and our fifth is in Busan Korea.
Our share of the development costs of these assets is expected to approximate $325 million.
As you know there have been a select few markets where competing new outlet centers have been announced or identified.
This is not unusual in the long history of shopping center development 60-plus years as ours is a very competitive business.
Rest assured we know what we're doing.
We have opened 19 Premium Outlets in the U.S.
and Asia since our acquisition of Chelsea Property Group delivering high returns and high-quality assets.
We will not waver from this approach.
And we shouldn't think given our track record that the market should overreact to a couple of competitive situations.
Progress continues on our first outlet center in Brazil.
Our joint venture partner is the well-respected BR Malls.
We expect to start construction shortly for a November 2013 opening which will then add to our fifth -- will bring our total of under-construction outlets to 6.
Openings for next year we have also identified a couple of other sites with BR Malls for Brazil activity.
Construction is underway on 24 redevelopment and expansion projects throughout our portfolio all with 2012 and 2013 completion dates several of which are quite significant in size and scope.
This redevelopment pipeline was identified in 2010.
The scope of projects range from addition of department stores restaurants specialty store tenants to the redevelopment of the entire asset.
We identified these opportunities very early in the recovery phase of our economy.
And more than half of the projects will be completed in '12 and '13 increasing our cash flow growth.
As projects are completed a new group of redevelopment properties which have already been identified will take their place in the pipeline.
This program is big and ambitious and impactful to our future growth and it should not be overlooked.
We also continue to strengthen our franchise assets with the addition of strong anchor tenants.
Recent announced examples include Neiman Marcus at Roosevelt Field on Long Island; a new Bloomingdale's at Stanford Shopping Center which will lead to the redevelopment of that asset; a new Nordstrom at St.
Johns Town Center in Jacksonville; and additionally a Target at Coddingtown Mall in Santa Rosa California.
We expect our share of development and redevelopment spend to approximate $1.12 billion and [Audio Gap] Rents for the shopping center segment were up 4.1% or 1.7% on a comparable basis.
They are ahead of schedule on the disposition program with more than EUR 0.5 billion sold which is above their target.
And during the quarter they completed a 7-year EUR 500 million bond issuance at 2.75% coupon.
They are on track to meet their 2012 targets and their liquidity has never been stronger.
Additionally we added to the leadership team in hiring Jean-Marc Jestin as COO.
He previously ran Unibail's EUR 5 billion office portfolio.
Prior to working at Unibail he was the COO of our successful Simon Ivanhoe venture.
He understands our culture and our expectations.
Let me turn to dividends.
We announced the fifth consecutive increase in our quarterly dividend from $1.05 to $1.10.
The total dividend paid in 2012 is $4.10 as compared to $3.50 per share paid in 2011.
That represents an increase of 17.1%.
Our dividend is now 22.2% higher than it was immediately prior to the great recession.
This is the highest increase among SPG's retail REIT peers the second-highest among all S&amp;P 500 REITs behind public storage.
Current dividend levels as you know for many REITs remain well below their 2008 levels.
Let me turn to guidance.
We increased our guidance again from a range of $7.60 per share to -- from a range of $7.60 to $7.70 per share to our current guidance of $7.80 to $7.85 per share.
As you recall our initial guidance for 2012 was $7.20 to $7.30 per share.
Primary factor has been our continued strong operating performance.
Our 2012 FFO is expected to be at least 21% higher than SPG's 2008 FFO immediately prior to the great recession.
And this is significantly higher percentage than any of our SPG retail REIT peers.
Now let me conclude.
We're pleased with the strong performance.
Our operating metrics at our properties remained fundamentally sound.
We're producing industry-leading growth.
Our investment activities year-to-date with Klepierre and Mills have been immediately accretive and additive to our franchise and also providing future growth.
Our development redevelopment activities are significant in size and scope and are delivering double-digit returns on investment.
And all of this has been accomplished while maintaining an industry-leading balance sheet.
We are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes the line of Quentin Velleley.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of the outlets I know St.
Louis and Charlotte are only going to be a very small proportion of your growth assets.
But given the competition that we are seeing it feels like there could be more projects where you're competing head to head with some of the other REITs and potentially product guys.
Can you just sort of give us a sense of how many there might be out there? How many more announcements that we might see where there are sort of these competing projects? Well there -- look there's potential for a couple of more of these situations to arise.
I know we've got -- Quentin we've built 19 of these since we have acquired CPG.
We have been extremely successful.
We're also expanding a handful of our industry-leading shopping centers.
So again I do -- we have a very good perspective of this.
If we didn't think we could lease and produce quality projects we would not do it.
We have all the confidence of our track record and our team to continue to produce the results that the market and more importantly what I have grown accustomed to.
And if there's 1 or 2 of these things that might pop up so be it.
That's the nature of real estate development for 60 years.
It used to be Simon and DeBartolo competed for malls.
It's not all that different.
But I think we have earned the respect and the confidence of our retailer partners.
And when we announce an outlet center development we expect to lease it.
And they have all the confidence in the world that we'll be able to do so.
There is none that come to mind immediately on that front Quentin.
And we'll just see how the next couple of years move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the strength of your operating metrics: sales up almost 10%; leasing spreads gaining momentum up over 10%.
Is this consistent across both the malls and the outlets? Or are your Premium Outlets outperforming the malls a little? No.
It's relatively consistent.
The mall -- I'll turn it to Rick.
But generally the demand -- since '09 '10 the demand for the outlets has been relatively strong.
What we're seeing in '11 and '12 and '13 is that the malls have caught up from the retailer base and demand for our mall activity has been very strong.
Rick do you want to add anything to it? The only thing I would add is to David's point about where all of our development dollars are going.
If you look where most of the anchors are being added and most of the boxes are being added and where we're doing our redevelopments they're in the mall portfolio where we are having an increasing amount of demand.
So it's pretty equal in terms of the momentum in the platforms.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> David if I could actually ask Quentin's question maybe from a different angle is -- the outlet industry development pipeline does seem bigger than ever.
And rather than just the question of bumping into one another how do you think about the risk of overbuilding in this business? Do you think it's one where metro markets can ultimately sustain 2 3 4 outlet centers and we just haven't scratched the surface here on new unit potential? Well look I can only answer from our perspective.
We will not make any outlet mistakes okay? The reason we won't is because we're the leader in the business.
We have 70 Premium Outlets in the world.
We have the best franchise in this business and I just know that we won't make a mistake.
So I can't say the same thing for others.
That's not my job to worry about what others do.
Undoubtedly there will be development mistakes made.
They've been made in the lifestyle business in the power center business in the mall business; but they won't be made by us.
And I have said this for the last year or 2 I do not think there will be as much built as people think.
There's been a list of 50 potential deals that have been kicked around and there are still going to be 3 or 4 of these things built a year maybe and not as much as you think.
But I'm not -- it's not my responsibility to opine for others.
They'll make mistakes; we won't.
And we are not going to -- you can lease something too if you give away the building.
We're not going to do that either just to get something built.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up for Rick.
What are retailers -- I know it's a little early but maybe telling you about their expectations for this holiday season? And I guess how do you think that affects their unit expansion plans for 2013 and '14? Does it influence it heavily? I don't think there's much of a connection.
I think people are cautiously optimistic for this holiday.
I don't think they are bullish.
The sales have been holding up.
Consumer confidence is back above levels where it was in 2007.
Studies are showing that the consumers have a higher percentage of disposable income now than they've had in the recent past.
So all that augurs pretty well for the holiday.
That said I think the retailers' balance sheets their growth plans are still very well articulated and we're still seeing pretty substantial demand.
And I don't think that will be materially impacted by whether holiday sales are 1% or 2% plus or minus expectations.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering -- I know that you're looking at your options but what's happening with the Del Amo asset? We are making terrific terrific progress.
And the redevelopment of that will commence in '13.
I think we'll have some very positive announcements to make in the not-too-distant future.
And pretty much all systems are go there.
We finally turned a corner on what we want to do there and we're getting the right kind of commitments from the right retailers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the level of activity that actually seems to be accelerating in terms of new anchor are we still on the ascension of that? Or is that starting to plateau in terms of demand for new anchors to take new space? It is accelerating.
And if you look at our announced anchor activity from quarter-to-quarter just as an example in the 8-K we had for the second quarter there was 69 listed and now we're at 76.
And there's still a whole lot more we're working on.
So we are still seeing demand in the portfolio plus all the platforms from the anchors.
Research Division</strong> And would you say the people running -- the private people fronting the malls have access to capital to accommodate maybe that increase? Or is that an advantage you still hold? I'm not sure.
Say it -- we missed it.
Research Division</strong> I guess one of the advantages that seemed to be that you obviously have constant access to capital to be able to pursue these kind of projects $1 billion it looks like for the next 3 possible years.
Are the private players able to take part into this expansion of new anchors to the same degree? No way.
I mean no I don't think so.
I mean no.
But it's more than just capital.
It's operational expertise.
But no I think that's why we're able to secure these kind of commitments from these terrific retailers.
So capital is part of the equation but it's also the ability to execute and -- so I think that -- but capital clearly governs a lot of the activity.
And that's why you've seen not a lot of redevelopment but essentially no new projects done by kind of the typical group of folks that might be able to have secured capital prior to the great recession.
Your next question comes from Alex Goldfarb Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> First question is just going to the big picture on Pershing Square.
And if you look year-to-date through August when they put out their letter you guys were outperforming.
Subsequent you guys have been underperforming.
Steve was at a conference was very clear on what he said but yet the stock is still underperforming.
And Ackman is talking -- or media reports suggest he may launch a proxy battle next year.
Is there any way for you guys to be more clear of your position so that this weight over the stock can be lifted and that you don't have to deal with it? Or is this one of these technical things and you guys just have to run your business and do the stuff that you do and there's not much that you can do with this external? Well look Steve speaks for the organization.
And that's not to say that if we had a problem with what anybody said we would clarify it.
But Steve speaks for the organization and Steve spoke.
So I don't know what else we could do other than what we've done.
Additionally just to make it clear we have no dog in that hunt.
This is a discussion between GGP Brookfield and Pershing Square and we're focused on running our business.
And there's nothing other than what I just said that I could add to that.
And we hope the market understands that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then a question for Steve.
Is there an opportunity for you guys to do -- now that you're in -- you have the Klepierre and you're doing a little more stuff in Brazil and Asia is there an opportunity to do a multicurrency offering? Or the complexities in the pricing means that just keeping it U.S.-only is more than sufficient and gives you the cheapest cost to capital? Well it's a good question Alex.
I mean our base currency is the U.S.
most of our activities are in the U.S.
But as you know we have euros outstanding on our line that are acting as part of the hedge for our equity investment in Klepierre.
We could certainly raise capital in a currency like euros.
That window of opportunity would be open for us.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Is that something that's attractive as you think about the next few years of growth? Or the U.S.
is deep enough and with the floating rate line of credits et cetera that you have overseas there's not really a need for it? It's certainly something that we'd give consideration to sure.
I would just add there's a lot of multinational companies that are tapping outside the U.S.
to broaden their investor base.
And vice versa Europeans that are coming here.
It's not inconceivable at all.
So I mean it's not inconceivable.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> David it's a bit of a technical question.
I don't know if you guys can answer it here.
But when you guys look at the releasing numbers and the actual starting rents and the ending rents on Page 20 of the 8-K those have actually been going down in just kind of absolute terms from almost $56 I guess back in the first quarter of '11...
That's just the mix.
That's an absolute mix issue.
That's happened historically before.
And that's just a function of what properties we're rolling over.
Research Division</strong> Is that a function of the properties? I would think law of large numbers would take care of that? Or is that more a function of putting anchor deals in that might have lower rents? No.
There's been no change in definition.
It's just a function of the mix.
One of the other things that would be driving it to a degree Steve is that over the years the percentage of the outlet business as a percentage of our total business has been going up.
And as you know the historical occupancy costs there have been lower even with comparable sales productivity.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then Steve just a question for you.
I think the -- kind of the regional costs were down fairly sharply quarter-to-quarter second quarter to third quarter.
Were those fees that were in there from say Klepierre? Or was there something else pushing that decline down? And is third quarter a good run rate? No Steve that's just the cost side.
It's just our costs were $3 million lower this quarter than a year ago.
And that cost structure that flowed through in the third quarter of 2012 is a decent run rate.
Well it's a good idea though.
We should get fees for Klepierre.
I like that idea.
I'm not sure all of the shareholders would like that.
We certainly would.
But there are no fees from Klepierre.
Research Division</strong> No.
I was talking more of professional fees that maybe you guys had incurred as opposed to fees you were collecting.
No.
No.
I'm free of service over there.
Your next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David how many regional malls do you think will be built in Europe over the next decade? And how well positioned do you think is Klepierre in capturing its fair share of those developments? Well I think just like the U.S.
the idea of new development in Europe has got to be reevaluated.
One of the things that we're focused on in Europe is just how do you improve the yields on new and extension-oriented projects.
I've always found them to be not where they should be.
And so one of the things we've been working with Klepierre is to really try to drive the returns higher on anything and primarily now going forward it's going to be extensions.
I just don't -- I just view it as the U.S.
in a sense that the ultimate new projects will more than likely come from extending existing centers.
There's a couple of them on the drawing board.
Unibail is I think about to start a mall in Stockholm.
We -- Jacina  [ph]  has got their deal in Paris.
But a lot of that stuff is already -- kind of was in the pipeline.
I just don't see a lot of new stuff.
I think it ought to mirror the U.S.
for quite some time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back to the U.S.
when I look at Page 31 you've got a number of outlets listed as your other properties which I assume will probably be gone over time.
And how is the market for selling lower quality outlets at this point? These are factory stores.
These are so small they are basically single unit businesses or single unit boxes that Chelsea got when they did one of their deals.
These things produce like a $0.5 million of cash flow.
That market is very thin but we're slowly selling those out.
But they're not -- I wouldn't even call them outlet centers.
I mean they're basically factory stores that are single-purpose buildings.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First I was wondering could you just talk a little bit about dividend policy? I mean the way you've been raising the dividend every quarter this year it seems like an efficient way to do it.
Is that something you plan on continuing as you move into 2013 or are you considering kind of putting in place more of a normal increase the dividend once a year or so? Well it's hard to say.
We're in the process now of doing '13 and what our taxable income is projected to be.
And the likelihood right now is probably to continue what we did in '12 but we're still evaluating that.
We expect -- again obviously we have a board to deal with but the board is constrained by our taxable income and we want to maintain our REIT status.
So our taxable income is projected to be higher than what we're paying out today.
So our dividend is still on that trajectory and my guess is we might do quarter-by-quarter but that remains to be discussed with the board.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second I guess kind of following up on the last question.
How focused are you on asset sales at this point? And I'm thinking a little bit more on the mall side as opposed to the smaller remaining quasi outlets? Yes.
We're going to try and sell a few assets.
It still is a very challenging market to do.
But I think there's more and more players coming into the market.
There's more and more financing that seems to be available to some of these entrepreneurs so I would hope that we would continue to kind of get back in selling a few non-core assets like we did before kind of the financing market bottom fell out.
Your next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple Hilliard Lyons.
Research Division</strong> With your new outlet you had announced last week in Charlotte why did you all decide to go with a partner on that instead of keeping it to yourself? It wasn't our site.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that makes a lot of sense then.
I think if we had the site we probably wouldn't have partnered with anybody but it's just not our site.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with the sell of the Capital Shopping Centres securities and the Capital and Counties Properties how much will your dividend income decrease? From that? Research Division</strong> Yes from the other income component.
Capital and Counties they pay what? 10p a year so it's $0.01 maybe yes.
It's kind of $0.01 to $0.02 in the aggregate Carol.
Yes.
Right.
Research Division</strong> And how much is Capital Shopping Centres? That's all -- CapCo did not pay any dividend or if they did it was de minimis.
Our next question comes from the line of David Harris.
LLC Research Division</strong> Here's a questions related to your French connection David.
I won't ask it in French.
A couple of weeks ago the French Industry Minister talked about raising taxes on the property sector.
Now this an issue we kind of aired a couple of quarters ago but my question is related to this.
As you said there thinking about allocating dollars either domestically or overseas what's sort of premium do you think is justified for overseas investment to try and capture these sort of risks which I think are implicit in allocating that dollar overseas? Well the good news since we last talked David the stock is above where we bought it and the euro is above where we made our initial investment.
So look I think that the value that we got in helps to deal with those risks.
Business has risk wherever it goes.
We certainly have tax risk in the United States of America if you hadn't been reading the newspapers lately for individuals and all sorts of things.
So I think at the end of the day there's been a lot of studies on the seek structure there and how it's helped the French treasury and I don't expect any material change.
But the point is that in any jurisdiction that you're in -- Brazil France Japan Korea just to name a few places that we are in -- I mean you have to underwrite what your true tax costs is and that's got to be implicit in the returns that you want.
But I think we're generating above -- we're taking -- the returns that we're generating there with the future opportunities that I think will exist in the continent at this point we feel comfortable with it.
And I wouldn't necessarily overreact to comments here and there about what certain French authorities might do.
There's been a lot of studies that supported the French seek and I just don't see any change whatsoever on that front.
They need to maintain competitive balance and there's been talk in the U.S.
but we don't overreact to that as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then a couple of weeks ago I read that Amazon is in discussions with a number of brand names.
Some of those brand names are kind of -- seem to be a very big occupiers of sort of outlet space: Coach Burberry Ralph Lauren; and they seem to go upscale on some of these like Prada and Gucci were also mentioned.
Any thoughts as to what that might do to bricks-and-mortar demand in the outlets which I suspect many people have not really thought of being as vulnerable as it may be if some of that business gravitates to the Internet.
Well again I think you're -- I don't know what papers you're reading but I'm going to start to look at your -- look I think all of those retailers want to control their brand.
So I would be really surprised if they delegated that responsibility to Amazon.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean the comment -- the article that I read which is actually in the Financial Times said this the hottest button issue for high-end brand retailers.
And that was an independent third-party consultant so they know a lot more than I do I'm sure.
Listen we know these retailers very well.
I would be really surprised if they were going to give up control of their brand and be umbrella-ed under an Amazon model.
I just can't imagine it.
They're very selective in how they deal with their outlet operations.
It's got to be brand positive.
It's got to fit with their wholesale accounts very complicated equation that they have.
That's why I think a number of these outlets that are being bandied about with those kind of -- in terms of the full demand will be very selective because they're just not going to go to any and all centers.
And I think those retailers want to control they want to be omni-channel I just don't -- I just can't imagine they're going to end up delegating losing control over that.
Our next question is from Rich Moore RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Going back to that Page 31 that Cedrik was talking about I noticed from last quarter that in the list last quarter we had Discover Mills and Lakeforest Mall.
And I think Discover was maybe...
Yes.
They've both been -- they -- again they're still in TMLP and we didn't buy all the assets out of TMLP.
LLC Research Division</strong> Were those underwater David? Are you giving those back to the lenders? No.
Discover Mills -- I'm sorry it's renamed.
It's now Sugarloaf Mills because the marketing contract with Discover expired.
So that's all that happened there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Oh good I was going to ask you what Sugarloaf was.
Good.
But I had seen that the -- is that one you're trying to sell? Is that the idea? No.
It's -- we're leasing managing it.
It's on our books for nothing.
It's levered but the deal has been extended.
We think over time it will get better and better but we didn't want to buy it out of the partnership.
It's no harm no foul kind of deal.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then Lake Forest is that the one you got rid of? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> But not a sale that was I give back to the lender? It was -- actually it was a sale.
LLC Research Division</strong> It was a sale.
Okay great.
Then Steve the credit line has a balance and it's a big credit line but it does have a couple of billion of outstanding debt on it.
Is there any plan to take that out or are you comfortable with where that's at? Well it's actually 2 credit facilities Rich.
So there's $6 billion of aggregate capacity.
Someone asked earlier about the potential of raising capital in euros.
More than half of the outstandings right now EUR 1.2 billion is euro denominated and is acting as a hedge for our equity investment in Klepierre.
So potentially terming that out would be one opportunity but we're running with $4 billion of liquidity -- or availability on our credit facility if you will plus another $1 billion of cash in the bank between wholly-owned and our share of JVs so plenty above firepower Rich.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes it's sounds good Steve.
And then the Provision for credit loss it just seems to keep shrinking.
Is that a pretty good indication from you guys that the retail community by and large is I guess extremely healthy? Certainly receivables are low and write-offs have been also at historically low levels and you're seeing the result of that with the lack of bad debt experience.
There are always a handful of tenants Rich that we are monitoring and paying attention to but the overall health of the tenant base is pretty good.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
And then the last thing I had was the year-end target for occupancy Rick I mean you guys are up their pretty high at this point.
Does it actually get higher from here or are we pretty much done at the 94.5% sort of number.
We're working and I think you're still going to see a little more growth from where it is today.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Spector Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to see if we could talk a little bit about the sales increases we've seen in your portfolio the higher-end mall portfolios over the last couple of years versus I guess the lower sales per square foot portfolios.
From where we sit it's hard to look at the information and determine exactly what's happening here.
Obviously we've seen much lower increases in sales at the lower sales per square foot malls.
So what's happening here? I mean what do you think over the next couple of years what's the consumer saying? Where are they spending? Is it more the discounters? What are you seeing from your centers? Any concern here on these lower sales per square foot malls? And I'm not sure if that's below 300 below 350 below 250? Well I'll let Rick -- I want somebody to ask Rick to list tenants okay.
If we could start at St.
Louis and list all the commitments we have if you really want.
So please somebody ask Rick.
Because if we don't have a call where we can't list the tenants that are doing business we're in trouble.
But let me just say this.
The good news that we're seeing in the mall business is that the demand from kind of the general retailer population seems to be moving down the sales per square foot spectrum and so -- that's just the one point that I would make and then I'll let Rick say the rest.
I would point you to 2 things: One I believe our properties are taking share in their markets.
And if you look at where we're adding our anchors to David's point those anchors are being added across the quality spectrum within our portfolio.
They are not being solely added into the higher productivity malls.
And as we add anchors we're renovating 15 properties a year we're making our properties better.
And we are I believe gaining share.
The other thing that's going on is that higher productivity tenants will continue to outperform because they're going from a higher base and they have higher per sales -- per foot productivity and that's going to drive overall sales.
So you put those 2 things together I think that's what's contributing to the trends you're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then shifting to the redevelopments.
I guess can you talk a little bit more about your plans over the next few years versus let's say I don't know 5 or 7 years ago when lots of malls were under redevelopment.
I think for different purposes it's somewhat to defend against new competition.
What's the strategy here? Is it just bottom line to -- you've saved money for a few years there during the crisis and it's time to renovate? Or are you also trying to defend against new competition or is that not really a fear? Well look we're economic animals here.
So we -- I think over the years the market has seen that when we invest capital we want a return for it.
And we don't build just for the sake of building or -- but we do it with the idea that the cash flow growth from that asset will accelerate or that we'll have a return.
And I would say to you the primary driver of this is that we've got great properties that we think we can make better.
And the reason we can make better is because we have the retailer demand to come into that center but we just don't have the space.
Or we have space because it's a center that's been around that can be better configured to allow for a better retailer to come into the place.
And if you look at our list of activity it's all disclosed there I mean you're seeing it.
And the good news is I mean our big big projects -- the Roosevelt Field's the Copley's the Del Amo's to name a few off the top of my head are still on the -- still not at the point where they're -- we're ready to go but we're are getting very very close on those.
And that is really exciting.
And I think what it allows us to do is just to take a great property and make it the place to be.
And we had an outset in essentially '09 that we have this great portfolio but we really wanted to make some of these centers iconic in nature and transform them to gain market share for the 21st century and that's what we're doing.
And as I said in my comments the market tends to overlook this stuff.
I got to tell you we're -- never been busier in this effort and the stuff that we're doing is exciting.
It's transforming in on these properties.
We have very good economic returns.
We got a lot of resources dedicated to it.
In some cases we're drinking from the firehose that we're so busy.
But the good news is we're -- stuff is coming online already for the end of this year and next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then before we get to the tenant side -- I'm sorry I'm not sure if you discussed this already but I was just curious of your view on some of the recent mall transactions pricing: Kings Plaza Green Acres Woodfield sale.
The Woodfield I guess hearing high-4s the others kind of low-5 to mid-5.
What do you think about the pricing and what is this saying about the sales productivity at those malls what that all means? We did not bid or participate in Green Acres and Kings Plaza so I really have no comment on the pricing there.
But I'd say generally I mean the marketplace understands the relative attractiveness of strong malls.
It ebbs and flows sometimes people overreact to potential external threats to the mall business.
I will tell you that good malls despite all of its competitive threats including the Internet that if they're properly run and maintained and have the exciting retailers in it that cash flow is going to grow.
I don't -- I mean we have evidence of that in so many different places.
I don't know what else to say.
It doesn't surprise me that these values and this kind of low interest rate environment are there.
And that's a generic statement it's not a specific statement on any of those transactions you mentioned.
Research Division</strong> And so when we think about those transactions and the pricing you said it is challenging to sell some of the non-core mall properties that you own.
Can you just quickly say I guess when you say non-core what are we talking about sales under 250 under 300? When we sell it you'll know it.
Until that time we're running every property as if it's our only one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Rick can you talk about tenant demand and where are you seeing the most store openings? Well the tenant demand is pretty much across the platforms.
We're seeing very good demand in the malls in the mills in the Premium Outlets.
Premium Outlets you're having a number of retailers that have traditionally not been in that sector wanting to get involved in that sector in a pretty large way.
And we've got some tenants coming over internationally that are getting more aggressive with their U.S.
presence.
And we have some brand extensions.
I mean the best example is Limited Brands PINK that started out as a sub-brand inside of the Victoria's Secret stores and now they are very aggressively rolling that out as a free standing retail concept and it's a great retailer with great credit with a beautiful store.
So these are the types of things that make the properties better.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum Simon Property Group (sic) [UBS].
Research Division</strong> It's Ross from UBS.
Can you talk about David you just said -- I thought you said you didn't participate in looking at Kings Plaza and Green Acres.
Why was that? We just did not have an interest in those centers.
I mean it's not -- much to the market's surprise we don't look at every and any deal that's out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Next question -- I don't know David if you want to take this or Steve.
If I look at your expense reimbursements which handily beat us this quarter and has been trending upwards frankly for 5 years now.
You're now running effectively at the highest occupancy rate you've ever run at.
Your expense reimbursement ratio is also as high as it's ever been.
How do we think about the potential upside in your ability to capture future I guess an uptick in that reimbursement level and occupancy while we're at it? Well I think the way you have to think about it Ross is that there's been a delinking over the last 10 years between the reimbursement line and the cost line as the industry migrated to fixed CAM.
So fixed CAM is now just another charge that has an annual escalator associated with it.
And you can see the trends in the reimbursement revenue line there.
The expense side quite frankly as a company we've done a really good job over the last 4 or 5 years of wringing expenses out of the properties.
They are at a low level.
We've also benefited from some cyclical things like lack of snow this year and low energy costs.
So you're going to need to make your assumption about where those costs are going to go in the future.
But we've certainly got the benefit of a cycle that has been helpful to us which has caused the disparity in the reimbursements and caused that recovery ratio to continue to increase.
Research Division</strong> What percentage of your tenants are now on fixed CAM? Over 90%.
Research Division</strong> So is it fair to say that we're now going to start seeing a leveling off in that expense reimbursement ratio versus the uptrend over the last 5 years? Well most of those tenants who are on fixed CAM have an annual escalator in that charge.
And so the impact on the net recovery will be do the expenses grow at a rate faster or slower than the aggregate recovery increase from the escalators.
But the fact is it boils down to also how we negotiate what the CAM charge is right? So I wouldn't say necessarily it levels off it just depends on how good we negotiate what the CAM charge is.
And we'll see I mean when retail demand is strong we can negotiate a better rate than when it's not.
Research Division</strong> Do the retailers look -- I mean the way that we calculate it you captured 113% of your operating expenses this quarter.
Do the retailers say "Hey wait a minute.
Why are we paying $1.13 for every $1 of cost?" No.
No other than -- since you're pointing it out maybe they will now.
The fact is it's a negotiation.
They don't look at that.
It's really a function of what sales productivity they'll generate out of that space.
Our people are very focused on it but I'd also just say this: it's also a pretty pretty good evidence of our ability to run a big organization and take advantage of our scale.
Part of the reason why we're able to drive down operating cost is because we have systems in place we've got the procedures we've got vendor relationships.
So the fact of the matter is that retailers should not look at that.
They should really look at whether or not they're getting the fair deal for their space.
And our organization with its size and scale is able to really drive these costs down.
That's been our model from a long long time.
Our next question is from Jeff Donnelly Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> David just explain that extra 13% of the baggage handling or fuel surchage fees since those seem to be in vogue these days.
I was curious because last quarter I think you were talking about cap rates on B malls would be coming lower is that a view you still hold and has there been much that you've seen to support that? Well I think there should be more trades happening.
It seems like with the financing market coming back there should be a few more trades coming on board.
And I think it will support that thesis.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm curious where would you peg them today if you had to? I think you've got to be really careful on 6.8 7.5.
I really think it's a function of that asset and its historical cash flow and its future growth.
I would be remiss to give you a number.
I don't think it means anything.
It really -- it's such an asset-specific basis.
I will tell you though that the market clearly is paying for stability and stable cash flow.
So it really depends if it has to be redone in some fashion or is it stable non-sexy property? That all -- it all kind of goes in it's really real estate-specific as it should be.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a last question more of a housekeeping one.
Any decision on whether Copley is going to end up as a for sale or for rent project? Wholly-owned or JV'd? Still evaluating all that.
Our view today we might partner with somebody but our view today is that it will more than likely be a rental building as opposed to when we first thought about it more of for sale.
And you may do a little bit of both but the view today is that it'll be for rental.
Your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley.
Research Division</strong> Actually it's Michael Bilerman here with Quentin.
David I want to come back just to Amazon for a second because clearly they've -- I think they've dropped some of the tax battles that they have and at least in the context that I've been hearing about they're actually even thinking about going into malls.
And part of that is to open up some pop-ups showcase the Kindle Fires Kindle HDs and effectively open people up if they didn't about Amazon yet to the shopping experience.
I'm just curious whether you're sort of in contact with them clearly having the large mall platform that would be an easy way for them to get access in distribution.
So how are you thinking about involving them? Well look Amazon is an absolute fantastic company a force.
I think if you talked to Mr.
Bezos he would tell you that there's a role for the way he sells goods.
But there's also -- I think he'd be the first to say that there's a significant role for how we sell our -- present our retailers' products.
Ultimately though I'm sure they'll at some point converge.
The retailers are certainly converging.
We are seeing more and more retailers ship out of stores have pick-up out of stores and that seems to be a trend aggressively that they're doing which I think is very beneficial for us the mall owner in that if you can pick up or ship out of stores returns happen additional visits happen and they -- it helps them on their cost because they don't have to put the extra resources in distribution facilities.
So we would expect that trend to continue and I would say look we're  -- if Amazon or anyone else wanted to talk to us about how to create benefit for our consumer we'd certainly have an open mind.
But to your specific point I have not heard that they want to own any physical or operate any physical stores.
So we have not heard that.
Research Division</strong> I guess if you think about -- you talk about the tenants being able to ship out of the store pick-up in store have those started now? As that percentage increases -- and I don't know how those sales are tracked.
I assume they're not tracked to the store level which means...
They are.
They are tracked to the store level absolutely.
Research Division</strong> So you're going to get percentage rents and effectively drive your rental income.
It's not becoming a point of contention between you and the tenant the fact that they'll may be...
Sure it's going to be a discussion but we're going to hold firm on it.
But sure no it will be a discussion just like unfortunately everything in the lease document.
But no we would expect to be very very firm just like they can't offset returns against it if they buy it from -- it's not generated from that store in the first place.
So that will be something to discuss but our view of that is pretty straightforward and we expect over time that that will be customary.
Research Division</strong> This is a question for Steve.
So you look at guidance today $7.80 to $7.85 relative to $7.35 $7.50 when you announced Klepierre and Mills.
So let's call it a midpoint increase of $0.40.
It's about $145 million of FFO.
Can you just -- I don't know if you have this analysis but can you just breakout maybe the big components of that $145 million? Where you're getting it from? What's coming in better than expectations? Perhaps how much is better -- Klepierre performing better than you originally underwrote just to give us a sense of what's been driving the significant increase over the course of the year? Mike I'd give you 2 or 3 thoughts.
Sales have remained very robust more so than we would have anticipated 9 months ago.
That has led to higher percentage rents.
The fact that sales are higher also has to have a second derivative effect on leasing so that would all be rolled in there.
The cost environment has remained very muted.
And so to one of the earlier questions recovery ratios would be a little higher.
And then we would have assumed that borrowing costs would have gone up a bit.
They have not.
And even though we've decreased our exposure to floating-rate debt from 16% down to 10% we have benefited from a lower interest rate environment.
I think those would be the 3 or 4 big things.
Research Division</strong> Klepierre is not driving any bit of -- an increase at all? Well Michael the Klepierre transaction was accretive.
We told you it was accretive at the time of the acquisition.
I think David mentioned in his prepared remarks it's performing exactly as we thought it would.
Research Division</strong> And then I don't know if Matt is there or not in the room is he? He is not.
No.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious maybe David on your take Matt's been there now 4 months.
Sort of what -- clearly you've liquidated capital shopping centers in capital counties I don't know if that was his decision.
I mean I know you've been frustrated that -- with the ultimate transaction that occurred last year and...
The buck stops here brother.
Research Division</strong> No no I know.
I just -- what has Matt  -- what has happened over the last 4 months? What has he brought to the organization? Are you looking at...
Well look he's -- there is going to be a lot of opportunities for this company.
And given the amount of activity that we already have with our existing asset base we just -- we needed a thoughtful pair of hands to help in all of the stuff that we're doing.
So he's got ideas and he's looking at all sorts of things both domestically and internationally.
And I'd say Steve and I who have the most exposure to him have been very pleased with what he's contributed and he's got -- he's looking at all sorts of things which I think over time will do some things and that will be helpful to our -- the company's profile.
So you know what? The bottom line here is there's not one deal that we need to do period.
End of story.
And we are -- what we really need to do if I had to tell you what we really need to do is we really have to execute at the highest level on our redevelopment and development pipeline.
That's what we've really got to do.
And that's why we brought Contis on board because we needed -- given the volume of activity we needed a really -- someone that could really help in that effort and he's already done that and he's been instrumental I think finally in getting the llama where it is.
We've got a great outlet team and they're executing but Rick and I have to sit on them and prod them and poke them.
And then Goodman with The Mills is doing a very good job.
And I think you've seen the performance there.
So the bottom line is the one thing we've got to do is we got to execute our redevelopment pipeline.
That's huge.
The deal business if it ain't a good deal I'm not doing it.
It's that simple.
And that's why if we don't do another deal and Matt's here for 3 years before he does a deal it's okay with me because we're only going to do deals that make sense for this company.
But he's a good -- he's a great set of eyes.
He's a breath of fresh air.
He's younger because we've got some older guys so it's always good to have a younger guy.
He's a nice guy fits in well with the team and he'll pick up and he'll go to faraway places at a moment's notice and that's helpful.
And he represents the company well.
Research Division</strong> Just one last one for Rick.
You have a bunch of these retailers Walmart Target Best Buy all effectively saying we'll price match relative to Amazon and online.
What's your expectation as owning these assets what potentially could be happening to a shopping experience during the holiday season in guarantees like that? Well to the extent that they are going to be aggressively pricing that can only help increase traffic to our properties and increase our sales.
So to that degree that will be helpful.
I will tell you that like a Walmart and a Best Buy our exposure to those retailers is relatively low.
I mean all our retailers are more positioned in the moderate to better price points and it's not a commodity product.
As David said earlier each of these retailers are very jealous about their brand and their brand equity and protecting their brand and pricing strategy is part of that.
So -- but to the extent that our property and our retailers are going to be more competitive price-wise that can only enure to our benefit in terms of increased traffic and sales.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya Jefferies and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I hope I didn't miss this earlier because I've done a whole bunch of calls but did you talk about Charlotte North Carolina at all and how ultimately you envision that market to evolve? Specifically I wanted to know if you feel both competing projects can be built? And what the potential impact to Concord Mills may be? Well yes we did talk about it briefly.
Yes at the end of the day my guess is only one will get built there.
And it -- there will be a competition of which one gets built but I don't anticipate -- you've got 2 very experienced -- 3 for that matter very experienced outlet developers in Charlotte.
You've got Tanger you've got us and Paragon.
So I think at the end of the day it will be a competition to who gets the retailers and the experience will ultimately dictate that somebody will get the project and somebody won't and there'll be one built.
And I don't think given where the locations of both are I don't think it'll have -- if you know Charlotte I don't think it's going to have an impact on Concord Mills at all.
If it does it will have a marginal one.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then one other thing just when I take a look at your geographic footprint I think the one thing that always strikes me is your minimal presence in kind of like the highly dense urban cities like New York for example.
And I'm just curious is that just a strategic thing with the company is that you just don't like those markets? Or do you to continue to kind of look for opportunities to get into some of those markets given that assets in those markets they generally tend to perform pretty well? I don't know.
I mean in New York we got Westchester Woodbury Commons.
We're redeveloping Nanuet and IAC New York.
In Long Island we've got Roosevelt Field Smith Haven Walt Whitman which we've all redeveloped or are under redevelopment.
New Jersey we got a number of properties in New Jersey.
So are we in Brooklyn? The answer is no.
And -- but like I said that's fine for us we've got plenty to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious about what you think about the JCPenney's shop-in-shop model and the competitiveness of what they may be trying to do with the in-line space in the malls adjacent to their stores? Well Rick and I visited the prototype store -- when? At the end of August? Yes a couple of months.
Yes.
So look I thought it was impressive.
And I think it's got a real potential there to be something that we'd love to see as an anchor to our centers in terms of driving traffic.
When you talk to the folks that -- like a Sephora that are in  Penney and are in the mall they view it as 2 different shoppers and it really does not affect how they think about it.
And it really gives them an opportunity probably to go to some markets where they're too small for them to have an individual store.
So I think it's beneficial.
I think it will be -- it won't be an overly competitive scenario and hopefully it'll drive traffic to Penney which will drive traffic to the mall.
And the only thing I would add is if you look at the department store construct what we have found is there are a number of our full-price retailers that have wholesale businesses within the department stores.
And that's a very good source to us of new lease opportunities because if they open in a department store do business they see there is market there and they will now come to us and then say "We want to open a full-line store because we're missing sales that are going on in the mall " as opposed to just in that store.
Research Division</strong> I mean so would that -- I mean how do you think in the context of some of those comments about something like the Finish Line and Macy's deal? I mean that's a retailer who would be in a lot of the malls already and is going into 450 or so of their stores? We've had that conversation with Finish Line and their view is and we agree with it is that it's going to be a different shopper.
It's just going to expand their footprint and expose themselves to a shopper that was otherwise not going to be available for them in their mall stores.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my other question is just on the same-store NOI.
You've got I guess $7 billion or so of NOI that is in the non-comparable pool.
I mean a lot of that I guess is the community and lifestyle business.
But is there -- do you have a  rough sense of kind of what that would do if you were to include a lot of the -- what you exclude that is still a same kind of a same thinner number if you were to include that in your same-store NOI growth what it would be? Well Paul the things that -- the comp center NOI growth is for our malls and our outlets only.
So Mills as an example is not in there.
Although the growth rate of Mills has been at or higher...
It would only -- Mills would only improve it.
Research Division</strong> But it doesn't have the community centers either does it? It does but that's a small part.
That's a $150 million annual EBITDA on a $4 billion base.
Yes that's a very small part.
But the comparable -- for the Premium and Outlets the comparable portfolio is 218...
216 properties.
That is a big pool.
216.
So it's a big pool.
It's not like 10 or 15.
It's 218 on the outlets out of a total of -- when you add those 2 up -- I don't have it off the top of my head but the outlets and the...
It's like 60-plus outlets and...
Well no just in the U.S.
though.
Oh.
Just in the U.S.
Yes.
So anyway in any event it's the vast majority of our portfolio.
Again we're only taking out like the deals that are under construction or where we're...
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just last question on the rent spreads.
It's a little bit hard to compare going back to the past because you changed your -- you changed to reporting gross spreads.
But where are we now versus the types of numbers that you would have reported sort of in '05 '06 when your base rent spreads we're 20% 25%.
I mean how -- if you were to think about just in terms of kind of your negotiation leverage and kind of the type of mark ups you're able to get even though we don't see those numbers historically where are we today? Well I think Paul one of the things that's changed is that as an example over the last several years we've gone to annual escalators in minimum rent as well.
The number we give you is an ending cash rent to a beginning cash rent of the new lease.
But the fact is because we're getting many more annual escalators in our rent streams now you're comparing a bit of an apple and an orange if you try to go back and look at it 5 or 6 years ago.
Yes.
I would just say this though.
The -- going from pro rata to fixed you're not going to see much of a bump there right? Because if it's -- if the tenant was paying $15 pro rata you can't suddenly say well I'm going to charge you $18 fixed.
They may give you a little bit because it takes out the equation.
So when you add that in there you're going to see a lower spread but it's mostly driven by the rental spread.
Research Division</strong> So is 10% about what we should expect.
I mean...
Yes.
Yes sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> As the focus turns now -- starts to turn now to '13 you've had the close-to-5% growth same-store growth in '12.
Given what you've seen from leasing done already for '13 with almost full occupancy how should we think about the '13 growth? Is it conceivable to think that the growth could match or even accelerate from where we've gone in '12? We'll let you know as soon as we finish our '13 budget.
I will say this Nate.
One of the things you have to keep in mind with our top NOI numbers is we've been again I mean the vast majority of our portfolio in the U.S.
is comp.
I mean It's 80% 90%.
90% if I had the numbers right.
So we've also -- so we don't -- it's deep portfolio so just to underline that.
But the other point I'd say to you is if you look back in '10 and '11 importantly we were growing our comp NOI portfolio where some of our peers had big decreases or were flat.
So you have to keep that mind in perspective in terms of how you look -- I mean it's great to have -- just take a retailer when they post negative 10% comp NOI or -- I'm sorry sales and then the next year it's up 5% you got to go back to the minus 10% to look at what plus-5% means.
We have been growing our comp NOI.
We were flat in '09 we had positives in '10.
We had positives in '11 industry-leading positives.
90-some-odd percent of our 220 U.S.
mall and outlet portfolio is in that number and so you just have to put that in context.
But the fact is I'm not going to answer your question until -- we will at the beginning of next year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then you've made a big push on today's call to highlight the redevelopment the $1 billion a year over the next few years.
We've heard from some players that there's been a change of tone from Sears in terms of store closures and store sales.
As you contemplate the $1 billion a year is that assuming a pretty static environment with Sears? And if that changes for you and Sears would you say that that $1 billion a year could go up significantly? Yes.
The yes being that if we were suddenly to buy a bunch of Sears stores that number would go up.
Yes a couple of them may be -- the redevelopment may take a different form because now if you had the Sears store back you would do something different than you might otherwise do.
But I think Nate that's right.
That number would go up if we suddenly saw a lot of Sears activity.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would you say that the tone of conversations with Sears has changed? Not really.
Not really.
No I think that we're continuing to have our conversations with them and it's been pretty consistent over the last months.
I mean I do think as you mentioned Nate I mean I do think they'll sell stores.
But they're -- it's not going to be -- that they have 800 mall stores if I last remember.
I mean it's not going to be -- you're going to see 200 mall stores sold.
I mean they're going to sell a handful here and there I think.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No but if you can get 30 or 40 I mean that could take...
Sure.
No I agree.
I'm just saying.
But I don't -- I was really talking about your broader Sears question.
I don't see a big change in their selling a lot of stores.
A couple of here and there.
I think it's important to emphasize they're still very focused on running a retail business.
And that's their business and all of our conversations with them are certainly grounded by that underlying premise that they are an ongoing viable retailer looking to get better and increase their market share.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Have you seen them more willing to cut the store give you back half? They're analyzing their business.
They're doing a lot of things internally with their business.
And we are just continuing to have conversations with them to see how we make that box in our centers as productive as they can be both under their ownership and if they decide they want to talk to us about something obviously we're here.
Just for those that are still on and interested which we appreciate -- our comparable U.S.
outlets and malls for this quarter was 216 out of 220.
Not included were a couple of malls that are going through major redevelopment: Walt Wittman in Keystone and then with Merrimack opening in Silver Sands.
That was the only 2 outlets that we weren't in it.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Yang Evercore Partners.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> David or Rick I think you commented earlier on seeing increasing retailer demand at some of your lower sales per square foot malls.
So I was just wondering if you can maybe elaborate a bit.
Kind of how far down the sales per square foot spectrum? What those occupancy costs look like? Are there maybe any preferred geographies for these retailers as well? In terms of geography no.
But you've got a number of retailers that are growing that have basically staked out a more moderate consumer and they have a strategy to serve that consumer and they're doing it very well.
And we are doing an increasing amount of business with them across a broader swath of our portfolio.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean but is there a tipping point in sales where they won't look at malls that do less than maybe $350 a foot? Or do they go as far down as...
No it all depends on the market and the real estate.
It's not really a function of the $322 or $371.
I mean it's really -- whether they think they can do business and make money -- Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just final one.
Do you ever envision a time in the near future where maybe you can get some better NOI growth out of the B malls over your A malls given obviously the rents are higher in the A's the occupancy levels are higher in the A's? I mean do you think that is something that we'll see any time soon? You mean changing the operating trends from the B's accelerating higher than the A's? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Basically getting better growth more growth out of the B's rather than the A's.
I wouldn't want to categorize it by quality.
Certainly where we have done things in a number of our properties to reposition them we've seen growth rates commensurate with that capital expended.
It's a property-by-property analysis.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Simon for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you so much for your questions and your interest.
And we will talk to you soon.
Thank you for your participant in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Simon Property Group Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chantilly and I will be your facilitator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Ms.
Shelly Doran Vice President for Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC for a detailed discussion.
Acknowledging the fact that this call may be webcast for sometime to come we believe it is important to note that our call includes time-sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date February 4 2013.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the earnings release or the company's supplemental information package that was included in this morning's Form 8-K.
This package is available on the Simon website in the Investors section.
Participating in today's call will be David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Simon.
Good morning.
Our results for the quarter were very strong.
FFO was $2.29 per share up 19.9% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our FFO exceeded the first call consensus once again this time by $0.12 per share.
For our Malls and Premium Outlets tenant sales were up 6.6% to $568 per square foot occupancy was up 70 basis points to 95.3% base minimum rent per square foot increased by 3.4% and our releasing spread was a positive 10.8% or $5.21 per square foot.
For the year our 2012 FFO was $2 885 000 000 an increase of $446 million from 2011.
Growth in FFO per share was an exceptional 15.8% to $7.98 per share and we did achieve such growth through a number of ways: First of all our comp property NOI growth in our Mall and Premium Outlet platform was 4.8% per year.
We completed several acquisitions in 2012 which were done throughout the year so we'll see more of their accretion into 2013 and beyond but those include Mills Klépierre our investments Silver Sands Grand Prairie Livermore.
We also successfully reopened Opry Mills in Nashville Tennessee.
And we opened a new upscale premium outlet center in Merrimack New Hampshire and our Texas City Texas deal with our partner in -- with Steve's Hangar.
Now our significant redevelopment pipeline is also bearing fruit.
Again not much benefit in '12 for these things but we expect to see additional earnings accretion for '13 '14.
But they include King of Prussia Fashion Mall at Keystone Pheasant Lane Ontario Mills Sawgrass Mills and Southridge Mall again investments made throughout '12 and opening at the end of '12.
We continue to demonstrate our balance sheet leadership.
In December we did a bond offering of $500 million of 10-year notes at 2.75% interest rate and $750 million of 5-year notes at 1.5% the lowest coupons ever printed by a REIT.
2012 we issued a total of $3 billion in senior unsecured notes with a weighted average interest rate of 2.81% and a weighted average term of 11.6 years.
Now we also were very active in the secured debt markets.
We closed or locked rates on 30 new mortgages totaling $3.7 billion of which our share is $2.3 billion.
The average interest rate on those loans is 3.88% with a weighted average term of 8 years.
Let me turn to the dividend.
Common stock dividend increased 17.1% in 2002 -- 2012 to a total of $4.10 per share for the year as compared to $3.50 paid in 2011.
This morning we announced the 6th consecutive quarterly increase in our dividend from $1.10 to $1.15 per share.
Our stockholder -- total stockholder return in '12 was 26%.
We've outperformed the RMS and the S&amp;P for the 11th time in the past 12 years.
Our compound annual return for the last decade was 21.4% and since our IPO in December of 1993 was 17.2%.
Transactions in December in the fourth quarter we created a venture with CalPERS and Miller Capital Advisory to jointly own the shops in Mission Viejo and the Woodfield Mall 2 of the best 100 malls in the U.S.
Part of the transaction as you know we owned 100% of Mission and CalPERS own 100% of Woodfield.
We now own 51% of Mission and 50% of Woodfield and we lease and manage both assets.
We have a very strong relationship with CalPERS and Miller and we're excited to partner with them in Woodfield where we think we'll have a good ability to increase that cash flow.
Now let me talk about the Paragon deal.
We completed the acquisition of the remaining interest in these 2 newly developed centers.
These centers have been re-branded as Livermore Premium Outlets and Grand Prairie Premium Outlets.
They serve the Greater San Francisco and Dallas-Fort Worth areas respectively.
Both are 100% leased.
Traffic and sales continue to meet or exceed expectations and with each center creating an excellent reputation in their respective trade areas.
Now our new development -- redevelopment pipeline continues to move forward aggressively.
We invested nearly $900 million in projects during 2012 and expect our share of capital spend in 2013 to be over $1 billion.
We have 5 Premium Outlets under construction all scheduled to open in 2012: 2 are  in the U.S.
Chandler Arizona a suburb of Phoenix and Chesterfield Missouri a suburb of St.
Louis; one in Japan; one in Canada which is a suburb of Toronto; and our fifth is in Busan Korea which will be our third outlet center in Korea.
We plan to start construction in the second quarter of the new upscale outlet center in Montréal.
This will be our second Premium Outlet Center in Canada.
It will comprise approximately 390 000 square feet and is expected to open third quarter of '14.
And construction is also under way at 24 redevelopment expansion projects throughout our U.S.
portfolio and the 2 Premium Outlets in Asia.
All will open in 2013 and '14.
Several are very significant in size and scope including expansions at Seattle Premium Outlets Walt Whitman Shops Sawgrass Mills and the redevelopment of an -- former enclosed mall into an open-air center at The Shops in Nanuet in Nyack New York  Klépierre reported last Thursday.
Total rents for the year were up 4% on a current basis and 2.3% on a like-for-like basis.
In 2012 they completed asset sales totaling EUR 700 million reduced their LTV by 200 basis points continue to perform ahead of our expert -- expectations as we continue to refine the strategy for the company.
In conclusion I am and we are very pleased with our 2012 accomplishments and results.
We reported record FFO per share of $7.98 per share.
That is $0.71 higher than consensus at the beginning of 2012; $0.73 higher than the midpoint of our initial guidance range; $1.53 or 23.7% than our high -- than our rate -- than our pre-Great Recession high FFO reported in 2008 of $6.45.
We paid a record dividends of $4.10 per share.
And with our recent increase in dividend this quarter we're on track to pay at least $4.60 per share in '13.
And this is $1 higher or 27.8% higher than the dividends paid in 2008 at the -- at our great -- at the Great Recession high.
We look forward to another strong year in '13.
And based upon our core business FFO guidance for 2013 is in a range of $8.40 to $8.50 per share.
The midpoint of this range is $2 higher than our record FFO per share prior to the Great Recession or roughly 31% increase.
With that operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm on the line with Ross as well.
I was wondering if you could comment on the changing importance of outlets for retailers and then the differences in retailers' profitability across different platforms especially in light of Mickey Drexler's comments at a forum a few weeks ago that the increasing importance of outlet sales versus full price to the bottom line isn't very widely discussed.
Well I don't think it's -- I don't think anything has really changed all that significantly.
Over the years it's been a very profitable distribution channel for the retailers.
I expect it to continue.
There are more retailers coming into the sector because of the fact that it is profitable for a number of the retailers.
I also think what we've done that is Simon has increased the scale the design elements the layout for the outlet industry in total.
We brought it to the front door as opposed to the backdoor of retailers.
We brought new tenants in.
And I think we've had an absolute direct impact on bringing new retailers into that sector and helping it take it out of the or less out of the -- more in the mainstream.
Mickey I love Mickey.
Mickey makes lots of comments to those things some of which had been directed at me in good fun.
But the fact of the matter is it's a profitable business.
We've had a lot to do with taking it out of kind of the backdoor and the front door.
We've had a lot to do with the design and enhancing the look and feel of the product and also moving the product in better locations and bringing more tenants into it.
Research Division</strong> David it's Ross Nussbaum.
I had an off-topic question which pertains to your presence as the largest REIT in the industry and whether you had any thoughts on the increasing number of C corps that are converting to REITs and/or restructuring into opco/propcos and what kind of implications you think this trend has on the REIT industry overall.
Well that's a good question.
I mean I am starting to get a little bit concerned maybe too strong a word but I am getting a little bit concerned that the basic fundamentals of why companies are REITs is because they're in the real estate business and they're focused on growing their cash flow from their business as opposed to the opco/propco.
I think the opco/propco has not worked its financing vehicle.
I'm sure the investors are sophisticated to know which ones are primarily used for that vehicle.
And so I'm getting a little bit concerned.
I haven't had a chance.
I've been too busy frankly to talk to NAREIT about what their whole view on this is.
But the basic fundamentals of real estate investing with a seasoned management team with quality real estate that can invest and grow their business is there.
It's stronger than ever.
And the returns the cash flow dividend increase for a number of companies has been remarkable in terms of the face of capital coming and going into the industry.
The history of results for our industry has been phenomenal.
I'm proud of our industry.
I do think though if we get a little bit -- if it turns into a financing vehicle I don't think it'll have a taint on the existing successful companies like ours but I do think there should be a caution thrown to the wind with some of those.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> David I know you tend not to provide same-store NOI growth figures but I was just wondering if you could sort of talk about what you did in 2012 successfully and maybe what may not repeat.
Or are there some items that may be headwinds this year that we should be thinking about so that 4.8% may or may not repeat? And I'll start there.
Well look 4.8% is an unbelievable execution.
And let me just say this: I've read some of this commentary on our fourth quarter.
I mean I find it humorous because we look at it -- we look at our comp NOI on a year basis not on a quarterly basis.
And the important number is 4.8%.
If you go -- also go back last quarter -- last quarter in 2011 we had a 4.5% increase.
Yet our quarterly or annual 2011 was 3.5%.
So occasionally quarters are going to have a little extra performance either overperformance or underperformance or right on performance.
But my goodness focus on the year.
The year was 4.8%.
The other thing to focus on is that our comp NOI is -- what is it Steve? 99%? Yes $4.05 billion.
So it's $4.05 billion if you didn't hear that.
99% of our portfolio.
We don't play games with it.
It's in our 8-K.
It's right there.
So I felt like I had to mention that because I've seen some analyst comments on that.
But put that as a side look we are -- in our plan for next year is not to achieve the 4.8%.
I mean that was a -- for the Outlets and the Mall business that was an extraordinary year.
It's not doable frankly.
Maybe we can execute that but we'd like to be conservative and thoughtful.
That's in our guidance.
We certainly want to hit our numbers that we produce.
We have an unbelievable track record of producing that rivals any public company in the country.
And so we'll see.
There's always headwinds in our business.
Tenants coming tenants going bankruptcies.
What the guys are doing in Washington are not executing the way we want.
It's never perfect.
It's never as good as we want it to be and never as bad as you think it's going to be.
But in the meantime we're $2 over our 2008 number per share.
Our dividend is $1 higher and growing.
We're doing lots of redevelopment and new development.
So you know what? I think we'll just do fine.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess we're coming up kind on the -- year anniversary of the Klépierre investment and I know you've been a bit reticent to talk about at least some of the operational changes or impact that you might be having on the company.
Is it still too early to talk about those? Or can you share some of your thoughts with us on that? Well that the -- Steve operations take time to manifest itself.
And -- but we -- in conjunction with the management and the board -- we don't run the company first of all.
But in conjunction with the management and the board and as Chairman I mean we give a lot of strategic advice.
So what have we done? We've done asset sales to increase the financial performance or the -- to decrease the LTV and increase the financial firepower.
We had EUR 2 billion of liquidity.
We've re-branded the company from 2 brands to 1 brand and Segese [ph] to Klépierre we're -- we've decided to get out of the office business to focus entirely on retail real estate.
They did a great job of executing 3 terrific new developments and -- in Sweden and France that if you had a chance to visit you'd be very proud of.
We brought in a new COO that used to work for us at Simon Ivanhoe and worked at Unibuy.
The company is rejuvenated in terms of marketing and operations.
So I think we've done a lot.
And the good news is it's been a good investment.
It will be I think a better investment.
It has an element of risk.
But the fact that they produce comp NOI growth with all the negative said about Europe is pretty damn good work.
And we're proud of our association.
We're proud of our investment.
We're making big and good progress there that will again take time operationally.
But we're also -- we brought -- are buying in Claymeres [ph] their other publicly traded vehicle and we'll end up monetizing those assets over time.
So I think there's been a tremendous amount of work.
I'm surprised you don't see that.
Research Division</strong> No I was just trying to figure out if you thought that there were real sort of synergies on the leasing side or things that would maybe accelerate some of that growth.
But let me just last question.
Can you just talk sort of about Brazil and China? I know you've kind of been dipping your toe into those 2 markets.
And you didn't really mention them so I'm curious kind of what your thoughts are as we sit here today.
Yes turning to China we continue to underwrite a couple of Premium Outlet deals.
I continue to be very cautious about China to build anything and including outlets.
So there's really nothing new to say there other than it's taking longer to find the right deal to do which is fine with me.
We have plenty to do.
I think the returns the -- trying to get to the numbers understanding tenant demand understanding what's a great site the ability to build expeditiously is very complicated in China.
And we have on-ground experience as you know that wasn't a great experience for us.
But nevertheless we continue to see whether or not there's an outlet opportunity there.
But it's slow going.
And the fact of the matter is that's fine with us.
In Brazil we continue to work with BR Malls on one project.
It's going through the permitting process there.
It's taking some time.
Assuming we get the permits we would still have an interest in doing that.
There's no certainty that that will be accomplished but a site's been identified.
And we think we feel good about it if in fact we get the right to build stuff satisfy it and there's also a couple of others that we're looking at.
But both of these markets are complicated.
Both of these markets warrant a high level of due diligence a high level of thoughtfulness.
And we're exhibiting that by not just willy-nilly plowing capital in there but really waiting for the right opportunity that can justify the risk.
And make sure the returns are there which Steve frankly is questionable on some of the ones that we've looked at and turned down.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> David maybe we'll give you a rest and ask Steve a question to start off.
Steve you guys obviously just did some recent debt financing.
One of those was a 5-year issuance.
And just looking at how the 10-year has backed up in 2019 it's a little bit light.
But given how the 10-year has backed up if you guys were going to go on the market again would you just issue 10 and maybe another 30 year? Or would you still look to sort of fill in some of the near term? Alex it's a good question.
It's really a couple of things: We've been really focused in this period of historically low interest rates in extending duration wherever we can.
And in fact if you look at the 8-K for a portfolio that's $28 billion of debt we moved the needle and extended duration by almost half a year and lowered our average borrowing cost for -- by 23 basis points.
So our primary focus is locking in rates and extending duration wherever we can.
The December offering happened to be a specific interest or situation where we have a hole in our maturity schedule that was shorter term and this -- the 5-year demand was so good that we issued shorter paper.
But the focus is going to be primarily on longer-duration stuff.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is just going to the Paragon.
I mean obviously you guys have your own outlet program but you've already done a few deals now with the Paragon guys.
Is there sort of a relationship there where as they source deals they know they sort of have an exit? If a deal fits a certain criteria they know they can sell it to you? Or they -- were those 2 just sort of one-offs? Well first of all those deals we were originally in as a partner in the deal during the development phase.
So -- or construction phase.
So I don't know if you know that but that's the first point.
But yes we have a very good relationship with Paragon.
I mean there's no exclusivity on their behalf on our behalf.
We're talking to them on a couple of other deals.
David Lichtenstein is a shareholder in the company we've -- as part of the Prime transaction.
So there's a good relationship.
We continue to talk about new stuff.
And -- but there's no requirement or exclusivity on either side.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> But as they're talking to tenants about pre-leasing can they talk about -- I mean obviously they do talk about the relationship and the fact that Simon the Premium Outlet brand may be the one ending up managing these? I would imagine that that would be helpful as they're trying to pre-lease.
Can they say that or not the case? It's really -- it's a deal-by-deal basis and it's really not the case necessarily.
If we do something at the outset that's a 50-50 partnership and we're both leasing it.
That's certainly the case.
But Livermore and Grand Prairie we did -- we were not involved in leasing or managing.
We had nothing to do with it.
They did an unbelievable job on their own.
And when we got involved it was essentially pre-let.
If there's a couple of ground-up things that we come in at the beginning we may lease jointly.
But in Grand Prairie and Livermore they did all the work themselves.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On the -- just on the core a little bit.
Your occupancy at 95.3% I mean at what point are you getting -- I mean it's a little bit different than what you reported prerecession because of the outlets that -- I mean what point are you getting to where you think you're at a frictional minimum in terms of vacancy and kind of what does that mean then for -- if so what does that mean for your ability to push rents a little bit harder? Well I'll just say this in our plan for '13 we do have an increase in occupancy for the portfolio.
It obviously is getting more challenging than it has as we've increased the occupancy.
But we're also focused on improving the mix and we have some deals that are shorter term and we're trying to clean those out and go longer term.
So there's a hell of a lot to do.
And we'll -- and we're bound to get certain stores back because of either bankruptcy and/or the tenant is shrinking its store fleet because of their own issues.
But we do have -- we do have a plan to increase our occupancy this year.
But as important and more importantly is improving the mix and lengthening some of the shorter term leases into full 7- 8-year leases as opposed to 1- 2- or 3-year deals.
Research Division</strong> So -- I mean if any -- if I think about it in terms of lease spread your numbers have been around 10% for a while.
Is there any reason to think they might change this year? Yes.
Yes.
In terms of our spread no.
We should be able to -- I mean look we're subject to -- as unfortunate as it might be we're subject to the U.S.
economy.
I wish we could figure out the model where we weren't but we are.
So I mean based on what we know today I would think that we'd be able to achieve those kind of rental spreads.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on the dividend.
I mean is there any -- first '13 the dividend policy you're going to keep doing what you've been doing over the past in terms of the quarterly adjustment? Well we're getting -- it's safe to say we're getting closer to our taxable income.
So I think the growth rate will -- at 4.60 we're getting much closer to our taxable income and we'll have to see how that manages itself this year.
But we'll be paying as I said at least 4.60 but we'll have to assess it every quarter.
But we are getting closer to our taxable income.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a last question on Woodfield.
I mean any -- as you look at it now anything that you think could be done there interesting in the near term or is it just more of a longer term? Paul this is Rick.
We are all over Woodfield and frankly we think there are a number of things we could do in both the operating expense category the marketing category.
It is a massive property.
It's over 2.2 million square feet almost 890 000 feet of center section.
So we've got a lot of flexibility in how we can deal with that space to maximize the NOI and bring in different users and create incremental uses and drive the NOI there by making more efficient use of the existing space.
David Contis and his team's been up there a number of times and they're very focused on what we can do.
And I think you'll be seeing a number of things implemented over the next few months.
Your next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the topic of Woodfield what led you to JV Mission Viejo with CalPERS? Was it in terms of accessing the deal for Woodfield or did you want to reduce your exposure to Southern California somewhat? No Cedrik actually they have had Miller and CalPERS as partners.
And they're  -- our partners have had a tremendous business in investing in top-quality regional malls.
So they're -- they didn't want to reduce their overall exposure and so it was one of those things where we talked about one other mall that was not in California.
We really said here are 2 malls that would meet their criteria.
We obviously have a lot more but we just narrowed it down to 2.
And we did that.
In addition -- and Steve was intimately involved -- in addition they actually wanted California exposure.
That's correct.
So that's why they -- between the 2 that we discussed they chose Mission because they did want to increase to their California exposure.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you able to share the cap rates that were used to value each property? They were exactly the same.
So in other words $1 of cash flow from Woodfield was valued at the same value it was $1 of cash flow from Mission.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just going back to the short-term deals or short-term tenants question from earlier as you transitioned some of those short-term tenants or that space as currently leased to short-term tenants to something longer do you need to find new tenants? And if so what kind of retailers are primarily growing in those spaces? Well one if you keep track we made substantial progress in the last quarter in reducing the amount of the specialty leasing agreements we have in excess of the 12 months.
The -- what we're doing is we're bringing in a number of new tenants and for the most part we're taking that space and incorporating it into existing spaces to create appropriate rooms.
And I'm not going to give you the usual litany of new tenants that are coming to the mall spaces David always joked to me about but we do have a number of tenants that are looking for larger footprints.
And 3 that are particularly relevant H&amp;M ZARA and UNIQLO are looking to have footprints that are in the 20 000- to 25 000-foot range and that requires significant reconfigurations of existing space some pretty unique property solutions to satisfy those needs and we want to do so because they're great retailers.
And that's one of the real sources of incremental demand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question perhaps going back to the outlet business a little bit.
What's the appetite on the part of potential institutional joint venture partners to take positions in some of the outlet properties? Well we like owning generally 100% of an asset.
So we've never really pursued it.
But it would be -- the Woodfield mission is a great example of how we think about joint venturing.
If it's a new opportunity that we couldn't otherwise access it's great to partner with a highly respected group like Miller and CalPERS.
But for us to bring in a JV partner in any of our outlet business we -- first of all we just don't see -- there's a lot of growth in that business and we don't -- it's not like we can't access capital if we need it.
We've got obviously a significant amount of retained earnings and cash flow that we plowed back into the business to accelerate our growth as evidenced by our growth over the last 2 or 3 years.
But there's no doubt in my mind that if in fact we desire that the institutional investors would certainly have a high degree of interest.
We get solicited all the time and we kind of just poo-poo it.
And Mills is a great example where we decided to go ahead and buy that deal as opposed to bring in another highly thought of institutional investors because we thought there were still significant growth there and we wanted to own 100% of the assets that we ended up buying.
Your next question comes from the line of David Harris of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could I just expand that question on CalPERS JV.
We've talked about this in the past about Simon's ability to generate higher returns out of assets than perhaps properties that come from other ownerships.
Is this going to be an example you might be able to look to David? I think so.
I will say this there is a significant demand David from institutional -- highly capitalized highly thoughtful highly experienced big-time institutional investors including sovereign wealth funds to invest in retail real estate.
And I just had a recent meeting that -- and that's worldwide.
It's not just U.S.
There's a high demand to invest in Europe.
There's a high demand to find opportunities in Asia where we can certainly parlay that interest in our corporate success into creating new opportunities for the company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I stay abroad for a minute.
And Japan seems to have adopted a leaf out of the Bernanke book on currency debasement.
It looks like we're looking at substantial reduction in the yen-dollar rate? Yes.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> You have fairly substantial high net asset exposure with minimal Japanese yen.
I'm just wondering how you're thinking about that whether it might reverse then an opportunity for a dollar buyer? And also whether you might be thinking of putting some more hedge in place on your existing assets? Well were currently underhedged in terms of our -- the value that we have.
And we do have a hedge of roughly $200 million and -- $250 million.
$250 million roughly.
So we do have a hedge.
But our asset value is much greater than that.
And we also hedge -- we get cash flow repatriated through our management and development fees advisory fees that we do hedge and we've hedged those over a long period of time.
But what we don't hedge though is the cash flow that's generated from the business because it's harder to hedge given a lot of that capital goes back into the business to grow either to build something new or expand.
It's something we're seriously thinking about.
We are underhedged.
We do -- we will suffer a little bit this year a couple of cents if the yen stays higher than where it is given our plan.
But I think it's -- we -- I'd say we'll develop a plan here over the next month or so.
But it is something we're very focused on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Obviously as the company gets bigger and expose -- gets higher exposure to international I mean you're going to have to lead the way in the sector in terms of your sophistication around this? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean there are some other leading companies that fall a long way short on what's needed here.
Can I just -- another point of detail on page 14 of the 8-K your international NOI is listed at 6.3% that's inclusive of the Klepierre I'm assuming? Yes David.
This is Steve.
It does include our share of the Klepierre NOI from the date of the investment on.
Your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a first question for Rick.
Just in terms of leasing in 2013 and some of the I guess opportunities what's sort of the incremental leasing opportunities to push occupancy up above 95% this year that you're looking at? Well David touched on I think the most important one which is what we're doing is spending a great deal of time making more efficient use of the space that we have by trying to downsize underproductive tenants.
And that is a way to generate a lot more NOI out of the existing space.
But the other opportunities as I mentioned the 3 significant international users are all fairly aggressively looking for space now.
And that is a major source of demand in the properties.
And we've got a number of other tenants that are having brand extensions and new international tenants that are seeking space.
So it's a matter really of coming up with ways to create space that will be appropriate for their needs.
And for the most part at this occupancy level it involves downsizing existing underproductive tenants or trying to create incremental space.
And a great example of that is Walt Whitman where we are literally adding significant square footage across the entire front of the property by expanding it and that's enabling us to bring in a significant number of new impact retailers.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess that feeds into the second question I had.
Just in terms of the development pipeline in the U.S.
which is about $1 billion if you include all of the re-anchoring that you're doing.
Could you maybe just talk about what the shadow pipeline is if you would to look forward over the next sort of 3 or 4 years? What's the kind of volume of capital you're looking at putting back into the U.S? And how are you thinking about returns and construction costs and some of the trends in that development pipeline? Well we have said previously and we think this is going to be the case that we can foresee spending at pretty much that same $1 billion rate over the next couple of years.
And that's the combination of the announced projects that are already underway.
We're working on some new premium outlet deals.
We're working on several significant redevelopment opportunities in the mall portfolio that David has talked about in the past.
We've announced Nordstrom at Del Amo Bloomingdale's at Stamford.
And we still have a significant pipeline of opportunities in this portfolio that's going to enable us to deploy that level of capital at our historic returns.
If you were to use the -- and the euros actually do a pretty good job in terms of how they look at the -- their pipeline.
But we -- I'd say our controlled pipeline is at least $5 billion as Rick mentioned between the redevelopments the field -- Roosevelt Fields included in that field [ph] and the Copleys and the Alamos of the world and including the new development.
So I'd say our controlled pipe is around $5 billion and that's over a 3- 4-year period of time.
And that will give you a sense -- I mean projects come in and projects go out but that's kind of the order of magnitude that we see.
Research Division</strong> David it's Michael Bilerman speaking.
Just had a question on Klepierre.
Given that -- in fact that this is the 10-year anniversary of the tax there certainly is an element that at some point perhaps you can take this thing private over the course of this year or next.
I guess where do you sort of stand in terms of the desire to sort of increase your ownership? What is your relationship with BNP Paribas and their desire to sell stake and sort of how are your thoughts evolving on that? Well these also are very simple straightforward questions that I'm really not going to answer other than -- I will say this we have an excellent relationship with BNP.
They've been very supportive from the get-go once we got the deal negotiated.
And they make valuable contributions at the Supervisory Board level.
But the rest Michael I'm really not going to comment on.
We are pleased with our investment.
It's going to take time but I still think there's a unique opportunity here to turn Klepierre into a really premier retail real estate company in Continental Europe.
It's going to take time.
I'm very patient on this.
"Reasonably " I should say.
I hope the market here is reasonably patient.
But the fact of the matter is for the last -- shoot the deal closed in late March early April I mean we've done a lot of good stuff in a very short period of time getting the company rejuvenated toward what we think is the -- allows them -- again subject to a lot more improvement but at least gives them the path toward preeminence in Continental European retail real estate.
Research Division</strong> And then you had mentioned Copley which I don't think yet is in the 8-K in terms of schedule.
I guess when are you thinking about breaking ground and are you thinking rental or condo? And I guess both would have a difference in terms of capital deployment or net capital invested at the end of the day.
Yes the vast -- we're still designing the building.
And we may need -- because of that design we may need to go back through some administrative approvals that we don't think will be a big deal.
But the idea that we're circling right now is to do mostly rentals though there will be some condo element to it.
And so you'd have essentially a hybrid building.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question just Sears and JCPenney.
Obviously you had some changes at Sears at the helm this quarter I'm just curious how you sort of think about how that evolves.
And then in terms of the JCPenney sort of rebranded stores and any within your portfolio about I guess how you're sort of viewing those performing relative to the others within the portfolio.
Well Sears I -- it's -- I really can't comment all that much on the management changes.
I don't sense it's a huge deal there.
So I'm not -- I don't think that's any major major move on their front.
And Penney I like the new stores.
Rick and I visited the new complete prototype but we've also seen some of the new shops within the shops at some of our malls.
We don't have all the data yet.
It's -- I'm really not in the position to comment on how successful it is.
They are -- I like what I see and they're making progress.
But the financial implications of that change is really best left for them to describe.
And I assume they're coming out with their earnings here shortly I would imagine.
So we'll look forward to hearing more in terms of the progress.
But just from a mall owner's point of view rejuvenating that brand Penney that is is welcome.
And we're working with them to be supportive of their efforts in rejuvenating the brand.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think this one is for Rick on leasing spreads.
I'm curious about market rents in particular because if I look at your -- I guess it's the closing rate on leases it's been moving lower over the last year but the opening rate has been relatively flattish.
Can you speak to the trends in market rents here in the U.S.? Because I'm wondering if the growth has been obscured a little bit maybe by a mix issue in the leases that you're signing.
Well frankly we continue to see our average base rent go up quarter-over-quarter and it has been consistently.
So I would tell you that we still have pricing power.
If you look at our occupancy cost percentage it's still relatively low.
We have significant demand and we're able to continue to grow I think to grow those rents.
I think you really got to look at the spread and that's the more driving -- I mean mix always is moving around what's expiring what's coming up.
But if look at kind of what the expiration schedule is and the incoming rents I mean you'll see the spread is there to be had if we execute.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess in that regard right now and thinking about the spreads down the road.
I mean specific to anchor expirations I think in 2014 the expiring anchor rent just sort of north of $5.
In most of recent years that's been sort of between $2 and $4.
Is that something that leads you to think that leasing spreads could decelerate a little bit in 2014 or is that just something unique there? The anchors invariably have options so I wouldn't -- that really has very little drive in our income.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question David I guess for you in the -- on asset pricing because a few of your competitors have put out portfolios in malls in the market that are generally kind of in the $300 square foot range for sales productivity.
What's your sense in where assets like those are pricing today in this capital market given your experience with recent mall sales? Well I mean I -- it's really better left for them to explain what their pricing expectations are.
The latest data that we have seen is what Westfield sold to Starwood.
There's not much new beyond that.
But I will tell you that some of the assets that are being sold I find very aggressive pricing.
I mean there was this auction in Kansas City kind of -- really not sure what it is.
It used to be a lifestyle center turned outlet turned -- just a place where -- line [ph] center but just a place where -- it's big so you'd lease it to whomever you can lease it to.
That pricing was pretty aggressive.
So I mean I -- I'm really -- it's really -- they're really better in a position to tell you what they want to see from pricing than we are.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question I guess on outlet development because -- I guess Christy touched on it earlier but you are seeing outlet development activity kick up or at least certainly interest in it has it gotten to a point where you guys are seeing maybe pressure on development yields because retailers feel that they have more options for who they can align with? Well I think that there's certainly going to be pressure on development yields for risky or ill-conceived projects.
But they always are right? I mean that's the case in malls outlet centers power centers lifestyle centers.
The minute you have to beg a tenant to go into is the minute your yield goes down to unacceptable levels.
I don't think it's going to change all that much for what we're trying to accomplish.
I don't -- we're not going to get every deal.
We're not going to win every deal.
But I think the stuff that we're looking to build I feel very good that we'll continue to generate the returns that you've grown accustomed to.
By the way it takes a lot of work to generate those yields but -- so I'm sure there's going to be some yields that are going to really be way too low because I mean the nature of the business is people push projects and retailers sometimes don't pass up deals that are too good to be true.
So as long as it's not our own mistake it doesn't matter to us.
It doesn't impact our business.
And that's what you have to understand.
I mean too many people extrapolate well there's going to be 4 or 5 bad outlets.
It's going to have some impact on you.
It's going to have no impact on us none.
And there were 100 bad lifestyle deals it didn't really have an impact on us.
We're $2 higher this year than we were in the Great Recession.
That says a lot about the company's ability to withstand the -- whatever the trend is out there.
So it's -- the yield compression is not an issue for SPG.
It might be for others.
And so there'll be some bad deals done and we'll say "We knew it.
We told you." But what can we say? What can we do? We just have to do what we do.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually just a follow-up you mentioned before that you prefer to own particularly your JV outlet developments 100%.
But I'm curious because return interest is very strong or interest is very strong from institutional investors out there.
If there was an opportunity for you to raise capital from there what sort of terms or return split or valuation would lead you to maybe rethink that and take on a partner? If somebody wanted to come at a 2% yield on Woodberry -- I think Woodberry has got better risk-free credit than United States of America and with growth potential.
So 1 800 [ph] David 2% yield at Woodberry maybe I'd do it.
I don't even know if I would do that frankly.
Rick would you sell it in 2%? I don't know.
There's a lot of growth left in Woodberry.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A quick question.
If we're thinking about -- let me see you've got a comparable outlet in a comparable mall let's say they're doing -- good centers doing $600 $700 a foot do you think there's a cap rate differential there number one? And then if you lower it to say a $350 or $400 foot center the same question is there a cap rate differential there? Cap rates are so real estate-specific that we'd have to know where the leases are what the competitive marketplace is where is this mall or outlet center? There's so many other variables than one just simple number.
The most important point that I'd like to make is -- with respect to your question is that go back to our involvement in the outlet business we -- David Bloom and I did a joint venture in 1998 in the outlet business.
We built Orlando and Las Vegas together.
Now I was so stupid because I invested in some technology business that I had to show the market that I was maybe not great in technology but pretty good in real estate that I -- we had $4 million in Orlando and I sold it out to him 1 year after it was built for $40 million which is 10x on a real estate deal in a year which by the way is -- rivals as any private equity deal done or any venture capital deal.
So I thought maybe at least the market would say "All right so he screwed up in technology but at least he knows what he's doing in real estate." We've been at it a long time.
We've had a dramatic impact on this industry.
We've brought it out of the back room into the front room.
We've brought new retailers into the business.
We've redesigned it.
We've brought it closer to marketplaces like what we did in Orlando and Vegas et cetera.
So -- and because of all those efforts at the end of the day a great outlet is no different I think in the mind of the investor than a great mall.
And I think you could say that a good outlet is probably not that much different than a good mall.
And you could take that thinking all the way from high to the end.
At the end of the day a bad outlet and a bad mall who the hell knows? I can't comment on that.
But -- so I just think it's -- they're pretty much comparable at the end of the day.
And then it gets to the specific real estate questions like what's rent roll doing? What's sales doing? How can you expand it and all that kind of stuff that go into specific real estate questions.
Now in addition look we've been at it since '98 and then I think people said "You know what it's not a bad business.
Let's get in it." So I don't know.
I don't know.
But that's the only way I can answer your question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you think you're going to see the pace of asset sales pick up this year for some of the secondary market stuff you're looking at? My instinct is to say yes but it's still hard work.
But my instinct is to say yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Carol [Audio Gap] Research Division</strong> We saw you and Simon put together a great project in Houston.
And then in October you all both announced plans for Charlotte.
And then in November you all decided to work together.
Is it safe to assume if you and Tanger are competing in the same market there's a high likelihood that you all would work together in the future? Or would you both try to build your own centers? Or how is that decision made? Well look I -- we have a very good relationship with Tanger where we have our 1 joint venture.
We've got our 2 that are in predevelopment development phase Columbus Charlotte.
I would find it unlikely that at the end of the day we would both be building in the same markets at the same time.
You can never say never.
But I'd find it unlikely given our good track record that we have with the Tanger guys.
Now look we -- he just built in West Phoenix and we're building in South Phoenix.
There are some overlap in the trade area but they're really 2 separate distinct outlets.
I know his was well-leased at opening.
Ours is going great.
We open don't forget April 4.
And -- but I would find it unlikely that we'd have a situation where we were both actually in 2 -- in 1 trade area where we're both building at the same time.
And we may be competing and finding out who's going to win but I would find it unusual we would both build at the same time.
Research Division</strong> In the process of competition do you think it's highly likely you all would join together or one would just [Audio Gap] on the vacant Nordstorm space at Circle Centre Mall in Indianapolis have you all had any luck re-tenanting that space? Or how are the discussions going there? Well we have a very nominal -- just first of all just so you know we have a very nominal financial interest in it.
But we're working -- I mean the mall is doing reasonably well.
We're working hard to re-tenant it but we don't have any tenant to announce right now.
I would just make the comment that we've got 635 department stores and there are 6 vacant.
So less than 1%.
So...
And that happens to be one of them.
Yes that's one of them.
So thanks for asking.
Research Division</strong> So you sound like you're in good shape.
That's just one close to me so I notice it when I shop.
It's closer to us.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's about 2 hours for me.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> When I look at sales trends in January especially the second half of January it seems like they've been slowing at least the research we do here.
And I'm curious have you seen January sales yet or have any indication what sales trends at your properties might look like for January? We don't -- Rich we don't get our January sales until November -- oh I'm sorry the month later.
So we won't get them until the end of February.
But anecdotally I've heard actually very good stuff.
And in fact what was going on in Washington clearly had a reasonably down impact on the whole holiday season.
Some of that picked up in January.
So I've actually heard the exact opposite of that.
But I haven't talked to every retailer and I'm sure there will be some winners and losers.
But generally Rick and I were at NRF a couple of weeks ago and we were hearing January was okay.
So I don't know where you're getting that.
But actually we heard the reverse.
But I'm not going to opine on that just because it's anecdotal.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes mine as well David same thing.
Okay good.
And then Steve looking at the credit loss provision it was unusually high at least certainly higher than it's been the last couple of years this quarter and I realize it's been pretty low.
But anything special going on with credit losses or your thoughts on that? No Rich.
And in fact I'd look at it more on an annual basis and not worry so much about an individual quarter no different than the comment David made earlier about NOI.
And if you look at it on an annual basis it's still relatively below kind of historical norms for us as a percentage of revenue.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no reason to think that goes higher substantially in '13? No sir.
In fact I would tell you that the '12 actual is probably a pretty decent run rate for the entire year '13.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then last thing guys on -- back to Paragon for just a second.
It seems David that you get in to projects like this maybe a bit later in the process.
And hence if you did get in to another one it might be well along the way.
So it would deliver much quicker I guess is one way to think about it.
And I noticed they had one in the Twin Cities I think they were working on and probably have others.
Are there any of the other ones that you're kind of looking at with them at this point? We're talking to them about 1 and perhaps 2 others.
But look they're -- as I said to you they're competent developers.
Each deal is going to be a little bit different.
But the good news is we can't -- given our own resources we can't tackle every opportunity out there.
We never have thought about our business that way.
And it's good to have a good relationship with Paragon just like it is with Tanger because at the end of the day partnering on some of these delivering good product to our retailers making money for our shareholders is all in the same equation.
So it's a good healthy relationship and I would be disappointed if there weren't a couple more to do with both of them as we move forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to 2013 guidance.
I mean you have provided a bit of a road map in regards to some of your underlying assumptions about where it seems your NOI is going where you expect occupancy to go and maintaining leasing spreads.
Any other kind of tidbits you could give us in regards to what's underlying your 2013 guidance? Well look we go through -- we are a large company.
We got $80 billion of assets.
We're in Europe.
We're in Japan Korea.
We're in the mall business the outlet business.
We -- we've got development yields that we're trying to achieve redevelopment.
So so much goes into how we do it.
The most important is that we're dedicated to producing the results that we tell the market.
We've done it for 9 10 years.
I don't even know.
I lost track.
We used to put that in but since no one cares we decided to take it out.
And you know what that's the number.
We just don't think it's all that critical.
Maybe we're wrong.
We're happy to be -- we're happy to have our arm twisted to give you all the specific detail as to what we're trying to accomplish given our track record.
You know we're trying to grow our comp NOI.
You know we're trying to lower the cost of our debt.
You know were trying to do our development deals according to our plan that we've -- we outlined in the 8-K.
You know we're trying to increase our operating margins.
You know we're trying to keep our overhead reasonably sane as the company gets bigger and bigger.
You know all that and we're not going to change.
We just don't think given our track record we need to give you each and every little detail.
We're happy to get our arm twisted yelled at.
Complain to Steve if we do.
But since we're such a big big company but it does include comp NOI growth.
That's our #1 priority.
It will always be managing the overhead is critical.
There's some things out of our control interest rates currency execution by others that we've empowered.
But you put it all in and we think it's reasonable guidance given our past history of performance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
I guess the only reason why I asked is it sounds like a lot of things are still going to be going well in 2013.
You have a fair amount of acquisitions that hit late in 2012.
You have all these redevelopment and development efforts coming online in 2013.
I was just kind of curious is there any kind of number in there that weighs on 2013 earnings that we should be aware of? As a negative? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well look we sold -- I mean we have some things that are negative.
For instance I'll give you 2 or 3 that come -- pop in my mind.
We sold our interest in Capital Shopping Centres.
We no longer get that dividend.
That was dilutive because we essentially paid down debt.
We sold -- we no longer -- we have some mortgages that we owned on the hope that maybe the owners were going to default.
Those got paid off.
So we -- our investment income is way down.
We had a couple land sales.
That's a lumpy business.
So there's always those kind of things that are a little bit negative that we have to earn our way back.
And Steve can shed more light.
I mean those are 2 or 3 that jump to mind.
We have higher -- now we don't have much floating rate debt but we do put in higher interest rate on the short term.
So we have some exposure on that.
So I mentioned the currency.
We're already behind our budget in currency but that didn't change our guidance.
We'll figure out hopefully how to make that up in some way shape or fashion.
But that's hurting us with the yen.
Those are some of the items that jump out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just a quick question on Grand Prairie and Livermore.
With those assets being 100% occupied when you acquired them how should we kind of think about growth within that portfolio and where you expect to get that from? Well they were 100% leased prior to our 100% acquisition.
And we like the real estate so the growth will be there over time but nothing imminent.
I mean there could be based upon overage rental I should say.
So sales is still a little bit unknown because there's still some overage or percent rent deals with some of the anchors.
So there may be growth because those projections may be less than what they produce.
And then Livermore does have an expansion opportunity so that's a couple of years away.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just 1 last specific question for Steve.
Just ad expense during the quarter went up quite a bit.
Just wondering why that was so.
I'm sorry Tayo the advertising expense? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes expense.
That would just be seasonal but it nets out because most of that is reimbursed by the tenant.
So that's the bottom line.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Yang of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Maybe David going back to the outlets.
Do you have any thoughts maybe longer term on existing outlets that get cut off by new development? Because when I look at my area in San Francisco I think the new Livermore outlet will probably siphon off some sales from Gilroy.
You look at what's happening in Ohio it looks like Jeffersonville might get fewer until shoppers from Columbus once the new outlet center opens up in that market.
Are you worried about this at all? And maybe did this back in to your decision to sell Jeffersonville 2 years ago? Well Jeffersonville was a requirement.
So I think it's a fine asset and I think it's a different trade area than what Columbus deals are.
But yes look some of these may have some impact on some existing centers.
I don't think there's enough to create an alarming concern.
And Liver -- Gilroy is -- that's not an easy drive to go from there to Gilroy either way.
As we get -- Livermore essentially gets the East and Gilroy gets the South.
You may have some -- all this stuff that we have in the Napa area are pretty focused on that weekend consumer or whatever visitor tourist visitor.
And -- so there could be some of that but nothing that I've seen that's been overly dramatic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So too early to worry about that issue? Too early.
But look certain new deals were going to impact existing centers whether they're outlets or malls or -- that's just the nature of the business.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
And then you had talked about a Kansas City center earlier and I was wondering if you could tell us what center that was and maybe what the cap rate was on that sale.
Oh I think it was -- our read of it was around a 6% cap rate.
Research Division</strong> What was the asset exactly? It's -- go ahead Rick.
It's an open-air project that had some community center power center components had some full price components had a lot of food.
It was surrounded by a number of attractions in Kansas City that made it a decent location.
But as David said very big we really analogized it to our Mills product because it could be all things to all people.
But at that cap rate it was a very significant valuation.
Research Division</strong> So unanchored fixed cap can you tell us what the name of that center was so that we can do more [indiscernible].
It was called The Legends in Kansas City on the West side on the way to Topeka.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then final question.
David you made some positive comments on B malls in the past and I wonder if you could just maybe provide your updated thoughts on this tier of your property portfolio? Well the demand I think is picking up in it.
So I think it's a lot of elbow grease.
But generally the demand is picking up in the B mall category.
Sales are actually okay.
And I mean one thing I love to look at is kind of sales year-over-year if we had any that had the decrease and we really didn't.
So I think business there is steady [indiscernible] she goes.
And when you look at our anchor additions they are being added throughout the portfolio.
I'm not going to categorize the B C A.
But throughout the portfolio we're adding a lot of anchors and that obviously only helps but increase market share.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then do you think there's any institutional interest in joint venturing some B malls currently maybe something that does below $350 a foot something in that range? Well there's a lot of the private equity money doing it.
So indirectly that is institutional interest because all of their investors are institutional investors generally or some really rich people.
So...
Research Division</strong> What about pension funds? Any pension funds that you think you might want to take an interest in in some of these B malls? I think that is more going to be done through the private equity guys and I think there's going to be roll-up strategies generated out of those guys.
The yields are good.
The business is more stable.
There's more players coming into that.
So that's where the interest is.
And I think you'll see more transactions in that whole category.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Gorman of Cowen Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick housekeeping questions for Steve.
Steve in the past couple of years there's been sort of a ramp-up in the regional office costs from third quarter to fourth quarter that didn't really happen this year.
I was just wondering why that was and if the fourth quarter is still a good run rate for 2013.
No I -- Mike for 2013 I'd look at the annual number and not necessarily the quarter number.
So that kind of $125 million-ish number in total is a good number.
And then how it breaks out quarter-to-quarter can depend upon a lot of seasonal things like David mentioned with respect to the NOI.
But I'd really focus on the annual number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 1 more clarification.
When I was looking at the 8-K there's a footnote that talks about land sale gains of just about $8 million and that seems a little bit different from the breakout of $4.4 million on the income statement.
Is that just unconsolidated land sale gains that's the difference there? Or...
Yes we had one that flow through our JV.
JV.
That's correct.
Bonus points.
We love when people read our financial statements especially when management does it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> And I'm here with Craig Schmidt.
Just a few questions.
I guess just thinking about -- 2012 clearly was just a great year for the company.
David how are you feeling I guess the start of this year versus last year? And what's the message to the team I guess for this year? Thank you for mentioning that.
We did have a really really good year and I'm frankly proud of the organization that -- on all fronts financing operations leasing.
Basically there were really no -- we really executed well and I appreciate those comments.
I appreciate you pointing those out because we worked our ass off in '12 to deliver that.
And we had a lot of moving pieces as we always do and we did a lot of deals.
People forget about all the deals that we did.
So -- and hopefully the fruits of those investments have -- did show to some extent in '12 but they'll show more importantly in '13 and '14.
So thank you for highlighting that.
Look our -- we're the old Green Bay Packers 3 yards in a cloud of dust.
If our -- if we said anything different to our people they would -- they'd be shocked.
So we're not -- we're pleased with what we did in '12.
We got a lot going on in '13 already.
And I think what we're doing at the property level in terms of our reinvestment is a huge focus and delivering the redevelopment yields that we want is very very important to -- for both the consumer and the retailer.
And I just think it's more of the same of what we do.
We -- and I would hope to be able to have another year like that in '13 but it takes a lot of work.
There's always the unknown out there.
We are spending a lot of capital so we got to produce the returns that we want in that capital invested.
We have a good track record but that doesn't necessarily mean you can produce it.
The mall teams are in good shape.
Outlets team is in good shape.
We're still working through our international how to beef that up.
The Mills team is in good shape.
So generally I'm pleased but as everybody knows around here we don't rest.
We fight and we continue to work to have another good year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess addressing maybe one of our concerns or question marks on the consumer.
Any particular area you're more worried about whether it's luxury or at the aspirational shopper or the middle-income shopper? Well I think over a long period of time the middle-income person has been squeezed.
And that always -- I don't want to get into this big macro discussion because people will either disagree or I'll bore them to death.
But look that's a big focus.
It's always been a big concern.
But we're in a good spot because we have that bifurcated product.
We have the high-end and that continues to do well.
Look it will ebb and flow but at the end of the day the people there have purchasing power.
And there may be a bad quarter or 2 of sales but they're going to -- those assets are only going to get better.
And we're very well-represented in the value side.
So we have that bifurcation like what the retailers are trying to accomplish.
We have some stuff in the middle that gets squeezed.
We have the ability to manage those reasonably well.
That does retard our growth rate to some extent because some of those asset's cash flow does go down.
But generally the bifurcation that is out there between looking for value or looking for the higher-end product is no better represented than what we do.
We're the best representative of what's out there is what I really should say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then turning to the Internet I don't believe you guys really discussed that.
Just coming for the holidays and it seems like more of the discussion from the retailers coming out at some of the latest conferences has been recognizing the importance of using the Internet along with bricks and mortar.
I don't know if there's anything new you've been talking to retailers about any new thoughts on how to leverage your properties anything -- any new initiatives.
Well there's lots -- we could go through lots of what we're doing on the digital front marketing and everything else.
But I'd say that -- I don't -- I would just say this.
The good news of all of this is that in my opinion the retailers clearly need stores clearly want to invest in stores.
And I think all the technology will enhance their ability to deliver better service to the stores that they have as we will also.
I think we'll able to enhance our service levels through the use of technology and I think that's critical in today's environment.
I have yet to see frankly and it may come one day.
But I've yet to see a retailer say they're not spending money opening new stores because they're reallocating capital more toward the Internet.
Now we may cross that fulcrum at some point but I haven't seen it.
And I think what it also means is they're going to be selective on where they go and what they want to do.
But I'm a strong believer that good real state will get stronger and better.
And I've said to you for a number of years the retail real estate some of it will become obsolete.
We've seen it in some of our assets.
It's unfortunate but that's reality.
But I think we'll more than make up for it as demand is more focused on the better real estate which we own a vast preponderance of.
And -- but I think technology is ultimately going to end up being useful to delivering a better product and service to our consumers and make it a more enjoyable experience.
Research Division</strong> Okay it's Craig here.
I just -- my question focuses on The Mills.
Could you talk a little bit about the redevelopment at Sawgrass? And then maybe in general the opportunities or direction given as you mentioned the significant reinvestment in The Mills in 2012? Well there's a couple of things that are going on at Sawgrass Craig.
First we took back the Wannado use that was a children's interactive retailer.
It's about 110 000 feet.
That's been completely redivided now into new tenants and they're all open.
And that's doing very well.
It's added a new entrance into the mall.
We added Calvin Klein Tommy Hilfiger and that's doing well.
We're opening later thinking early second quarter an expansion of The Colonnade which is our upscale outlet presentation at Sawgrass.
And that's going to have almost exclusively high-end designers with their only location in Southeast Florida.
And that -- that's 100% leased and we'll be doing very well.
We still have another 400 000 feet of FAR [ph] at Sawgrass and we're actively working on programs to further expand the square footage there and reconfigure it.
And we're also working on a renovation of the Oasis which is the open-air section of the property.
We just added a California Pizza Kitchen Cheesecake Factory and bringing that up.
So a very powerful property doing very well and a major focus of redevelopment efforts and capital.
And I would -- I just would add.
This mall will do over $100 million of EBITDA.
And in the next 2 to 3 years it'll probably be over $120 million without the expansion the big expansion that Rick just mentioned.
So it's a beast but don't tell anybody okay? Research Division</strong> And then just 1 last question for Steve.
In Brazil Steve anything new on the financing front? Anything -- oh the capital markets there I'm not sure if there's any new opportunities for a U.S.
real estate company there.
In Brazil? Research Division</strong> Yes.
You mean in terms of raising dollars in Brazil? Research Division</strong> In terms of tapping line of credit there for you -- so you could have natural hedge in anything you invest in.
No not really.
No.
We really haven't made any investments yet so -- but no.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Rosivach of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> But really quick on Tayo's question.
So when you guys give guidance there's kind of 2 groups.
There are companies that throw in spec acquisitions that they haven't made yet and then you have guys like the Boston Properties that just give a no-acquisition guidance.
And then to the extent you get stuff done later in the year the numbers end up going up.
And is that part of why you did so well in 2012 versus your initial guidance? And for 2013 is that how you've set it up as well? Well let me -- certainly we did have some growth because of our investments that we hadn't planned on.
But yes let me make it clear.
In 2013 we have no spec acquisitions at all.
So nothing -- no spec investments.
At this time there are no further questions in queue.
And I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Simon for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you so much for your participation and we look forward to chatting in the near future.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Simon Property Group Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Dominique and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Shelly Doran Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Please be aware that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
You may refer to our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward looking statements.
Please note that today's call includes time-sensitive information that may be accurate only as of today's date April 26 2013.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the earnings release or the company's supplemental information package that was included in this morning's Form 8-K filing.
This supplemental is available on the Simon website in the Investors section.
Participating in today's call will be David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Simon.
Good morning.
Our results for the quarter were strong.
FFO was $2.05 per share up 12.6% from the first quarter of 2012.
Our FFO exceeded the first call consensus at quarter end by $0.05 per share.
For our Malls and Premium Outlets comparable property NOI growth was 4.8% and that was off a 5.7% increase in Q1 of 2012.
Tenant sales were up 5.3% to $575 per square foot.
Occupancy up 110 basis points to 94.7%.
Base minimum rent per square foot was 3% higher and our re-leasing spread was a positive 13.4% or $7 per square foot.
We were very active in the debt markets during the quarter closing our locking rates on 13 new loans totaling approximately $2 billion of which our share was $1.3 billion the average rate was 2.92% and a weighted average term of a little over 8 years.
Let me turn to the all important development activity.
First of all we opened the Phoenix Premium Outlet Centers in Chandler Arizona on April 4.
This center is 100% leased open with an impressive collection of stores.
I will not name them Rick will if you're interested.
Several high profile stores will be opening in the coming weeks and the good news is the shopper response has been very strong and many merchants reporting as one of their best outlet openings in the last couple of years.
Shisui Premium Outlets opened on April 19.
This our ninth center in Japan.
It's located 15 minutes from Narita International Airport serving Greater Tokyo.
The center opened with large crowds and 70 media outlets opening and we expect this to be a terrific center serving the area of visitors to Tokyo given the proximity of the airport.
Significant redevelopment projects were completed during the quarter; Apple Blossom Mall Quaker Bridge Mall and South Hills Village.
Several significant projects are on track for completion in 2013 including expansions in Sawgrass Mills Dadeland Mall Seattle Premium Outlets Orlando Premium Outlets at Vineland Walt Whitman Shops and the and the re-grand opening of the shops at The Shops at Nanuet and the University Town Plaza in Pensacola.
Redevelopment expansion projects including the addition of acres and big bucks tenants are underway at 44 properties in the U.S.
2 in Asia.
Our share of this cost is approximately $1 billion and the blended estimated rate of return is approximately 11%.
We have 3 Premium Outlet Centers under construction opening in the third quarter of this year.
St.
Louis Premium Outlets in Chesterfield Missouri opening in August 1 which is 96% leased.
Toronto Premium Outlets in Ontario Canada opening August 22 which is 85% currently leased.
Busan Premium Outlets in Korea opening in late August.
As we highlight in the press release demand for space in all of these centers has been exceptional and we expect to be fully leased at opening.
We also have at least 8 additional new Premium Outlet projects in North America in various stages of predevelopment.
Klépierre reported its first quarter revenues this week.
You can read about them so I'll be brief other than to say that rents were up for the quarter a total of 3.4% reaffirmed 2013 guidance.
We've now owned our stake for 13 months.
Progress has been made in several aspects of the business.
They have sold EUR 760 million of assets.
They have simplified their business with the elimination of the [indiscernible] sub-brand as well as the ongoing sale of the office portfolio.
Their focus on operations we've added a new CEO.
They're generating additional Simon brand venture-type revenues as recently evidenced by the Coca-Cola partnership.
They strengthened their balance sheet through recent financing activities and they've opened 2 great malls in St.
Lazare Paris and Emporia in Malmö Sweden.
And I think if anyone has had the opportunity to visit it visit those centers you'll see that the company has clearly the capability to build first-class 21st century retail.
Today we announced the dividend of $1.15 per share for the quarter.
Over the past 6 quarters we have increased the common stock dividend each quarter as we've been playing catch up to our taxable income.
Our growth rate in our dividend has been over 31% over the last 2 years.
Importantly we anticipate subject to review and Board approval increasing our dividend as we anticipate our taxable income continuing to grow.
Guidance.
Today we increased the top and the bottom line of our 2013 FFO guidance to a current range of $8.50 to $8.60 per share.
This is an increase from $0.10 from the initial guidance in February of $8.40 to $8.50 per share.
Strong operating performance is the driver of this increase.
Occupancy.
Reasonable Mall and Premium occupancy cost of 11.3% and strong rent spreads give us good momentum.
Finally '13 is off to a good start and we're ready to answer any of your questions that you'd like to post.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jeffrey Spector of Bank of America Research Division</strong> It's Craig Schmidt here.
It sounds like you've made real progress on your dispositions at Klépierre.
Maybe you could give some more color on what's left to do as well as maybe some of your refurbishes that you've done in the portfolio and any successes you've had in bringing new retailers to your Klépierre portfolio? Well first of all they will continue to sell non-core assets as well as the office portfolio.
So they've got a couple of the office deals that are close to being signed up including their headquarters.
And they'll continue to sell kind of the smaller non-core assets which frankly are very stable solid centers but they don't have the extension capabilities that we're interested in pursuing.
And they've done a great -- a number of extensions like Plessui [ph] in Paris.
On the east side of Paris near the airport that I think represents the ability to take a smaller center and expand it.
And on the retail front we're continuing to solidify that.
The operational side of the business is the true upside the coordination among retail what we do at Simon-brand ventures.
How we operate the centers is the next chapter in the story.
Obviously that takes some time.
We've had to add to the personnel ranks we had to set the strategy and we're pleased with what's going on there and I think there'll be more to come.
Research Division</strong> And are you surprised that -- are you surprised that your ability to push rents given the general difficulty in Europe? Look I don't run this day-to-day.
There -- some of these questions are better asked for them.
We are not the ones pushing the rents.
We're providing strategic advice and helping them focus on what is important in their business and also showing them how we run our business so they can run their business.
I'm not surprised that a number of those countries have stability in cash flow in tough economic times.
I think what you've seen here in the U.S.
is that the same thing happened here for us in very tough economic times.
And the one area that -- where they're having the most difficulty is in Spain.
And that is a focus for the company but that continues to be something that is affecting the cash flow to some extent is because Spain continues to be under pressure for basically all retail real estate owners that have real estate in Spain.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I was impressed with your 96% lease in St.
Louis.
Do you know how much will open in August? We should be in the 90s.
There's always a few laggers but that's a real number and we should be in the 90s.
I mean even though we'd love to open every center at 100% leased and operate it sometimes it does take time.
Phoenix is a great example.
We're at 100% leased.
We were in the kind of the low 90s to be at opening but in the last couple of months we'll be 100% occupied.
Same thing will happen in St.
Louis.
There may be a couple of slow people but we are 96% leased.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Follow up on Craig's question about the outlets.
Can you disclose the expected yields at Chandler and St.
Louis for 2013 and maybe discuss some pre-leasing progress at Columbus and Charlotte? Well look our yields in the outlet business continue to be attractive.
These will be double-digit yields unquestionably and Chandler will be probably north of 10% St.
Louis will at or about 10%.
And in addition as you may probably know we're looking at Phase 2 now and obviously as we bring that online in St.
Louis we will -- the yields will go up.
But they're both north of 10%.
They are both north of 10%.
Now on your question on Columbus let me just say this Columbus is a very competitive market.
There's a lot of folks that have competing real estate there and sites.
So we'll see we may or may not be the victor in that competition but we're working to continue to try and move that forward.
Charlotte is basically a go deal.
So with us in Tanger we expect to start construction in the next 2 months.
We're very excited about that project.
I'm not going to tell you what the yield is because I don't know what Tanger does but it will be very very good.
The retailers are very happy that we have put together our joint venture.
They -- we very excited about going in and it's got to be at least over 50% 60% pre-leased.
Not that we really need it because the one thing that we know is we have 80 Premium Outlets in the world I think.
So we don't Christy we don't really need to pre-lease like some others that might because we kind of know whether or not we can lease it.
But Charlotte's go starting construction here shortly and we're racing to do a '14 opening.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know that you continue to do quite a bit of anchor in big-box repositioning.
Can you talk a little bit about what the retailer demand is like today for Mall anchor space? How you think about getting that space back from a re-tenanting perspective.
And are sale leasebacks of anchor space something that you would consider if a major tenant came to you looking to raise capital? Christy it's Rick Sokolov.
The demand is as good as it has ever been and I think that that can be referenced by the number of spaces we have available.
In our mall portfolio we literally have 635 department stores and 1% of them 6 or 7 are vacant.
And that's the lowest it has been in as long as I can remember.
We actively deal with every one of our malls to keep a running list of the people that have demand to get in there and we are in a constant dialogue with our anchors that we've identified that we have the potential of getting back to try and make them better.
And if you look over the years I think we've added almost 175 boxes and anchors over the last 4 years in the portfolio.
So we've been very active and it's making them a lot better.
I do not believe we would really be interested in entertaining sale leasebacks.
Research Division</strong> And are you able to of quantify maybe a range of what you might pay for vacant anchor box space for the Class A mall versus the Class B mall? Well each deal is very very -- depends on a lots of individual characteristics of each deal.
It's not really something that you can generalize about.
Research Division</strong> It's Ross Nussbaum.
One final question.
The 4.8% same-store NOI growth you've generated this quarter if I think about that relative to the occupancy gains you had and the re-leasing spreads over the last  year it kind of feels like there's something else that's helping that number.
Is there a piece there that I'm not thinking about? Well I mean partly is good sales growth partly is that we're very focused on operating to the best of our ability.
I would point out last quarter Q1 '12 we had 5.7% comp increase.
So that 4.8% on top of 5.7% is just running the company as well as we can.
But we're never satisfied.
We're always trying to improve and that's what we're all about.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On your re-leasing stats the opening number went from $53 to $55 [ph] and I guess it's a 12-month trailing average.
And so I mean how much of your -- is there a disproportionate share opening in the first quarter because I'm trying to see the kind of forecast that number out it was a big jump given that is a rolling average? Paul this is Steve.
Some of it is mix.
In the mall business especially there are more leases that are tied to traditional retailer's fiscal year end which is January 31.
And in fact if you look at the supplemental as I recall the remaining square footage that we have expiring in '13 is in the 3 million to 4 million square foot range where over a normal year like 2014 2015 it's 8 to 9 million square feet.
So we have dealt with a lot of the -- especially regional mall expirations that occurred January 31.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And then I mean can you maybe just characterize -- I mean you provide a lot of -- you list all your redevelopment projects and it looks like there's like 37 in there and you have about $700 million it listed in that stock [ph] which is -- I mean it's only about $20 million per project but it looks like there's some that are kind adding new space and it should represent I guess a more sizable chunk of that.
And I'm trying to see -- should we see -- should we expect to see more expansions of malls given the demand and given your spreads and resulting in some lumpier projects that pull that number up? Are there lumpy projects in there that represent a big share of that $700 million? The lumpy projects are basically hopefully ready to start shortly.
And I'm not going to list -- I'm just from recall.
I mean the lumpy ones you'll start to see later on this year and in '14 I they include as Roosevelt Field of Copley the Lambeau and Woodbury King of Prussia to name -- Houston Galleria to name 4 5 or 6 lumpy bigger bigger chunkier ones.
You're right.
A lot of what we have now is they run the -- they run the $20 million $30 million $40 million but you have something like Nanuet which is $150 million project and Walt Whitman is around $80 million.
So you got a little -- you got it all over the Board.
But the lumpier bigger ones we are essentially in our first phase of the Lambeau.
We will begin our first phase of Roosevelt Field here in the fall.
Stanford Rick whispered to me thank you we're finalizing everything there to as many of you know to relocate Bloomingdale's build them a new store and then we take over their existing Bloomingdale's store and carve it up for small shops.
So the bigger lumpier ones really are hopefully beginning to start second half of '13 and '14 will be a huge year for us '15 as well as these bigger lumpier ones come onstream.
Paul it's Steve.
I would just add one thing to that.
Because it gets lost in the sauce sometimes but between -- David mentioned Woodbury but he didn't mention Desert Hills Orlando Premium Las Vegas North those are 4 Premium Outlets that's all to north of $1 000 of food and sales where we are adding significant amount of space.
And so we're -- those are projects that will come on in the next year or 2 as well.
And as Steve said those are on average are about $100 million a pop.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So I mean that number could well it should really double probably in a year from now.
It's going to balloon and I think what we have said and what we've said and we'll say again is that this is our #1 priority.
This is the huge focus for the company.
This is where we'll spend most of our time.
And the good news is we recognized this that the world was not going to end a little bit ahead of others.
So we're in the midst of doing this now.
Woodbury is going to start.
Right after this most people after their first quarter our earnings take the afternoon off right after this Rick and I are going to spend 2 hours on the final approval of Woodbury.
It's $168 million deal and it's going to really really be cool and it's really going to start and we really got the approvals and blah blah blah blah.
And then in the afternoon we do take a lunch break.
Rick demands to go out to lunch.
I like to eat at my desk.
It's a source of much conflict in the organization but right after that we're approving I don't know 20-some odd different mall deals.
So #1 priority we're glad we're in the midst of this now and a lot of good stuff to come.
Research Division</strong> Would you think those blended stabilized returns are going to be around? I mean you've got 9 -- you've got 14% for the Premium Outlets in there.
Is that going to change much? Yes.
Look I think they'll all be very very accretive to our company.
I don't -- soon as the project gets approved and we put it in there you'll see the return.
Your next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David we knew that [indiscernible continues to grow in your portfolio and we're passed some previous peak.
What do you think is stabilized occupancy? Well actually I've been very impressed with our leasing team that they've been able to achieve these occupancy levels.
So I think the focus now is it's always good to on the margin to continually increase occupancy.
But Cedrik I do believe that the focus now will be making sure that the mix is the best that it can be.
But I have actually been very pleased and impressed with our leasing team in the amount of their ability to drive occupancy.
I don't tell them because then they'll then they'll take the afternoon off where Rick and I won't but now seriously I've been very pleased with the results that they've been able to produce.
And Cendrik the only thing I would add is that the number that I'm thinking about is higher than I would have told you perhaps a year ago because what has emerged in our sector now is you have a number very high fashion highly productive tenants like ZARA H&amp;M UNIQLO Topshop that are demanding bigger spaces.
And because they are all bigger space that's going to create incremental demand for our space that could enable us to perhaps drive the percentage higher than what otherwise be the case absent that demand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as you look at your ability to change the mix what can it do for your ability to push rents in the centers? Well look it's relatively straightforward.
The better the tenant does in terms of sales per square foot the greater they have the ability to pay rent.
And it's really that simple.
So as we do that we're hopeful that rent will follow or be part of that initial equation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And turning maybe to densification.
You've got -- you're talking about Copley earlier.
It seems that you could add non-retail users depending on the city.
How many malls do you own where you think you could add non-retail users and densify the site? Cedrik it's Rick.
Right now we're working on adding hotels at 5 different projects and we're working on adding multifamily at 4 additional ones.
We're under construction with a multifamily project at Firewheel in Garland Texas so we still think there is very good demand for it.
What we have found is that when we add these hotels and multifamily or condo components in our projects they are yielding the higher room rates for hotels and monthly rentals from multifamily because people very much enjoy the mixed aspects of the community.
So we think we bring an incremental value to those components and we're going to continue to pursue them.
I just roughly put Copley aside because that's the big one.
But there are at least 12 to 15 in each area that are of immediate focus.
That doesn't mean it's limited to those say 24 to 30 but there is a list of those 12 or so in each category being hotel or and/or multifamily that we're very focused on.
In fact we're going to prove this afternoon in Southdale more than likely.
I'm still struggling with the returns because our returns are higher than the multifamily guys gets.
But -- so I'm still trying I'm still struggling with some of those deals.
But I do think there is a pipeline to the advantage of that and it's good for the real estate generally.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just final question in your Annual Shareholder letter you talked about continuing to lead the industry and promoting the malls and marketing medium.
How much more can you do? How much more income can you generate from that aspect of the business? Well I think it's also just more than income in that.
I could be wrong here but I do think I do think we're on the verge of a technology backlash.
And our focus is creating a mall environment where people -- we had a meeting on this -- kind of a brainstorming meeting on this Monday and something was said that was very clever is that people today are looking down they're not looking up.
And what happens in the mall environment is we do give them the opportunity to look up and around and not just down.
Down meaning at your mobile device and everything else.
So I do think the mall has a unique ability to be part of that maybe next wave of trying to create social responsibility community relations community feel and part of a process where we actually look up as opposed to look down.
So it's a big focus for our company.
The revenue side obviously we love cash flow so we're cash flow junkies so we're going to look to that too.
But there's a unique ability for us to really kind of create community in our properties beyond that.
And I think that's a huge mission for us to try and achieve.
It's a long-term prospect lots of ideas there very hard to sort out exactly how we will execute it.
But -- and the good news is just to segue into the e-commerce I mean you're seeing more and more pure e-commerce companies opening stores because they know that people frankly want to look up they don't always want to look down.
So a great example is this Warby Parker this eyeglass thing that was kind of the new hot dotcom thing and they're opening physical stores.
Now whether they go to the malls or not I'm not -- who knows? But the fact of the matter is I think they recognized that people want to touch feel look up.
So our mission is to get people to look up not look down.
Your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's been a while since you combined the operating statistics of the mall and the outlet business together.
Can you maybe talk a little bit about how it's just performing some of the similarities and differences? And then as we look at the 79.6% of your NOI that comes from Malls and Premium Outlets could you sort of give us a rough sense as to what the percentage is coming from outlets versus malls? Sure.
I'll just say this.
Steve can answer the second one.
In the real estate recession or I should say not the real estate recession because frankly having lived through '90 to '93 this was child's play.
But if you look at the general economy our outlets clearly outperformed the malls during that '09 '10 and '11 period.
And now I will say Quentin generally in terms of sales growth and comp growth they're relatively close.
The outlets are still marginally better but the difference between those 2 has narrowed considerably.
Now with respect to the breakout do you...
Yes.
Quentin if you actually -- in our year end [indiscernible] that's posted on the website we do break it out for you and I don't have it in front of me.
But as I recall the malls are 55% and I think the outlets are 25% because when you put the outlets and the mills together essentially about 1/3 of our NOI comes from the value side of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just in terms of the ongoing success that you're having with Klépierre in terms of improving operations and capital and asset sales and so forth having an influence are you spending a lot of time looking at a similar style of public company investment where you take a similar amount of minority stake and gets some Board representation? Is that something that's increasingly attractive to you given the success of Klépierre? We have a thought about it from time to time.
It's not a big focus for us.
But it could lend itself to a situation here or there.
But Klépierre was -- the reason we made the investment the way we did was for all sorts of reason including risk management.
So really it would depend on the circumstances.
It's not something that we're out looking to do but in the right kind of context it's conceivable.
Research Division</strong> David it's Michael Bilerman speaking.
It sounds like if you're really a cash flow junkie you should put advertising in the floors that way you can get more money when people are looking down.
We tried that.
We've done that.
We did "buy a footprint" but it didn't go over well.
It was great for the kids.
Then when I saw the adults using it I thought it was a little tacky.
Research Division</strong> Thinking about Klépierre I guess we've elapsed the 6th status for them to effectively go private.
So how should we think about your stake and how you want to evolve over time whether you want this to be stub [ph] outstanding whether you want to bring it in-house whether you want to bring a joint venture partner in.
How should we think about how that evolves now that the at least the REIT issue the French REIT issue is elapsing? Well Michael I would love to answer that question but I respectfully won't.
We are pleased with the investment.
We're making good strides.
We need to make more strides.
And I said the big problem with the company today is somewhat out of their control not just dealing with the Spanish economy.
But we're pleased but I really as much as I'd like to talk about that kind of stuff I really can't.
It is a public company.
I've got to respect that situation.
So we're pleased we are making very good strides.
And I would say operationally things do take longer there than they would than they would say here.
But we've been pleased with kind of the blocking and tackling that the company is undertaking now they still need to do a lot more though we've been pleased with the progress they've made to date.
Research Division</strong> And just going back to the rental spreads on Page 19 of your sup and Steve you answered that the count the retailer calendar year end the January 31.
But I guess I'm still having a hard time.
March 31 '12 it's $7 million trailing at  $54 $49 expiring and now you're 3/31/3 [ph] 7.4 million square feet of $59 versus $52 and even 12/31/12 8 million square feet of $53 $48 it just seems like there's -- that the opening/closing arch is much much higher this quarter.
Whatever happened in the first quarter of 2013 was dramatically higher rents than at any point over trailing '12 [ph] any other quarter.
Michael that's true but if we also look they were dramatically higher closing rents as well.
So some of it is clearly mixed-driven.
Some of it is clearly the fact that over the years our portfolio continues to get better.
And so the rents that we were able to do leases at 3 years ago 5 years ago 8 years ago were better and those are all now rolling off.
So --  but mix is clearly an issue or component of it.
And I would just point out that we have in our portfolio U.S.
portfolio not including the Mills or actually it does include the Mills we have 121 properties that do over $700 a foot.
So...
Research Division</strong> 121? That average $700 a foot in sales.
121.
So and as a Steve said Rick said we're really trying to make those properties better and better in all sorts of different ways.
So that's going to  lead to more rent growth.
But again I would not overreact to one really good-looking statistic in one particular quarter.
Just like I would ask for forgiveness to the extent that one quarter we have a statistic that looks bad.
I'm sure part of it is mix we can drill down to it a little bit more but demand is good and we got a reasonably good portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And just going I guess sort of back to Christy's question on department stores and just thinking about JCPenney in particular especially if they brought in AlixPartners.
Your sense of -- as you guys obviously speak to them other department stores how much do you think the massive Ala Moana trade has worked department store managements in thinking what their boxes are worth or do you think most people are pretty realistic in what they think their real estate is worth? Look I can't speculate what Ala Moana how that has affected the judgment of department store or retail CEOs.
I would point out though since Ala Moana there just hasn't been a lot of box trades and you can come to your own conclusion as to why maybe because they don't want to sell or maybe there's a spread between the bid and the ask.
I don't know.
But I can't speculate on how they think about that at all Alex.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going to Klépierre while I know that you don't want to comment directly on their operations can you just give us a sense as you guys think about the growth and what Simon can bring to their platform this split between improving NOI versus bringing in the Simon brand venture type revenue stream and increasing that ancillary income.
How would you think about the growth? Is more of it just going to come from NOI or is there a big opportunity you think to really improve the ancillary income that that could be a meaningful contributor? Well again I'm not going to quantify that.
It's not something I can do.
Look I think the important thing to put in perspective there Alex is that we don't run the company.
We own a stake we're pleased with the stake we can show them how we run it and then they need to apply it.
And we brought in the company has brought in some talented people to learn from what we do assuming we do what we do reasonably well.
I mean I'm not telling you we do what we do is great because I always think it can get better.
But assuming we do what we do reasonably well we can show them how we do it and how we think about the business but they've got to do that.
They're the ones that need to do it.
And it's not easy to do when the economy there is sputtering along and in some cases still contracting i.e.
Spain.
But they get what we're doing they want to run the company better they are running the company better.
And I think as kind of I said in my letter I do think there's growth there as soon as the economy of Europe generally stabilizes and I do think the economy of Europe will stabilize.
It's not going to -- despite my personal view of it it's not going to what continue to contract as it has over the last year or 2.
So I mean -- so it was a long winded answer but I'm not going to speculate exactly how much NOI growth there is but I do think there's improvement in how they run the business and I think they would agree I think that's their big focus in the upcoming years.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally for Steve -- and thank you for new supplemental.
On Page 23 in the CapEx and development page there's an item called conversion from accrual to cash basis.
And if you don't have this off hand we can discuss offline.
But just curious what that is.
Well it's simple Alex.
We give you a CapEx number but there are CapEx numbers where we have accrued obligations like we got a construction build but we haven't paid it yet.
Okay.
And all we're doing is giving you both the accrual number and the cash number because some people look at it and want the accrual number some want the cash number.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that make sense.
Sure.
And by the way that's been in there for a long time.
Your next question comes from the line of David Harris of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Listen there's a question David.
See if you feel -- how comfortable you feel answering this.
Any thoughts as to what Simon might look like if we were to lose the tax break? I don't worry about that at all David.
I just -- REITs have been around for 60 years it's not going to happen.
I just can't imagine it's going to happen.
As you know it's revenue-neutral.
If in fact there was some change I think the -- I think most politicians understand the importance commercial real estate has in stabilizing the general economy.
The last thing in the world they would want to do is create some kind of economic uncertainty.
They've seen the fact that the downturn and what commercial real estate how it handled itself in the amount of liquidity that reached -- brought to the table to stabilize pricing and that create kind of what happened in the early '90s.
And as I said I have lived through that as has Rick.
LLC Research Division</strong> Me too.
You too.
Some others.
It's not going to happen.
But by the way if it did we would we would be best positioned to take advantage of it.
Because as you know our cash flow is significantly above our dividend payment.
And look I have always fantasized I probably shouldn't say this.
So I always fantasized we pay out a $1.5 billion a year in dividends $1.6 billion? What is the numbers now? $1.6 billion.
$1.6 billion.
Imagine if I have that amount of capital through 2 3 4 years.
So we would do some great stuff with it.
But David that's on a side it's not going to happen.
REITs have performed they've been very important to the economy they've been great for individual shareholders they helped stabilized pricing.
No way.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no Plan B planning at this point? Well we don't need to.
But like I said if the sun hits the moon and hits another galaxy we will be better positioned than anybody else.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well tax breaks aren't granted in perpetuity.
So I think the question is out there.
A similar question actually related to Klépierre.
I mean obviously there's been a lot of talk about tax increases and public policy responses that may be somewhat more fluid in Europe today.
Any notion at all that the tax status of the company like Klépierre is being questioned? Not at all.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Let me go back to the leasing spreads again not to beat a dead horse here but the 13% so the 300-basis point pickup when I first looked at that what went into my mind was you're starting to roll some shorter term post-downturn leases and you're getting the benefit there.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is does it feel like this increase whether it's 200 basis points 300 or whatever it is is probably going to be sticky going forward or is it just purely an anomaly where Q2 rolls around and for some reason were back down to 10%? Mike it's Steve.
Let me take a shot at it and Rick can weigh in or David.
I think if you look at the -- we give you 5 quarters' worth of information and the one thing you can see from the 5 quarters is that the spread has increased over each of the 5 quarters.
The magnitude of the increase this quarter was substantial relative to the trend that we had been seeing but we had been going from the low 4s to the mid 4s to $5 a foot.
So and as I said some of that is lumpy because of first quarter explorations but the fact is deal flow has been getting better quality of deals has been getting better occupancy cost has stayed relatively low.
So as you want to think about it as a mark-to-market or however you want to think about it there is there should be an upward bias.
Is the upward bias from $5 to $7 I think that's hard to say.
But the trend has been good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess secondly just curious about what are the thoughts on the pace of rolling out outlets in Brazil today compared to what you were thinking 6 months or a year ago? Let me answer it if I could.
I think both.
As you know we've looked diligently in Brazil and diligently in China.
Both markets for us have proven to be very very difficult to find the right project with the right risk/reward ratio and hence we have nothing -- I mean we're still working with BR Malls.
We're still hopeful that eventually we'll be able to do something there.
China is proved to be a market that I continue to really question whether or not anybody can make money investing there especially us.
And so I'm hopeful that over time we'll find the right opportunity with BR in Brazil but that's taken longer than we anticipated.
And then China is really really on the back burner.
And I have no regrets about it being on the back burner.
Your next question comes from the line of Deutsche Bank.
I just wanted to go back to JCPenney real quick.
Just obviously given the transition at the top there I'm just wondering if you could share your thoughts on that move itself.
But then also given their sort of return to more conditional marketing tactics that they've been known for.
At the ground- level have you seen any change in traffic levels and that kind of thing since the move? Well let me just mention we're pleased that Mike Ullman is back.
I think he will -- he's obviously a very confident seasoned thoughtful CEO and leader.
And given all the turmoil that Penny was going through a perfect choice to help stabilize the company.
And that we have great respect for him and his ability.
And I would say generally having walked a number of Penny stores with David Contis and Rick over the last -- not just the stores.
So the stores are looking better.
So I think they're heading on the right track.
It's very hard for me to speculate exactly how it's all going to shakeout.
But the bottom line is the organization needed some stability and thoughtfulness and I think Mike's perfectly the right guy to provide that  Okay.
And just want to go back to some comments you made about the department -- no the anchor space I think 635 only 6 or 7 vacant so some of the lowest vacancy you've ever seen there.
But then you also kind of you say that -- I think I heard no interest in sale-leasebacks.
Just curious if you could comment on what kind of demand is out there for additional anchor space obviously with the vacancy low that's good but I mean are you seeing much demand for anchor space? It just seem like more people are moving to the outlet channel in terms of the traditional anchors.
This is Rick.
There is a great deal of demand for the space and if you look at the kind of tenants that we're adding to the properties we're adding Wegmans Fresh Market Dick's theaters health clubs.
There is a substantially broader number of categories of retailers that want to take advantage of all the traffic en masse that we are creating at these properties.
So we have again more demand today than we have had historically from a broader collection and a variety of retailers than we've had in the past and all that is helping drive I think the growth of our property and the lack of vacancy among our anchor boxes.
Okay.
Do you have enough data points at this point for some of these non-traditional anchor malls as far as how the performance of those malls compares to historically the traditional setup our mix? I think that all of our anchor components are part of the mix that we have at the property.
They are not going to be game changing but they obviously want to be a property that are consistent with their growth and in some instances merely a function of whether we can accommodate the physical configuration.
Wegmans needs almost 4 acres of land for a single level building well in a lot of instances that can [ph] happen.
So it's really less a function of that kind of a correlation a more a function of can we continue to give our trade area shoppers more reasons to come to our properties then that's what we're all about.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the bankruptcy front in the lease termination front and that sort of side of the equation it seems that things are pretty good.
I guess Rick how would you characterize the outlook for lost tenants over the next 3 to 9 months? Well if you look historically our bankruptcy numbers have been up a little in '13 just because of Bakers.
But overall the credit profile of our tenants has never been better.
Our receivables Steve can elaborate has never been in better shape or bad debt is stable.
So we're feeling good about the credit profile of our tenants and more importantly their rent-paying ability which continues to be pretty strong.
Yes Rich this is Steve.
Just to put numbers on Rick's overall statement.
I think at the end of the third quarter we were chasing $42 million of receivables that had been built but not yet been paid and that's on about a $7 billion annual base of revenue that we bill either on the consolidated or the JV property.
So you're literally talking about less than 2 days’ worth of revenue.
And the credit profile as Rick said is very strong right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I don't think my calculator decimals go out that far Steve so.
Okay good.
And then on the outlets I think didn't you guys do the development of Houston and Tangers doing Charlotte and how do you split up Columbus? So I guess who's driving Columbus is what I'm curious.
It's -- in Charlotte we've actually switched the roles that we had in Texas.
And in Texas we were the developer and we jointly leased and they run the center.
In Charlotte they are the developer as there was the site.
We're going to manage the center and will jointly lease.
And then in Columbus again Columbus is a competitive marketplace.
But in Columbus we're switching back to the other deal.
So it's been -- partnerships are very common in the real estate industry.
All sorts of people are partnered developers over the years have always partnered.
We have a very good relationship with Tanger and so it's just kind of a natural to say okay this is a way it was here we're going to swap there and then go back here and then there's another deal to do it would probably swap back to the way we're doing Charlotte.
So long winded but Charlotte will be a the Charlotte Premium Outlet and then Tanger will be branding Columbus if in fact we're the successful developer.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then David how many more do you think of the 8 that you have going and you would do with or that you're thinking about for North America you'd do with Tanger? Well in the 2 or in the 8 and that be of the 8 North America that includes Canada by the way and we are actually looking at another site in Mexico.
And we've seen very good progress in our outlet in Mexico City.
But of the 8 2 of those are Charlotte and Columbus of the 8.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And no more plans yet with Tanger? No sir.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then the last things the recovery ratio I think it was pretty much a high this time this quarter.
I mean is it going to stay up where it is? Well I think we're excited -- I tell you in a weird sort of way the recovery ratio the way those of us who have been around awhile that historically thought about it.
It's kind of less relevant now because we are 90 plus percent converted to fixed KM so the KM charge is just another fixed charge that the retailer looks at in the calculation of the total occupancy cost that they're paying to the landlord.
Our fixed KM all have individual annual escalators.
And if you look at our operating cost they've been pretty flat.
And as long as that's the case you're going to see the recovery ratio the way developers have traditionally thought about it continue to increase.
But I will tell you just in terms of our ability to drive rents if you go back and we've given you some of the quarters in the K but our occupancy cost is down over 100 basis points since 12/31/10.
So we're still providing very good profitability and value for our retailers.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Yang of Evercore Partners.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> David you made some comments last [ph] quarter that demand is picking up in the B mall category that sales were actually okay.
So 3 4 months into the new year is that still the situation generally that the B mall segment continues to perform okay? Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
I mean yes it is.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also maybe for Steve based on some of your recent conversations with the lenders.
Are the lenders taking a more conservative approach maybe to the B mall category given obviously what's happening at JCPenney? Well Ben I would just say that lenders and I assume you're referring to the secured lenders generally speaking I have kept a more conservative posture.
Loan to values are still relatively modest underwriting is still relatively conservative.
And that's true regardless of the quality of the asset.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no significant change over the past few weeks given obviously the new management team at JCPenney's and a lot of uncertainty going on with that particular anchor; is that a fair assumption? That's fair.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe switching gears.
You made some comments on China just now.
On the back burner just to find opportunities just to make money.
Can you just elaborate a bit on some of the challenges that you see in China today that makes you a little more cautious because I do recall that you guys did go to China a few years ago doing some anchored centers and I was curious what you see today that makes it still very challenging for you guys.
Well that was a very good experience.
And we brought 70% -- look any time you invest capital and you only bring 70% of it back home you learn a lesson.
And I would say Ben generally generally the ability to underwrite the product there in terms of what the tenants are going to pay what the costs are what the approval process is all of the elements of the P&amp;L and pro forma including construction cost land cost permitting it's all very not to say that people can't make money there but it's all very difficult to really have a high degree of confidence.
And when you think of the risks associated there you would hope that the returns are better at least on the piece of paper that you're ready to make the investment are.
And frankly they're not and that's what -- that's where the big gap exist.
And so a lot of it is build and they will come and that plays out pretty badly in real estate development.
I mean it's certainly build it and they will come in the U.S.
As Rick knows and I know Rick's older so he knows a little bit more than I know.
Build it and they will come did not make every mall successful.
There were a lot of malls that frankly shouldn't have been built.
So it's just very tough to have the level of precision that we want and if there were margin for error i.e.
returns on investment that were higher you would take the risk.
I just don't see it in everything that we look at on a piece of paper in China.
Brazil is a little bit different.
You can pencil better returns there.
But again finding the right site and the right -- and the ability to build and so on is a little more tough -- difficult but you do see a little bit of a -- you do see a much better returns at least on a paper.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And maybe just one final one on China.
I mean what type of returns would make it more attractive for you to go into China given all the risk that you've kind of elaborated on? You'll know it when we do it and right now I don't see anything on the drawing board that's going to -- and again please the fact of the matter is somebody could be very successful and we could miss an opportunity but for whatever reason whatever we're looking at it's just not making sense for us.
That's not to say others might not be successful.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Patinkin of BMO.
A couple of questions on Toronto Premium Outlet and the broader opportunity set for the Premium Outlet brand in Canada.
Hudson Bay is opening their first outlet store there.
Are you in a position to announce any other merchants? Yes we will.
I don't know when we're going to do that but we normally do that.
We normally have done that throughout the process but we will.
I mean this should be by all accounts a very successful outlet center.
We're already 85% leased and committed and we will be putting out a press release in the next month or so.
It's opening in August.
So it's happening and it's gotten very good response from both the Canadian-based retailers but also the U.S.
retailers that are operating in Toronto already.
Okay.
So that was my next question.
The American brand I'm trying to assess their level of interest in Canada and are the Canadian brands that are going in there are they developing a made-for-outlet merchandising strategy similar to what happened? Some are.
Yes some are now.
Hudson Bay is a perfect example.
We have a wonderful relationship with the parent which is as you know Lord &amp; Taylor and we've picked up the phone and said this you're doing Lord &amp; Taylor outlets in the U.S.
a few here and there.
You ought to do it with Hudson Bay and really we generated that idea.
They thought long and hard about it and they were very interested in doing that.
So I do think it will start a trend there no question about it.
And the U.S.
folks are very interested assuming they have a full price presence ahead of that.
And Canada generally is very attractive to most U.S.
retailers.
But not all are there.
And some of their outlet concepts will be delayed to the extent that until they have the full price there which is coming and for us with Toronto Premium Outlets the luxury brands are starting to hit Toronto and what we think over time as they hit there we have the natural place for them to do the outlet.
But again that's going to take time.
In the meantime we're going to have a terrific center and we have a Phase 2 there that would allow us to bring in the luxury guys as they hit kind of the greater Toronto market.
Okay.
As you look at Canada how many Premium Outlet caliber malls are there to build in Canada do you think? Well look we expect in our at least one of the -- now this was a great secret now you've got 3 or 4 of the 8 but one in Mexico [ph].
One of the 8 at least 8 is in Montréal which we expect again another meeting today on it but we're going to start construction on that in July.
And so that's -- we think that's a good market a very good market.
Now it poses a little trickier leasing because a number of the U.S.
brands won't go up to Québec but we think that's offset by some of the international brands that really do like Montréal.
In fact Montréal is a great fashion city and they have great malls there and we think it's going to be a great long-term project.
So we've got Montréal.
Obviously Vancouver is a very interesting market as well.
We're focused on those kind of bigger gateway areas up in Canada.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David you've updated your FFO guidance at the first quarter for stronger operations.
Just going back to the first -- fourth quarter volume you said on that call it was going to be tough to match the 4.8% same-store growth you did in '12.
Could you perhaps give us an update of those thoughts? Well we -- look the first quarter was very good.
We had a -- what's really impressive for me is that it was off a really good first quarter in '12.
So that's pretty significant cash flow growth when you had the 5 7 plus the 4 8 on top of the 4 8.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I agree.
I am conservative by nature.
I think the organization generally is even though we probably don't compliment them as much as we should they're really doing a good job.
So it would be -- I would be very very excited if we maintained that we are not anticipating that.
We also kind of trended down through the year.
First quarter was better or so last year if you look we kind of -- I don't remember where we were overall for '12 but...
4 8.
4 8.
So I think '13 we're heading the right direction.
I'm really not answering your question but it's off to a good start is all I can tell you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then any thoughts about some of the fundamental strength of the B mall market.
There seems to be some new entrants into the B mall category people looking to buy some of those major assets [ph] et cetera.
What are your thoughts in terms of perhaps accelerating your sales out of that group taking advantage of the new entrants to that market? Well we're still going to prune the portfolio.
So I'm pleased that there are new people coming in the market that are looking at deals.
So I think that's good for us generally.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on St.
Louis.
You have 97% spoken for at this point.
Now that you're getting closer to the open can you give us a little bit more perhaps the insight into the negotiations with the retailers of why they chose your site over the competing and what type of sales they're expecting to get out of that? Look I -- really I'm not going to get into that Nate other than to say we presented to them what they thought the center was going to be like Cincinnati Premium Outlets.
This is kind of how we envisioned the productivity and the mix.
And that's been very -- it's a quite center but it's been well received by the community and by the retailers.
And that's how we sold it to the retailers.
Now they have a lot of confidence that if we say we're going to build Cincinnati they did we did that so that's how we kind of sold it and to them in terms of how they should think about the productivity.
The pricing was similar to that.
I mean and we took it from there.
I mean nothing beyond that really.
I mean it was competitive but at the end of the day I think retailers have a level of confidence with us that -- in terms of the outlet product.
I will say this though we got the -- this pricing in new deal it's not -- the outlet retailer generally they know what they can afford to pay.
So as much as we'd like to say there's just great huge negotiation on rents I mean they're used to saying here's what I pay on the new outlet center and that's what they pay.
So they're in a very good position to bargain what the rental rate is.
I mean the one thing they really wanted to do they really don't like competing centers.
They really like when there's one site and then they all go because they don't -- they know what they can afford to pay and then that's what they pay.
So in Charlotte as much as the market might think boy Charlotte looks like we're going to build that one center.
The retail community loved the fact that they didn't have to worry about a competing site.
They really really like it.
Now in St.
Louis I'm sure a number of them felt that way as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess your success there hasn't whetted your appetite for another bite [ph].
No.
Look we've lost plenty of those too.
And I mean -- but it's like I said it's not -- it's common to partner and just get a deal done for the community for the retailers and be done with it.
In this case it didn't happen.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I will like to hand the call back over to Mr.
Simon for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you for your time and your interest and we'll talk to you very very soon.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter Simon Property Group Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Allison and I'll be operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Liz Zale Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Simon Property Group's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Liz Zale Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Joining me on today's call is David Simon our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer investors to today's earnings press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please note that this call does include information that may be accurate only of today's date July 29 2013 and reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the earnings release or the company supplemental information including this morning's Form 8-K filing.
The supplemental document is available on simon.com in the Investors section.
And with that I would like to now introduce David Simon.
Good morning.
It was another productive quarter.
FFO was $2.11 per share up 11.6% from the second quarter of '12.
Our FFO exceeded the first call consensus by $0.04.
For Malls and Outlets comparable property NOI growth was 5.9% driven by occupancy up 90 basis points to 95.1%; a growth in the releasing spread to $7.49 per square foot or 14.1%; base minimum rent per square foot 3.6% higher than the year ago period.
And our tenant sales were up 4.2% to $577 per square foot.
Now let me turn to just some deal activity.
On May 30 we acquired a 390 000 square-foot outlet center in Portland Oregon $447 million.
This is a very productive center with sales in excess of $600 per square foot.
It's 99% leased has a great tenant lineup and fits terrific with our Outlet portfolio.
And it's been rebranded Woodburn Premium Outlets.
And as you would expect it's immediately accretive to FFO.
On June 3 we announced our JV with McArthurGlen to invest in certain of their designer outlets and become a partner in the property management development companies.
They have a terrific and one of the best performing portfolios of high-quality retail real estate in Europe and a good strong team of professionals.
The transaction supports and extends our International Premium Outlet strategy.
We completed the initial phase of this transaction and are now 50-50 partners in the management and development companies.
And we also will become a partner in their new designer outlet project in Vancouver and are working to close our investment in several of their existing centers.
On May 7 we sold Laguna Hills Mall for $110 million.
Now let me turn to new development.
Phoenix and Shisui opened in April both 100% leased both strong openings.
And we're pleased with the performance.
The third quarter -- this third quarter we have 3 new Premium Outlet Centers that will open.
Toronto this week August 1.
You're all welcome.
St.
Louis which is 100% leased on August 22.
You're all welcome.
Busan Korea maybe a little bit out of your way but it is 99% leased and it opens on August 29.
The construction started during the second quarter at our Premium Outlets Montréal which is our second Premium Outlet Center in Canada.
Vancouver will be our third.
And let me just turn to redevelopment activity.
A lot going on.
I won't go through everything but some highlights.
In April we completed the redevelopment of an existing limited building in Dadeland Mall.
It's great.
Go look at it.
The redevelopment of Walt Whitman opens this September with the addition of retailers and restaurants on the exterior of the building.
The Shops at Nanuet in suburban New York City opens in October.
At this project we actually demolished the existing mall and created a new open air center.
The redevelopment of Lenox Square continues as does the transformation of Del Amo Fashion Center among several other centers that are all listed in the 8-K.
And on the Premium Outlet front we completed expansions at Paju and Seattle during the second quarter.
Expansions are underway at Orlando Premium Outlets in Vineland and Johor Malaysia.
Both of these projects will open in the fourth quarter.
The significant expansion at Desert Hills continues will open in April of next year.
And finally on that front we started this quarter the $170 million redevelopment expansion of Woodbury Commons in New York.
The Mills -- Sawgrass Mills we opened the expansion in The Colonnade Outlets during the second quarter as well as the redevelopment of the former Wannado space.
Macy's opened at Gurnee Mills last week.
In addition we have significant box activity throughout The Mills and Mall portfolio with numerous stores under construction.
Our pipeline in new development redevelopment projects is significant and growing.
Stuff is coming online.
We're also under construction with several projects.
We expect this to continue at least $1 billion annually through 2016.
And I'll remind you that we're funding this primarily with $1 billion of our free annual cash flow generated by the company.
Just quickly on financing.
We're pleased with the Standard &amp; Poor's upgrade in May with our corporate credit rating and senior unsecured debt ratings were increased to A level.
We believe this reflects our conservative balance sheet strategy the quality of our portfolio and the ongoing focus of being a good steward of capital.
We continue to be active in the debt markets.
So far year-to-date we did 17 new loans approximately $2.4 billion of which our shares is $1.7 billion.
The average interest rate on the loans is 2.9% and the average term is 8.1 years.
Klépierre reported solid first half results.
I won't go through them in detail.
They're available.
Shopping center gross rents which represents 94.4% of total rents were up 4.1% or 2.5% on a like-for-like basis.
They increased their 2013 guidance for net cash -- net current cash flow per share.
And they continue to upgrade the portfolio through development redevelopment as well as the disposition on noncore assets.
Today we increased the top and the bottom of our 2013 FFO guidance once again to a new range of $8.60 to $8.70 of FFO per share.
This is an increase of $0.20 from our initial guidance or over $70 million.
And as always we are extremely focused on the successful execution of our plan for '13 from the effective leasing and management of our high-quality existing portfolio to the successful delivery of our new and redevelopment pipeline and the achievement of the returns that we have outlined.
We're now ready for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt of New York.
Research Division</strong> I look at the supplemental and it says the openings projected for 2015 and beyond and it lists Del Amo and Roosevelt Field but it doesn't list Copley Place and Houston Galleria.
Is this just because those projects are starting later or is there a change in plan for those assets? No change at all.
We are -- actually once they are formally approved within our internal process they go on a schedule.
Copley we're actually going through just a little bit more permitting approvals which we expect to have by the end of the year.
And then The Galleria we have an announcement coming shortly.
Stay tuned.
We approved it internally.
They'll both be on our list.
No real change of plans on either one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I also noticed in the anchor section you're adding a Wegmans to the Montgomery Mall.
May you be adding supermarkets to other centers and was there any change that you made in terms of parking or access to make Wegmans work with the rest of the mall? Craig it's Rick.
The Wegmans is being built on the site of a former Boscov's which we demolished.
And the land was suitable to be able to have all their parking accommodated.
We are putting several outside uses in Montgomery just to be accommodative to that so we're having some uses we think will work well with the supermarket.
And we're also adding a Fairway Market at Nanuet.
So these types of high profile high-volume users are we think very additive to the properties.
Craig I remember you used to asked about Nanuet all the time.
So now thankfully it's opening in October.
And we're basically virtually leased not everybody will open by this year.
But by spring of next year all 100% will be opened.
Research Division</strong> I was actually by that site a couple of weeks ago.
It looks like it's pretty transformative.
Yes it should be.
We're excited about it.
Research Division</strong> One last thing.
Are you able to give a cap rate on the Laguna Hills Mall that you sold in May? Well I'll let you do the math.
The NOI if I remember correctly was around $6.5 million or something in that range $6.5 million.
And your next question comes from Quentin Velleley of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just on the McArthurGlen acquisition.
Can you just talk broadly about the opportunity in Europe with Outlets and how involved Simon senior management will be with the management and growth of that business? Well I think there is a significant opportunity both within their existing portfolio and the ability to add extensions to them as well as continue to upgrade the tenant offerings and add to the footfall of those centers through tourism efforts and the like.
In addition McArthurGlen does have a significant pipeline of additional opportunities in terms of new development.
So when you couple those as well as we do think there'll be acquisition opportunities within their portfolio and others we think it's going to end up being a significant platform for our growth over the next several years.
It's a complicated deal not only because it's in Europe and you're in different countries but also the ownership of the assets are owned not by just one individual but by various partners and funds.
I think over time as we solidify the platform bring our expertise to the table along with their assets and their people it should be a very good deal for us.
So we're excited about it.
And the sales productivity of these centers is very high and there's not a lot of them.
And they're very well accepted and there's not that many players in Europe that do it at such a high level.
So we think ultimately it's going to be a good transaction for us.
Research Division</strong> I think you still own a stake in Value Retail the other outlet developer and owner in Europe.
Are you now a seller of that stake? Do you have an offer for me? Research Division</strong> I don't have the money.
Okay.
No we're happy with that stake.
But we're always interested in whatever we can do to benefit our shareholders.
But that investment has been good for us.
We anticipate continuing in it.
As you might know I mean that was kind of an investment that the former Chelsea made.
We've added to it over the years.
We've got a significant embedded gain compared to our book value of it and they do a very good job in terms of operating their centers as well.
So we think we're a long-term owner of it but I never rule anything out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly there's been a lot of media speculation on the Colonial investment management platform in Australia.
I know you guys are constantly looking at global opportunities.
Is the Australian mall industry one that interests you? Well maybe.
Haven't ruled it out.
But we'll look at anything.
I mean Westfield does such a good job.
We've always been a little bit reluctant to enter that market.
On the other hand it's an interesting market.
It's very stable.
We like the people there and the malls there do very well.
So I wouldn't rule anything out just like we've monitored Brazil for years.
Haven't found the right transaction.
We wouldn't rule any one particular place out.
The one place we continue to be the most concerned about as we look internationally is China just because it's a tough place to figure out who's on first.
Australia to some extent has a lot of benefits that it's a very transparent market.
And your next question comes from Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on McArthurGlen.
With regard to the property management development partnership will there be any immediate impact to cash flow just thinking about any fees? Or is that further down the road? Well it's a profitable management company so our investment will have a return associated with it.
Now that will just end up flowing through our JV line so it's not going to be in our management company.
So it will be hard for you to see.
But they're profitable and we expect to have a pretty good return on our investment in the management company.
Research Division</strong> What was the investment? Well it's really separated into 2 pieces but both for the management and the development was GBP 25 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you able to disclose the Q2 '13 only year-over-year change in sales? Say it again? Research Division</strong> Just the quarter change in sales so if I were just to isolate the second quarter sales and look at it on a year-over-year basis.
We don't do that but it was up about 1%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly regarding some of the new sort of in-store customer tracking technology that some retailers are using today are you having to do any upgrades to the technological infrastructure of your malls such as increasing bandwidth or other changes? And are you using any new technologies to sort of collect any of your own data on customers or analyze shopper traffic patterns? Well look that whole area we are treading very very carefully because it is lots of privacy concerns.
So we have not -- we've looked at it all.
But the fact of the matter is until the folks in Washington feel good about it we are watching it and we're not really playing in any of that stuff because we really don't know what kind of privacy violations it may generate.
So I would tell you that we're treading very very carefully and have done nothing along the lines that would be able to track anything like that period end of story.
Now with respect to -- I think the big effort generally in the mall industry is we're all investing in WiFi networks throughout our malls.
We're doing that as well.
We're starting at the bigger ones first and that's really primarily for the benefit of our consumer.
But to the extent that it can help facilitate our retailers we're happy for them to participate.
But again I would tell you on the privacy front we're not doing anything.
We're treading very very carefully.
Research Division</strong> And from a CapEx perspective what are the sort of per mall costs associated with adding the WiFi? It depends.
I'd say generally it's around $150 000 a mall but it really depends.
Somewhere in that range.
And your next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Steve you've been a little quiet so far so maybe I'll lead off with you.
As far as the A rating is this a blessing or a bit of a curse? In any way does it limit your ability whether it's on the redevelopment front or on the overseas investment front? Does being an A student does that hinder your guys' flexibility or would you rather be A-? It does not hinder it at all Alex.
And in fact one of the additions that we made to the 8-K this quarter was to give you some look at some credit metrics over a 5-year look-back period and you can see how the metrics had improved.
The coverage has gotten better leverage went down debt to EBITDA went down.
So I think if anything it's just a reflection of the continued strengthening of the balance sheet.
And to the extent that we can absolutely borrow at cheaper rates than anyone else in our sector I think that's absolutely a good thing.
And I'll just add S&amp;P they're pretty smart folks.
They've seen what we've done historically both in redevelopment and M&amp;A activity so they have every expectation that that will continue.
And they don't necessarily just rate you based upon being a status business.
They rate you on what you've done and what they expect for you to do going forward.
And our redevelopment pipeline of $5 billion thereabouts as well as our continual activity in finding smart external investments is part of our history of our company.
And they actually like that stuff because it's obviously increased our return on equity and increased our cash flow and made us a better company.
So that's all factored into how they look at us going forward.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is going onto the McArthurGlen and Klépierre.
The first part is just when you were talking David earlier about buying out in McArthurGlen presumably that was buying out some of those individual ownership stakes so that it would be JVs that you would own McArthurGlen assets with McArthurGlen and Simon as the ownership structure.
And then separate...
Correct.
That's correct.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separate is it's early on but down the road do you synergies between Klépierre and McArthurGlen? Or in your view these are 2 totally separate platforms they each have to stand on their own? Well I think initially they are definitely 2 separate platforms and definitely will stand on their own.
I mean they both have very successful operating platforms.
And they have obviously dedicated management for both and they're both big businesses.
But I do think with time there certainly could be cooperation between the 2 but it's not necessary.
But I would expect the 2 to cooperate over time.
And especially in France where McArthurGlen has at least 3 in the pipe of new potential developments given the history of Klépierre and developing it in France there's no reason why some sort of cooperation wouldn't make sense for both companies.
And we'll certainly encourage that.
I happen to know both guys who run it so that will make it a little bit easier.
And your next question comes from Cedrik Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David when I look at some of the recent acquisitions they always seem to be largely strategic.
You think about the big picture.
You look at adding outlets to Europe where you obviously have the full price presence.
It's got similarities with what you've done in the U.S.
The approach always seems to be primarily strategic.
Do you also look at plays where you would find more distressed real estate where you would find big discounts to any of your asset value? Or is this on the back burner and you keep looking for strategic acquisitions? I can't tell you -- there is nothing more than buying something cheap that excites me and the team here.
So we love to buy things really cheap.
And if that can be done on a distressed basis we like it as long as -- ultimately we've got to believe in the real estate because we're not -- well I wouldn't say we're traders.
So at the end of the day we've got to have a long-term view that we like the cash flow that's being generated from the real estate.
But to some extent I mean if you go back to the Klépierre deal -- and look  Europe is still squishy to put it mildly.
That was a -- I wouldn't call it a distressed situation but it was certainly at a pretty decent discount to NAV in an uncertain future.
And not many people are investing in Europe.
When we talk about McArthurGlen there are not many people that are at this point taking the position that Europe is a good place to invest in.
So to some extent both of those transactions are somewhat contrarian.
And if we see those as capital ebbs and flows throughout the world I mean I would hope that we would be able to take advantage of it.
So we certainly love to try and do that.
It's not what we do every day.
We've got to believe in the real estate at the end of the day.
But I would tell you that we've done it historically so we would hope to continue to find those kind of opportunities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And when you look at it currently are those investment possibilities primarily outside of the U.S.? Or do you see potential either distressed here distressed properties or even companies that might be at prices that are of more interest in the United States? I would say Cedrik generally those kind of opportunities are outside the U.S.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would you be able to share the cap rate on Woodburn? You won't believe it but it was 10.5% only because we had a long-term option to buy it at a 10.5% cap rate.
So it's not a reflection of market value but it just goes -- it's a long history there but it's a pretty good deal for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How did that option -- how was it put together? It was really by the outlet guys with Craig over a number of years history of kind of that whole relationship.
I really -- it's not really all that material how it got there but it just -- it's a good deal for us.
And importantly it's a very good center.
And your next question comes from Steve Sakwa of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping that you guys could focus a little bit on the core portfolio since that's the primary driver of I think growth here.
You guys are now 95% occupied.
The business is really kind of hitting on all cylinders.
When I look at the re-leasing spreads and look at kind of where ending rents are for next year they actually are lower in '14 than they are for the balance of this year.
And I'm just curious how are you and Rick thinking about kind of the leasing the discussions with tenants and kind of what are you guys doing differently today given where you're sitting with the portfolio as well leased as it is? It's Rick.
Basically we are spending a lot of time just focusing on our mix focusing on getting the right tenants in the right spaces to maximize the productivity to maximize the rent that they can pay.
And I will tell you that a lot of the calls that David and I receive are tenants worried about whether they're going to be renewed in their spaces as opposed to having to solicit interest in the spaces.
So we're in a pretty dynamic market.
All of the improvements we're making to this portfolio in the renovations the redevelopment I think over the last 4 years we've probably added 200 different anchors to these portfolios.
We're just taking market share and making them better.
And I think that the thing you can focus on is the fact that our occupancy cost is 11.3%.
And as you see with our spreads and you see with the momentum we have we're going to be able to continue to grow that NOI because of all those reasons.
Steve I would just say look I mean the fact is supply and demand is a little bit better.
But our philosophy on how we operate the business is not all that different.
I mean we've seen cycles ebb and flow.
At the end of the day what's best for the business is creating the win-win with the retailer and we've done that.
We don't get to where we are today if we hadn't taken that philosophy over the last 50 years.
So it's not all that different.
Sure it's better to be in this kind of environment where supply and demand is in the owner's favor but that changes too.
And so at the end of the day it's all about just trying to create a win-win which I think the history of our company suggests we know how to do it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe a quick question for Steve.
On the Page 22 on the supplemental you've obviously got a fairly large decline in the Other income.
And even if you strip out some of the things like the gain on land sales the Other was down about $10 million and it's down about $12 million for the year.
Can you sort of just talk about that and how do we think about that business in the back half of the year and into next year? Sure Steve.
There are a couple of things that were in Other income in 2012 that aren't there in 2013.
If you remember we talked from time to time on prior calls that we were owners of some mortgages so there was some income flowing through from that debt.
That debt has all been paid off.
Likewise we were the mezz lender to The Mills.
That debt was obviously retired as part of the transaction in 2012.
And then we have had as you mentioned both lower land sales as well as on a year-to-date basis much lower lease settlement income.
Yes just to reinforce there because I saw your -- well just to reinforce the core business of the -- what's in the Other income sponsorship all of the ancillary things that are generated from the ball business is up this year compared to last year.
So there's no change there.
That category does represent a lot of our other activity whether it's loaning folks buying mortgages.
Sometimes we loan developers money where we get an option to buy.
As Steve said we bought mortgages.
Last year we sold our investment in the domain residential.
So that also category represents kind of the other activity that the company does that's not its what I'll call its operating business.
And it's a little bit lumpy no big deal.
But the important point is it is other income which is good.
It's not other losses that's point one.
Point two is that the core business sponsorship et cetera is all trending up this year compared to Q2 of last year and year-to-date.
Now I don't have exactly that number what it's up but we can certainly get it to you pretty quick unless you have it.
We don't have the core business number but we can get that for you no big deal.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly David just talk maybe a little bit about the Brazil situation your relationship with BR malls and sort of what's going on in terms of looking for deals down there and kind of the weakness in Brazil and how do you think that sort of plays out over the next year or 2? Well look the joint venture that we have with BR the first deal we were looking to build an outlet center in was in São Paulo.
And as you know it ran into right-to-build issues.
Those still to this day have not been satisfied at least to our comfort level.
So at this point it's a no-go deal until that gets satisfied.
And if it does get satisfied then we'll have a decision to make.
And we'll have to assess the climate both short term and medium term in deciding whether or not to go forward.
But the condition precedent to that decision is not yet there and that's the right-to-build issue.
There is a couple of other sites that our team went down to look at.
That may be in the pipe in the future.
So let's put that aside.
I mean the macro stuff there is concerning all the supply in the market is concerning.
That's kind we kind of like the Outlet business because it was different.
It was new.
It was going to get ahead of a lot of the supply that came on on the full price.
Obviously you've got to weigh the macro in.
But long term Brazil is a great great country with a lot of dynamic growth to it.
But we're very cautious on a market like that and we haven't found the right deal.
And thankfully in hindsight our decision not to invest aggressively there has been the appropriate one.
So we'll wait to see.
I've always worried about the cash flows from the buildings that have been built there and whether that was sustainable with all the new supply the fact that a lot of the cash flow comes from parking.
There's a whole host of things.
The cost of the goods down there is significant.
The high-end malls there whether they're profitable for the retailers or not still it's a question mark.
So there's a lot there to underwrite.
And essentially that's -- you should assume that those questions have been factored into the fact that we have not made an investment in Brazil.
Our next question comes from Caitlin Burrows of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on sales growth.
With regards to the increase from $575 a square foot reported in the first quarter to $577 reported now do you think the sequential increase of 35 basis points is a sign for concern as it's somewhat weaker than the other recent quarters? No.
Research Division</strong> No okay.
And then can you comment on which areas of retail seem to be doing especially well versus the ones that are keeping that number from increasing as much as it had been in previous 3 quarters? Yes I'll let Rick talk about that.
But I will say this.
I mean the ups and downs of retailers and retail sales is a historical fact.
But the increasing of our cash flow year after year is also a historical fact.
And so we don't get overexcited whether sales go up 5% or down 5% because we know that the cash flow that we generate from our buildings has a long history of increasing given that we've got tenants in there that are very profitable and we have leases that are below market.
So when we look at -- we give you this information I don't -- I have never pulled my hair out based upon -- or jumped up for joy when sales have increased.
I mean we're just giving you the facts.
The fact of the matter is our comp NOI is going to grow because our market rents are well below what leases are rolling over as someone pointed out earlier.
So I just want to reinforce that point and then Rick can go ahead and answer your question.
Just to add a little more color to that the stronger regions for us were New England the Mountain states Southwest and South Atlantic; a little weaker were the Plains Mid-Atlantic Great Lakes.
The stronger categories were juniors women's specialty accessories men's shoes and women's better.
And the weaker areas were women's popular home furniture and women's special size.
And our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
Did you guys talk about a yield expectation for your investment in McArthurGlen? Well we're going to -- when the whole deal closes we'll give that to you.
But as we said initially when we announced it in May that it will be accretive and it's going to be -- we believe it's going to be a profitable transaction.
But until all the elements of it close we're not going to get into those details.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys made an investment in 6 interests in their malls.
They own about I think about 20 or more.
Was it just because of the structures in the individual malls or was it more selective buying? Well again we haven't closed on 4 of the 6 yet.
But when those close some of those interests are held outside of MGE which again over time I think we'll have the opportunity to the extent that we want to to buy interest in some of those assets.
But they're not really at this point owned by MGE other than a couple which we kind of collectively both agreed that we didn't want to buy at this particular point.
So again this is a long-term transaction that we feel will be able to increase our investment in but in a methodical thoughtful way.
And we're just focused on finishing the first deal and then we'll be able to look at other opportunities going forward not just with some of the other assets that they manage but don't own or own very little but also other opportunities out there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the 5.9% same-store NOI growth could you help us -- could you break it out a little bit maybe how much of it will fund the revenue front versus expenses? And it looks like your tenant reimbursements increased pretty significantly.
How much of that looks driven by that as well? Ki Bin this is Steve.
You hit the 3 components.
Minimum rent was over half of it.
A contributor was also the net increases in recoveries if you will and then percentage rents.
If you look at our overage rent line on both the consolidated financials but then also our share of the JV income overage rent was a contributor as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is that -- the increase in recovery so what thought about that it seems this is higher than it's been before on a year-over-year basis? Well I don't think it's higher than it's been year before but it's -- we're 90-plus percent converted to fixed CAM.
We have annual escalators of that fixed charge and that annual escalator has been at a higher rate than expenses have been growing.
And in fact we've done a really good job of holding expenses relatively flat so that's been additive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question and I'll kind of leave it open-ended.
Surprised that you guys didn't include the outlet development in Philadelphia with Penn REIT in your I guess maybe it's too new in your development pages or disclosures.
And I guess I'll leave it open-ended maybe you could comment a little bit about that? Yes I mean it's -- once we approve it internally it will go on our schedule.
We expect it to go forward.
It's still finalizing the permit.
We're actually rushing I hope to start this year so we could open next year.
That's going to be touch and go just because we have to go through some permitting stuff.
Once we do it and approve it it will be there.
We expect it to be a good deal.
Penn REIT approached us with the site I don't know 1.5 year 2 years ago Rick probably? About a year.
We looked at it.
We did a little bit of tentative pre-leasing with the retailers.
They expressed an interest.
We're going to build it once we get permitted not overly complicated.
And then hopefully if we do get to jump through the hoops that we need to jump through we could actually start this year and then have a chance of opening next year.
But like I said that's right on the bubble.
If not it will be a '15 opening.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that a 50-50 JV? No we own 75%.
We have -- and they own 25% and we have a small partner in our piece.
So I think our effective I remember is around 65%.
Our effective ownership is 65%.
And your next question comes from Paul Adornato with BMO Capital Markets.
I guess this morning Hudson's Bay was talking about spinning off their real estate into a Canadian REIT.
And so the question is not on Hudson's Bay or Canadian REITs but really just the longer-term trend of the anchors trying to capture the real estate value for their own shareholders.
I was wondering if you had any thoughts or comments on that dynamic and how you might see it playing out going forward.
Well I will tell you that the attractiveness of a company like ours versus a captive REIT are a completely different set of institutional investors.
What people look to in our investment is the growth rising dividends the dynamic nature of our company.
And by investing with us they've been well rewarded by our ability to increase our earnings and our dividend and obviously the resulting stock price increase.
In those captive REITs they're basically a different set of investors.
They're bond-like investors.
So it's a whole different thing.
And if a retailer wants to do it I mean god bless them.
I mean if they makes them ultimately a better retailer and they can use that capital to reinvest in their business it's no big deal from our standpoint.
So there are some that are also trying to redevelop some of their boxes.
I think they have found that to be really difficult and I think what they'd rather end up doing is trying to figure out what the fair market value is and then look for the developer i.e.
us to make the profit.
And that's been the nature of the development business for years is that the developer tends to get the development profit because they know what they're doing.
So I don't think any of this is really all that different.
I think it's potentially an attractive way for them to raise the capital to fund Saks.
And if they can do that and make the combination a better more profitable business we're all for it.
And your next question comes from the line of David Harris of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> It looks as if we ended the 30-year decline in long-term interest rates in the first half of this year.
So if rates are going to be going up what do you think Simon might have to do differently over the next 3 to 5 years in order to generate returns as attractive as the returns you've been able to generate over the last couple of decades David? Well look I think the plan has been put in place David which is for us to generate the kind of returns that we want to generate that we've done historically it's really the redevelopment new development pipe that we've produced.
And that's bigger than it's ever been.
A lot of the returns that we generated historically was because we bought a lot of stuff at good prices and the values went up and we added value through increasing the cash flow.
The arbitrage that we have in the redevelopment and new development business and as large as it is is actually higher even with higher interest rates.
So as long as we can execute and that's assessing retailer demand and making sure the costs are right I think we can still do what we've done as we've shifted more toward redevelopment and new development as opposed to acquisition in terms of how we look at all the capital that we're plowing back into the business.
So I don't think we have to do anything extraordinary.
And other than -- and it is extraordinary other than execute our pipe which is huge and complicated.
But if we can do that I think we're in good stead.
David I'd also remind you as I think David mentioned in his opening remarks we fund that pipeline with free cash flow.
So in theory the cost of that capital is 0 so the arbitrage is very good.
But I'd also remind you we have $2.9 billion of debt coming due next year.
The weighted average interest rate is 6%.
We've got $2.9 billion coming due the following year at a weighted average interest rate of about 5 1/4%.
So even though with the spike in interest rates that we've seen today our bonds trade in the 3 3/4% range for 10 year.
So there still should be a very positive pickup as we refinance that debt over the next couple of years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve you read my note that I put out a month ago or so and I've made 6 suggestions that REITs might adopt by way of strategy and tactics to generate performance in a rising rate environment.
Would you just care to expand on why you think that managing leverage over the cycle would perhaps not be the right way to go? Well David listen I think one of the things we should have all learned coming out of '08 '09 is that the world changes.
It's a volatile place.
The price we pay for being a REIT is that we don't fund -- self-fund our debt from cash flow so we should all run with a fair bit of liquidity.
And I think we should all run with relatively conservative balance sheets.
So you and I might disagree on that particular point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a point of detail on the McArthurGlen deal.
If we think about the return expectations you underwrote there on the existing assets do you think those assets are going to produce higher returns than dollars invested in the existing outlet centers in the U.S.
and so we're looking really at this transaction as offering the better returns from development as we go forward? Or do you think it's going to be -- you're going to get attractive returns out of the existing assets as well? Well look I think the returns that we were able to generate out of the U.S.
Outlet business are pretty damn good.
So there's not much out there that we're going to do that's going to rival the returns that we get from new development and extending our existing U.S.
Premium Outlet business.
But that doesn't mean that that should eliminate us making other good investments.
And we are as busy as we've ever been in the U.S.
Premium Outlet business.
We're not doing every deal.
I mean there's lots of other outlet developers doing lots of new business in that space both redevelopment and new development.
So we're focused on what we can do and that's great.
And we're piling a lot of capital on that as evidenced by the new development and the extensions at Woodbury and Seattle and Desert Hills and Orlando and Vegas et cetera.
But that doesn't mean that the stuff that we're doing in Europe is not going to be attractive over both the medium and the long run.
It's not quite as good as the U.S.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
I mean having seen a couple of those McArthur assets over the years I mean I only think [ph] they've been pretty well managed.
I'm not suggesting that you couldn't squeeze some more out of them but it's not like there's huge amount being left on the table I don't think.
Well people have said that about other stuff that we bought and we figure out how to do that.
So I'm hopeful we can do the same thing here as well.
And your next question comes from John Kim of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on your potential interest in CFX retail in Australia.
Internationally your acquisitions have primarily been through joint ventures.
But regarding CFX I was wondering if your preference was again to go this route.
Or would you entertain the idea of fully owning and managing the assets given the high quality of the portfolio and given the fact that the management rights are for sale? Well we didn't say any of that.
So I think someone asked a big picture question about Australia and that's all I said was we haven't ruled it out.
We've -- so I really can't add anything more to that than what I just said.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then maybe I could just clarify is the Commonwealth Bank's potential sale of its management rights and interest in CFX is that something that's heightened your interest in Australia than a normal investment? Well again we haven't -- we look at opportunities worldwide and that would -- to the extent that that surfaces we'd look at it just like anything else.
I mean I can't really expound on it.
There's nothing really to add at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just turning to another Aussie company.
There are market reports that Lend Lease who you've transacted with in the past is looking to sell its ownership stake and management rights of Bluewater in the U.K.
Would a single acquisition like this be appealing to you in complementing your European investment? Or do you still prefer a platform in entering a new market? I would say one individual asset would have -- this is a generic statement.
It would have to be a unique individual asset in a market that we're familiar with for us to do it to do that as supposed to just -- I'd prefer a platform.
Certainly an asset like Bluewater is unique and it's a very good asset.
But generally it would have to just -- this is a generic statement.
For us to enter into a market that we don't -- we're not -- we don't have any presence it would have to be the best of the best in terms of an asset.
I'd prefer a platform and that's basically a generic statement outside of it being kind of the best asset in that market.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment on whether or not the U.K.
is within Klépierre's domain? Or is it sort of an open market for either one of you to invest in? Well first of all there are no restrictions that we have vis-à-vis Klépierre other than I'm Chairman of the Supervisory Board and I've got to obviously act accordingly.
They are not in the U.K.
I don't -- there's never been any discussion that they'd have any interest in the U.K.
and I don't foresee that at all.
And your next question comes from Jeff Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe a follow-up to an earlier question for both David and Steve.
What sort of interest rate environment are you guys managing the business towards over the next few years? Are you expecting higher rates in say the next 2 to 3 years? Well are we? Sure.
I wish I could tell you what the rate is then I would also be trading treasuries I guess.
But the fact of the matter is we're being as aggressive on refinancing our business as we can.
We're not all that excited doing trading dollars which essentially is to some extent our secured debt's got obviously make whole provisions and all of it or most of it.
But as soon as they are open to prepay we're refinancing that.
We don't necessarily believe in funding the make-whole premium.
It's basically trading present-value dollars.
It creates lumpiness in the earnings blah blah blah.
I'm not a big fan of it.
We may do it in one particular context on one deal.
But I mean we're as active as we can Steve on refinancing.
We are.
And not only that Jeff we have despite the fact that LIBOR is at 20 bps and hasn't moved and there would be a temptation to float.
The fact is 90-plus percent of our debt is fixed-rate debt.
And we've done the match with long-lived assets and long term fixed-rate debt.
I mean Jeff I think David's right.
I think rates are likely to rise.
Having said that they've already moved 75 to 100 bps and we don't have a lot of robust economic growth in the economy today.
But I do think it's probably likely that we'll see a higher rate environment going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Have you guys seen already any demonstrable impact on asset pricing either deals being retraded or do you expect a better acquisition environment ahead? No I mean I don't think there's been a really reaction on the transaction side because of rising rates at all.
I have not seen that at all.
LLC Research Division</strong> And maybe this one's for Rick just on occupancy costs I'm curious.
The pace of sales growth is decelerating but re-leasing spreads have been fairly healthy.
Why haven't we seen an increase in occupancy costs? And do you think that's going to ratchet up in the next 12 months? Well one of the components of occupancy costs are sales and the rents.
Frankly we're only rolling relatively small percentage of our square footage every year.
And our sales have been growing pretty aggressively and our spreads have been growing right along with that.
So as we pointed out earlier given that we're 11.3% we think we still have considerable room to grow our rent even in a moderating sales environment.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just maybe an understanding percentage rents.
I know overall the portfolio does about $577 a square foot.
But when you guys look at who actually pays percentage rents does the sales productivity of those tenants vary much from the portfolio average? I'm just curious if the productivity of the percentage rent payers is sort of higher or lower than the portfolio as a whole? It is all over the block.
We've got over 1 200 tenants that pay us percentage rent.
So we have a very wide and diverse base.
And really there's no particular corollary between how would you say sales productivity and the payment of percentage rent.
And to amplify Rick's point about 1 200.
A lot of our percentage rent payers are actually department stores that pay a 1% or 2% or 3% depending on the vintage of the original deal.
And I would tell you that that's a big component of our percentage rent.
And as you might imagine it's been kind of static over the last several years.
And in some cases down when you're talking about a penny.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one last question actually for you David.
I recall that I think Simon or Chelsea had bought in Craig's interest in their Carlsbad's outlet years ago for I think around a 10 cap.
Are there any more of those purchase options still lingering with Craig? We're looking.
I'd like to find a few more but I don't believe so.
But if I stumble upon it I'll let you know.
Your next question comes from Nathan Isbee of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just focusing on the same-store growth.
You're in the mid-5s through the first half of the year against some pretty tough comps in '12.
And you had mentioned earlier in the year that some of the redevelopment might weigh on '13 growth.
Would you say you've navigated through that better than expected or should we expect some of that to rear its head in the second half of the year? Well I think our comps -- I have been very very pleased and it's above our own internal budgets on our comp our comp NOI growth.
So it's -- we've -- the team the folks the leasing the management folks have done a fantastic job year-to-date and beaten my own internal expectations.
So they've done a great job.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I mean so looking ahead to the second half of the year I mean you do have some pretty easy comps from last year.
Is there anything out there in the redevelopment that should make us think that you would not continue what you've been doing here in the second -- in the first half? Well again redevelopment we exclude.
So it's really -- it's not -- that's not a net number.
So let's put that aside.
I mean look there are unknowns in the business environment right? Sales.
I hate blaming the weather I will never blame the weather.
Even if we miss one quarter because of the weather you will not hear the weather excuse here.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Will you take credit for it though? We won't take credit.
We will not blame an early Easter a late Easter early Halloween or a late Halloween.
But there are lots of things Nate out of our control: tenant bankruptcies lousy sales lousy weather whatever international politics U.S.
politics whatever changes the consumer mindset.
So I mean we're still in an uncertain environment that's why we try to be very cautious in how we look at things.
And I've been as I said to you I wish I could give you a number I won't.
You know we don't.
But I've been very very happy with the way the teams executed operationally.
They've done a great job thus far.
And your next question comes from Vincent Chao Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to clarify just on the McArthurGlen deal.
I know you're going to provide more details when it finally closes.
In terms of the guidance update though I mean is there anything baked in for accretion for McArthurGlen and also any transaction costs baked in? No not at all not -- it's not in our numbers.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> And then just going back to the interest rate commentary.
I mean appreciate the color on not wanting to pre-pay some of the mortgages.
But just curious if you're thinking about pre-funding some of the unsecured debt that's coming due given where rates are today how they've backed up in light of your rating increase or improvement there? Yes that's a distinct possibility as we look out in the third and fourth quarter.
That -- I would -- Steve can add to this.
But I -- we always are trying -- we always get ahead of that schedule.
So it wouldn't surprise -- it shouldn't surprise you if we do that some time this year.
Yes I mean bonds are like mortgages in that there is the equivalent of a yield maintenance.
There's a make-whole.
So to some extent you are trading dollars.
But having said that much like we did in December of '12 we went to the bond market to pre-fund if you will our '13 maturities because we knew what they were.
If you look at our debt maturities schedule we've got about $900 million of bonds coming due in 2014.
So as David mentioned we do look at the market.
We monitor the market.
One of the great things about the bond market is that you can go relatively quickly.
And so we do have that option to pre-fund that at some point in time.
And your next question comes from Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones on McArthurGlen sorry about this.
But the EUR 435 million was an equity investment.
Can you let us know what the associated debt is that goes along with that? We will outline all of that when we're closed on the transaction.
But the leverage on -- there's nothing extraordinary about the leverage amount on these assets.
So -- but we'll lay it all out with all the facts once all of the elements get closed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you think that's Q3 or is that Q4? Let's see.
When Q3 -- I would think that it should be completed by the end of this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last question.
What was the trigger to sell the Laguna Hills Mall? It's very interesting.
We had a redevelopment plan -- even after that redevelopment plan given all of the -- what the assets are -- if you've been to Laguna and you know kind of the -- what we owned in Orange County what the spectrum does and what the spectrum is our Mission Viejo and Brea Mall.
Even with the redevelopment even though it's well located it was never going to be a really good core asset like Brea or Mission or Orange the outlets in Orange.
So we said "You know what we can reinvest -- we can take that capital and reinvest it in what we think will be a core opportunity at the end of the day.
" And it was really that kind of thinking.
Your next question comes from Ben Yang of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> David you mentioned having no additional purchase options with Craig Realty.
But I do recall you did have some prior agreements with Prime when you ended up buying Livermore and Grand Prairie.
So maybe based on your comments is it fair to assume that you have no prior agreement option or other with any private outlet owners at this time? Well I'm just trying to think.
Don't put me on the spot like that.
I can't remember everything.
We will do -- we are about to do another deal with Prime that actually will probably sign up this week.
So -- and they've announced -- it's no secret.
I mean it's in the Minneapolis-St.
Paul area which we think is going to be a terrific investment for us.
And -- so you're putting me on the spot I mean -- but we've got a couple of other opportunities.
So I just want to be careful how you characterize that.
But there's other stuff that we're working on that we'll have options to get in on.
So I shouldn't unilaterally say "Yes you're right." I think there are other stuff out there.
Research Division</strong> All right sorry for putting you on the spot.
But maybe for that deal with Prime in Minneapolis I mean can you talk about the pricing and the cap rate on that potential deal? And are you going to buy up the entire center outright at this point? In that case there's no option to buy it frankly.
But it's -- we're development partners.
So that's -- we're just going in on the development side.
So the returns are consistent with kind of what we've developed over the years in the outlet business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you are going to be an owner of that project right? Correct correct.
Research Division</strong> And I'm just curious.
Why is the expansion at Woodbury Premium Outlet so expensive given the relatively modest expansion of physical space there? Is there anything unusual going on with that that would lead to that $170 million investment than you're thinking? Well we're upgrade -- first of all parking is really expensive because we have to deck the parking to create the additional space.
We have a tight site to start with and we've got a lot of infrastructure work in terms of the parking.
A lot of -- we're redoing all of the ingress egress all the roads around it.
And then I mean as much as we love the center it is long in the tooth.
So we're also bringing it keeping it consistently with consistent theming but it does need to be renovated.
But at the end of the day even with that said so you have the parking you've got all the road work it's going to make it better for the consumer to get in and out of.
We're renovating the mall.
We've got some demolishing -- a couple of buildings.
You put it all together.
New York ain't cheap.
It's not like building in the Midwest you put it all together.
I had the same reaction frankly but I still like the returns.
And it's -- it is the world's best outlet center.
So if we're going to spend money anywhere it ought to be in the world's best outlet center.
And so you put it all together it's a good return.
And it is what it is.
We're actually very excited; it's progressing.
We actually -- originally were going to do over a 3-year period.
I told the guys to go back figure out how to get it done in '15.
And they've come up with a plan.
So we're going to -- this thing is going to be hot and heavy for 1.5 years.
But I think afterwards it will reinforce its position as the world's best outlet center.
So we're -- we couldn't be more excited about a project than that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But a lot of nonincome-producing work that you're doing there.
So a good return to you but below the 12% that you're getting on some of the other redevelopments in the outlet space? Correct correct correct.
Research Division</strong> And then just a final one.
I know it's a small potential investment.
But can you maybe comment on your intentions that that land at Oyster Bay that you're trying to buy with some of your partners? Nothing really to say other than to the extent it moves forward us and our partners will look at it and come up with a plan that's got -- that's subject to zoning.
And we would expect to come up with a responsible development plan but it's all going to be something that's going to be subject to getting zoning approvals.
But we hope to benefit the community there and work with the community there to come up with the appropriate plan.
But it's going to be driven not just by us but our 2 highly regarded partners.
Research Division</strong> Is the goal to build a regional mall at that site longer term? No.
No no I don't see that at all.
Your next question comes from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Back -- way back to the recovery ratio questions Steve.
The JV recovery ratio is up pretty extensively in the first and second quarter of this year.
Is that going to continue at that kind of rate you think? I mean are we level at 2Q for a recovery ratio in the joint venture platform? Well Rich it's just I mean ultimately it's math.
It's a function of where the expenses go relative to the contractual increases that we have built into our leases.
Give me your view on where you think inflation is headed and where costs are headed.
So far over a period of several years now we've been having expenses grow at a slower rate than the escalators in the leases.
So it's been additive to the comp NOI growth.
In any event Rich I would say that the pace of the additiveness will probably slow down.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
That's fair.
Then the -- you commented David on the on what's going on in Brazil as far as outlet centers go.
What do you think for North America in terms of how many you can build annually or some number that addresses that sort of concept over the next 5 years? Well I can't put a number on them.
I mean there's a big pipeline out there.
We're going to do a handful lots of other guys are involved and trying to do a number of them and we'll see.
I mean I -- not clear to me that they'll all get built but obviously it's the flavor of the month.
There's any center that's out there that is not meeting its performance expectations turns into an outlet center.
They're all harder to do than what people think but there's a lot of obviously very capable confident developers out there trying to build outlets.
The important thing is what we build is good.
And I can't worry about what others build.
I can only worry about what we build.
And it's every intention on our front to only build what we can lease and generate a positive return on.
And thankfully Rick we haven't really screwed up yet in the new development side.
So hopefully that will continue.
And the only thing that I would emphasize and David touched on it earlier is that in addition to new developments these expansions that we're doing are at some of the best outlet centers in the world and they're not small.
Desert Hills is 147 000 feet.
Las Vegas North is 147 000 feet.
Seattle was 90 000 feet.
These are big substantial expansions that were bringing great retailers making some of the best in the world even better.
And that shouldn't be lost sight of.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
While you're on that Rick I have a question for you on Desert Hills.
I just was in the area and saw that one.
And it's always been a great center.
And I'm curious I didn't quite get exactly what you're doing there.
It looks like you might be building a golf course in the middle or something? Even though Steve wanted us to...
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I thought it was finally time to have a golf course at an outlet center.
What's going on now is -- there's really 3 things going on simultaneously.
We are as David alluded to at Woodbury we're building a parking deck behind the existing larger section of Desert Hills plus we've already built additional great parking behind the smaller section.
And now what you're seeing in the interior of the larger section is the actual development of the retail space that's basically going to be an inner ring.
So we're going to maintain our race track layout but it now instead of being single-sided with parking in the middle it's going to be double-sided with parking in the decks.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I got you.
So how many retailers do you have there do you think? Well we're adding 147 000 feet.
And frankly one of the things we've been able to do to drive our NOI is to try and be a lot more disciplined on the size of the retailers and maximizing our revenues by trying to fit as many new retail concepts into the space as possible.
So I would hope that it would be several dozen but it remains to be seen because people want as large a store as they can get there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
I got you.
And last thing guys do you have any updated thoughts on JCPenney and how they're doing I guess over the past quarter? The only thing that I would comment on is that we're obviously in the stores.
The stores look good.
We know as much about their sales as you do.
I will tell you that through our channel check the debt's trading at par.
I think this is just a matter of giving the management team time to position it where they want to position it.
It's still a formidable retailer with considerable gross sales and we certainly hope they can recapture market share and resume a growth profile.
And your next question comes from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones with Steve.
First Steve the reversal of the provision for credit losses.
I'm just wondering how much of that is a signal to the Street about how confident Simon is feeling about tenant credit? Well Tayo it's not really a reversal of a provision.
It's just the fact that there were some receivables that we had reserved for and in essence written off that in fact were subsequently collected.
But I will say this.
As we look at our credit profile of our tenants and as we look at our receivables every month that we do number of outstanding receivables number of tenants on the watch list is pretty muted right now.
And I would say the overall health of the retailers is pretty pretty strong right now.
Yes other than I just -- there are a few out there that -- and don't ask me to name names because I won't.
But there are a few out there that still have some clouds around them so we are -- we're focused on 2 or 3 out there that are relatively decent sized for the mall business that we'll have to just monitor how they ultimately turn their business around.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just the JV income Steve.
First quarter that number was about $54 million.
But I think you mentioned that number was on the high side because of some mark-to-market on the Klépierre leases.
But in 2Q the number comes in at $56.5 million.
I'm just kind of wondering from a run rate perspective what makes sense for us to be modeling? I would say Tayo the run rate is probably more in line with what we saw in the first quarter backing out that onetime trend [ph] onetime thing we talked about.
So it's in the high 40s to about $50 million a quarter I think.
Research Division</strong> So what happened this quarter again to make it still elevated? There was a gain a small gain that flowed through related to Klépierre's sale of their home office headquarter building.
Sir we have no further question at this time.
So I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
David Simon for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
Have a great rest of the summer.
See you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Simon Property Group Inc.
Results Conference Call.
My name is Gwen and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Liz Zale Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Simon Property Group's Third Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
Presenting on today's call is David Simon our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin just a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today's press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please also note this call includes information that maybe accurate only of today's date.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the press release and the company's supplemental information included in today's Form 8-K filing.
The supplemental information is available on the investors.simon.com.
I would now like to introduce David Simon.
Good morning.
It was a strong quarter with excellent performance in our core business.
We had strong progress on our growth strategy which includes redevelopment and expansion of existing properties to meet retailer demand and enhanced productivity development of new Premium Outlets and our continued smart acquisition strategy.
FFO was $2.21 per share up 11.1% from the third quarter of 2012.
Our FFO exceeded the first call consensus estimate by $0.05 per share.
For the malls and the Premium Outlets comparable property NOI growth was 4.9% for the quarter driven by tenant sales up 3% to $579 per square foot.
Occupancy up 90 basis points to 95.5%.
Our releasing spread was a positive 15.2% or $8.05 per square foot.
Retailer demand for space in our properties remained strong and healthy driving our occupancy increases.
Our retailers sales continues -- growth continues to be ahead of GDP.
And more important to us our existing leases are under market rent.
And keep in mind we see almost no or very little correlation between tenant sales growth and our NOI growth due to our ability to replace underperforming retailers.
We have good visibility for strong NOI growth over the near term.
New development just quickly we opened 3 new Premium Outlet Centers during August all of which have exceeded expectations.
All were nearly 100% leased at opening and sales per square foot of all 3 properties are trending above our portfolio average.
The total net development cost of the 3 were $400 million that's not our share but in total we expect a first year return of 10.5% on our cost.
We broke ground on Premium Outlets in Charlotte and in Montréal.
And we finalized joint ventures that are under construction in Eagan Minnesota which is in St.
Paul Minneapolis; and Vancouver British Columbia Canada in our new partnership with McArthurGlen.
On the redevelopment expansion highlights The Shops at Nanuet opened in October a complete transformation into an open-air environment providing everyday shopping and activities plus dozens of fashion and specialty retailers unique to the area.
It's 98% leased.
Community acceptance and early reports on sales have exceeded expectations.
We also opened a 105 000 square-foot expansion of Orlando Premium Outlets in October.
It's 100% leased.
Redevelopment and expansion projects ongoing at more than 35 properties in the U.S.
and Asia.
Overall our multi-year pipeline of new development and redevelopment and expansion projects is key to driving growth in NOI.
We continue to expect development investment at least $1 billion annually from '13 through '16 go projects.
Go projects include Roosevelt Field Houston Galleria Woodbury Stanford Del Amo just to name a few.
In other words they are under construction.
International just let me mention a few things.
Finally we completed the closing of our joint venture with McArthurGlen.
It includes ownership interest in 5 McArthurGlen Designer Outlets located in Vienna Venice in Naples in the Netherlands near Düsseldorf and one in the U.K.
near Kent.
We also own a 50% interest in their management and development company which has a strong pipeline of future projects and opportunities.
We're excited to partner together.
Great platform for high quality retail real estate in Europe and a strong team of professionals.
This partnership supports and extends our international growth strategy.
Important industry synergies will be taken advantaged of in upcoming years similar to what we're accomplishing with Klépierre.
Total consideration for the recent investments is approximately $500 million at a cap rate of slightly north of 6.5%.
Klépierre announced the revenues a couple of days ago.
We continue to believe we are well-positioned to assist them in delivering greater value from their platform.
European retail recovery is just getting started and they are beating financial and operational expectations.
Capital markets annuities investor service upgrade at SPGs senior unsecured debt to A2 with a stable outlook.
We are 1 of only 2 REITS with an A-rating from S&amp;P and Moody's.
We completed a $750 million Eurobond offering to complement our McArthurGlen and Klépierre investment.
It taps into broad market expands our access to capital provides a natural hedge and a strong demand enabled more favorable terms for lending for leading European real estate players.
Rate of 2.375 for 7-year notes.
Dividend quickly we increased our quarterly dividend from $1.15 to $1.20 per share as a result of continued strong performance and a raise of our taxable income estimate a year-over-year increase of 9.1%.
Total dividends paid in 2013 will be $4.65 per share compared to $4.10 in 2012 an increase of 13.4%.
We will again raise our first quarter dividend after our taxable income estimate is complete in the first quarter 2014.
Today we're raising our FFO guidance to a new range of $8.72 to $8.78 of FFO per share.
The primary driver of this increase is strong operating performance across all platforms.
This increases the midpoint by $0.10 from our last one in July and $0.30 from the midpoint of the range from the beginning of the year in February.
Our commitment to shareholder return and our ability to execute has built an unprecedented track record of meeting or exceeding expectations on a quarterly and annual basis for at least the last decade.
Our nearly 20-year history as a public company since IPO in December of 1993 is as follows.
Total shareholder return of approximately 1 975% or 17% annually for 20 years.
Our FFO grew in 1993 from $150 million to over $3.15 billion in 2013 using the midpoint of our guidance range.
Our equity market cap grew from $1.8 billion to approximately $58 billion today.
And we're not resting the range of opportunities in front of us is exciting and we'll continue to focus and work very hard to produce strong results.
We're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> To use a favorite metaphor for Steve we're going to tee off with you.
On the Eurobonds just sort of curious what the reception was over there as far as -- is there a dedicated REIT bond community? Or do people -- are they generally -- as in do they look at you guys as a real estate company or do they look at you as a corporate America Fortune 500 company? Alex it's really the latter.
The real estate market over there the investment grade real estate market isn't deep enough that there are people who are dedicated real estate bond investors.
So the interest was very high.
I think we met with almost 50 investors during a 4.5-day roadshow.
Almost all of them ended up coming into the deal.
They are money managers insurance companies pension funds really sticky good patient money.
But they are -- they certainly viewed us not only as a best-in-class real estate company but as a major U.S.
corporate who has a presence in Europe but also gets 90% of its income from the U.S.
which was an important diversification element for them.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up to that.
Should we expect you guys to issue in Japan if you are looking at outside the country for long-term capital? It's a good question Alex.
I mean I would say this.
Right now we have a multi-currency tranche on our credit facility and we do have yen outstanding that acts as a hedge against our equity investment in our Premium Outlets portfolio in Japan.
No plans at the present time to go to the bond market in Japan but that's certainly an option that would be available to us.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> David a question on the outlet business.
So the recent openings you're up to probably 25% 30% of NOI housed within outlets.
And I'm sort of curious one we sort of reevaluate at this point sort of breaking that out as a stand-alone in terms of metrics in terms of performance just given the size and how good it's performing.
But also as you think about the pie assignment on Page 19 of your supplemental where the sort of outlet to go over the next 5 years from what you can see relative to the other pieces in there? And maybe you can talk about sort of that range of opportunities that you see that you ended your comments with.
Well no the fact is we really run this together even though we have separated some personnel.
The fact is we really run the business as one entity on the outlets and the malls.
So we don't see any reason to separate it out.
And the fact is both are -- we couldn't produce these results if both weren't producing very favorable results.
They're both material enough.
So the fact of the matter is this is -- our numbers are a real good indication of what's going on in our business whether you want to just look at malls or outlets.
It's really -- it really is -- requires to deliver both have to produce these kind of results to have it shown together.
Now with respect to the outlet business look that's where our new development is focused.
As you know we just opened 3 which is pretty good work.
We've got a good pipeline of 4 5 6 others a couple of which are already under construction.
We've got another 3 or 4 that are in the pipeline.
So that's going to continue to move the outlet business percentage up.
On the other hand as I mentioned to you we are under construction or about to be under construction in Stanford the Field Del Amo Houston Galleria just a -- I won't -- I know Rick wants to list them all but I will not let him.
So just to name a few.
And I think that will start to kick in '15 '16 '17 that will probably rebalance the pie chart as we look back in 3 4 years from now.
Research Division</strong> What you're saying the range of opportunities as you sort of -- you ended your comments with that you're not resting on your laurels you see a range of opportunities.
Obviously you talked about the development in outlets and all the redevelopment that's happening what other sort of scope should we think about and how it impacts that -- your pie chart or the company in terms of opportunities? That's what I sort of want to dig into a little bit.
If I told you then you would upgrade somebody and the price would go up.
So I'd rather just keep that to myself.
Michael this is Steve.
Just to put a pin in it though.
Over the last 4 years we spent over $12 billion in acquisition of assets so not an insignificant number.
Yes look I think as Steve said is as we look back since 2010 -- and these are gross numbers we've purchased about $12.8 billion -- these are gross so it includes debt assumption all these other stuff not necessarily our share.
But we've acquired about $12.8 million.
We disposed about $2.7 million.
And we've developed $1 billion of new stuff ground up.
So again I know it gets lost in the sauce but we're always very focused on upgrading and reconstituting the portfolio.
And we see -- look we see international growth ahead of us Michael if that's what you're asking.
And in the U.S.
we've got the expansion pipeline which is overwhelming.
I mean literally nobody in our industry is doing what we're doing expanding our existing great assets.
Nobody.
And also complementing that is all the new development we're doing in the outlet business of which as you know we're executing consistent with the returns that we've done historically.
Toronto is great.
St.
Louis is great.
We're under construction in Charlotte.
Montréal based upon Houston is great.
Vancouver now that we're in the McArthurGlen partnership that's going to be good.
We got a couple of new sites that we're working on some ourselves some with partners.
Tampa is an example and so on.
So there's a lot to do.
And how that pie chart changes we'll see.
But the fact of the matter is we see pretty good growth organically just assuming we can execute the way we have in the past.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> David we understand that you've joined some of your mall peers to do a beta test of same-day delivery with Deliv.
And I'm remembering back to a conversation we had maybe 10 years ago where you had talked about Domino's Pizza and the fact that they weren't in the pizza business but they were really in the 30-minute logistics business and wouldn't that be cool if the mall could figure out how to do that.
Is that affectively what you're trying to accomplish here with this beta test? And is that really the future of the mall in order to compete with the Amazons of the world? Well look I do think the mall has a unique advantage in that it's already got the infrastructure -- physical infrastructure to satisfy consumers that want same-day delivery.
Now it sounds great it's a little more complicated than that.
But to the extent one of the things having spent yesterday with our mall team just kind of going -- not property by property that we look forward to on a couple of weeks.
But the thing that I am focused on in our mall business -- and when I say mall business I include the outlets is that we have to make -- we've always made retailer service a priority.
So Rick and I are as good at sucking up to retailers as possible okay? Sometimes Rick is better than I am but we both can suck up when required.
The one thing we don't do the way I would like us to is I really want to -- I want to provide better service to our consumers the actual shoppers.
And whether that's -- something we instituted last year was just surprising delights come to the mall and we're going to give you a free cup of coffee we're going to schlep your bags.
We're going to make your visit really better.
Think about the hotel level of service at a good hotel when you're checking in and they're taking care of you to make your stay pleasant.
With that said we do think delivery or schlepping you remember we started YourSherpa -- probably not politically correct but whatever.
But we started this years ago we are actually too far ahead of our time.
But the fact of the matter is we want to increase the level of customer service that we provide to our shoppers.
We think this is consistent with that whether this venture will do that or not we don't know we'll going to continue to experiment we've got a whole smorgasbord of things that we're investing to do that and the sole purpose is to make the consumer visit more pleasant which is a huge focus for us this year next year and the year after.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
As I thought about this I said to my myself is the next evolution that I go to your website for whatever mall I'm shopping at and I can do a search for white shirt and then instantly your website brings up every white shirt that's being sold in the mall I can click on which one I want and buy it.
Is that the next evolution that you have to get to the integration of inventory of all your retailers onto your website so -- that is the interface? Well I would say that would be terrific if we could ultimately get to their store-level inventory and be able to communicate that to the consumer much like the mall aggregates all the physical stores.
If we could figure out how to do that that would be great.
It's not that easy because you have to essentially get into the customer -- or the retailer's inventory.
But the one thing I want you to do is when you do go to the mall I want to be able to tell you when you go to the mall here's what's new in retailer XYZ here's what promotion XYZ retailer has.
Here's who does have a white shirt to go to what retailer.
So you have a -- your first stop at the mall is going to be able to communicate to you what's new and what's exciting so that makes your visit that much more pleasant if in fact we can do that.
And more profitable for you.
So I think it's interesting to do it while you're in the physical environment as it is whether you're at home or on your mobile device.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Spector with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm actually Craig Schmidt.
I'm noticing the new development blended stabilized rate of return is 9%.
Is that more due to higher cost or are the rents unable to be pushed as much as say maybe 1 year ago? Craig it's Steve.
It's really neither.
That number the mix changes from time to time.
We opened some projects as David mentioned the first year return on the stuff that has opened which is no longer on the list was 10.5%.
So it's simply a mix change.
But there's been no real fundamental change in our ability to get rents or cost control or our expectations for our development pipeline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just -- I noticed the leasing spreads have been up 4 quarters in a row and on a dollar basis have grown from $4.86 to $8.05.
I'm wondering where can they go from here? And is that from limited supply of quality space or just a growing demand from retailers? Well it's a function of demand is solid and you got to look at what's expiring.
So as I said we -- there's a huge focus of our retailers sales.
We've tried to explain the correlation is slight if at all and it's in a lag.
The fact is as you know retail sales have gone up dramatically since the Great Recession.
And you look at what's expiring and you look at the supply and demand characteristics you put it all together it's more of an art than a science and that's why we're able to have pretty good releasing spreads.
Now the fact of the matter is $8 is pretty damn good.
We're finishing our budget for next year.
We're going to see good comp NOI growth just like we had in the last 2 or 3 years.
And that ultimately does not take into account when we look at what the Houston Gallerias and the Fields and the Del Amos are going to do after those developments are done.
And those malls have been transformed to take the rightful position in the 21st century of great real estate that can't be duplicated.
So I can't -- we're not going to give you a number but things are okay and we'll continue to pound away.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering did you see anything change in terms of traffic during the third quarter? Well generally September was a pretty bad month in terms of traffic and sales for all retailers.
And we're starting to hear and feel the traffic is bouncing back in October.
But clearly clearly the general economy has slowed.
And we're no -- the fact is we get impacted by that less than most others because of where our properties are positioned and the depth and breadth and the diversity of our properties.
But the fact is we're not denying that the world -- the U.S.
has actually slowed.
We could talk philosophically about why but it's nothing with what we're doing.
But we're -- we certainly have seen that from our retailers generally across the board to both high-end middle and at the more moderate customer base.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I guess going back to one of your answers before where you mentioned -- if I mentioned the stock it would go up upgrade it blah blah blah.
Off-the-cuff comment there? Yes and probably a stupid one.
Yes off the cuff and stupid.
It's a little early.
We're usually at 11:00 9:00 we're trying to get our groove on.
So the fact is it's probably off the cuff.
Our next question comes from Cedrik Lachance from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to think about outlets for a second and when we look at some of the recent projects some of them -- just in the industry in general some of them have been more or been far more correlated with population centers rather than being further outside.
What do you think it means for the projects you must develop over the next 10 years and what does it mean for the existing real estate -- in the outlet business that tends to be at the outskirts of town? Well again Cedrik I believe there's been one that's been built that's more infilled.
So we do not hear -- I will just tell you this our outlet business is great.
We're building terrific products.
We will not make pronouncements about what the future of the world is going to be we're not that good or arrogant.
We're going to continue to do what we do.
We're picking -- we've always picked over the last several years major important metro markets usually suburban locations -- Toronto St.
Louis New Hampshire go down list all of which have been very successful.
We're continuing to do that.
There may be 1 or 2 built that's more urban.
But one does not make a trend.
We will not make pronouncements here.
We're not in that business.
We're in running our business day in and day out to increase our cash flow make smart investments smart developments.
And our track record indicates so far knock on wood we're pretty good at that.
But I will not make pronouncements if that's the new trend one does not make a trend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What do retailers say about their preferred locations in terms of outlets and whether or not they do you have an interest in trying to move more infill? Well the fact that we're 100% leased on every outlet that we opened gives you an indication what they're telling us.
I think Cedrik the retailers want to be where they can be as productive as possible.
And what you're finding in all of our properties is that we continue to add high impact retailers making them more and more attractive to consumers which drive sales which drives retail interest.
There's no magic to this business.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thinking about dispositions for a second.
I don't think you addressed those Dave.
You sold off 2 this quarter and I'm curious have you given more thought to maybe selling off a bigger chunk or spinning out a group of your lower tier regional mall assets in the U.S.? Well Rich the fact is we're always looking to do as much portfolio management as we can.
And as I mentioned to you earlier I mean since 2010 basically $12.8 billion of acquisitions $2.7 billion of dispositions $1 billion of new development not including the redevelopment.
So that's part of our focus day in and day out and that will always be an important thing in terms of what we do.
And the form of which that takes will depend on market conditions but we'll continue to do portfolio management.
It's very important very vital.
It's been something that we've been pretty good at over the 20-year history of a public company.
So we'll continue to do that Rich.
LLC Research Division</strong> But no real thought Dave to a big chunk I guess of assets as opposed to 1 or 2 at a time as opportunities arise? Well again I'm not going to share exactly the internal workings that we do day in and day out in terms of how do you do the best portfolio management possible.
But needless to say if you look at our history it's an important thing that the senior management team needs to do.
And we'll continue to do it to the best of our ability.
So I'm not saying one way or another exactly how that will be done it'll just -- we will portfolio manage to the best of our abilities.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to -- along the line of Craig's questioning and again releasing spreads ability to keep raising rents going forward.
Steve could you give us a sense of where occupancy costs are right now relative to historical levels and how much that gives you confidence about pushing rent going forward? Tayo the occupancy costs are 11.4%.
I think we give you about 5 quarters of trailing in the supplemental on Page 23.
And that's down 100 to 150 basis points from where it would have been going back to 2010.
But I think the other point I would add is that it's been very stable over those 5 quarters.
So we are -- we've been at that 11.3% to 11.4% range and we still have momentum in our business.
And that bodes I believe very well for our ability to hopefully continue our performance going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
But with your -- with the tenants at this point when you're going through a lease negotiation like how much are they really kind of bringing up this issue of slowing tenant sales in general in a tough retail outlook when they're negotiating with you? Or do they just want the space so badly it doesn't really come up? Well let me answer that I mean the perception that retailers negotiate -- let's take an example let's say their comp NOI is up 4% and they're willing to pay $11.
And the comp sales are flat they go to $10.
It's not reality okay? If they look at it over a longer period of time what they're going to do what the return on equity and profitability in that store is.
So again we try to give you a sense of these numbers generally what's happening in the -- from our retailers.
But the fact is comps -- the immediate ups and downs of comps have no bearing on what rent we can charge overall.
And so -- over a long period of time potentially.
But the one thing you have to remember is our comp sales also include the retailers that are going out of favor.
And if they were in favor 5 or 7 years ago sometimes they're able to negotiate whatever rents because we think they are a new and exciting retailer.
If that wanes or waxes the fact is we're able to replace that retailer with someone else that's there.
So there is no "Boy I had a bad quarter of sales; therefore I'm going to charge -- I want to pay you less rent." It doesn't work that way.
Research Division</strong> That's definitely helpful color.
I think I was up along the line of if you've had 3 quarters of bad sales so that's kind of what I was kind of thinking.
What happens at that point.
But I think the explanation has been very helpful.
Sure.
No worries.
Don't lose sight of the fact that between 2010 and 2012 over that 3-year period sales were up 25% in our portfolio.
Our next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just since no one asked it here I'll just throw it out there.
Just wondering if you could give us your latest thoughts here on what you're seeing from JCPenney.
And given that they are discounting pretty heavily to try to claw back some share and sales just wondering if you're seeing or noticing any impact on other parts of the mall as a result of those efforts.
Now I would say generally it's not -- there's not a real impact of the mall environment.
Both with the old Penney the potential new-transformed Penney and now the recovering to back-to-basics Penney.
I mean if you go through kind of the 3 cycles the way they were doing it the radical change now back-to-basics Penney.
The fact of the matter is it really hasn't impacted kind of the entire mall environment than what we have.
If they get back to the basic Penney having them -- they do broaden the mix generally in the environment and they appeal to a more moderate consumer which we'd love to have in a number of cases in a number of malls as well as the higher-income consumer.
And that market is there for them to appeal to that consumer in the mall environment which they've done historically for 100-plus years.
So -- and even before the mall environment.
So we'll wait and see how they do that.
But it's really had no impact on the -- what I'll call the mall environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean -- so as they -- I mean they are making some progress on the sale declines so I'm just curious if that's hurting anybody else.
But it sounds like not.
Well look we're glad that they are.
But again it's not a huge impact on what's going on in the mall.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Yang with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Maybe for David.
I'm curious if you any thoughts on the B mall or even C mall sales market which has been surprisingly active this year.
Maybe in terms of the prices being paid for this type of assets.
What that might mean for the value of your stock if anything? And then also maybe building off of Rich's question.
Do you think spending on a B-mall portfolio would unlock some value for guys? Well there's a lot there.
So -- and you broke up out on the end.
Did you hear the end part? The potential of...
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe just starting just what your thoughts are in terms of the prices being paid for the B and C malls and what that might mean for the value of your stock if anything at all? Well I'm not going to comment on the value of our stock other than you look -- you need to look at us as a company that can increase its cash flow and its dividend and it has a lot of future very high returns on equity investments underlevered ability to execute its game plan.
We get caught up too much on A malls B malls tenant sales all of that stuff.
Put it all in the blender you allocate it you figure out what's most important to you.
What's most important to me is cash flow growth and return on investment and equity and that's what we strive to execute.
And ability to finance our business appropriately making smart investment decisions which all kind of factors in.
Then the market decides what the value of the stock should be.
I don't -- I don't get carried away one way or the other.
And the fact is we look at every asset as it's very important to our business.
We look at the future growth prospects.
If we might dispose of them we look at what the price we might get.
We'd factor in the taxable income what we might have to do in terms of dividends if we sold it.
Because as you know we're at our taxable income number it's growing rapidly.
Our dividend is going to grow.
We put all those things in and we try to do the best we can and we'll see where it takes us.
So it's good -- the big picture -- I'm not going to comment on price other than it's I think is very positive generally speaking that there's a lot of activity in -- if you want to call it B or C malls call it B or C mall.
And I think that never hurts us as an owner of -- if you want to say we're an owner of B and C that's fine it never hurts us that there's a lot of capital activity in that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And maybe for a follow-up instead.
Can you maybe talk about your expectations for cash flow growth in your A malls versus the B malls and whether you think that's going to compress in the coming few quarters or even years? Well I think historically the better the center or the more -- let me say it differently the more market share any piece of real estate has the better its cash flow growth characteristics they have.
So whether it's A or B is irrelevant.
It's really a question of does it have market share what's the competitive outlook.
And those that have that position have better growth characteristics generally speaking.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Patinkin with BMO Capital Markets.
Thinking about McArthurGlen in the European outlet business specifically the leasing side.
We have upside exposure in the U.S.
with overage rents? Is it similarly structured there? Or any other nuances we should be thinking about? It's very much structured towards sales.
But it's even more clever in the sense that they have -- in their leases they get a percent of sales.
But the high watermark is then fixed at kind of their base rent so you get the best of both worlds in a sense.
And these centers on average do just a -- if you convert you all can convert but we'll do it.
These things average about $900 a foot.
So it is a -- the ones that we've invested in.
And as we think over time we'll be able to invest in other outlets in Europe through McArthurGlen.
We think it's a very productive portfolio and extension opportunities and the like.
So we think it's -- we like it and we expect it to be a very good investment for us over time.
And I think we're coming in at a decent valuation.
So again that's our ability to assess real estate handle the complexity of a partnership like this different countries different personalities.
We're one of the few companies that are able to do a deal like this.
And that is a respectfully I say a competitive advantage for the company.
In terms of growth there how penetrated do you think Europe is with outlets relative to U.S.
and what's the opportunity set in your view? It's good.
Because the right to build in Europe continues whether it's an outlet or even a full priced it continues to be very high -- or very hard I should say.
Your next question comes from the line of Haendel St.
Juste with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So we see quite a bit of a mall trades here in the last couple of months and given the activity in the market was curious on your assessment of recent A- and B-mall asset pricing.
Has there been a notable change in cap rates or return expectations giving -- given rising rate expectations and flowing sale trends? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One more follow-up if I may on the releasing spread question.
You guys also had a pretty good pickup in CapEx spend this quarter versus prior quarters.
How much of this improved releasing spread would you say was bought this quarter with the higher CapEx spend? None.
None.
Yes you really -- yes none.
I mean that -- there's some -- always going to be some quarter-to-quarter volatility but no issue there.
We don't buy -- we're very frugal as you know when it comes to tenant allowance and the like.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about the comments in terms of upgrading the assets and you've done a great job over time and very strong redevelopment pipeline now.
And when you go through the mall portfolio mall-by-mall in the next couple of weeks how much do you have in terms of shadow redevelopment pipeline where you look at it and say "We'd love to do this redevelopment but don't want to do so until we -- as we look at the struggling anchors here if this were to happen we'd do it." Just trying to think about that -- the opportunity in terms of that shadow pipeline there.
Well look let me just -- if I could just comment generally on it.
We are in the midst again of doing the biggest extensions and the biggest redevelopments that we have.
So as an example I'm not going to do the list.
We are under construction in the Field Roosevelt Field we are under construction in Stanford we're under construction shortly in Houston Galleria.
And we're getting the approvals in the King of Prussia to create the extension between the 2 big assets.
We just got approval from the BRA at Copley we still need another hurdle.
So we are literally -- we just finished Nanuet Shops at Nanuet which -- if anybody that's seen the mall prior to what we've done before you would be pleasantly surprised not only just with the transformation but with the lease-up.
So we are -- so for Del Amo to name another one we're in the midst of a huge construction there bringing Nordstrom in and all the rest.
So right now the biggest focus is executing these huge big redevelopments that are going to be really exciting.
And there's a lot of opportunities beyond that.
And our pipeline in terms of redevelopment is in the $4 billion to $5 billion range.
But beyond discussing it because everybody can have the shadow the fact of the matter is it's happening right now.
Right now it's happening.
So this is no longer "We're going to do this " it's actually happening.
And I've got the pictures to prove it if you're interested.
And the only thing I would add is David touched on the major redevelopment projects we're also adding 39 new anchors across the platforms this year and we've been adding that every year and each of those additions just make our properties stronger.
We also have an ongoing renovation program where we're renovating a number of projects every year.
And all that is just part of what we're doing to keep our products relevant and enhance their market share.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeremy Roane with Hilliard Lyons.
I was wondering if you could speak on what has driven the property operating expenses down and maybe shed some light on if this type of expense reduction can be expected going forward? Jeremy it's Steve Sterrett.
It's a couple of things.
One is as David mentioned earlier we have sold some assets.
We also had a wholly-owned asset that converted into a joint venture in 2013.
So there are fewer properties which is causing part of the decline that you're seeing.
The rest of the decline is caused by the fact that insurance costs are a little lower.
It's really those 2 items that are driving it.
Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Rick I got a -- just a question on sort of occupancy.
95.5% I recognize that includes the outlets but I think that's the peak overall and certainly ahead of where you were even in the fourth quarter of last year.
And so I'm just curious as you head into the holiday season when you start including some of that temp spaces how should we think about occupancy and full the portfolio is? How you're balancing that with rent which continues to move up in terms of the spreads? And then as you think about '14 given the fact that you've already leased a lot of that space and done your renewals what's that visibility that you have into '14 in terms of occupancy? It seems like a great place to start from at 95.5% today.
Well first we don't include temp space in the occupancy.
Secondly what we're doing is making our space more efficient and we are going to be able to continue to generate increases in NOI because we're constantly looking to see how we can make our space more effective by bringing in more productive tenants.
David made the point earlier by decreasing the amount of the space allocated to given tenants.
And frankly we still have leasing going on in the pipeline.
So we're never going to be satisfied and never get to the point where we say to you "Well we're fully occupied." The bottom line is look in the Premium Outlets they're 100% for all intents and purposes and we're still driving our NOI and driving spreads because we're doing more effective leasing more effective space allocation to more productive tenants.
Research Division</strong> So where does occupancy go then? I'm just -- I know you don't include temps so what does that mean for the fourth quarter in terms of...
I would certainly hope that we continue to show advances over where we are.
Research Division</strong> And your '14 outlook in terms of how much you've already done relative to that role? We're certainly going to anticipate that we're going to be able to increase it in '14.
Your next question comes from David Harris with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> This still a little early for us old folks.
I know.
You know what? No doubt okay? No doubt.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know you talked a little bit about sales on this call but if you look at your percentage rent growth line in the first half of the year it was growing about 30% or more and we're down to 10% year-over-year growth in the third quarter.
That seems consistent with the slowdown that we're hearing from a lot of the mall retailers.
Is that -- I mean can we assume that you're all thinking that for temporary slowdown and that we will pick up even in this quarter? Well the fact is that some of our percentage rents -- we've had certain tenants that have run into harder sales and then some that have picked the balance up so it's all over the lot.
But we'll see how it -- we'll see how the next couple of months pan out David.
It's very hard for us to give you a really specific answer to that question.
We do have certain earnings tie -- risk tied to percentage rent.
We gave -- we took that into account in raising our guidance.
And -- but it's clear and we're not denying this.
It is clear that -- and it's not Simon Property Group it is clear that the economy has slowed.
You've seen it with wages you've seen it with employment needless to say we don't have to get into what's going on in terms of leadership in our country.
None of which we use as an excuse because we put blinders on the best of our abilities when it comes to that kind of stuff.
But we're operating at a high level in a very slow growth economy.
And we are outpacing the growth in the economy and that's all that we can do.
But we are affected by the economy.
I mean I wish I wasn't but we are.
And...
LLC Research Division</strong> What period does this most remind you of in say the last 10 or 15 years David? Good question.
Good question.
The fact is I don't have an immediate -- usually I would just make something up but I can't even come up with that at this point.
But I would say a little bit like coming out of -- my initial reaction would be coming out of the -- when we were public coming out of kind of the '97 that era where we're just kind of -- we weren't -- we hadn't ended we'd survived and it was just grinding -- we were grinding about.
And by the way we we're grinding I got double digits FFO increase okay? So just keep that in perspective.
But kind of like that David would be the initial off-the-cuff reaction.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I sneak in with a quick one for Steve? Sure.
Sure.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve with the issuance of the Eurobond it reminded me are you embracing -- have you used any of these tax structures that have sort of coming under greater scrutiny like double Irish or even The Netherlands Luxembourg to structure your offshore interest? Not really David.
It's pretty plain vanilla.
We record -- as an example we record tax expense as it relates to the Klépierre earnings that we picked up our share of every quarter.
So relatively plain vanilla structure.
Yes.
In fact it's -- just to reinforce what Steve said if you look at our -- we did -- as we made more international investments we're having to pay taxes in those jurisdictions.
And if you see in our P&amp;L we actually separated that out so that you can see that impact because it's becoming less than trivial.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Simon is not Apple.
No no.
I wish I were.
And I like its stock quote [ph].
But I don't want the pearl icon on me but I do wish I were Apple.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well isn't he urging share buybacks and dividends so you're kind of halfway there.
Our last question comes from the line of John Kim with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on your comments on international opportunities.
Right now international is about 8% of your NOI.
What level do you feel comfortable just going to in the next few years? And then also geographically where do you see the most compelling opportunity between Europe Asia and South America? Well we don't -- our only goal is to make smart investments and investments that we can add value to.
So the fact of the matter is if the -- if our international business stays the same or goes up slightly it doesn't -- that's not how we think.
We're only looking to make smart investments where we can add value.
And we have a higher threshold in international investments because it's a lot of work and it's got to be -- there's no desire here just to do international for the sake of international.
The desire here is to make international investments because one we think we can add value; and two is because we think at the end of the day we're going to make money and Klépierre is a perfect example of that.
So I don't have in my mind it ought to go from X to Y.
And each jurisdiction that we're in is different but we are doing new development in Asia.
We're not an acquirer of assets in Asia just because it's a tougher market.
And we're sticking to the outlet business and markets that we're in where we can develop and it meets our threshold return requirements which has been certainly a real challenge in China as an example.
And that's why we did an investment in '08 and '09 we got out of it and we haven't done anything since.
Research Division</strong> I was going to actually follow-up on -- if there had been any update on your view to China and Brazil? Well China I gave to you.
Brazil we continue to look at opportunities there in the outlet sector a few sites that we're in but nothing really imminent in the marketplace.
That concludes the question-and-answer part of today's call.
Okay thank you.
I know you have a number of calls to go to so thanks for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes your presentation you may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2013 Simon Property Group Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Allison and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Liz Zale Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed Ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Simon Property Group's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Presenting on today's call is David Simon our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Sokolov our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Steve Sterrett our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today's press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please also note that this call includes information that may only be accurate as of today's date.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the press release and the supplemental information in today's Form 8-K filing.
Both the press release and the supplemental information are available on our Investor Relations website investor.simon.com.
With that we will start the call.
And I would like to introduce David Simon.
Okay.
Thanks Liz.
Good morning.
We had strong results to wrap up 2013 which also was our 20th year as a public company.
First let me talk about the quarter's strong performance.
Given the growth in our core business we continue to see a positive impact on our growth strategy which basically is comprised of investing in our existing assets to expand and to meet the retailer demand enhance productivity continue to develop new outlets and make smart thoughtful accretive acquisitions.
FFO was $2.47 per share up 7.9% for the fourth quarter compared to 2012.
Our FFO exceeded the first call consensus again by $0.05 per share.
For our mall and Premium Outlets comparable property NOI growth was 5.5% for the quarter driven by basement rent increase; occupancy up 80 basis points to 96.1%; and the continuation of positive sales from 2012.
Our releasing spread continues to grow.
It was a positive 16.8% or $8.94 per square foot with much of the improvement driven by better leasing execution in the malls while Premium Outlets spread continues to be robust.
Mills comparable NOI was up 11% for the quarter 10.8% for the year driven by all the other factors I just went through.
For the year our FFO in total was $3.2 billion an increase of $321 million from 2012.
This resulted in a per share FFO growth of 10.9% to $8.85 per share.
This was $0.46 above where the consensus started in early 2013 at $8.39.
Our performance was driven by thoughtful capital allocation and I'm proud of the execution of the team.
We opened 5 new Premium Outlets this year 3 in North America and 2 in Asia.
We invested in total $942 million in new and redevelopment projects in response to retailer demand and customer needs.
These projects are all off to very good starts and we'll increase the productivity of our assets.
We completed $1.05 billion of acquisitions including the expansion of our European presence with the investment in McArthurGlen's Designer Outlet assets and the management development company.
We also in January acquired our joint venture partner's remaining interest in Kravco Simon which is -- owns 10 assets.
We now own 100% of King of Prussia mall which is an iconic asset with a major expansion in the works.
We strengthened and we also disposed the 49 core retail assets as well as announced our spinoff transaction which we'll talk about in a moment.
We see strength across our portfolio and platforms.
Occupancy continues to rise which is a sign of retailer demand.
The majority of our existing leases are under market.
Ongoing NOI growth is supported by our ability to replace underperforming retailers.
And as a final note on the operations our operating profit margin grew by 60 basis points to 71.7% in 2013.
In the quarter the fourth quarter that is we broke ground on Premium Outlets in Montréal in early October and construction is underway.
It's cold up there but it's still -- we're still working.
Construction also continues on new developments in Vancouver Minneapolis and Charlotte.
Less cold and our pipeline includes 6 additional new outlets expected to start construction in 2014 2015.
Redevelopment expansions are ongoing at 25 properties in the U.S.
Asia and Mexico.
We opened 2 in the fourth quarter the shops at Nanuet Walt Whitman in Long Island.
Please go visit.
Well executed thank you for the team -- thank you to the team.
Also open expansion and number of other properties in the fourth quarter including Orlando Premium Outlets at Vineland and Johor Premium Outlets in Malaysia.
Construction is ongoing to expand-enhance some of our most productive properties which please do not lose sight of Roosevelt Field Woodbury Common Houston Galleria Lenox Square Del Amo and Desert Hills just to name a few.
Overall our multi-year pipeline of new development and redevelopment expansion projects will continue to drive growth NOI and in the future.
And our pipeline continues to -- we expect to invest approximately $1 billion annually through 2016.
To give you a quick international update Klépierre will report next week.
But I'm proud of the fact that the company with our help has implemented a very thoughtful strategy.
We've strengthened the balance sheet.
We've improved operations and focused on cash flow growth.
We have now signed and we were instrumental in the deal with Carrefour to sell smaller assets in order to focus on larger and more productive centers.
We are exiting the office business.
That will be completed shortly including selling the headquarter building.
We've strengthened the management with the hiring of Jean-Marc Jestin as COO.
And we're focused on capital allocation among their different markets and continue to work on leasing and marketing opportunities.
Together the European retail recovery is stable and continuing.
And then just to finally mention that we did close McArthurGlen.
I was actually there at both places this week a day with McArthurGlen 2 days with Klépierre.
The opportunities -- McArthurGlen are there.
We've got development and expansion projects to consider and continue to be impressed with where Klépierre is headed.
Now just to talk briefly about SpinCo.
We have -- as you know we won't go into much detail today about it but we plan to spin off our strip center business in 44 smaller enclosed malls.
We believe this will create additional value for Simon Property Group shareholders and be a good investment vehicle for SpinCo.
We have yet to name the names.
SpinCo is not the name okay? SpinCo is not the name.
And we're open to any ideas out there for any names.
Please send them to us.
We expect the transaction to be effective in the second quarter of 2014.
We'll provide further updates as it's available but everything is moving absolutely according to plan there.
Fourth quarter capital market activity we were busy.
We closed or locked rates on 10 new secured loans totaling approximately $2.2 billion.
Our share of that is roughly $1 billion.
Including in the fourth quarter activity is the $1.2 billion refinance at Aventura Mall at a rate of 2.75.
In January as you know we announced and closed a bid offering of $1.2 billion of senior notes with a combined weighted average duration of 7.5 years and an average coupon rate of just under 3%.
Demand was very robust for these bonds.
We're using the proceeds for general corporate purposes and to repay debt including the unencumbering of $820 million mortgage on Sawgrass Mills.
Dividend we increased the dividend again in the first quarter $1 to $1.25.
That's a year-over-year increase of 8.7%.
SPG which not including SpinCo will now pay as you know at least $5 in 2014.
Now I would just take a moment to talk about something and I'll turn to '14.
I'd like to make an announcement regarding our management team.
Steve Sterrett our long-term CFO will be retiring in March of 2015.
So he will be staying on board through another full fiscal year in our process.
It's hard to overstate the contributions that Steve has made to our company.
And I know I speak for everyone when I say we will be sorry to see him go.
As many of you know Steve has been with the company for 20 years during the period of extraordinary growth.
Throughout it all Steve's contributions have been immeasurable.
We will conduct a search during the next few months for Steve's replacement.
Expect to consider both internal and external candidates.
And having Steve available for the rest of 2014 in the audit cycle will helpful and ensure a smooth transition.
And he will still not be able to beat me on a consistent basis in golf.
Now let me just talk about 2014.
I'm sure he'll have a response to that by the way but let's talk about 2014.
Guidance is in a range of $9.50 to $9.60.
This represents at the midpoint growth rate of 8%.
This is based on comparable NOI growth of at least 4% for a combined mall and outlet portfolio.
This FFO guidance is on a comparable basis for 2013 and ignores any potential impact of SpinCo.
When SpinCo is effective we'll provide updated and adjust the range for SPG as well as provide a range for SpinCo.
And now let me conclude.
We had a great year a great fourth quarter.
We continue to prioritize the creation of the value for our properties our retailers and our shareholders.
We believe we have very great prospects for 2014.
And we're now ready for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Jeremy Metz.
Can you break out the terms for the Kravco purchase as well as for Oyster Bay and Arizona Mills how you broke out the consideration for those? Well the Kravco purchase was a -- basically we had to put in a call at a combined cap rate of...
A little bit over 8%.
A little over 8%.
And as well as 113%.
113%.
And we -- what was your next question? Research Division</strong> On Oyster Bay and Arizona Mills how did the consideration break out between those assets? Well that was a private negotiation and we will not be going through that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly when can we expect an update on SpinCo management? Can you talk a little bit about that? We got initial comments from the SEC so we're in that process.
We are -- have identified both an internal and external candidate that we're having serious discussions with.
And now we would hope to conclude that over the next few weeks.
And as soon as we do I'm sure it will be part of our filing.
The board's pretty much set and it's going according to plan.
And the next question comes from Nathan Isbee of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The portfolio continues to perform very well but there's clearly a lot of questions swirling around shopper traffic shopper habits et cetera.
Could you maybe comment on what you're seeing? Are we seeing a sea change in retail as characterized by Starbucks last week? And what do you think this impact could have on your business over the next few years? Well look we've been doing this for quite some time.
And I think we have to put the fourth quarter sales into perspective.
First of all and these are just some thoughts off the top of my head we are absolutely believers that our business will continue to grow.
But let me just talk about the fourth quarter because I do think we were at the point of a little bit of overreaction.
Clearly in '13 there was a move toward global goods which happens in certain cycles.
And as the second half of the year came about I do think the consumer was relatively cautious.
We had a short season.
There was obviously lots of weather issues for certain parts of the country.
And I don't think what's put in perspective which I listened to the pundits on TV and elsewhere not just on TV but elsewhere but between the confusion of ObamaCare and taxes did raise pretty materially for the consumer you have what I'll call a -- I don't know if it was a perfect storm but you have a lot of this stuff all come together or that basically resulted in the consumer being very cautious.
The pundits I've heard this stuff about malls in the Internet obviously having the right retailers the right customer service the right look and feel of the properties will continue to hold our own in that space without question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're not seeing anything at the ground level that indicates shopper traffic is roughly 50% over the last 3 years or anything like that? 50%? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well that's what ShopperTrak says.
Well let me talk about -- I'm not going to name names.
But we don't use them and we don't know how reliable a lot of those traffic numbers are.
And we'll leave it at that.
The answer is all I can tell you Nate is look at our results.
That's all I can tell you is look at our results.
I think you know at this point doing this for 20 years and continuing to beat everybody's expectations about the profitability of what this company can't produce I would suggest to you that things are not what others say they are.
And I'll leave it at that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean in the -- over the last few years you have discussed various initiatives of helping and embracing online and developing something at the Simon level.
Any update on that? Well it would take 30 minutes on this call but we're happy to go through that in great detail.
We have a significant amount of initiatives that we're embarking upon to improve the consumer experience whether pre-mall or during mall visit.
And we are absolutely embracing technology and how it can -- how it could be used effectively to make the consumer more satisfied during their visit or as they come to the mall.
The retailers feel the absolute same way.
And there's probably 20-plus things that are ongoing in this company individually collectively with the mall industry as well as in conjunction with the retailers that we're working on.
But it's -- there are so many that I can't do it at this call but we're happy to share those as they get rolled out.
And your next question comes from Josh Patinkin of BMO Capital Markets.
I'm trying to get a better sense of what the opportunity to consolidate McArthurGlen managed funds look like.
So it's obviously not programmatic but can you give us a general sense for the total size of the enterprise and what could come up in the next few years? Yes they're a leader in that industry.
I think we'll have opportunities to grow that business through new development and extensions of existing assets as well as acquisitions of assets that either they manage and own a small piece of and/or others that do.
But it's really -- I'm not in the position to give you a specific number.
But as you know we've taken our platforms over the years and run them significantly.
It reminds me of the outlet business when we entered into it in 2004.
We have roughly grown.
We have -- if I could put the numbers correctly we have increased the cash flow of that business roughly 4x.
And needless to say you take the 4x plus the reduction in cap rate and you'd see the value created there.
I think it's harder to develop in Asia but a great team good people and we'll just take it a step at a time.
Okay.
And then more globally on outlets you built a lot of centers last decade.
And so is there a big sea change in the leasing conversation as you approach tenure rollovers? And do you think higher occupancy cost will become more acceptable to merchants in that business? I'll turn it to Rick to [indiscernible].
Absolutely we are seeing an ability to increase our rents.
We have significant demand in the outlet sector.
If you listen to the retailers there are many retailers that are entering the sector for the first time as an additional prong and bare growth strategy.
And where you have a lot of demand you're able to drive rates our properties are very productive.
We're making them better.
And that does give us pricing power.
And your next question comes from Christy McElroy of Citi.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to go back to Nate's question and ask it a little in a different way more from a leasing perspective.
As we sort of hear more from retailers about the integration of their bricks-and-mortar business with their e-commerce business so I'm thinking about the longer-term omni-channel initiatives.
I'm wondering if you could give us some perspective on how the changes are impacting sort of the leasing cost and how you would expect it to evolve over time? So first how the retailers are thinking about occupancy costs.
You addressed it a little bit in terms of the outlet but I'm thinking about the [indiscernible] either -- just thinking about the sales within the 4 walls of the store versus sort of the value of that locations the overall.
I think the good news for us as mall owners is I expect them to drive traffic and distribute through their store.
So what it means I believe over time is that that store location will become more valuable because instead of building a bunch of distribution centers or trying to figure out how to get various online purchases to the consumer the most effective and perhaps cost-effective way for them to do it is by using their existing store.
Now that means that they're going to have to have a better handle on store and create algorithms in terms of what can be distributed out to the store or not.
But I think what it's going to ultimately mean is that they're going to drive purchase -- drive sales through those stores which as far as we're concerned and what's in our leases and we'll continue to be is those sales will be generated from that store.
So I don't -- now if they have the store that's losing money they're not going to keep it open but that's been that way for 30 years 40 years.
So -- but that's what I anticipate.
The only other thing I would add and I think it's a very significant advantage to our retailers and in David and my discussions with them they are very focused on it.
It's the ability to fulfill their orders online out of their stores and reorient it to whatever store has the appropriate inventory that's going to have in their opinion significant margin enhancement possibility because they won't be able to have less markdowns by selling at full price goods that might otherwise have to be discounted in various locations.
And they're all spending a great deal of time getting that backbone in place to effectuate that.
The one thing that people have questioned is whether they're going turn these stores into showrooms.
And the fact of the matter is I talked to a very prominent retailer CEO about this issue.
They lose sales when they do that okay? So -- especially when it becomes apparel.
So I don't believe that if they want -- if this retailer continues to have an enviable bricks-and-mortar strategy that they are going to get in a point where it's a showroom because people want to -- continue to want to make sure that the size looks right on all that other stuff okay? Research Division</strong> So as it becomes more of a supply-demand of that location issue versus an occupancy cost when negotiating the rent and how do you attribute as they further integrate their business with e-commerce how do you attribute the specific sales of that store when reporting up to you? It's easy.
They'd have to keep track of it.
That's simple if it goes through their POS and it's going to have to if the stores –- that the inventories in the store.
That's a simple exercise.
We have audit -- yes we have audit rights okay? David I have one quick question just in terms of -- and I recognize the deal with the problems[ph] are it's a private transaction.
So there certainly was a time where they didn't want to take your stock pretty forcefully.
So I'm just curious how that transaction came about and what your plans are now that you're on those parcels of land in terms of the timing of potentially doing something on that site? Look we -- even though we obviously have had issues over the years with Taubman we've always had what I call a good professional relationship certainly as the dust is settled from several years ago.
So again I can't really comment on that other than -- let me talk about the property.
We're very excited about it.
We are very interested in working with the town of Oyster Bay and our partner Castagna Realty.
We're going to work with the residents come up with a development plan.
Also at the property that we own with Castagna Realty together we think there is an absolute way to create a win-win for the community and for us and our partner.
And it's great real estate.
So how we got there is really not important.
I'm convinced that's in the best interest of our shareholders and I'm convinced that Taubman feels the same way.
So that actually can happen where you can have a win-win for both companies.
And your next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just two questions here.
The first is the other big story apart from the Internet this past season was the Penney closure.
And if you look at the 33 stores they closed you could say okay they went through the whole thing and they could only find 33 stores.
And Sears for the all the years they've talking of rationalizing the Sears are still open.
So should we read this as the various department stores have done these big reviews and these are all the stores that they've closed or your sense is this the start of a wave and over the next several years we're going to see a lot more of these big-type announcements? Well I mean I think it's a function of what the retailer ultimately is able to do.
But the store closures for us is a kind of a normal standard operating procedure that we deal with.
We've had retailers clearly -- not necessarily the scale of a couple of that you mentioned -- but we've had retailers coming out of business for years.
And so again yes it does add to the workload but we find a way to get the job done.
And I think you're right though Alex is that they went through the portfolio generally.
And what we understand which I'm not sure is for us to say but we understand that that was the list that was actually generating negative cash flow.
So I think you're right in the sense of that a number of these retailers continue to have profitability and even in stores that are not as overly productive because for whatever reason.
So as an example and I don't know maybe we'll have this but people talked about small malls B-malls the Internet.
But our comp in the fourth quarter of our comp NOI increased for the SpinCo malls was 4%.
So that speaks to the ability to continue to move the needle forward despite all the noise.
Now look the fourth quarter sales I gave you that.
I do think a lot happen all on the fourth quarter.
But the consumer between the uncertainty of ObamaCare the increase in taxes wage growth continues to be anemic they spend on durable goods they slowed down in the third and fourth quarter across-the-board.
I mean whether it was the high-end the middle-end or the lower-end consumer.
And that happens.
Don't panic.
We'll deal with that.
So at the end of today I can't speak for the future of those two that you mentioned in terms of store closing but what we understand is that that's the analysis that led to the 33.
But I'm not 100% certain on that okay? L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is regarding SpinCo.
I mean Simon is going to be the platform for the initial I believe 2 years.
Is Simon Brand Ventures the income that's generated from that is that something that SpinCo will have access to beyond that or is the understanding that SpinCo is going to sort of have to try and replicate that NOI stream after the -- if in fact it ends the relationship with Simon as the supporting mall platform? Well all of those revenues are at the property level.
So they'll continue.
Now ultimately if they -- remember just to give you SpinCo the strip center business will be in SpinCo.
SPG will do some back office activity for the strip center business.
SPG will act as third-party property manager for SpinCo malls.
And all of that revenue that that group generates goes to the property.
So ultimately will be the decision for that team to decide whether or not they want to continue after the 2-year period to continue to use SPG as a property manager.
But there's no reason in my mind that they couldn't if they chose not to do that -- that will be up to the team and the Board there -- that they could replicate the vast majority of that income.
Your next question comes from Jeff Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> David maybe I think you should name SpinCo SteRRETT in honor of Steve's service to you.
That rolls right off the tongue.
LLC Research Division</strong> It does it does.
Actually did I hear you...
Honestly I probably shouldn't say this publicly.
But I'll go ahead sometimes I get into that box.
But the hardest thing about SpinCo is coming up with the appropriate name.
Right.
Yes so if you have any suggestions please send them our way.
LLC Research Division</strong> I don't have any good ones.
But actually did I hear you correctly? That you said NOI growth at SpinCo was 4% in Q4? And maybe are you be able to share other operating metrics of leasing spreads and occupancy as well? Yes that'll be in the final filing.
But the fourth quarter -- we thought you might ask that so we had that number for the fourth quarter.
But that kind of stuff will all be in the filing.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess maybe doubling on Alex's question about the Penney's and Sears closures risk.
When you look at those two situations I mean I think people had kind of ultimately handicapped or call it ultimate exposure.
Do you guys have the sense of what percentage of those stores that you have might not be cost-effectively retenantive? I didn't catch the last part.
What percentage of the stores we think may not be cost-effectively retenantive if they close.
I would tell you that we're spending a considerable amount of time.
And as we've said before on these calls we have our plans in place we have identified replacement tenants.
For example we have one tenant already lined up to occupy one of the Penney closures yet this year at a positive economic impact on that property and a positive sales impact.
So we are as prepared as one can be to take advantage of any opportunities that present themselves through the activities of the department stores when they decide they don't want to do it.
Over the years we've dealt with over 80 of these things.
So as David said this is not new to us.
We'll just keep doing what we've been doing at historically.
LLC Research Division</strong> And maybe I can stick with you Rick on -- sort of following up on Christie's earlier question.
Just historically retailers kind of wanted the landlord to stay out of their way as it relates to retail sales.
Are you seeing retailers become more receptive to working with their landlord around their e-commerce and retail sales platform? I mean is that part of the leasing discussion or even specifically addressed in the lease or that's sort of a separate conversation sort of an add-on if you will? Well two parts to that.
In our lease negotiations we're incredibly mindful of the role that our stores play in the distribution of their goods whether online or store-based.
And frankly if that store is any part of the distribution channel for that sale it's going to count in our sales.
The retailers understand that and the retailers are emphasizing the convenience and location of their stores as a significant advantage in their ability to maximize their contacts with the customers and their sales.
So they very much view their stores as an integral part of their business going forward and they are working with us in a cooperative way to try and maximize.
Well I will just say Jeff simply that we have both mobile and desktop et cetera.
We have a system called Retailer Showcase that basically presents offers from the retailers to our consumers.
They can get it in mall they can go on our website or whatever.
We do that.
I think the last number that I saw probably 50 000 offers over the year that we present to our consumers.
We get those offer -- we don't make them up we get them from that retailers.
So absolutely there is a significant amount of coordination as you would expect between us and the retailer to improve and enhance their business.
I believe we're just at the scratching of that surface.
That is part of our job to facilitate more productivity for the retailers of stores and at the same time trying to do that and increase rent.
I mean it's not the easiest thing.
But they know that we want them to be very productive.
We work hand-in-hand with them.
And I think technology generally will be a wonderful opportunity to make that relationship easier to execute.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one last question.
I'm curious internally when you guys are handicapping -- I'll call it exposure to anchor closures -- what are the metrics that you guys look at internally? Is it four-wall profit is it sort of store format or market size or approximated to their distribution centers? I mean is there I guess a better methodology than maybe just sort of overall sales productivity that you find in forecasting? Well sure because you don't know how many -- how they cover -- historically the department stores advertised in a market.
They allocate that advertising a certain way.
So you've got to have a handle on that.
But again on a specific store we're going to have a sense as to where that is based upon lots of discussions over the last few years.
Corporately and where they're headed we have some insights but it's no different than people that has follow them and covered them.
I mean we're not necessarily privy to all that's going on in what they're doing.
I mean we have obviously good relationships with our major anchors.
But we're not privy to anything that's probably not common knowledge.
But we have the several years and years of dealing with them how they feel about certain stores.
And your next question will comes from Steve Sakwa of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions David and Rick.
As you kind of look at the rent spreads those dramatically improved over the course of 2013.
And as you look at the rollover for the next really 3 years your ending base rents are just a shade under $40.
And when you add in the CAM you're probably close to that $53.
So it would seem that you're releasing spreads ought to continue to accelerate.
Is there anything that would outside of a sales decline which it doesn't seem to be happening is there anything that suggest that leasing spreads wouldn't continue to tick higher from here? We certainly anticipate that we'll be able to continue to grow our rents as we have historically.
The other thing I would tell you is that we're spending a lot of money making these properties better.
And so when you look at a very gross sales number that's made up of a whole lot of individual stores.
And as we renovate our properties bring in better tenant our tenants we believe are more productive in our properties and that gives us some incremental ability to drive rent.
So we don't envision that slowing down.
Research Division</strong> Okay and maybe sticking with you Rick.
Just kind of on the tenants and how you're thinking about repositioning the properties.
I don't know if you have a specific number.
But as you look at the mix of tenants in the mall today what percentage is apparel and what percentage do you think that'll be 3 years from now? At this point I think our apparel percentage is going to remain fairly stable.
Now the tenants that make up that apparel percentage could change dramatically.
We have some tenants that are reducing the size of their stores and we have entrants coming in like Czar H&amp;M UNIQLO that are in slightly bigger formats.
But there's not going to be a sense of a significant decline in the amount of space allocated to apparel.
We are allocating space differently.
Look last year we opened 36 restaurants across the portfolio.
That's a major focus to be able to extend their stay in our property give the consumers a wider range of dining alternatives and just make the properties more experiential which is obviously a focus of our retailers and us.
So the mix may change but I think apparel is going to stay fairly stable while the components may change.
I probably shouldn't say this but it's interesting as I travel the world and understand -- probably not as much as I should do -- but the occupancy cost that we have in the U.S.
is relatively benign compared to when you see it elsewhere in the world.
So it's an interesting thing for us to pause to think about what the opportunities to continue to grow that rent are.
But we've got to be absolutely sensitive to the retailer and making sure they profit in their environment as well.
So our occupancy cost generally in comparison to kind of where the other shopping centers owners have in the world they're relatively below at least what those would indicate the rents are.
So we'll see how that evolves over time.
And they have been relatively stable for the last 3 years even though we've been able to drive our rents.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well let me ask I guess one last question for maybe the newest member of the senior stores Steve.
Hopefully you'll get your qualifying card here and get something new going.
I went to the balance sheet and kind of debt refinancing.
So obviously it's been very favorable.
Just how are you thinking about kind of the balance of debt maturing this year and into '15 and kind of what's your thought in terms of kind laddering and kind of where you want to be on the debt curve? Well it's Steve it's pretty well laddered already.
As you know as part of the SpinCo announcement we did state that we expect to raise $1 billion of debt through SpinCo with those proceeds coming to Simon before the effective date.
So if you couple that with our bond yield in January that's the majority of our capital raise in terms of dealing with bond expirations.
We also unencumbered Sawgrass Mills as part of the use of those proceeds.
So we're in really good shape for '14.
We've accomplished most of the capital plan.
And in '15 we're ordinary course of business we have bonds coming due every year.
You should expect us to be a regular issuer in that market.
But obviously the secured debt market is also important to us as well so you'll see us in both.
And your next question comes from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve thanks for all your help over the years.
Given just some of the clouds around fourth quarter consumer activity in the malls.
I know you guys don't typically do this but would you be able to provide a pure fourth quarter 2013 over fourth quarter 2012 tenant sales trend? Yes.
It was flat.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up.
I know you've mentioned the SpinCo same-store NOI but from a tenant sales perspective how does that look like when you split out the outlets A malls and B malls? It doesn't have to be the fourth quarter but maybe the year-over-year the total trailing 12 months.
I'm sorry I didn't really understand the question Ki Bin.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the trend in your tenant sales of 2.5% year-over-year trailing 12 months how does that look like like if you had to stratify it between outlets A malls and B malls? Well I mean we shared some of that with you when we announced SpinCo.
That gives you a general direction for that answer.
And as you'll see once SpinCo is done and effective you'll have the SpinCo data and you'll have the SPG data.
So that'll all be there.
That gives you a sense of direction where it is.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just last point.
Should we expect negative sales at all for SpinCo in the fourth quarter? Yes.
I mean we gave you that at -- whenever it was.
December we showed you that.
Several years of history.
Yes.
I can't can remember the exact number.
But it's right there it's public document.
I assume it's on our Investor website.
It's all there.
And your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to the retail side here for a second.
A lot of talk about the sales trends but obviously profitability is very important.
And just given the number of pre-announcements that we've heard this season I'm just curious if you think we should be expecting a higher level of seasonal occupancy decline in the first quarter here than we've seen over maybe the last few years where perhaps the plans were a little bit more conservative.
We don't see that at this moment.
Things change over the year.
But we don't see that necessarily.
Obviously we have a good handle on that.
The only thing we don't have a handle that could change that is bankruptcies.
But based upon our existing status of where we are with our discussion with retailers we don't see that.
Obviously a bankruptcy here or there may be able to impact that on a faster basis.
Research Division</strong> And going back to the discussion around e-commerce.
We hear a lot about Macy's and Nordstrom and companies like that that are very forward thinking about their strategies.
I'm just wondering how you think the smaller retailers that maybe don't have the same scale or infrastructure can evolve in a new environment to be able to kind of compete with the e-commerce.
Well the fact of the matter and you can see it in technology companies' results is that it is relatively a lot less expensive to create because of the cloud and the way apps work and so on.
It's relatively less expensive to create the combination become more technology-oriented than it has in the past.
Lots of ability to share services in the cloud that you wouldn't otherwise have to invest in.
So I think maybe the mom and pop has a harder time.
But generally any retailer that has a kind of a reasonable store base can compete very affectively because the cost of technology is -- you don't need routers you don't need servers you don't need a bunch of software guys cranking this stuff out like you used to.
The fact is if we had done MerchantWired today with different technology we'd probably be successful.
But we overpaid for the hardware.
So I think as long as they have a reasonable store base we're going to be able to create the appropriate coordination between their bricks and mortar stores and how they want to deal with online shopping.
And frankly there is no retailer that we meet with that is not very focused on doing precisely that.
Some of them are further along in their implementation of those strategies but every one of them is focused on more affectively integrating their online with their stores.
Your next question comes from Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just another set of questions.
Have you seen retailers expand their footprint in order to better distribute goods than they would be selling online.
I'm thinking about of course the footprint in the malls.
It's a good point.
What I have seen them do is think about their stores as a point of distribution along as a store.
So whether they're now looking at stores just for the sake of having the store and a distribution I wouldn't' say that thinking is there yet.
But clearly existing stores are being thought as a way to distribute and kind of the e-commerce platform.
So I do think that thinking -- and that's a different level for many different retailers but I actually do think they're thinking about it very seriously.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So how many such distribution centers if you will would a retailer need in a large metro-area? Okay I'm not in a position to say that.
But it depends on the retailer.
And the funny thing is they're not talking about using drones to ship their goods.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sure that's going to be an interesting transition.
Just getting back on the disposition of 14 non-core assets.
Can you give us a little bit more detail in terms of which property tied and cap rates? I don't have it in front of me.
But a few smaller shopping centers a couple of outlets.
So we'll continue to do that as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Were any of those considered to be spun out into SpinCo? The answer is none of those were in the SpinCo because we already had contracts.
There is a couple of strip centers that may or may not be sold before SpinCo is done.
So if that's the case we're going to -- ultimately the portfolio as we said to you in December when we announced it will change a little bit.
Part of that will be because of a couple of fails here and there and a couple of them will be because we may or may not get a consent.
But that could still happen.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a final question on the relationship with anchors.
So a couple of weeks ago I think Sears announced that they would be leasing space to Dick sporting goods King of Prussia.
It's obviously by far the best mall in the Philly area.
When you think about your ability to recapture stores from Sears and Penney in particular versus the decision that they may ultimately make to lease to what is effectively a power center tenant into what is by far the best mall and particularly in the metro.
How are thinking about what is the right price for you to pay to recapture that box? And what can you do to influence their decision on the retailer that will come into their center or into their box? Well I mean the simple answer is it depends.
Each case is different to be honest with you.
So in that case we cooperated with Sears.
Given the location of that store and what our plans were on the future redevelopment we thought it was a win-win for us.
We're happy to have Dick's in there and it was a good transaction for Sears.
In some cases because of location of stores we may want to do the development on ourselves -- by ourselves.
In some cases we'll let them do it.
And if -- in fact we may -- in most cases we have approval rights so each case is very different.
Believe me we have understanding of each one to a great level.
But in that case we just saw it as a way to be cooperative with Sears way to help them all great for the consumer and as you know we think Dick's is great.
We do a lot of business with them.
So in that case we said "Perfect let's go.
We'll help you we'll cooperate." Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you didn't try to acquire the box back from Sears? No we did not and Sears will continue to operate there as well.
So it's -- Dick's is taking the upper level and Sears is going to actually we understand kind of create the store the future so to speak in the lower level so that's great.
And we'll continue to work with anchors like that as well.
There's lots of little tactical things that are going on with all of our anchors about getting rights to put restaurants in.
On some of the frontage of the -- just to bring up an example in Briarwood we're putting a couple of restaurants and we do that all the time like in front of Macy's.
And so all of that stuff is out there to do.
In some cases we facilitate them if they want to do a lease.
So the simple goal is "Let's make the property better for the consumer " and it will take all sorts of different forms.
We wouldn't rule out partnering with somebody on a redevelopment of their box if that circumstance made sense for both parties.
Your next question comes from Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> And I guess going to the Mills for a second I was wondering can you give us a little more color on the 11% comp NOI growth? And was it a handful of assets? Was it broad-based? I mean what was really driving those numbers? Look they have a -- they're major markets at 16 assets.
As you know the focus on value for them value-oriented retailers has been tremendously successful.
You've got the outlets at Orange that conversion from more of an entertainment center to an outlet center has been terrific.
Ontario is on fire.
Sawgrass needless to say is -- continues to be behemoth.
Potomac Mills we brought a couple of restaurants in Opry that's not in the comps.
It's not in the comp yes.
Opry has been fantastic.
You know the run hole.
You can see it on the run hole.
So lots of things go there just a lot of things happening here to make the portfolio -- by the way we added Macy's at Gurnee Mills as an example so...
But Mike this is Steve.
It is rent.
It's really saying it's higher occupancy it's growing rents.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
So it sounds like if we're thinking about '14 '15 you're probably still getting above average growth out of that part of the portfolio? I think it will be good.
I'm not going to do 10% -- where not going to do is 10.8% for the year.
So don't put that in your numbers.
And your next question comes from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Steve also let me add my congratulations.
It looks like really you have one year left sort of to finally go shoe shopping before you lose your steady paycheck.
Tayo if I'm going to go shoe shopping I'm going to go with you.
That's for sure.
Research Division</strong> Sounds good.
Two quick questions.
First of all just to get around commentary a lot of retailers are saying Christmas was weak.
I know David made a couple of comments about what could change your initial outlook for 2014 would be on a potential for more bankruptcies or things of that nature.
But I just -- and then for everything you're seen right now are you seeing kind of on the fringe tenants talking like that about potentially closing shops or things like that just based off the tough holiday season? Not really.
This is always the general time where you may see a few of these pop-up.
But no one -- in fact there's a few that have been in the edge for a number of years and actually turn their business around even last year.
Look I think the consumer -- I read something yesterday on the plane back from Europe that consumer is still under a pretty decent amount of pressure.
Higher taxes more regulation uncertainty of ObamaCare spending on durable goods a little bit in the first half the year higher rates potentially I would think and they took it easy in the third and fourth quarter as you've seen across the board.
So we are still in a tepid recovery.
The fascinating thing I read last year forget the federal government in the state and local governments there were 40 000 new rules and regulations in the state -- in the United States of the America.
So that is going to slow the growth of America 40 000 new regulations throughout this country at a state and local level.
That's going to slow us down.
So we have a tepid recovery even though some of the broad-based numbers look better.
The fact is it's still a very cautious environment.
But we're producing terrific results in that environment.
And that's the facts.
We produced great results in the Great Recession.
We had cash flow that was flat.
So despite all of that that noise out there we can only do what we're capable of doing.
We can't control the outcome of an anchor business plan or not.
We can just be ready to go to work if in fact these things are thrown in our way.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then the second thing is we also heard about Matt Lentz had also kind of left the company.
Just wondering if that role was -- there's going to be a replacement for him or if there's going to be any changes around the CIO position.
The answer is we brought someone in to -- help the internationally.
We're -- Matt was helping Stanley Shashoua who has been terrific.
Stanley is great speaks 5 languages maybe 6 unlike the team here who can actually speak English but he's great and he's helping me.
And in the sense he really took Matt's role on our International business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Could you talk -- a little bit more about just Stanley's overall background and what he's kind of done in the past? He worked for both real estate and investment banking companies.
So he's been -- he's a young guy compared to me probably but he's been -- he's got great experience.
And he was instrumental with the McArthurGlen deal.
I had to put him on that deal because of the complexity and he really helped us get there with another kind of great guy here who actually came from the Mills but moved to Minneapolis when did that deal.
Brian McDade -- the 2 of them grabbed that -- along with our General Counsel grabbed that deal and took it to the finish line.
And so the good thing about the -- we have kind of the what I call younger folks that are really taking a lot more responsibility in the organization and doing a great job.
And your next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on SpinCo.
So several of the SpinCo properties are encumbered with CMBS debt that has near-term maturities West Ridge Mall in Topeka Chesapeake Square in Chesapeake Virginia and...
Yes.
Those are all being refinanced.
As we speak.
As we speak.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that is your question? Research Division</strong> Well I was getting to it right? So there's 4 or 5 of that list with near-term debt maturities.
So should we assume that all 5 are in that list of being refinanced or the candidates for dispositions? No they're all going to be refinanced absent -- one may not be -- one is further out there.
I don't know I don't -- yes but they'll be refinanced.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you've quietly gone about proving your U.S.
portfolio in recent years.
I'm just trying to get a sense how to process slows down post SpinCo.
How do you think about your U.S.
portfolio or disposition strategy after the spinoff of SpinCo? Well for SPG we'll continue to call properties like we have for year-after-year.
SpinCo I think again I'm not going to be in charge there.
But I think I would expect SpinCo to sell a couple assets here and there.
And I think it's -- that's business as usual.
I mean we'll always continue to sell assets at both companies.
I can't necessarily -- as a Director I'll have certainly my point of view on capital allocation and reallocation.
But I would expect both companies to continue to sell assets like we have in the past.
And your next question comes from Dan Oppenheim with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering -- I guess there's been enough questions about some seasonal trends here with normally season closings in the first quarter.
I guess in the other side of that at over 96% occupancy here you're likely to have some sort of backlog in terms of retailers wanting to get in.
I just wonder if you can comment a bit in terms of conversations with retailers looking ahead in terms of Del Amo as that opens up next year and just others just how you think about that in terms of demand just in terms of -- just if there are to be any vacancies in terms of sort of backfilling or -- adding there.
We still have very strong demand.
And in fact the response to Del Amo has been terrific.
We are going to be able to move that up significantly in price point and with the quality retailers.
And retailers still want to expand.
Retailers still want to have great real estate that will help their brand and we're seeing no real slowdown in that conversation.
And in fact and we've said this in other calls a great amount of the time that David and I spend are basically dealing with retailers that we cannot accommodate in the size they want or in the space they want at our property.
So demand remains high.
Dan this is Steve.
I'll just add one point.
We tend not to get into the 27 different variables that go into our forecast for the year but I will say that our plan in 2014 is that occupancy year-over-year will be up at the end of '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Yang of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> David you've talked in the past about the disconnect between sales and NOI that for one you can replace the underperforming tenants.
So I was just hoping -- I mean Steve made the comment about occupancy being up in '14.
Would you guys consider at all just disclosing what the same-store NOI growth is as implied in your '14 guidance because it just seems like that could help alleviate some of the concerns surrounding core growth in light of volume sales pressured customer? Yes.
Let me interrupt you there.
We did actually.
Research Division</strong> Oh did you? I must have bored you by the time I got to that.
Our -- that's quite all right.
I understand that our opening comments may in fact bore some.
We are projecting for '14 to have comp NOI up 4% or above.
So I -- if that answers your question -- 4%.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Sorry I missed that and...
That's all right.
I am not offended in any stretch of imagination.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I missed this one also.
Did you disclose the cap rate for the Arizona Mills transaction? We -- in fact we said we would not and we did do -- we did say that earlier.
That's okay.
Research Division</strong> And maybe a final question maybe going back to Cedrik's comments on Sears.
Do you think that the anchor subleasing dynamic will accelerate in the coming year? Is that also -- is this a model that only works at the A malls or do you think we could see this type of activity ramp up at the B malls? I think that there is going to be a concerted effort by Sears.
They've done it historically over the last few years and they're continuing to be focused on it to try and get their stores to where they are most efficient.
That doesn't -- and I think that is frankly not specifically limited to any particular quality spectrum of their stores.
And as David said where we think it's in our best interest we'll cooperate.
If we think it is not in our best interest or the malls' best interest or the consumers' best interest we'll try and influence a different direction on Sears' part.
But I don't think their efforts are being focused on any particular quality type.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And are you in current negotiations to do this in any other of your malls with Sears or maybe even at Penney's currently? We're having a constant dialogue with both companies about all the real estate.
And frankly as David said earlier we hopefully -- that provides a lot of insights into what they're thinking strategically with respect to the stores and we're trying to work with them to come up with positive outcomes.
Your next question comes from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just given Steve's retirement date I'm wondering if that's a good indicator -- when do you think the debt markets are going to get tougher? I don't know.
I see the tenure coming back down.
So Craig I will say that the debt markets are in really good shape right now for us.
Now I always caution that by -- I think about the little commercials.
Your results may not be the same but for us the bond market is wide open the mortgage market is very good the bank market is wide open.
So -- and having already put away now quite a bit of our 2014 maturities we can start to tackle the '15 stuff and feel good about the opportunity to continue to roll down our weighted average borrowing cost while increasing our duration.
I think it is interesting in a debt portfolio that's $28 billion $29 billion.
We've lowered our borrowing costs 23 basis points in each of the last 2 years and that's a pretty meaningful contribution to profitability.
With no reliance on closures yes.
Yes it was almost no floating rate [ph] here to date.
I mean that's the important part.
I mean we -- if we want to reduce our earnings growth we would have 20% 30% of floating rate debt.
We basically have virtually 0.
Research Division</strong> And I guess one other thought on the cost of occupancy I know that's been touched on.
But 11.5% still seems low even when it -- considering it's Premium Outlets combined with malls.
Where do you think -- and I realize it's a moving target but where do you think that could normalize out your cost of occupancy? Or do you think it's going to remain sort of in the mid-11s? Well this is the $64 000 question.
Like I said earlier I mean it is interesting to me that occupancy costs outside of the U.S.
are much much higher and -- so answer is I don't know other than it does give us some very good feeling that we still have a way to continue to grow our NOI because essentially the biggest opportunity we have is to -- marketing our leases to market and being able to replace underperforming retailers with better ones.
Besides the -- obviously and I know Craig you've been out seeing a bunch of properties and I appreciate that that you have because you get a good sense of what's going on here which I do think because of the size of the company sometimes people lose focus.
But all that's going on -- but that's going to drive our business.
That -- but I can't put a number on it and -- but -- and we're here to create the right partnership with our retailers because we believe in repeat business with them.
But this is confidence that we still have the ability to execute even with a tepid consumer comp NOI growth.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I would just say in the properties I visited I've been very impressed and you sort of forget sometimes that there really is a skill to managing these assets.
And some of the things I've seen in the last couple of weeks have been very impressive.
Yes.
Look I mean you -- I know you went to Del Amo right? And I'm sure you didn't really believe we were redoing Del Amo.
I know you've been asking about this for -- I'm sure you asked the Mills pre-acquisition for years.
And then I know once we bought the Mills it took us a few years and one Great Recession to overcome but it's going to be a great great mall.
Research Division</strong> No I think what you're doing and just bringing in Nordstrom's could be a real game changer because there's clearly an unserved audience there.
And your next question comes from Jeff Spector of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to Craig's question.
I guess when you're sitting down with tenants and negotiating new leases I mean is there a target occupancy cost? The answer is that we're very focused on the maximizing of rents and it's less about a target occupancy cost because it takes into account the size of the space the use of the tenant the quality of the mall where is the space located in the mall what's the sales projection for that tenant.
And all of that goes into setting the rate that we think is appropriate.
And believe me the process is granular and we spend a great deal of time on the nickels making sure that we try and get it right.
But we don't go into any given spacing we want 12.5% of sales from this space and 18% from this space.
All those factors go into how we set the rent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That helps.
And then Rick I guess I know there's been a lot of discussion on JCPenney and Sears.
But just one thing I was thinking about when I was going through this up on anchor big box openings it is interesting when you look at the list compared to what say years ago when we saw a number of department stores closings.
I mean do you feel better today there's more options? I mean I really haven't heard yet great evidence if somebody's anchors are definitely a benefit to the mall but I would imagine it just seems like a pretty good list including -- like I noticed Wegmans at Montgomery Mall.
Yes.
Well look we have a whole dedicated team and frankly David and I have been pushing all of our people to go out and kept as broad a net as possible so we have as many options identified as possible to make things work.
And frankly Wegmans at Montgomery Mall has been terrific Fairway Market at Nanuet has been great Fresh Market at The Falls but that's just one category.
David mentioned Dick's earlier Arhaus Furniture.
We just have a lot of different users that as we've said earlier we've gone through our portfolio and have these users identified so that if an opportunity presents itself with an anchor box we can move efficiently and quickly and effectively to get it filled.
Yes.
And the difference Jeff also is that when we have a significant turmoil in the department store business say in the late 80s early 90s I mean there's been episodes of -- a lot of turnover.
There was also a lot of new stuff that was being brought to the market.
In today's market you essentially have no new -- I mean of a significant quantity no new development whether it's strip centers and malls they have a little bit in the Outlet business as we all know but you have no new product coming on the market.
And it's -- yes I know there are a few but in the real sense of stuff.
So -- and you also have obsolescence occurring which is -- by the way we -- they've been telling folks for several years that we expect an obsolescence.
When you put together the inventories tight and sure there'll be some headaches associated with that but that's in a -- that's a better spot to be in if in fact there is significant anchor turmoil than say in the early 90s and a couple other the episodes that Rick and I have had to deal with.
Then the last thing I'll say on that is that frankly success breeds success.
So once we're able to get one of these new anchors in our properties they open the store what invariably we have found is they've been more successful than they thought they'd be and that makes the next conversation for the next opportunity much more easy to have and finalize.
Research Division</strong> Thanks.
And then I just want to clarify I know at the beginning of the call David you're talking about traffic counts I think it's important to clarify -- I think you used the word -- you don't participate with the company mentioned.
When you say that are you saying just to confirm Simon does not provide data to these companies? Is that correct? They are -- they -- yes they -- first of all we don't use them.
We rely primarily on parking counts.
We do not use them.
I think their -- I'm not sure about their sample base.
You'll have to ask them.
I think it's narrow.
And I don't -- the retailers that use them I think it's a small subset.
But I mean look there are lots of people that make pronouncements and tell you this tell you that.
All we can do is just report quarter-after-quarter what the results of our business produce.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question I know you may not be able to answer it but into these things with [ph] Calbman I guess did anything -- was there any discussions on the 2 different St.
Louis Outlet Centers? I think Jeff everything I've told you about our deal has been disclosed.
And your next question comes from Nathan Isbee of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes just a quick follow-up a technical question.
You mentioned that the online sales fulfilled at your malls will count towards sales.
On the flip side if somebody buys 6 pairs of shoes online and returns 5 of them at your malls is that a net deduction to sales? The answer is no because it didn't occur at the POS.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So even if they returned it in your mall it would not? Correct.
Correct.
Ladies and gentlemen I'd like to now turn the call back over to Mr.
Simon for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sorry the call dragged on that long.
Steve has been a great part of the group.
We've got another year to torment him.
So I'm sure you'll see him around and we'll make sure that we'll want to go the extra torment for the next year.
So anyway thank you.
Have a good one.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the presentation for today.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2014 Simon Property Group Inc.
earnings conference call.
My name is Clinton and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only line.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Liz Zale Senior VP of Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Simon Property Group's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Presenting on today's call is David Simon our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rick Sokolov our President and Chief Operating Officer and Steve Sterrett our Chief Financial Officer and we are also joined by Tom Ward our new Vice President of Investor Relations.
Before we begin just a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today's press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please note that this call includes information that may only be accurate as of today's date and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the press release and the supplemental information in today's Form 8-K filing.
Both the press release and the supplemental information are available online at investors.simon.com.
It is now my pleasure to introduce David Simon.
Good morning.
We had strong start to the year.
Results in the quarter were led by FFO $2.38 per share up 16.1% from the first quarter of 2013.
Once again our FFO significantly exceeded the first call consensus estimate.
Our growth strategy continues to generate significant value for our business.
Overall business conditions are positive.
Demand for space in our portfolio remain strong.
Leasing activity is helping.
We had occupancy growth of 80 basis points compared to Q1 2013 in the quarter is 95.5% accelerating releasing spreads to $9.90 per square foot.
Our comp NOI growth for malls and outlets was 3.7% despite higher cost from utilities and snow removal.
If we normalize this this affected our comp by roughly 90 basis points and as a point of reference comp NOI including The Mills and excluding the malls to be spun-off as part of WP was 5.3% for the quarter including the high cost of snow and utility removal.
Now as reported our retail sales were essentially flat and I would encourage you to look at our revenues as opposed to our retailer sales.
As you know if we had underperforming retailers we have the ability to replace them with better retailers at generally higher rents which generates higher SPG revenues and as I have said repeatedly current retail sales does not correlate to our ability to grow our cash flow and as a reminder our consolidated revenues the revenues that I focus on grew by 8.2% for the year.
These results are testament to the strength of our assets and the desirability of our locations.
Now development construction continues on new premium outlets in Charlotte Minneapolis Montréal and Vancouver all high quality major markets and that remains our only focus in new development is in those kind of markets.
Other new outlet projects in our development pipeline are moving forward.
We have up to six additional new outlets expected to start construction in 2014 and 2015.
Redevelopment and expansion projects are ongoing at 29 properties in the U.S.
Asia and Mexico.
We started construction on two important redevelopment projects in our portfolio.
They include the relocation of Bloomingdale's at Stanford Mall in Palo Alto and the redevelopment of its former location to add 120 000 new square feet of space for small shops and restaurants and the relocation of Saks Fifth Avenue at Houston Galleria to a new prototype store plus the redevelopment of that existing of Saks and an expansion adding the 105000 square feet of luxury retail and restaurants.
We also started construction on the expansion of Yeoju premium outlets in Seoul Korea.
That will add approximately 259 000 square feet and we have a healthy pipeline of other premium outlet expansion projects in the works.
Desert Hills premium outlets in celebrating the opening of its expansion beginning this Thursday adding 147 000 square feet and it is fully an example.
As an example the annualized NOI from this expansion will add $17 million to SPG's NOI as it's a wholly-owned asset.
Construction is ongoing to expand and enhance some of our most productive properties including Roosevelt Field Woodbury Common Lenox Square and Del Amo to name a few.
Overall we continue to expect redevelopment investments of at least $1 billion annually through 2016 that will contribute incremental growth in NOI and strengthen the position of our assets in the respective geographic areas.
On Klépierre the transformative Carrefour deal selling 126 smaller assets for nearly €2 billion closed last week.
McArthurGlen our new investment in the outlet business in Europe is performing well.
Our deal signed transactions during the first quarter included our acquisition of the remaining interest in Kravco Simon which held interest in a portfolio of 10 assets including King of Prussia Mall which we now own 100% and the acquisition of Arizona Mills bringing our interest to that center of 100% as well as development land in Oyster Bay Long Island from the Taubman Centers.
Just an update on Washington Prime Group.
WP spin-off of 98 assets including our strip center business is expected to be completed in the second quarter.
Recent activities include announced members of senior management team an independent Board of Directors including Mark Orban as CEO.
We are pleased also today to announce that Mark Richards will be joining WP as CFO.
He is well respected and has worked with Mark successfully at Sunrise Senior Living.
We received indicative investment grade range from three major credit agencies as follows S&amp;P BBB Moody's BAA2 Fitch BBB.
All three agencies provided a stable outlook.
Very strong ratings out-of-the-box and comparable to many REITs that have been rated for a long time.
The balance sheet will be ready to enable the company in its pursuit of cash flow growth.
Completed financing activities on WP.
Nine mortgages were closed in unsecured facility comprised of a $900 million revolving credit facility and a $500 million term loan were completed.
Now let me turn to the SPG capital markets update.
We completed a $1.2 billion senior unsecured notes offering in January with a weighted average duration of 7.5 years at an average coupon rate of 2.975%.
The 65 basis point spread over treasuries for the five-year tranche is the tightest five years spread ever for a REIT.
On March 14 Fitch upgraded our credit ratings to A.
We are now at the mid-A level with all three of the agencies leading the REIT industry.
We closed or locked rates on four new secured loans in the quarter totaling $860 million of which our share was $491 million and we expect to generate $1 billion of cash proceeds from the WP spin upon its completion.
Early in April we amended and extended our $4 billion unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facility to a June 2019 final maturity and we are able to reduce the interest rate to LIBOR plus 80 basis points on LIBOR plus 95 basis points again the best in the market.
We raised the dividend again this quarter to a $1.30 per share.
That's an increase of $0.05 per share from last quarter and a year-over-year increase of 13%.
We will pay at SPG at least $5.15 per common share in 2014 not including the WP expected dividend.
As we said to you originally the WP expected dividend will create an overall effective dividend of $5.65 or another at least $0.50 on a one-for-one basis for WP spin.
Now let's go to guidance.
We revised our 2014 guidance upwards to $9.60 to $9.70 of FFO per share.
This incorporates our strong performance in the first quarter.
It raises both the top and the bottom by $0.10.
It's based upon an annual comp NOI growth of at least 4% for combined mall and outlet portfolio.
This FFO guidance is comparable basis with our 2013 results and ignores any potentially impact of the WP spin.
Once the spin-off is completed we will provide updated guidance through a press release reflecting what the impact of SPG will be for the balance of the year.
So overall we had a strong start to the year.
We are absolutely focused on creating value for our properties and for our tenants and for our shareholders and now we are ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa of ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi David.
I can appreciate your comment about tenant sales how that doesn't directly impact your business short-term but I was wondering if you guys could maybe try and isolate what the weather impact was and if you or Rick could maybe talk about regional sales performance and did you see any differences in places like Florida Texas and California versus the Northeast Mid-Atlantic and Midwest? I would refute your first statement Steve and I would suggest to you that the most important thing in terms of growing our cash flow is in fact what the market rents of our space are which are not determined by what current retailers are producing out of that space and what our rollover schedule looks like.
And in fact if you see our rent spreads of nearly $10 per foot that would indicate exactly sure we do have some risk to overage rent as sales ebb and flow but the fact of the matter is recurrent retail sales generally don't have an impact.
And take an example there are a number of the retailers that are really not performing that well for each one have a variety of reasons.
That's in our sales numbers for our retailers yet that has nothing to do with what the market value of that space can be.
And so again you should be obsessed with our sales.
I am obsessed with our revenues the SPG revenues.
Retailers come and go.
If we were worried about retail sales this company was originally built we had Kmart as our anchors.
And if we had looked at Kmart sales we would have suggested that our sales or our revenues could never grow but in fact what we do here is we are able to replace underperforming retailers with better retailers and we are able to garner the market rent of what our space should be and that continues to go up.
So this is not a short-term issue.
This is an issue that's existed for the balance of this 50 year history of this company.
So now Rick can mention regional fact of the matter is sure the weather this company will never use weather as an excuse.
It certainly affected our comp NOI by 90 basis points because of high utility snow.
We often talk about the winter.
That's in our rearview mirror.
It certainly had an impact on our retailers that exist in our buildings but it doesn't change the fundamentals of the fact that our business is solid.
It has the ability to grow its cash flow.
We have a long demonstrated track record of being able to do that and we will continue to do that but the markets that didn't have snow et cetera they were not as effective in terms of those retailers are reporting.
I do remind you that the like to remind that the strip center which don't even report tenant sales but Rick I don't know if you want to add anything to it.
I do.
One thing not only do we not use weather as an excuse with you.
We do not allow our operating teams in any of our platforms to use weather as an excuse and we expect those results to be delivered.
You will not be surprised to hear that the better markets where the Pacific Florida the Southwest and Las Vegas.
And the markets that were most impacted by the weather were the Plains the Great Lakes and the Mid-Atlantic.
No great insights there but as David said we are managing through.
Okay thanks and then just on the leasing front.
I know most of the leasing is done for this year but Rick can you give us some insight as to what kind of leasing is done for next year? We are right on track with our leasing renewals and leasing the space this year and as we sit here today we are right where we were last year this time for this year but there is increasing demand.
As David said our job is to curate our properties and bring in the most productive and the growing tenants and eliminate or downsize the tenants that are least provocative.
And that's what we do on an ongoing basis.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Christy McElroy of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Yes actually this is Michael Bilerman Citi.
David I just had one question just in terms of global expansion.
I wasn't sure if your British conference call coordinator was on purpose or not.
We are sort of yellow this business is clearly global.
You have moved that global on all the regions.
How do you feel about traditional retail and where are your thoughts are about that side of the business and pursuing more global expansion? Well look we have a great outlet platform in Asia.
In fact Stanley is over in Asia I guess tomorrow.
It's tomorrow right? So technically here today ahead of our self.
So we are looking at other Southeast Asia markets to expand our platform.
We have been really successful everywhere in Asia in the outlet business.
Japan Korea Malaysia.
There is a number of Southeastern markets not China that are that are very interesting to us.
So I would expect Michael to hopefully be able to build some new centers there.
We have a good outlet potential in Mexico where we got a couple of new sites that we are pursuing aggressively including the expansion of our one outlet there.
The Brazilian outlet opportunity is somewhat dormant at this point.
I couldn't find the right sites in the market know.
We were fortuitous in that the market obviously is correcting there.
So we have no capital at risk and we have nothing unnecessarily planned there.
And then we have got McArthurGlen which we are very excited about not just the assets that we have interest in but also the development and management platform as well as some of their new expansion opportunities and new development.
I was over there a couple weeks ago looking at one of their opportunities.
So we think that that business will become more important to us over time.
Turning to the full price I think our model will continue to be opportunistic.
We love in retrospect what happened at Klépierre.
We went in there before anybody thought about investing in European real estate based upon two fundamental beliefs.
One is that the cash flow is very sticky.
So far so good ex-Spain which in fact was not very sticky but it means less and less to us now that we have sold this huge portfolio the Carrefour.
We can help the company from a strategic point of view and get them retail focused and all the other things that we have been doing.
Help them become better operators.
All of which have in fact scarily have gone according to plan.
So we want to be opportunistic.
There is a lot of capital now in Europe.
The U.K.
is not a real focus for us.
Prices are not necessarily cheap and they are not opportunistic and we had a disappointing experience there in retrospect to shareholders and the Board should have thought the shareholders technically never get an opportunity but the Board should probably thought about it's response a little bit more thoroughly than it did.
But that said we are going to continue to be opportunistic.
This is not glamorous and it's primarily the focus is if we can add and export our ability and the number one goal is to make money.
I have no interest in building monuments.
Hi David it's Christy here.
I wonder if you could talk a little bit about your new Simon Venture Group.
Are you spending any time on this personally? How much capital what you anticipate investing over time? What sort of returns are you looking at? Can you give us some examples of the types of companies you are looking at? Well sure.
We have just hired Skyler Fernandes who has early stage VC experience.
We have made a couple of small investments before Skyler's involvement with Jifiti and shopkick I am sorry I almost said Shop and Trick which have been small investments and it's really the primary focus is in areas where we think it's going to apply the investment or the business model will apply to our physical environment.
It could be a new retailer.
It could be a new restaurant.
It can be a new technology that is important to our consumers and our retailer.
I think over time we could invest anywhere from $25 million to $50 million.
We are going to do it very small.
We don't want to have a big staff.
If Skyler is listening Skyler you are going to have to do most of this on your own.
I am involved.
I met a couple of hours yesterday.
We have got a couple of these are $1 million up to $5 million investments a piece but it's really trying to of focus on bettering our product and we can do that through new retailers restaurants.
We can do that through new technology.
We can do with through new services and we can do it in a way that can help our retailers who like the live which in fact is on the forefront of ultimately providing same-day delivery services to our consumers which seems to resonate with a number of our consumer.
So that's the theory.
It's going to morph.
The good news is we only have really two investment mistakes over time that I called material not material but in China we only have got $0.75 on $1 but we learned that in China you have to be very careful.
We also investment in technology in the late 90s.
We learned a lot from that.
The whole model has changed now because that actually had great ideas there but investing in building the stuff this was before the cloud.
We had to buy the routers the servers.
You had to build everything.
Now you can essentially rent it all out.
The economics is such that you are never going to have that kind of capital at risk to see whether or not a new idea or a new technology can germinate to something that's meaningful to our portfolio.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering if you can talk about the issue with the tenant sales talking about previously that the tenant sales doesn't matter but it's really the cash flow.
Presumably the cost of occupancy overtime does matter.
Its highlight of the team retailers.
Should we assume that given the comments on team retailers that ex that you are feeling quite good and confident about cost of occupancy overall? Well yes look our business has over its 50 year history and 20 years as a public company where we produced unbelievable results but we ask retailers that get hot get cold new concept old concept.
It's just the nature of our business.
And again occupancy costs are determined at a particular point in time but it doesn't necessarily equate to what the market value of that rent is or that space is because again that sale that's being generated out of that space is that particular retailer and that particular retailer could not be generating the sales that that particular space should be generating That's where it relies on us to either relocate them or replace them with a newer better retailer.
So again if you looked at our top 10 tenants 20 years ago versus today and if you looked at our cash flow growth 20 years ago to today despite all of the noise about particular retailers here in near there is such strong evidence to support my statement.
So occupancy costs is interesting but it's not a factor in what our ability to generate cash flow growth is.
You have to look at the rollover schedule and how that equates to market rents and market rents are determined based upon supply and demand.
So in the office sector you do the same thing.
In the strip center sector you do the same thing.
In the industrial sector you do the same thing.
But here for whatever reason the mall industry has gotten away from cash flow growth as the important determinant in what the value of our company is and more what are the existing retailer sales.
I don't buy that and I have never run this company based upon that and our track record is evidence of that.
I don't know what else to tell you.
Okay.
Thank you.
The only thing I would add is that the underlying David's point about supply and demand there is virtually no new supply.
If you look over the last six years supply has been growing 50 bips a year lower than the rate of our population growth.
So we are in a very good supply dynamic for the foreseeable future.
And again retailers it ebbs and it flows.
Sometimes there is more retailers that are under pressure than sometimes not but you cannot replicate our buildings.
You cannot build it.
There is no new supply.
And supply and demand is in our favor.
Otherwise we couldn't grow our cash flow.
It's that simple.
And I encourage everybody.
I hope this doesn't sound defensive but I encourage everybody to understand how we run the business where we run it over a long period of time.
We are always replacing retailers.
Some of toughest calls that Rick and I get are the ones when we move an underperforming retailer out for a better performing retailer and the retailers that are underperforming the fact that they could be there for five 10 years and their rents are way under market.
And it may look bad in their sales but the fact is it's welcome from us because we can replace them with a better tenants.
Let's take lease settlement income as part of that discussion.
The fact is that if somebody like we had some recent settlement income.
Sony is exiting the mall business.
Sony is in A malls.
If they pay me the present value of being in that space and I get that space back and I can lease it for current market value you and me you are not made of shareholders and analysts but you in a sense represent shareholders.
You and me have just done a good deed.
We now get the present value of that space obligation.
I get the space back.
I can lease it for market rent.
That's a win for us.
And again you have seen that over a period of time with retailers and the lease settlement income is being generated by our top centers.
For whatever reason certain retailers are not wanting to get out of the business or not performing well at this center has nothing to do with that center.
Thank you and I guess one question in terms of the cash flow.
There is a comment in terms of the NOI growth ex-WP being 5.3%.
Should we compare that 5.3% to 3.7%? And it would seem then that WP had much lower NOI growth but presumably a lot of the assets being in the Midwest and some in Mid-Atlantic would have some impact there.
Well the real important thing we did was we put in The Mills there which generated -- one of the things we are thinking about comments are welcome is that we have not historically put The Mills comp NOI growth in our overall comp NOI but once the spin is done it's likely we are happy to give input on this it is likely that we will then put that in our comp NOI because these are big cash flow generating assets and it's probably they are the bigger assets which is consistent with what SPG is doing going forward focused on the bigger assets and it will probably be on our comp NOI pool.
So we wanted to give you a flavor of what that comp NOI growth would be including The Mills.
And there is some marginal benefit of the fact that if you were taking out the WP assets but it's marginal and you are correct in saying that because of the snow and utility costs and a lot of those centers are located in the areas the got whacked in the first quarter you are correct in saying that that had some impact on that comp NOI as it did for SPG as a whole.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan of MLV.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
David I think your comment about market rent for space not being related to what the existing retailer is doing and I think maybe one of those a great example might be just replacing department store space with small shops any upside you see there kind of like what you are doing at Stanford but give us any sense of how many of those opportunities are in your pipeline? You announced a couple projects.
The Phipps and the Pentagon City but is this something you are having discussions with department stores increasingly where they can you maybe downsize and you can recapture space at much higher rents? Any color? We are always looking for that and I will let Rick comment on it.
It's interesting though while that neither one of those guys are leaving.
They are actually getting new stores in that process but we are able to make the economics work because of the supply and demand of those particular assets.
They are both antiquated physical plans.
So we are able to make a win-win out of it in that we reclaim REIT demise their existing space turn over to small shops.
They get a brand new prototype store and it's a win-win but part of the lease settlement income that we generate in the first quarter was the full present value of the fact obligation for the mall where they paid us.
They are leaving shortly.
They are under construction.
And we are going to reclaim that for small shops that's a mall that's close to $1 000 a foot something like that.
But thee is a handful of those.
Rick you want to add? There are a handful of those kind of opportunities.
And we are constantly mining the portfolio.
We just announced literally an expansion at Pentagon.
We have announced David just talked about Florida mall.
And both of those are just in addition to all of the things we completed over the last year and obviously we are always talking with our department stores about where they got space that we believe could be better deployed and we are in constant conversations about whether we can put it to better use.
And sometimes it happens independent of us.
A great example of that is DICK'S that is being added in one levels Sears in King of Prussia that we have basically done inside the Sears store but that's going to make that property substantially more productive by having DICK'S anchor around one level in Sears consolidating in a more productive box on one level.
My other question is related but I think there has obviously been a lot of headlines about not just sales but mall traffic and then we have had a tick up in bankruptcies and store closing announcements and so but what you don't hear as much about is the retailers who are looking to backfill that space.
Maybe I don't know Rick if you have some color about people who for example would be looking to take the Coldwater Creek stores that are liquidating or folks like that who have upped their store opening targets? David always makes fun of me when I rattle of the list of the tenants but the good news is that there is a very vibrant of group of tenants that are looking to expand.
Lego Athleta H&amp;M Zara Uniqlo just a few and Topshop we are adding Topshop's in three places in the portfolio.
There are to David's point historically there have always been tenant that are looking to do business in productive properties and to the extent the space we are getting back is in productive properties and happily that's the vast majority of our portfolio.
We have users and we have demand at better rents and the opportunity to rightsize the space.
Great.
Thanks.
Yes and just a comment on traffic.
I would suggest to you that when a retailer talks about traffic that may be their particular stores and may not be endemic of the mall's traffic and I would also caution throw significant caution to the wind that there are a couple of one company in particular that holds themselves out as the barometer of traffic in the mall industry and there data does not include any common area or inference data from the Simon Property Group and many other mall owners of a quality real estate and we don't know how and in fact what that traffic is that they report.
So I just want to throw caution to the wind when you hear these general statements about traffic.
Was traffic affected by the winter? And the fact is that malls we have some statistic which I don't even remember but how many days our malls were closed compared to last year was 10x of what it was.
So that can happen.
It happened.
I just want you to throw caution to the wind when the media quotes traffic numbers understand the source of that and its accuracy.
So you are saying your portfolio is doing better than what they are saying for the industry? I am saying our traffic was affected by the weather and I am saying you look at our results and that gives you an indication of what's going on our portfolio.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of David Harris of Imperial Capital.
Good morning everybody.
The Carrefour sale by Klépierre does that prompt any consideration for special dividend under the French REIT rules David? No.
The answer is no because they have the ability to straddle years a little bit like this as well and they are also unwinding some hedges as part of that because they were over hedged.
So there is some losses associate with that.
The fact is it will not end up in a situation where there is an unusual dividend spike.
Dividend has been growing.
Expect that to probably continue but there won't be something extraordinary associated with that sale.
So the proceeds will be essentially used to delever the company at least the initial thought? Correct.
That's correct.
Okay.
Does that leave you looking for acquisitions in that company now as we go forward? Or are you happy with a lower level of leverage? No I think the company is now in a position that it can look for opportunities whether new development expansions some acquisitions here and there but they are clearly focused on given the significant change they are very focused on growing the business now which two years ago when we got there I would say it was a different scenario.
So thankfully they have executed extremely well and they are looking for growth similar to what all major retail owners do.
Do some developments some expansion some potential acquisitions here and there.
Now your estimable CFO has not yet been given a speaking part but I just wondered if there is any update on his replacement.
Well unfortunately you have asked a question where he can't respond to that either.
Well I don't give great quarter guys but I wanted to throw in a compliment.
Thank you.
A pat on the back never hurts from anybody.
So in any event as you know we have been it's very interesting this company again there is lot that gets lost in sauce.
On one hand this week we were going to open Desert Hills.
It's going to be 100% leased and it's going to add $70 million of cash flow the company.
At the same time we hired a new venture guy.
Europe is doing well.
You got all the redevelopment.
We are doing the WP deal right and then obviously I have got the focus on Steve's replacement.
So just from a my point of view here and this is probably I am telling the people here they are probably looking for me to say what I am going to say.
So I have been thinking long and hard about this and as you know the biggest focus we had over the last two or three months has been WP.
That management team is basically set done which is very good news and it's a great team.
They are young energetic.
It's got a mix of Simon trained folks.
It's got our strip center entrepreneurial group and then it's got the outsider and a couple of his colleagues that I think ultimately will create their unique dynamic company that's really going to be hustling for growth.
Now that that's said and it looks like the spin is again subject to Board approval winding around the last corner.
I have been thinking more and more about this and I will probably have an opinion in a month or two but right now I am seriously considering internal candidates as the first line of defense.
The good news is we have got a great bench.
We got guys that are savvy veterans younger people that want to move up.
We have a great culture here and I think we can do it internally but I don't want to rush to judgment.
I want WP to get done and then I think once that gets done something could happen in the next four to eight weeks.
That's probably news to everybody in this room but therein lies my thinking.
So I hope you appreciate the honesty of my response.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Ki Bin of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I had just a couple of follow-ups.
In terms of traffic data and your tenant replacement commentary could you just talk a little bit we are midway through April almost May now and I wouldn't say it has been very warm but have you seen some kind of catch up in the past couple months in terms of tenant traffic or sales or anything like that that might be a better indicator going forward? I think we can say that April is off to a much better start.
We obviously had Easter moving from March into April.
March was better than February.
February was better than January and that trend is continuing in to April and we certainly anticipate that we will have some catch up.
Okay and the second question.
I am sure you guys get this all the time but if you had to estimate how many more outlets do you think in the U.S.
that we absolutely could use? And how does that number compare to some of your like in Europe where you are trying to expand? Well again if you look at some of the general industry publications there is a pipeline of 50 and I would just say I don't believe that that whole pipeline will be built.
I do think last year 2013 and 2014 was going to be an active year.
So I think you will see five or six or so in the next two three four five years.
So if I had to guess I think you are going to see probably 20 or so added over the next three four five years.
I don't think it's going to be quite as frenzied as everybody thinks.
I think we have a really good handle as you might imagine on this industry.
So that's my own personal view but I don't control.
Developers are always pushing the limit.
Whether four or five or six that outlets get built it doesn't impact our outlet business and what we do.
And as you know we are looking to only build in major markets where there really is unquestionable demand for the premium outlet product.
If it's a marginal market we are just going to pass and we have passed on a number of sites.
Rick you can add anything? The one thing that I would emphasize and David talked about in the context of Desert Hills we are spending as much time and money expanding our existing great premium outlet as we are trying to build new ones.
Desert Hills opens Thursday.
We opened an expansion in Orlando.
We opened an expansion at Seattle.
We are under construction on Las Vegas North Downtown 147 000 feet.
We are expanding Woodbury.
We are expanding Chicago.
And these are all among the best outlets in the United States.
We are expanding Livermore and all of those expansions taken together are probably two or three new projects but they will be dramatically more productive dramatically better returns and they have the benefit of enhancing what we already have.
Okay and a similar question but how about for Europe? Do you see that potential of it being just a lot bigger? Yes I think Europe the right to build there is much more difficult but there is a pipeline that we have at MGE that we are going to pursue but it's lot tougher.
It's a lot harder to get done.
There is a lot more restrictions in terms of how outlets get viewed in Europe in terms of laws there.
But if you do get the right to build it's a terrific terrific opportunity.
So it will be more but I think it will be measured and we will have our share of that but there is definitely part of what we want to do with MGE.
It was in fact build some new centers in Europe.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Sure Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector of Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi it's Craig Schmidt for Jeff Spector.
I was just wondering if we could spend a little time talking about The Mills.
It seems like it has the highest return on redevelopments.
Its minimum rents are growing well and it's also seemed to have done the best in terms of sales per square foot productivity since 4Q 2009 in terms of its lift.
I know you were doing a lot of things at a lot of different Mills but what's meeting with the biggest success to sort of drive this? Craig it's Rick.
I think that The Mills have been performing great and I think that some of it hopefully a lot of it is attributable to us being able to broaden their appeal.
What we have been able to do through our relationships is bring tenants that have been successful in premium outlet in The Mills operate off price concepts and bring tenants into The Mills from the mall business to operate full price concepts.
And that combination has been very compelling.
So tenants like Victoria's Secret Bath &amp; Body Works are operating full price concepts and tenants like Michael Kors Coach Express are operating off price concepts.
That combination has created as David said properties that are 1.5 to 2 million square feet doing hundreds of million of dollars of sales and providing unique franchise in each of the markets where they operate.
So we have been very pleased with it and we are growing and we have got expansions underway at Sawgrass.
We are working on redevelopments at Great Mall.
We are working on expansion at Orange and there's a lot of growth runway to open that platform.
Is there any potential for a ground-up development of a Mills project at this point? I think that's going to be more difficult.
Frankly there are not many markets left in the United States that can support a 2 million square feet ground up development that does $500 million and $700 million from day one.
So I would not look for that.
Okay and then the Yeoju expansion the premium outlet.
Is there any direction that you want to take the new tenants that you are bringing into that project? It will continue to be the high-end tenants there.
The existing center has a great tenant mix.
So there will continue to be of all the American as well as European brands and the international companies.
It is a international retail mix.
There are some Korean retailers but by and large its all the brands that you are familiar with.
Okay and then hopefully this is the Steve Sterrett question.
The pickup in other income will we see that going forward? Will we have as active a land sales and/or the lease settlement? Or should we assume that that starts to resemble 2013? Craig Rick and David talked a lot about the lease settlement income of and I think we did have a fair bit of that activity in the first quarter.
I wouldn't expect that level of activity to go through the rest of the year and land sales as you know are pretty lumpy but I certainly wouldn't expect that level of activity for the rest of the year.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Hello good morning.
Just two questions here.
First up on the line of credit you guys now have I think almost $7 billion if you include the accordions of capacity which seems like an awful lot just given that if you guys wanted to do anything I would assume that you would have a line of bankers outside of Indy and 399 Park in less than an hour.
Is more of this insurance? Like as you guys pay the facility fee is more of this just the comfort of knowing that you have that? Or is there something else like just preparing for the next credit crisis or something just to know that God forbid you had to put on major mortgages or refinancings that you just had that available? Well Alex it's Steve.
I do think if you look at our debt maturity schedule we do have $2 billion to $3 billion of debt maturing a year.
We are a large company.
We did have people tend to forget that we did have an instance not all that long ago in this country where the capital markets were pretty dysfunctional for an extended period of time.
So we have been operating under a philosophy that we want $5 billion to $6 billion of liquidity at all times.
Call it insurance.
Call it what you want.
But I think that's prudent for a company our size.
Okay and then just a second question is what are the next steps or what else needs to be done before the Board can declare Washington Prime good to go? Well we just have to become effective with the SEC which we are getting closer and closer.
The Board has got to review all the final things and then we make an announcement.
So its moving quickly and so it's just a process essentially just becoming effective with the SEC and then Board approval and we are off to the races.
And you saw Alex we filed another amendment to the Form 10 yesterday the amendment number 3.
So we are as David mentioned getting down to the short strokes.
Okay so this is just all the back and forth where they give you comments and hopefully that list of comments is getting smaller and smaller and then it's good? Yes.
Okay perfect.
If you are excited you can read the 600 pages of total documents if you have nothing to do this weekend.
You know my kids were saying Daddy we like you doing boring Daddy work.
We don't like playing with you.
So I will do that.
Listen thanks.
All right.
No worries.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Daniel Busch of Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
David following the WP spin off of the smaller SPG malls and strip centers will there be any other remaining malls in the portfolio that you would consider non-core and could be potential candidates for disposition? Well we will always going to be portfolio manage our asset.
So the answer to that is sure.
We have partners in some assets.
Partners may want to sell.
We may agree with them.
So yes sure.
We are always going to portfolio manage our asset base.
Okay and it appears like there's a growing number of B and C malls coming to the market.
Do you have a sense of what the demand is for that type of quality? Is it similar to the quality that WP is? Well I don't want to -- again WP's malls are all sorts of the references from the analytic community.
My view of WP's malls are there is the one overriding point is that they are smaller.
They are just not big malls.
I will let you decide whether that's a B-mall or C-mall an A-mall.
I don't think about it like that.
I look at the cash flow what's the sustainability of the cash flow.
Is that a market where you can grow the cash flow and the one thing that I will bring with is that they are smaller than our average mall.
We think those assets because as we have gotten bigger over time and focused on the bigger assets they tend to lose the day in and day out focus that they deserve.
So with that preamble said look there is a lot of capital in the real estate industry generally for all sorts of assets and money wants to be put to work in the top quality assets in redevelopment assets in new development across the specter in hotels retail office et cetera and I think WP will be able to take advantage of whatever strategy ultimately they put together.
But there are buyers for everything right now in any assets.
I look at your NAV analysis and I can tell you our partner is selling a mall and the cap rate is blowing me away in terms of how low it is.
So there is a lot of capital for retail real estate in every bucket and to some extent there is product available and to some extent there is less product available but I expect a lot of trades to happen.
Great thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning or afternoon to you guys.
I just want to go back to the releasing spreads.
On a percentage basis they have been improving for quite a few quarters here now in a row.
I am just curious if you could break that down between sort of what's driving that? Is it more market rent increases? Or is it just the base of the malls that are on spaces that are closing? Is it maybe not growing or is going the other way? Fundamentally we just have a very good supply and demand dynamic.
I would tell you that when you look at our spread calculations they include almost eight million square feet of space.
So it is less susceptible but specific project influences are much more representative of the overall trends throughout our business and we are just able to lease our product at higher rents because frankly I do believe our properties are taking market share and we are having a more desirable portfolio for the retailers to want to operate in.
But simply put the expiring rent is just lower than the market rent.
So there is a lot of reasons for that.
But that's the simple answer.
So if you look at our expiring rent schedule and you see where our market rents are therein lies why we have the spread which therein lies why we have the ability to increase our cash flow year after year after year.
Again you may notice I believe Q1 comp last year was 5% something like that.
Yes.
So our 3.7% was off of a base of 5% that 3.7% as I mentioned was hurt 90 basis points by extraordinary costs associated with the harsh winter.
So you can normalize and do whatever you want with it but that's just how we would look at it and but its that simple.
Now notice I didn't talk about retail sales.
I talked about market rent.
Right and that's what I am trying to get at.
I guess maybe asking another way is how (inaudible) market rents for your portfolio have gone up say over the last year or so as opposed to the spread which --? The good news is that its clearly gone up because you have seen the spread accelerate.
Okay and maybe just another topic.
I know its early days in your ownership there on the Oyster Bay development but is there any update on how the development planning process is going over there? It's very early days.
So really nothing to add there other than we are excited about the opportunity.
Our partners are excited about the opportunity.
We very much look forward to working with the town to fine a win-win.
So we think it's a great opportunity for us and it will be a high priority for us over the next year or so as we go through the process.
Okay thanks.
Sure.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Yes good afternoon.
Going back to development and redevelopment yields also noticed that you took up the yield on the outlet development to 10% from 9% last quarter.
Just wondering what was driving that? Two things.
One we been able to bring in our cost at a little below budget.
Two we have got a lot of demand and we been able to lease it at higher rents.
Hence we got higher returns.
I would say it differently.
I would say typically they sandbag us on the rent they charge but we let it get approved in any event.
So it's all about setting expectations.
Isn't it? Very much so.
Were there any particular assets that kind of drove the average up? Or is this kind of happening across the entire development portfolio? Pretty much across the board we are seeing those trends.
Okay that's helpful and then just staying on the outlet side again there was some news out there a few days ago about Charlotte North Carolina and the whole process of your development there some pushback from local residents.
Just kind of curious if you could opine on that? It's opening on July 31 of this year and it's very well leased and we are in very good shape there.
Okay that is helpful and then last one from me.
This one to Steve.
Credit provisioning levels also went up during the quarter.
Just kind of curious what you are seeing from that perspective and what we should be modeling going forward.
Tayo we talked a lot over the last few years about that expense being really low.
I think what you saw this quarter is just a bit of a reversion to the mean.
If you look in the context of $5 billion plus of consolidated revenues I think we billed north of $7 billion a year to the tenants.
Having $5 million of bad debt expense a quarter is still pretty de minimis but I think that's probably more reflective of the run rate that we are going to see this year.
Is that reflective you are just updating your estimates or are you actually seeing more issues with the tenants themselves that's actually causing an actual increase in that number? No it's a bit of a combination of both.
Our overall receivable level is still pretty well but interestingly enough our bad debt reserve is pretty much formulate driven and because you have had more tenant either announce store closings or in a couple of cases go into bankruptcy we reserve a higher percentage of outstandings against the types of tenants and it generated a slightly higher bad debt expense this quarter.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Tayo thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Ben Yang of Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi thanks.
Maybe just building on the earlier lease spread question I believe your spreads are based on openings and closings.
So I was just wondering if you could maybe talk about spreads based on signed leases? Maybe what that trend has been? And also maybe how that compares with that 19.5% that you report in your supplemental.
Ben you are right in that the spread is based on cash closing rent compared to cash opening rent but because the population as Rick mentioned is still large I mean it's eight million square feet at any one point in time.
Looking at it on a signed basis relative to the actual opening isn't going to move the number up a lot but I will echo what Rick said earlier that demand for space is good deal quality continues to improve overall.
We have been pleased to see the continued acceleration in the leasing spreads but looking at it from a signed basis to an actual opening basis isn't going to materially move the number.
Okay got it that's helpful and then also you talked a little bit about the lease termination income.
Was that all Sony? Or were there other retailers in that mix? And maybe also since it's a lot higher can you also offer what your guidance is for the full year on that line item? Yes we don't like to do that but we have the Sony and then I mentioned about the other department store scenario.
So that gives you the bulk of it more or less.
In commenting Ben on the volume of it if you look back over our last several years we have averaged $20 million to $25 million a year of lease settlement income.
We just happen to have a larger chunk of that in the first quarter.
Could it be more f significant in 2014 than it has been in n the last of couple years? Well we are certainly off to start and as David and Rick mentioned because a couple of the lumpy things that have occurred in the first quarter it could trend a little higher but it's certainly not going to trend at the same level we saw in the first quarter.
Yes and again I want to emphasize this is a -- It's a good thing.
It's a good thing because again I don't lose the space.
I just get at present value the lease obligation or very close to it.
Then I have the ability to lease the space out.
So it is not something we have got to get the right values.
We do lots of analysis as you might imagine.
We are very sophisticated on this front.
Or typically we don't execute it until we have got our replacement in place.
But this is not a bad thing at all.
All right I totally get it it's not bad but could it tick higher to that $20 million to $25 million that you have historically reported in the past? It has a chance this year primarily because we did the one big deal with the department store which I would say is somewhat out of the ordinary.
I mean was that big deal was that kind of baked into your earlier guidance? I am just kind of wondering if that was? Yes.
Okay got it.
Absolutely.
That's been in the works for two three years.
Okay helpful maybe final question.
You talked a little bit about the other income in your consolidated.
Why exactly did the other income in your joint venture also go higher? Its part of the big lease settlement that I mentioned was in its of JV property.
Yes the biggest drivers of the movement in that number though Ben is the nature of some of the income that flows through from McArthurGlen.
A lot of it service related income.
As you know we own half of the economics of the development and management business.
So that's the primary driver of that.
Got it.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi thanks.
Just following up on that real quick.
So the $11 million is consolidated.
What is the overall pro rata number for lease term this quarter? And when you talked about $20 million to $25 million normally is that a consolidated number or is that the pro rata number? The $20 million to $25 million would be the annual run rate kind of on a pro rata basis Michael.
Got it and what was the full pro rata in Q1 then? It was high-teens.
Got it okay and then last question.
I guess historically you have talked about development spend having a bit at least about $1 billion a year for the next few years.
As you look out from this standpoint how many years out does that generally account for at this point? Well we have said through 2016 but it is not set in stone.
Got it okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan of Cowen Group.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you.
Just one quick question I guess for David and Rick.
The so-called fast retailing tenants have been growing pretty dramatically in your properties for a number of years now and I think it shows up with Forever 21 being now a top 10 tenant and an average store size just looking at the metrics and the setup of more than 10 000 square feet.
Historically of course you have excluded stores of more than 10 000 square feet in the sales productivity number.
I just wonder if given the ambitious plans of cohorts like H&amp;M and Uniqlo whether you have given any consideration to perhaps including the fast retailing productivity and the reported productivity given how important they seem to be and look like it's going to increase in importance.
Well Jim if you had listened to my -- I heard every word.
Yes if you listened to my discussion on tenant sales I would suggest to you it's an interesting derivative there's no correlation and the fact is there's no other industry that I know that's focused on retail sales.
Therefore this is what's going on with your property.
I before saying look at our cash flow and measure us on that basis.
And I think somehow the industry is gotten off track here by being the most important metric.
I look at the analyst report that came out that even though we beat consensus by $0.14 or something like that we had unbelievable historical growth.
Our comp NOI has grown year after year.
It was up marginally in the great recession.
The balance sheet is AAA.
We are adding all this new development.
The one constant dialogue I got was the tenant sales right.
So you want more of that.
So I can read more of that.
So somehow I am happy have this we discussed with you and other shareholders but somehow we are losing track that retailers come and go.
This company was built based upon Kmart leases okay? No I understand all that.
I just think the point is that fast retailing as a format does seem to be in terms of its size Forever 21 is an in-line tenant and I have no idea by the way what their productivity is.
It's simply that they are now a top 10 tenant and H&amp;M and Uniqlo have pretty ambitious expansion plans as well.
And I was just all I am doing is suggesting that the original reason for excluding tenants of over 10 000 square feet I just wonder if it still applies when we think about that type of retailer.
I don't think as the mix has broadened in these centers that metric is probably less and less important.
What happens if we bring in service tenants or we take a department store down and put in an office building or an apartment complex.
I think we are losing sight of its real estate and it's about organic cash flow growth and it's not about what particular person is doing in a particular space because again we own the real estate they don't perform we get it back and then the next question is what can we do with that real estate.
So I will tell you what I will put it in there if you talk about it on page 10 and not on page one.
Okay.
Well I will just say for my note by the way I stressed if people want more space and are willing to pay more for it what's the key driver.
So not guilty as charged here at least in that respect.
And just one other question I had for you and this maybe is a Rick question.
The development activity number went up a little close to $300 million at the end of the first quarter versus the end of the year.
Am I correct in assuming Rick that as far as the mall category which is where it all took place that that number didn't include your announcements on Pentagon and Phipps number one? Number two that it would be virtually all the Simon post-spin malls that we are talking about there? Well you shouldn't presume the latter because we are reporting everything in a combined basis so far.
So in that regard there is capital attributable to these post-spin assets we are doing things.
Houston Galleria has started.
We have also started on Florida Mall.
So a number of new ones have come in to that mix but it is not a function of post-spin or pre-spin and it does not yet include Pentagon or Phipps.
We just announced those will be starting construction this quarter.
So the -- sorry.
Go ahead Jim.
Sorry go ahead.
Yes I was just going to say post-spin and I just want to make sure I understood the comments you made earlier regarding the level of development activity that we should expect from Simon post-spin.
Obviously it sounds like it's going to be the same kind of number as we have been thinking about historically for the company.
Obviously the contribution should be relatively greater given that the post-spin company base is going to be a little bit smaller.
But is there an opportunity in these malls that there could be an accelerated an increased level of major expansion spending given that where you are spending the money and the big money seems to be on the biggest strongest assets where the demand is really very strong? Certainly that is going to come about and where we got some of the other projects that we are working on that we hope to announce.
We have already talked about connection to King of Prussia.
So there are other nine bigger projects coming down the road including Copley that are going to certainly continue that level of spend in the post-spin side.
Okay very good.
Thank you guys.
And I was just going to add Jim just to make sure everyone that's still on the call all of our numbers that we reported all include the WP assets occupancy sales comp NOI all of the 8-K step is all including the WP all of that.
Just to make sure everybody understands that.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to management for closing remarks.
Okay thank you.
Before we conclude today's call for our stockholders that maybe on this call our annual meeting is May 15 and hopefully you are seeing our proxy statement that we filed on April 10.
Your vote is very important to us and the Board has unanimously recommended that stockholders vote for all of the proposals and I would ask you to please vote for all of the proposals.
If you have not seen the proxy statement then you can download a copy by visiting annualmeeting.simon.com.
And thank you everyone for your time today.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 Simon Property Group Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Katina and I’ll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call Ms.
Liz Zale Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Simon Property Group Second Quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Presenting on today’s call is David Simon our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rick Sokolov our President and Chief Operating Officer and Steve Sterrett our Chief Financial Officer and we are also joined by Andy Juster our current Treasurer and incoming CFO.
Before we begin just a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today’s press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please note that this call includes information that may be accurate only as of today’s date and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the press release and the supplemental information in today’s Form 8-K filing.
Both the press release and the supplemental information are also available on our IR website at investors.simon.com.
Also due to the completion of the Washington Prime spin-off during the second quarter we are providing operating statistics for the prior year period to show performance on a comparable basis excluding the Washington Prime properties which is in our supplemental 8-K.
And now for our prepared remarks I’m pleased to introduce David Simon.
Good morning.
It was a very eventful and productive quarter.
We completed the spin-off of Washington Prime Group.
We re-launched our brand to create a whole new way to engage with consumers and most important we continue to produce strong operating and financial performance.
Results in the quarter were led by FFO of $2.16 per share exceeding the first call consensus estimate by $0.03 per share.
Excluding the operating results from the WPG properties and the transaction costs related to that spend FFO increased 12.8% year-over-year for the second quarter.
As a point of interest if we exclude the transaction costs related to the spin our FFO would have been approximately $2.26 for the quarter.
And I would like to take a moment and put that number into perspective.
I’ll remind you that our second quarter 2010 FFO was $1.38 per share.
So the quarterly profitability of Simon Property Group has increased by $0.88 per share or $320 million quarter-over-quarter since then.
Overall business conditions remain favorable driving the increases in our key operating metrics in our cash flow.
We continue to see strong demand for space across our portfolio occupancy ended up in malls premium outlets and the mills.
The Malls and Premium Outlets recorded increased leasing spreads to $11.06 per square foot.
The mills recorded leasing spreads of $12.74 per square foot.
And for those of you who are interested comparable property sales were up 90 basis points for the quarter and the movement from sales per square foot of $6.12 – I’m sorry $612 a year ago to $608 is solely related to bringing on several new projects totaling 2.16 million square feet.
Comp NOI of course which I’m more interested increased 5.6% in the second quarter and is up 5.5% year-to-date and over 95% of our domestic NOI is included in our comp NOI calculation.
And as a reminder our comp NOI in 2013 Q2 was over 5%.
So that’s 5.6% over 5%.
These results are a testament to the strength of our assets the desirability of our locations and our ability to execute.
So let’s look a little forward Charlotte Premium Outlets is opening on July 31 and is fully leased.
Twin Cities Premium Outlets in Minneapolis will open August 14 and is fully leased.
Construction continues on new Premium Outlet developments in Montreal and Vancouver both high quality major markets and Montreal will open in the fourth quarter.
Formal groundbreaking at Gloucester Premium Outlets a new 375 000 square foot center in Southern New Jersey that serves a greater Philadelphia area is scheduled for August 7.
Other new outlet projects in our development pipeline are moving forward but we are being very selective and focus on major markets and where there is clear demand from the retailers and manufacturers that matter.
Now in the quarter just turning to redevelopment and expansion we did open successfully a 147 redevelopment expansions are ongoing at 32 properties across all of our three platforms in the U.S.
Asia and Mexico which will continue to expand and enhance some of our most productive properties.
As a reminder construction is ongoing in some of our most productive properties including Del Amo Roosevelt Field Woodbury Common Premium Outlets Houston Galleria Stanford Shopping Center and St.
Johns Town Center.
We also started construction on a significant mall redevelopment at Fashion Center at Pentagon City which will add 50 000 square feet of small shop space including restaurants.
And as you’ve seen recently we’ve started the construction of the expansion of Chicago Premium Outlets which will add 260 000 square feet as well as a Shisui Premium Outlet in Japan that will add a 130 000 square feet.
So put it altogether as we said it’s over $1 billion through 2016.
And it’s affecting some of the most productive assets not only in this country but in the world.
Now capital markets just briefly we did amend and extend our $4 billion unsecured multi-currency revolving credit facility with a June 2019 final maturity at LIBOR plus 80 basis points which is a tighter spread in our industry.
We as planned we retain $1 billion of cash proceeds from the debt placed on the WP assets prior to the spin.
We also announced a dividend of a $1.30 per share for this quarter which is a 13% year-over-year increase.
We will pay at least at SPG $5.15 per common share at SPG and we revised our guidance that we issued May 29 2014 to a $1 – to $9.01 to $9.11 from a range of $8.96 to a $9.06 which raises both the top and bottom range by $0.05.
Just to turn to management Andy is here will be our next CFO.
Steve Yalof will join as CEO of our premium outlet business.
Andy has been instrumental building the strength of our industry leading balance sheet will maintain that focus.
And Steve is a well respected retail real-estate executive who enhances our team and brings a unique perspective with his diverse retail background.
I look forward to working closely with both of them.
So sum it up great first-half of the year and we’re absolutely focused on enhancing the value of our real estate which is being executed on daily producing the results that we’re hoping for.
Questions? Operator (inaudible) for questions thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Christy McElroy representing Citi.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
You seem increasingly talking about potential densification of some of your assets in the possibility of adding non-retail components if it makes sense.
I think partly you just talked about you also have a 230 unit residential project at Southdale Center ongoing.
Probably it’s sort of fairly intuitive but can you talk about your views on why it makes sense to add residential to a center like Southdale what other traditional suburban regional malls of yours – you considering adding residential components? Well.
I mean primarily because there’s demand and we do like the interplay between high-quality residential with our high-quality retail offerings.
And it’s an opportunity to continue to add value to the company.
So Southdale we’ve had – and we’ve had very good success in places like Firewheel and Domain to name a few.
We’ve got both the hotel and residential going on at Phipps.
We’re in discussions with a well known developer in Lenox and then obviously the big mamma is in Copley which all in – our intention purposes for that is to start construction within nine months which will be a landmark for the Back Bay of Boston.
We’re very comfortable with demand So it’s not going to overwhelm us but it’s part of our strategy to continue to make our shopping centers the place to be both from shopping entertainment leisure eating and then eventually living and spending time on with respect to the hotel business.
And then in terms of the larger projects that you have in the mall pipe with meaningful small shop expansion David you mentioned Del Amo Pentagon City Roosevelt Field Stanford Houston Galleria as you think about adding additional small shop space to your better malls what’s the composition of new stores that you are putting in these expansions that you didn’t sort of didn’t previously have room for at the mall where you are seeing new demand so how much is restaurants versus fast fashion versus luxury versus traditional mall retailers? The simple answer really depends on where we are adding the space? What that centre lacks? What the demand is? But I would simply say Christy it’s all of the above.
In Pentagon to take a simple example in that case it’s really restaurants because it’s out in the exterior of the centre.
If you’ve been there the porte cochere is kind of really Humpty Dumpty it’s really terrible frankly.
And we think given its location and the ability to if you’ve been to Atlanta recently you’ve seen what we did with Lenox just opening up the centers creating a sense of this is where you ought to enter it’s great for the restaurants and we’ve seen a lot of synergy there.
So in that case it’s – and there will be a little bit of fast fashion there as well because of the customer base.
But in Del Amo it’s upgrading the mix and bringing in not the super-luxury but bring up the kind of the better retailers more aspirational brands because we think that’s what’s missing.
So it depends a little bit on everything.
In Galleria the demand for luxury is immense so having the abilities to take some of the existing retailers moving towards the Saks existing store which will be the new added small shop space will allow us to continue to upgrade the true luxury players in kind of the Neiman Marcus wing.
So again it’s a little bit of everything and it really really depends on where and what the demand is.
Thanks David.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector representing Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Now that Washington Prime has been spun out I guess David can you talk to us a little bit more about your main goals what you’re going to be focusing on for the next 6 to 18 months is it really the redevs and the branding effort? Well we do everything here Jeff and that’s why our FFO increased and again we didn’t do it by smoke and mirrors by high leverage.
But our FFO increased from 2010 to 2014 just for the quarter $320 million you don’t do that by a little bit of this and a little bit of that you do it by everything.
So I mean at this point we are going to continue to do everything.
We are going to redevelop we are going to release.
We don’t have industry comp leading numbers quarter-after-after year-after-year we don’t outperform over the last 12 years over a decade continuing beating First Call consensus estimates year-after-year-after-year not several years but over a decade without being able to do just about everything.
And so we are going to continue to do just about everything.
And I don’t want to limit by redev or that I mean if you have a good idea I will take advantage of it tell me what I should do? But obviously I mentioned and I want to underline it what we’ve got going on at some of our big mama’s and I’ve used that twice.
Liz just frowned on me.
But what we’ve got going on at the field and the Galleria and Del Amo I mean it’s pretty pretty big stuff.
So that’s hugely important that’s why we’ve added some people to help us manage that but we’ll continue to do everything we can to drive this business forward.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up before Craig has a question.
Is it too soon to talk about the – any response or feedback on the Simon branding effort? Well I can tell you that we’ve been – the complements we have received have been fantastic.
And I think from a retail point of view the retailers that think of themselves as brands it’s been very very positive.
And at the end of the day if you don’t think of your company as a brand going forward you’re going to miss out on opportunities.
So – but – this is a going to be – this not a – it’s an evolution we’ll try to revolutionize parts of it but it’s going to continue to be something that we will reinforce with the consumer day-in and day-out and our people in the field will reinforce it as well.
But we are in early days on it Jeff but we are very excited about the prospects of continuing to upgrade the quality of our presentations and the quality of our service levels to our properties and that’s very important to today’s world.
Thank you.
I think Craig had one question.
Okay.
I just wondered it’s high if we could get to some comments on your involvement with digital and then possibly to live [ph] of the extent of your involvement in Holiday-14 [ph] if you’re adding malls or markets? Well we are focused on making strategic VC-like investments in opportunities that we think will add value to our company in both from – helping our retailers as well as helping our consumers.
So as you know we hired somebody Skyler Fernandez he has been here for three months we’ve made some investments.
And Deliv we will be bringing to Woodfield it’s – we are part of that group.
We are not leading that group which is fine.
We don’t have to lead everything we do though I like leading everything we do but sometimes we don’t lead.
And it’s one of many things that we will continue to experiment with and we’ll see where it goes.
We’ve got some expertise now.
We’ve got – we are looking around corners for opportunities scholars and covering a lot we are in the deal flow.
We’re doing is smartly through we don’t have 100 people run around doing it I think that way we are doing is smart and like I said we’ve made some small investments and we’ll continue to make and then and I like the prospects of what we are trying to accomplish.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim representing SunTrust.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Could you just quickly talk about the Mills lease spreads? It seems like the $12.74 equals 47% of a percent change standpoint.
Could you talk about how you are achieving that and I guess it’s not really driven by sales per square foot changes so maybe a little more color on that.
Well therein lies again the – first of all I noticed in sales don’t necessarily.
There – as I mentioned you in the past the fact that sales growth does not necessarily correlate to spread growth.
So and the fact is you can see that from the results that our mills portfolio posted.
I don’t know how else I can describe that to you but other than producing the results that we did.
So that that’s how I would answer that question.
We’ve got an under-rented under market portfolio in the mills we are upgrading the mix and we are charging more rent simple as that.
Okay.
Thank you.
It’s all right.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum representing UBS.
Please proceed.
Hey David good morning.
Hey.
Can you talk a little bit about the outlet sector versus the malls just in terms of how do you – how would you describe the strength of demand you’re seeing for outlets today versus the strength of the demand for malls and maybe how is that manifesting itself in terms of pricing-power for each of those segments? I’ll let Rick comment but I’d say there’s no huge or material difference like – when we were coming out of the recession there clearly – there was more trepidation with respect to full price than there was the outlet.
The outlets didn’t see the big dip in demand.
But I would say today it’s pretty consistent.
The only difference is that in the outlet sector you do have a number of the people that have not participated in it wanting to.
But I would say the demand is not all that much different at all and it’s – and the gap between the demand given that there’s been no new supply and the regional mall business is basically on top of each other.
Rick I don’t know if you want to add anything to it.
I just want to emphasize David’s point in the outlets there just happens to be a number of the mall tenants that frankly back when we got into this sector we started talking to them about the outlet as a desirable channel for their business.
And now they’re experiencing that and they’re experiencing great result so a company like Express is now rapidly expanding.
And the only other thing in the outlet is that the center sections for the most part are a little smaller and the spaces are smaller so even with the same amount of demand the supply is more constrained and that gives you a little bit more pricing power.
Okay.
Second question David if we look at Washington Prime I’m curious the stock is around $19 little under today where did you think the stock was going to be when you decided to do the spend? Well look I think the advice that we got was right in that range.
And I’m not here to talk about WP.
WP will be providing that update in the next few weeks about what they’re doing.
But it’s – I think it’s right on.
This is a – we’ve been a public company for 20-some-odd-years.
It takes time for companies to develop what they’re doing.
I’m very pleased with WP from a director point of view and as a shareholder.
It’s very early days it’s been trading for what six weeks maybe six weeks so it’s I think it’s right where we think it’s going to be and I think they’ve got a lot of opportunities.
But they are much better equipped and frankly from a – just from a fiduciary point of view it’s better that they do it than I do it.
But no great surprises on that whatsoever.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb representing Sandler O’Neill.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hey how are you? David two questions here the first we’ll go back to the branding question.
You’re definitely a numbers guy and advertising tends to be sort of a softer metric as far as being able to gauge.
How are you gauging the effectiveness on a dollars and cents basis? And have you – in order to fund this are you cutting back other advertising that you used to do or in total this represents an entirely new effort as far as I mean presumably you’re advertising it for local level so just sort of curious have you pulled back from that and focused more nationally or is this incremental too? Well look I think that the – I mean your comment about numbers reminds me – a lot of people said I’m not a real estate guy yet.
I go back to this quarter-over-quarter then somebody figured out how to grow the business $320 million.
That’s not for the year that’s just for the quarter-over-quarter.
So look the fact is we did reallocate spend took it away from outdoor put it more toward digital and TV less from radio.
I mean we did that kind of stuff that we tweak every year where we’re getting – we’re getting that.
So the answer – and there is a little bit of extra cost associated with the stuff that we’ve done but it’s going to be a test to measure business.
But ultimately it’s going to be managed within our typical budget every year that we do for marketing spend.
But by having branded and in consistency across the portfolio you do get economies of scale so we’ll be able to take advantage of it.
So is there a way that you’re measuring the spend or is it just something that you assume as long as you’re getting positive feedback from tenants and customers? I think – you certainly have that ability.
I think the initial phase is more what’s the feedback but as we get – as this progresses we are going to measure our results.
Okay.
And the second question is your releasing spreads have been accelerating.
Can you just give some color whether either by mall or outlet or if this is more new tenants coming in or this is just part – or if this is more driven by remerchandising tenants moving guys from the 50 down to moving new guys to the 50-yard one.
Well you know I’ll let Rick and Steve if he wants to chime in.
I would just point out to you that we are under-market rented that’s why we’re able to grow our comp NOI every quarter where our occupancy cost for better or worse if you want to focus on that and you know how I feel on some of these numbers is low is very low look at it and compare to our peer group.
So it’s low that allows us to increase our rents at the same time doing in a way that our retailers can continue to be profitable in our portfolio which is important.
So that’s – but it’s continuing to upgrade and it’s marking leases to market and that’s what it is.
Rick you want to add anything? The one thing I would again reemphasizing David has talked about we keep talking about our re-development program.
I don’t think people appreciate how much better our properties are getting as places where retailers want to do business.
We’ve talked in the past how there are number of new entrants that want more square footage.
It’s a supply and demand business and as our properties are getting more desirable we have more demand limited supply we’re able to drive rents.
Alex this is Steve.
I just add one comment because you asked about the differences between new leases and releasing and interestingly enough we have the ability to parse the data and look at it and componentize it.
And the spread is pretty much on top of each other whether it’s a new lease or a release.
So which I think echoes David’s comment about the portfolio is just under market and whether it’s the existing tenant and us reaching an agreement with them to stay in the space or whether it’s remarketing it to another tenant.
We’re getting market rent for that space now.
Okay.
Listen thank you.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly representing Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys and congratulations to Andy and Steve.
David just building on an earlier question and looking longer… One guy is not here so until he posts you’ll never know.
That’s true.
It’s that I’m just curious – to build on an earlier question looking longer than 18 months out on top of honing the portfolio and maybe executing on the pipeline do you think there’s a role or a need for something larger to be done in real estate or perhaps even assisting brands of omni-channel retailing? Maybe I’m – that’s I didn’t – can you reinstate your question I think I missed it I didn’t miss the – I missed it.
Can you just sorry Jeff can you? No no problem at all.
I was curious if on top of your I guess the blocking and tackling on the portfolio if you feel if there is a need or a role for Simon to do something larger in real estate or perhaps assisting brands of omni-channel retailing in the next few years.
Well look I think we are always trying to assist the retailers while at the same time grow our business so there is this natural tension between the two of us.
But yes I think we’ve got to continue to upgrade the portfolio and drive traffic if that’s your question yes.
So yes we have a – we certainly have a responsibility to retailers to make our environments as productive and as exciting as possible.
That’s the biggest focus we have.
Rick I think we feel like we have that obligation we have it to the consumer too.
So I mean that’s what – I mean the amount that we’ve done within the portfolio just upgrading little stuff from restrooms to play areas to seating areas to exterior improvements to doing the – I mean we’ve done a hell of a lot over the last several years.
Right – we were able to shutdown when the world was ending and start back up we were able to shutdown better than anybody else.
We were able to startup better than anybody else.
And all of that’s proven because all of that’s in our numbers.
So we had – we – forget – I hate losing WP because it’s – now I got – I lost $1 dollar FFO.
But we would have been a $10 roughly right? You are going to do the calculation – excuse me if I’m rounding here and there.
But – so everybody is going to do the calculation what does that mean what does mean? But we were going to be $10 per share $6 in dividends where were we in 2006 and 2007? Where was everybody else? So those are big numbers.
Well I guess that’s the – I guess the root of my question is I think you’ve certainly done well in strengthening the balance sheet and you spun off Washington Prime and there is a big pipeline today.
Yes.
And I guess I’m wondering if going forward you see more of your capital allocation going to things outside of malls and outlets and maybe into other areas.
No we are going to always stick to retail real estate.
And we will densify here and there.
But and we think we can do that appropriately not get over our skis but no we are going to always be a retail real estate company that won’t change.
And then I guess for Rick just a few questions did you guys see much of a sales impact in outlets in Japan just because they did a big increase in their VAT tax in the second quarter did you see anything there? Well let me – that really should go here as opposed to Rick… I don’t leave the domestic chores.
But the fact of matter is actually I’m glad you brought that up because the answer is no believe it or not.
There was a little bit of a spike ahead of that and our Japanese partner is actually coming at – the weather here is bad so I assume they’ll still get in – but they are actually coming here for the next couple of days.
But it’s actually surprisingly held its own I don’t have it right in front of me but the answer – the simple answer is no.
it’s actually done very very well even with the increase in that.
And I think this one is for Rick because he and I were exchanging phone calls.
Could you talk about the replacement you have lined up for the Nordstrom space at Florida Mall and a maybe a little bit why Nordstrom opted to leave that market and does that foreshadow anything for that property? Well the property is frankly growing extraordinarily well.
And in fact right now we are in the process of adding a new flagship Zara American girl.
We are adding a completely new food hall with other restaurants.
And I’ll let Nordstrom’s statement speak for itself but we are very excited about our replacement strategy for that box.
And in fact there will probably be announcements forthcoming in the very near future that will show you what we have in mind there and we believe it’s going to be a substantially positive addition to the property.
Yes it’s absolutely unequivocally not a reflection of the mall at all.
So let me make that clear the mall does a $1000 a foot…  Yes.
And it’s gown its NOI every year and so it’s a great mall no issues.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Haendel St.
Juste representing Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Good morning out there.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So First a question on clip here.
I know that you do not include it in your core same-store numbers.
But we noticed a large drop in your share of NOI from clip here NOI page 21 of the 2Q sup down to $53 million from it looks like $67 million last quarter.
Can you perhaps give us a bit of color on what caused such a big drop where there one-timers in either number? Yes Q-over-Q there were one-timers last year.
They also… I’m speaking to sorry to first sequentially last quarter.
Okay.
They – part of that is dilution that that occurred with their sales.
They sold Carrefour assets.
Okay.
Okay.
Anything else there or it was just… They’ve reported their numbers so no the answer is no.
I mean they… Okay.
No it’s there and they are in very good shape.
Our investment we are plus 900… Almost $1 billion.
Almost $1 billion of 52%.
As Adam Sandler would say not too shabby.
So and they are doing a good job and I have yet to learn one word in French which is quite pleasing to me.
Okay thanks for that.
One more if I may.
Understanding your views David on sales per square foot I was just curious though on your thoughts on… Let me just stop there.
What – my – I just don’t think it’s the – again I’m not trying to tell you that it’s not unimportant.
Question is whether we should obsess over it or not.
And what I – and what I’m trying to explain to the market I obsess over my revenues.
I obsess over my comp NOI.
I don’t obsess over what the retailers do in my properties unless I’m doing a bad job than I obsess over it.
So what happens in our industry is retailers they get hot they have great sales they don’t – it changes we’ve got to develop the right mix sometimes that’s our fault sometimes it’s the retailers fault.
The important thing is where we – where is our leases vis-à-vis market? What’s the demand and can we increase our cash flow? That’s what I obsess over.
So I’d never had a headline saying sales are up when they are my tenant sales because I – my headline is what are my sales up? And in fact I think this quarter up 9% right roughly looking at my team they are shaking their head.
So that’s what I obsess over that’s the difference that I’m trying to communicate.
And as you know other retail reach in this – in the universe of 30 of us more than half of them don’t even report what their tenant sales are.
So we are just trying to say yes I hear you it’s interesting but it’s not what’s going to drive our ability to increase our cash flow because remember we can take the space back.
Got you got you and I understand.
I appreciate your views and then again we understand why you think what you think.
But I’m just curious on your thoughts on potentially creating a new category of sales productivity reporting to perhaps capture the larger in-line tenants the H&amp;M the Uniqlo that pay you rent more like in-line tenants but who’s results are not included are not included in your reported core numbers especially given how well they’ve been fairing lately.
Well look we track total sales and I think year-to-date we include everything that we don’t get everybody doesn’t report.
We have the department stores and some don’t and some do.
Rick what’s our total numbers up? It’s almost 3.5%.
3.5% so that’s – you’re right if – now I’m not going to do that on a per foot basis because it includes department stores but it does show you what’s going on with market share of our property.
So they’re up – the total sales that we get reported are up 3.3%.
Now is that a number that we should report? I don’t know.
When the strip center guys do it call me and I’ll do it okay? Fair enough.
Thank you.
Yeah no worries.
Your next question comes from the line Tayo Okusanya representing Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning everyone.
Just along the lines of just the retailer outlook I was wondering if you could just get some sense from you how you’re feeling about things like mall traffic and just the kind of general sense of what the mall feels like today and also in July? Well look the fact is the consumer generally is still very cautious and we see that across the board.
There is no denying that from – as you know a number of retailers both low and medium and even high-end are all seeing somewhat of a cautious consumer.
And that’s certainly is affecting retail sales in our properties.
So that continues to be the case.
We have our work cut out for us with respect to that issue.
We think it’s – we don’t think it’s a shift issue going from.
We’ve done a lot of research here.
We don’t think it’s a shift from the – to online from physical.
It’s really more of an indicator that the consumer right now is pretty cautious.
So – and I think a lot of that is just all the macro stuff that’s out there.
We’ve seen it before.
We certainly have some retailers that have their issues which will put – puts focus on us to release their space.
But again I mean those things ebb and flow but we’ve got our work cut out for us with regard to just kind of a consumer that’s cautious right now.
So would you have it to guess that mall traffic is down slightly or down low double-digit or anything of that sort? Well it’s not down double-digits okay.
I don’t know where you get that data either.
Now it’s not – I would say mall traffic is generally flat the summer months are not big until late July and August because they’re back to school.
June is not an important month.
Early part of July is not.
So we’ll see what happens.
All right okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just one more from me on the outlet side of the business during ICSC there was a general commentary coming out of the company about some additional developments that could be done in 2015 2016 like half-a-dozen potential locations that were mentioned.
Just wondering if there was any update on that? Yeah we do it you mean from our company? Yes correct.
Yeah yeah we do intend to – as you know as I mentioned in remarks we’re starting Gloucester which is August 7 okay.
That groundbreaking that open basically a year from August and we do have one other of that we will hope to start this year and then we still have three or four that are in the pipe for next year.
So yeah nothing has really changed on that and again I won’t bore the callers on my comments but we’re being very selective in where we want to go and where demand is.
And we are – let’s – not that we’re always going to bet a thousand meaning we may pass up an opportunity that turns out good or may build one that’s not great but those – the two options that can happen.
But generally I would say we’re experts at understanding where the manufacturers and where the retailers that matter want to build the next outlet okay.
Doesn’t mean we’re going to bet a thousand but it’s going to be pretty damn close.
Sounds good to me.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Rosivach representing Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Don’t shoot the messenger but clients just keep asking about sales so I have to shoot a couple in.
You mentioned earlier that the re-devs were impacting sales which kind of makes sense because you’re going to have lower sales as it’s going on.
Do you have any idea of what the quantity of that was? Well we go property by property but the fact that matter is look sales were – I will just say this we added more space so when you look at the $612 to $608 that’s the primary issue there.
And also we added some centers that are not quite up to the core average yet.
And and but that that’s nothing new and out of the ordinary.
It does take time for centers to to develop their trade area and everything else.
So in the movement because I don’t want to call it the decrease because it really didn’t decrease the movement from $612 to $608 was really a function of adding additional space.
And as I mentioned to you the comp sales were actually up 90 basis points which would ignore that impact.
We give you total sales but the comp sales were up 90 basis points and the total sales just volume-wise not on a per square foot basis was up 3.3% and that as much as I really want to talk about sales.
I know and I – and by the way nobody is going to report 5.6% NOI growth of amongst your peer group.
Nobody right? But this is what I do for a living so the 90 was actually trailing 12 months not just the second quarter? It was Q-over-Q.
Yeah second quarter.
Second quarter.
Second quarter over second quarter true comp okay.
And then let me ask you a sales question that actually does matter.
Yes.
I’m assuming it’s part of the Washington Prime spend.
You spent some time thinking about what the growth could be on a multi-year basis because let’s face it if sales really are flat or they are even negative for three years or five years that actually does matter.
And maybe if you could share a multi-year view I think it would be really helpful to the market.
Well I mean you see where our – I mean I guess the simple is just look at where our rent – our expiring rents are versus what we’re bringing in new rents at today’s sales level and if your – that’s what you’re focused on you can see that embedded growth is pretty significant.
Well that’s not – that easy right just even if sales stays flat you can say where it’s going to go.
But do you have any thought of where sales are going to go.
Any thoughts on looking at the last 12 months not being representative of what were you really think that the tenants can drive their sales going forward in the next two or three years.
Look I’m not going to give you a number if that’s what you’re after.
But I do think that the consumer has been cautious and for all sorts of reasons.
The sense on the macro side is that – and part of that was a move toward durable stuff but the fact that matter is I do think there is a law here and I don’t view it as a long term role.
I do think the economy sounds feels like it’s getting better and with that the consumer will move forward.
But as I said you have – the GDP of last quarter it was down 3%.
I had nothing to do with that.
I did my fair share I built I redeveloped I hired people I gave raises I did everything I can to juice the economy so don’t look at me.
Okay? Now we’ll see where we feel good about our business.
Thanks sir.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan representing MLV please proceed.
Hi good morning.
How you’re doing? Good thanks.
On occupancy so you – I mean you are getting up to pretty high numbers already.
And based on your typical seasonality and another 100 basis points higher at year-end or more I mean do you think you are at the frictional maximum? I mean it’s a little harder for you guys because the outlets have always run higher to comp you against the rest of the peer group.
But if you just think of the malls is this where we’ll end this year? I mean do you think there’s much more upside? Is it good to push for that upside or to leave some kind of frictional wiggle room? Well look I’m always of the view make the deal lease the space.
But look I think Paul at the end of the day there’s going to be a little volatility in through it because there are some – we have a little bit more bankruptcies this year than we did the last couple.
So we’re – when you get the space back you don’t have it immediately leased it takes time.
So there’s going to be some of that volatility but I think we’ll maintain that kind of level of occupancy give or take a little bit here and there.
The only other point I would make Paul is that we spend a great deal of time asset managing our space to get the highest yield we can out of that space in terms of rent and sales production.
So much of our discussions with our tenants are getting them right-sized which in a lot of instances is decreasing the amount of space they’re in so we can create additional rooms out of the same square footage which drives our sales and drives our rent.
So there is a lot of levers still left that we can pull to generate productivity even at these higher occupancy rates.
Sure yeah that makes sense.
Okay so my other question just on development.
You got about $1.6 billion $1.7 billion your share in your shop listed for activity that’s under construction.
And so that’s basically over the next two years I guess.
And what should we think in terms of annual completions based on kind of what’s in your pipeline for starts over the next 12 months? I mean is that number going to stay about the same? Do you have some big projects that are going to come in? Yeah I mean I think the best way to do it is we think on average we’re going to as we said spend about a $1 billion plus a year so.
It will spike in that but if you’d – and that’s just more or less domestic.
But we’ve got – that might spike when we put Copley in and couple of others.
So we’re going to – there is lumpiness to it because some of the stuff that we’re finally doing is big stuff the fields of the world [ph] Del Amo so you’re going to have some spiky.
But on average when you look back on 2016 2017 it’s going to be a $1.2 billion or so per average more or less.
And do you think that 8% mall redevelopment yield is going to be consistent even when you add some of those kind of bigger projects? Yeah look the answer is yes because we also have new development in there that will be at higher yields than that so when you put it altogether it’s a pretty good number that we feel good about.
Okay great.
Thanks.
No worries.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller representing JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Yeah hi following up on the last question if you go out past 2016 and think about the next three years five years or so does it seem like you can maintain that roughly $1 billion a year spend based on what you think is in the shadow pipeline at this point? It’s so hard to really tell you one way or another.
I don’t know mean the simple answer is I don’t know.
I mean I think it certainly could extend a couple of years.
But we have a very disciplined philosophy about adding because – an over improvement of center because at the end of the day you know what – you know if I go back to this $320 million you know what drives our earnings is that we think about return on equity better than lot of folks and that’s what drives the business.
So if you over improve stuff and you don’t get the right return on equity you kind of get – you’ve kind of done it and that’s great and the architects can pat themselves on the back but the question is where is the cash flow.
So I don’t know I mean I think we’re so focused on the handful of big things that we have that’s the key.
But Copley is four five – unfortunately because I’d rather have it much quicker but that’s a four or five year project.
So I think the simple answer is that yeah that $1 billion to $1.2 billion stretches from 2016 goes to 2017 and 2018 and then after that it’s hard to really tell you one way or another.
The only thing I would add to this are we looking for other opportunities within the portfolio? Absolutely.
Do we have a number of things that we hopefully believe we can do to create incremental opportunities? We do but it’s going to be approached with the same discipline and the same rigor of analysis so we don’t do something that’s stupid.
Yeah and we’re actually not in the – we’re starting to see a little bit of new development not outlets that we’re thinking about.
We’re close to one deal and Liz brought Oyster Bay so we’ve got two deals thank you.
Two deals that are out there to do new development that will not be outlets that aren’t in.
So economy gets better stronger maybe there is a little bit more new development going on.
So it’s a tough question to really give you any comfort and other than – the philosophy return on equity is what’s really going to drive us.
So if we – we won’t waiver from that.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeremy Roane representing Hilliard Lyons.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for taking our question.
And we noticed that tenant reimbursements as a percentage of operating expenses were higher than in the previous quarters before the spin-off of Washington Prime.
Is the current quarter a good run rate for tenant reimbursements going forward? And also what led to the increase in home and regional office costs? Jeremy this is Steve Sterrett.
Couple of things because the income statement has been reclassified and the Washington Prime assets are all in discontinued operations I do think the P&amp;L for the quarter reflects a good run rate for the existing Simon portfolio.
So I would say that’s fine.
The one caveat David mentioned it earlier is we did spend incremental dollar in the second quarter related to the role out of our branding campaign and that lumpiness won’t occur quite the same way in the future.
Home and – I’ll just – yeah you want to answer that? Yeah I’ll go ahead the home office and regional costs the variance both year-over-year and sequentially with the first quarter is all one-time stuff.
Some of it is related to the Washington Prime transaction where we vested some equity and recorded the costs for people who are now Washington Prime employees.
Some of it was incentive compensation some bonuses that were paid for mid-level people here in the organization who worked very hard on the Washington Prime transaction.
And… No but no executive...
No and that’s why I used the term mid-level.
And then some of it is retirement related costs relative to the change in leadership at the premium outlet group that David mentioned.
Excellent thank you very much.
Sure thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Yang representing Evercore.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Sorry if I missed this but did you update your same store NOI guidance excluding Washington Prime? I’m just curious if you think growth can accelerate during the second-half of the year.
Ben the one thing that we did back when we announced Washington Prime we told you that it would accelerate our same-store NOI by 30 bps but that’s the extent of the update we have not given a forecast for comp NOI for the rest of the year.
But if your prior guidance was 4% and now it’s 4.3% should we assume that growth will decelerate during the second half of 2014? I wouldn’t necessarily assume that no because we are a little bit ahead of our plan year-to-date.
Okay got it.
And then maybe switching gears can you talk about why you guys didn’t consolidate your ownership of St.
John’s Town Center when your partner was looking to sell? And if it was price which I believe it was a 4% cap rate was there an opportunity or consideration to maybe selling your stake along with your partner for that asset? Well the answer is primarily the reason we didn’t buy was primarily price just to cut to the chase even though we think it’s a great asset long-term.
Why would we sell? I mean it’s a great asset.
We built it.
We leased it.
We managed it.
We are adding Nordstrom.
We don’t need the capital that’s the business we’re in in owning real estate.
So why would I sell a mall that’s that – we are the managing partner.
We run it day-to-day.
We had a partner in it so it was no harm no foul.
I didn’t say any real we don’t need the capital and see any reason to sell it.
Got it.
That makes sense.
If it was a 4% cap rate for what I believe is a 700 per square foot mall is that a good comp for trophy assets or I believe there is some near-term lease roles that could be potentially pushing that cap rate lower.
And if that is the good comp do you think that have any do you have any thoughts on what that means for the value of your stock? Well let me just – you’ve put a lot in there.
I don’t want to tell you what I’m not going to sit here and say to you that what the cap rate was.
We don’t do that.
That’s a private transaction.
So it is what it is.
Reason we didn’t buy it we owned it we controlled it we didn’t see that with all the capital that we are putting back in a portfolio it wasn’t really – it wasn’t in – we didn’t see that the real need to do it from our standpoint.
From a going forward I mean look if you look at the value in the private markets and what’s being paid and look at where our stock is trading.
And I think you could certainly make the argument that the private market is certainly more expensive than public stocks.
And assuming we don’t decrete from value but create value you ought to get a little maybe $0.20 a share for that.
So but Ben I mean I would say to you clearly that the private market value clearly is more expensive than the public market value when you put it altogether.
But that ebbs and flows.
Got it thank you.
That’s helpful.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore representing RBC Marking.
Please proceed.
Hey guys good morning.
On occupancy costs you guys give that in the supplemental at 11.6%.
But of course that’s a mix of existing leases and new leases.
And I’m curious what would that number be you think for new and renewal leases you put in place today? It’s going to look our leasing trend right now is continuing unabated.
And David pointed out if you look we are signing new leases at $66.
We’ve got expiring leases at $41.
It’s going to be around you are talking about the spread? Yes.
I’m thinking Rick the actual occupancy costs numbers.
So that new rent that you are getting at $60 plus as a percent of sales.
Overall for the body of work we are doing that is going to basically be right around the same number and maybe moving up a touch based on the… I think what Rich is asking is when we look at new deals what is our occupancy cost? I would say it’s probably in the 14% to 15% range.
And that range but again it’s all over the board.
But again if you look at our peer group we’ve got very low occupancy cost and the ability to drive that we will continue to drive our comp NOI in a stable economy.
Right.
I got you David.
Yes that’s a significant number.
I appreciate that.
Then the other thing is you didn’t spend a lot of time on your European investments on the call here.
Yes we did that deliberately not that we don’t love okay and not that they are not doing well.
We are just – we are trying to make our remarks shorter and shorter so… No I hear you I hear you.
I’m curious how you see that that actually going at this point if there is a – how the relationship I guess is progressing.
And then also I’m a little curious is there anything coming back this way so are you finding new tenants are you finding any changes in organizational thoughts anything like that that comes in the other direction? Well I mean just to name two great retailers that are from Europe coming here Primark and Topshop.
And just to name forget H&amp;M and Zara who have been here.
But those relationships are certainly enhanced by our presence in internationally.
But Rich I would say simply this.
We are betting 1 000 in Europe and in international.
So everything and that’s – it’s Klépierre is – it’s great.
The McArthurGlen deal is going to be very good.
We think we got in at a very good value and there is growth opportunities.
And the outlets business in Malaysia Korea Japan Mexico Canada thank you Steve is good it’s all good.
So we just figured I mean we don’t – we’re trying to shorter the presentation up and Liz wrote it and I took it out.
Don’t read anything into it okay.
I got you.
On that on Europe is it sort of steady as we go at this point you think or will there be possibly new announcements coming out of the European venture? I’m open to any ideas anybody has okay.
No but I look I think McArthurGlen’s development pipeline is very active but as you know that take time.
And Klépierre where we get strategic guidance and all that stuff but they’ve got a good pipeline to in terms of extensions and the like.
So Japan we’ve got yes so we are going to continue to build on those businesses.
Is there going to be anything earth shattering? It depends what you consider earth shattering.
All right I got you great.
Thank you guys.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim representing Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Hi this is Chris for Dan.
Occupancy in 1Q and 2Q has been among the highest in 10 last years for those quarters.
And understanding that you have achieved strong rent growth in those quarters just wondering though that given those occupancy rates is so much higher than typical for those quarters is that a situation where you may have pushed even harder on those rents or do you feel that you have struck a pretty good balance between occupancy and rental rate growth? Well I think we are look it’s an art not a science.
I think we are pretty good at it.
And I think historically philosophically we’ve always here on making a deal.
So we are not as – I’m sure people complain on the other side sometimes.
But so I think we are always trying to lease our properties up.
I do think if you are looking historically you’ve probably got a big compositional change in the portfolio I mean depending on how far out you are looking that’s occurred over the last decade.
So that’s what maybe causing that to some extent.
So I would – that’s probably the biggest issue.
And you know it’s interesting in the Q1 we used to have a lot of fallout every holiday season because of – let’s talk 10 years ago.
That is become less and less of a typical event.
So it may be seen a little bit of that on the margin.
That’s really helpful.
Yeah that’s true.
And back 10 years just looking at those and I think yeah there’s definitely some competition changes.
Yes.
Second you mentioned before that you’ll continue to prune the portfolio as you’ve always done even after the spin-off.
But with the free cash flow funding most of the development and the redevelopment pipeline do you see much in the way of dispositions for the remainder of 2014? And I guess just generally do you have the regional mall portfolio kind of where you wanted after the spin-off or is there some – still work to do there? I would say there is always going to be assets that we’re going to prune and sell.
Frankly it hasn’t been a huge focus given the spin-off.
We spent most of our effort of any free time on that.
So I think that’s something that we’ll think about for 2014 2015.
I’m still depressed that I lost $1 of FFO so I got to get over that.
I hate losing cash flow like that.
So I’ve got to come to grips with that but yeah we’ll continue to sell but probably nothing that’s – the rest of this year of any material nature.
Great.
Thanks David.
Yes no worries.
Your next question comes as a follow-up from the line Christy McElroy representing Citi.
Please proceed.
Hey It’s Michael Bilerman.
I just had a couple questions.
The first is for Sterrett.
And I guess - I don’t know if Andy is in the room.
But as I think about the balance sheet which is in unbelievable shape.
One thing that we haven’t talked about is that you have about $7.5 billion of debt coming due within the next 2.5 years at like 5.5% so 30% of your debt a big chunk of that being unsecured bonds a bunch of that secured debt on balance sheet and a bunch in the JVs.
I guess how aggressive can you be to pull any of that forward without paying huge charges or make holes to bring that cash flow because David I know you love cash flow to bring that cash flow forward? Did your liability management people prompt you to ask that question? Are you allowed to talk to them? There’s a big Chinese wall.
Okay.
Just checking.
Well Michael I mean it’s fair and I do think if you look at the expiration the debt maturity schedule one of the things you see is that the next couple of years out we’ve got the opportunity to continue to roll down rates.
It is something that we look out on a regular basis.
But listen it’s essentially trading dollars because there are make holes or yield maintenances in virtually every debt instrument that we have.
So but there are other ways that you can potentially hedge your bets a bit whether it’s going out and doing treasury locks or whatever.
So we do look at it.
And we are as aggressive as we can be.
Andy would tell you that we pay every debt instruments that is open to par date and we’re managing that as aggressive as we can.
Understanding that there is a curve aspect of this but what is your sort of contemplate as you think about the next 2.5 years in this debt rolling? Where you sort of want to move that in your schedule? Because obviously it’s like 100 basis points is over $0.20 a share right? And clearly where you are on a 10-year basis today you would be at probably 3% to 3.3%.
So how should we think about how you want to roll that debt? Are you going to – what is that average term 5 years 7 10 15…? I’m just trying to get a… The simple answer to it will be – it will be across the spectrum.
But I would also say Michael one of the things that we focus on a lot is the asset liability match and ours is primarily a 10-year lease business.
So 10-year debt is primarily the sweet-spot of where we’re going to do most of our financing.
But I’d also tell you go back and look at our weighted average cost-to-debt over the last four years it’s come down 15 basis points 20 basis points a year.
That opportunity is certainly still out there for the next couple of years the markets are in really good shape right now.
And I would also tell you that one of the reasons that you’re hesitant to do a large liability management trade is that the forward curve tends to overestimate where rates end up about 90% of the time.
And David mentioned in his remarks the fragility of the consumer in the economy.
It’s hard to envision a scenario in the near-term where rates are going to run crazy because I don’t think the economy would continue to grow in a substantial rising credit environment.
I – Michael and I will just say this.
One of the things that’s interesting our floating-rate debt percentage is absolutely well below our peer group.
It is 7% if that 5% somewhere in that range.
So we’re really not juicing our FFO by playing the floating-rate debt game.
Well your debt also is materially lower as a percentage of your enterprise value.
So it’s even a lower percentage.
And you are sitting on $2 billion of cash.
Yes.
So what do you want me to do? And you’ve got $1 billion of free cash flow a year.
So what are you going to do? I don’t know.
I don’t know.
Come talk to me I’m lonely.
We saw that Apple has still got $120 billion of cash so we’ve some – we’ve got ways to go.
So question David on Klépierre BNP had to pay the U.S.
government $9 billion fine.
They are still sitting with a big stake in Klépierre and I’m just curious whether you as Simon you as Klépierre or you in conjunction with the third-party investor have gone to them and sort of said hey look you are sitting here with $1.5 billion in this company we can provide you some liquidity to pay your fine.
Look they’ve been a terrific partner with us.
We have a very good relationship.
They’ve been very helpful on our involvement with Klépierre.
So beyond that I can’t really say Michael anything more than that other than they have been a pleasure to work with.
And we – I have no – absolutely no indication at all that it’s been a good investment for them they like the investment other than that I can’t really say one thing or another on that front.
Should we expect status quo out of your ownership I mean how should we – I mean it was clearly a good investment where Europe has recovered.
You are able to manage through their sales process and focus them simonize them a little bit.
Well I do want to learn French.
I think right now that’s status quo so… You’ve got to learn French to go up to Quebec.
That’s true.
That’s a different kind of French.
Look I think just from that company and they really are better off to speak for themselves.
But they have done a great job turning around they are starting to get mojo on the property level.
The balance sheet is in good shape.
So the focus for them clearly will be on external activity going forward.
And I’m there to help them in any way I can or and – but that’s the focus.
Things are going well there and they’ve done a good job.
Okay.
And just a clarification on the 3.3% total sales number you threw out that’s a quarter-over-quarter or trailing 12 number? Trailing 12.
Yes.
Trailing 12.
Do you have that number of what it was quarter-over-quarter by any chance total sales? We could but I don’t have it… Don’t have it in front of me… We have it but call Liz.
She will give it to you.
All right.
Thanks bye.
You bet.
Thanks.
With no further questions at this time I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
David Simon for closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you for your interest and your questions and have a good rest of the summer.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Simon Property Group Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sarah and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Ward Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Sarah.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Tom Ward Vice President Investor Relations.
Presenting on today's call is David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Also on the call are Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; Steve Sterrett Chief Financial Officer; Andy Juster current Treasurer and incoming Chief Financial Officer; and Liz Zale Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs.
Before we begin a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today's press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please note that this call includes information that maybe accurate only as of today's date.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the press release and the supplemental information in today's Form 8-K filing.
Both the press release and the supplemental information are available on our IR website at investors.simon.com.
Also due to the completion of the Washington Prime spin-off in the second quarter we are providing operating statistics in our supplemental 8-K for the prior year period to show performance on a comparable basis excluding the Washington Prime properties.
For our prepared remarks I'm pleased to introduce David Simon.
Okay thanks.
Good morning.
We had a productive quarter.
We opened 2 new Premium Outlets in Charlotte and the Twin Cities and in Minnesota nearly 100% leased.
They're both off to a great start.
We successfully tendered and redeemed approximately $1.6 billion of notes.
And we currently issued $1.3 billion of new notes which extended our average duration and reduced our weighted average interest cost.
And we became the first U.S.
REIT to establish a global commercial paper program.
We agreed to buy 2 high quality assets from the recently announced WP Glimcher deal with great growth opportunities.
And most important we continue to produce strong and operating and financial performance both industry-leading.
Now let me talk about the results.
FFO reported was $1.90 per share.
For those of you who updated your estimates to include the $0.35 per share charge related to our tender offers and redemption the $1.90 exceeded the consensus by $0.05 per share.
On a comparable basis excluding the charge related to the debt distinguishment in the third quarter and the operating results from the WP properties in the prior year period FFO diluted per share increased 14.2% year-over-year to $2.25 from $1.97 or $0.28 in total.
And on the same basis it's been increased 14.5% year-over-year to $6.48 from $5.66.
Overall business conditions remain favorable driving increases in our key operating metrics and cash flow.
We continue to see strong demand for space across the portfolio.
Occupancy increased across the portfolio.
Leasing activity is healthy.
The Mall and Premium Outlets recorded releasing spreads of $9.67 an increase of 17% comp.
NOI increased 5.3% in the third quarter 5.4% year-to-date again industry-leading.
And over 95% of our domestic NOI is included in our comp NOI calculation.
Total sales in our portfolio increased 2.8% in the third quarter compared to last year and increased 2.6% for the trailing 12 months even with major redevelopment occurring at several of our Premier properties.
These results are a testament to the strength of our assets and their locations and the ability to once again continue to execute new development.
As I mentioned Charlotte and Twin Cities both opened July 31 and August 14 respectively.
Premium Outlets in Montréal will open in October 30.
We expect that to be another great deal very similar to what we built in Toronto which is doing well doing great.
Construction continues on new Premium Outlet developments in Vancouver and in Southern New Jersey's Gloucester Township where the center will serve the Greater Philly area both high-quality major markets.
In Canada a year from now we will have centers in 3 of the best markets Toronto Montréal and Vancouver.
And we started construction just recently on 2 new Premium Outlets in 2 great markets Tucson and Tampa and both scheduled to open in October of '15.
And we'll continue to focus our outlet projects in major and selective markets where we know there's a clear demand from the retailers that matter and provide solid returns to our shareholders.
Redevelopment just quickly.
We opened a residential complex [indiscernible] We also opened Nordstrom and additional square footage at St.
Johns Town Center and a new Bloomingdale's at Stanford Shopping Center.
We also announced plans for the addition of luxury residence and an AC Hotel by Marriott to Phipps Plaza to open in -- both open early 2016 and construction for the residence will commence tomorrow.
Additions to these mixed use will make our great real estate even better and continue to make our centers the places to be from shopping to dining to living.
Redevelopment expansions.
Projects are ongoing at 31 properties across all 3 of our platforms in the U.S.
Asia and Mexico which expand and has enhanced some of the most productive properties.
We started construction on 2 expansions one at Livermore Premium Outlets in the Bay Area that will add 185 000 square feet and is expected to open in August of 2015 and an expansion of The Colonnade at Sawgrass expected to open December 2015 that will bring 56 000 of high-end luxury retailers to this productive mill center.
And as a reminder construction continues on major redevelopment expansion projects at some of our most productive mall properties including but not limited to Roosevelt Fields Houston Galleria Stanford Shopping Center and our Premium Outlets including Woodbury Las Vegas North and Chicago.
When you put it all together we have a total committed spend of $2.2 billion over the next 3 years all committed to and all under way.
Now turning to acquisitions.
We signed a definitive agreement to acquire Jersey Gardens and University Park Village concurrent with the closing of the Glimcher acquisition by WPG.
We're excited to add these 2 great properties to our portfolio when the deal closes in early 2015.
We're also pleased with our investment in Klépierre.
And as their largest shareholder we're excited for them and their proposed transaction to acquire Corio.
Both of these transactions will be accretive to SPG's earnings.
And again demonstrate our industry-leading creativity to find unique opportunities.
Capital Markets again very busy.
I told you about the $1.3 billion notes.
And we retired average duration of 1.7 that were at interest rates of 5.6%.
We also redeemed another $250 million of notes at 7.875% coupon rate.
Concurrently we issued $1.3 billion of notes with an average duration of 16 years and an average coupon of 3.6.4%.
This takes our senior notes from 6.3 duration to 7.6 duration and lowers our average interest rate from 4.64% to 4.4%.
In addition as I mentioned we are the first U.S.
REIT to establish a global unsecured commercial paper program.
We received an A1/P1 rating from S&amp;P and Moody's respectively.
The program has $500 million.
We can issue CP in dollars and euros.
And in fact we already have.
So we placed $100 million of U.S.
CP which we are borrowing at LIBOR plus 0 to 2 basis points.
And our euro LIBOR we also placed EUR 100 million at a Euro-LIBOR rate of 0 to 7 basis points.
That compares to our revolving credit of 80 basis points above LIBOR.
We announced our dividend of $1.30 an increase of 8% including the November dividend we will pay to Simon shareholders $5.15 in '14 which is an increase of 10.8% compared to what 2013 and does not include the dividend that if you've maintained your WP investment which is essentially on a share adjusted basis of $0.50 per share.
We expect to raise our dividend again of course subject to board approval in the first quarter of 2015.
Guidance.
We raised our guidance to a range of $8.84 to $8.88 per share.
The midpoint of this raised range is an increase of $0.15 from our prior guidance after given effect of the charge related to the debt extinguishment.
Now let me take a deep breath because obviously there's a lot going on.
I wanted to just give you a real brief update on management team.
When we announced Steve Sterrett's retirement early this year we also said that we would source both internal and external candidates for the CFO job and that Steve would remain the CFO through 2014.
We then announced our current [ph] Treasurer Andy would become our new CFO.
Since Andy's announcement Andy Steve and the rest of our financial service team who by the way have on average of 20 years of experience with SPG have paved the way for a smooth transition.
And since that transition is now complete effective in December Andy will become our CFO and Brian McDade now our Assistant Treasurer will become our Treasurer.
Steve will be available to us as needed for specific tasks.
So summing it up we had a great third quarter.
We expect a strong year end.
And of course we're very focused on continuing to enhance the value of our properties.
And we're open for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Christy McElroy from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Michael is on the line with me as well.
David just to follow up on your comments around opening outlets centers in major markets.
In buying a center like Jersey Gardens in what type of markets do you think indoor outlet type of concept could work? And can you also provide you mostly thoughts around the growing number of outlet centers and stores opening [indiscernible] what that means for [indiscernible] the outlook versus the overall in terms of future obsolescence? Well Jersey Gardens is we consider it more of a Mills as opposed to an outlet center.
It was essentially modeled after The Mills.
So it appeals to broad consumer base but it's got the entertainment it's got the big boxes.
It does have a smattering of pure outlet retailers.
But I wouldn't -- Christie I wouldn't consider that an outlet center so to speak.
You're -- unfortunately we did have a not such a good connection on your question.
But I think you mentioned about the potential about outlets coming closer to major metropolitan marketplaces is that -- was that the question? Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes and what that means for obsolescence future obsolescence of existing outlets? Well look outlet business is very competitive.
We have a good portfolio.
Our results speak for themselves and I think we'll continue to be able to grow our comp NOI and our portfolio.
I think in all of retail real estate you can never stand still.
You've got to invest in the products.
You've got to make it better.
Whether its outlets full-priced lifestyle et cetera that's what we're all about.
That's what we're grounded in.
Our -- we focus on lease-by-lease market-by-market deal-by-deal and we'll -- we live in a very competitive market.
We'll continue to hopefully do well.
Research Division</strong> David it's Michael Bilerman speaking.
There's an echo I guess when we're asking the question.
I don't know if that's partially why you may have cranking.
Sorry about that.
We'll check in to see if we can change that by the time the call is done.
Research Division</strong> No worries.
So I also have a question on global.
Obviously -- you have Klépierre 2.5 years ago you went into -- you're leveraging Klépierre now effectively to buy Corio and consolidate in Europe.
You've McArthurGlen that you've made an investment in.
You obviously have the outlet business that you're growing internationally.
All the Australian journalists think that they've spotted your plane in Australia which you denied.
We just had a doubt there.
And then just I'm curious how much time are you spending U.S.
versus non-U.S.? As you think about the growth of Simon how important is that international aspect going to be? You mean me personally? Research Division</strong> Yes.
From -- as strategic growth initiatives.
How much time are you spending outside the U.S.
versus inside U.S.? Well look generally roughly our outlet business represents 10% of our -- from Asia to Europe to McArthurGlen.
So let's say it's around 10%.
Research Division</strong> International.
I'm sorry our international business.
And honestly other than -- where you had the episodic nature of deals I would tell you that I work very hard and don't feel sorry for me okay? But so I would say to you that generally other than episodes of deal making I spend around the same amount of time.
But we have a great team in our international.
I have added a colleague that you probably haven't met that's done an unbelievable job to relieve the [indiscernible].
But I wouldn't say it's abnormally different than what the international business represents in terms of our investment.
At the end of the day we haven't made a huge -- the good news is we're in the money and everything that we've done.
But when you put it in the scheme of our roughly $90 billion asset base we haven't made this huge unbelievable bet internationally.
And I spend roughly 10% of my time.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I was thinking more.
So into the future whether that's changed at all and we see that percentage go up in well [ph] quarter of the company or 30% or 40% of the company.
Well I think the -- given that what we're doing in the U.S.
it's not -- that's probably not likely in any short- or medium-term horizon.
Our next question comes from Omotayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the development and redevelopments.
This seems like -- with the supplements for this quarter that released the yield on expected development and redevelopments came down slightly for the mall redevelopments [indiscernible] I'm glad you're very perceptive.
And I'm glad you asked the question.
So King of Prussia is now a go-deal it's a big deal.
And it did drop our redevelopment yield a little bit because it's -- I know you grow accustomed to Simon having 10% returns on every deal we do sometimes a little lower.
But it's still very accretive when you look at where that property is valued today.
But we don't hand out or give out returns.
So that -- but that it is a major development redevelopment I should say and that did lower the return.
On the outlets side I'd say 2 things: we've taken out Charlotte and Minneapolis; we've added Tucson and Tampa.
Charlotte and Minneapolis were very high double digits.
Tucson and Charlotte -- I'm sorry Tucson and Tampa are on average 11.
The others were higher than that.
So when you bring that 2 together it dropped it a touch.
Now I will say to this we're very conservative on our new development both Tucson and Tampa are double digits.
But the way they're coming in and the other 2 that are coming out dropped it oh so small.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really more of a mix...
Let me be perfectly clear.
We have no execution issue.
We have no cost overrun.
It's just the mix changed by the addition of the plaza the King of Plaza and then the 2 outlets opened and the 2 new ones coming in.
Our next question comes from Paul Morgan from MLV.
Research Division</strong> The re-leasing spreads is also just fixed on a bid.
I mean I know there's some noise.
But you've kind of been in an upward trend and it is a rolling 12.
So I just wanted to maybe get any comments on spreads your outlook for them whether the changes and -- whether the sales volatility has had any impact? And that's the question.
Well look it wasn't that long ago say less than a year ago where the spreads we're 14% 15%.
So I will just tell you from our standpoint we are pleased with basically having 9 9.5-plus-dollar spread.
And 17% -- I mean I wouldn't -- we have to look at this a little bit on a longer-term basis.
So I would say we're very pleased with 17.
It's higher than it was a year ago.
Yes it this a little bit lower than the Q1 and Q2.
I certainly wouldn't overreact on that on any basis.
The re-leasing spreads are driving our industry-leading 5.4% year-to-date comp NOI growth.
And we're -- we are executing this in a clearly a cautious consumer oriented environment.
And obviously last year the consumer shut down a little bit because of weather this that and the other things.
So I'm pleased I'm happy.
And I think we're executing very well.
We're going through our -- in terms of how we look at that next year very simple as you know we've been doing this 20 years.
We had the pleasure of starting November 10 I believe going through each and every mall lease-by-lease deal-by-deal which rolls into our plan which we'll share with you in early next year.
And so until that's done I don't have a prediction about what our spreads will be other than we continue to believe we're -- our rollovers are under market [indiscernible] in the future growth of our business industry-leading opportunities in my opinion has been reinforced by year-after-year-after-year of continual unabated outperformance.
The only thing that I would also add is that our occupancy cost remains very moderate which shows you that we still have plenty of room to grow those rents.
Yes.
Paul this is Steve.
I'll just add one thing.
If you look at our 8-K over the last 8 quarters we've consistently signed new leases between $63 and $67 a foot and if you look at our lease expiration schedule you can see that they're still in the mid-40s for the next several years.
So we still feel very good about marketing the expiring leases to market.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know you haven't giving guidance but that kind of high teens number is -- there's no reason to think that that's not sustainable it's not maybe potential upside.
Well look we -- we're -- I know you're Paul you're smart and you want us to talk about next year.
We have tremendous confidence in our business and our platform and the thing that I would have you rely on is what we've done year-after-year.
And as I said to you we'll share our guidance early next year.
Our next question comes from Jeff Spector from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm also here with Craig who will have a question after me.
My question was just focused on Sears' decision to lease space to Primark.
Also Amazon's announcement to open a store in New York City we've been getting a lot of incoming calls questions on those announcements and what that could mean.
If you could just provide some thoughts on those announcements and maybe where you think things continue with Sears in their leasing efforts? Well let me -- I'll have -- I'll give you 2 quick top of the head remarks and then I'll let Rick add whatever he wants.
Look on Amazon leasing space I'm not -- it's all the details aren't out but there's clearly a benefit for the overused word omnichannel bricks and clicks however you want to describe it there's a real benefit.
In fact it's very interesting when I see Sears as a online retailer depending on which study you look at.
I mean they're anywhere from -- they're clearly in the top 10.
They may be as high as #5.
And I would argue it's because of their physical presence that allows them to be so important in the online presence.
And you've heard it from retailers that the synergy between having the physical and the online presence and now the move toward mobile and how its all been integrated.
So -- and clearly we've seen a number of pure online retailers going to physical stores.
So the -- it's got to be in the equation for a retailer to have a physical presence.
I don't think there's any question in that.
And as our retailers have gotten more sophisticated in the online world I think that's going to play to our benefit.
On the Sears leasing we have one that we've consented to in King of Prussia.
That was part of their agreement to consent to our ability to expand the 2 centers.
We worked very collectively to do that.
I think Sears would be the first to tell you that in certain markets and certain stores they don't underperform or in fact they have too much space.
And they will look to release some of that space or sell some of the real estate.
We still think they have a physical presence that's going to be important to them.
And we'll continue to work with them on a collaborative basis that meets our needs and our shoppers' needs and theirs.
And we expect to at the end of the day for both of us to benefit from that.
And what I would add is that focusing on the Primark side they're a highly productive iconic retailer in Europe and the U.K.
We have been working with them for over 6 months.
We have already visited them at their headquarters and toured their stores where they operate.
And we're very excited about their entry into the U.S.
We anticipate that there will hopefully be several other opportunities both within our portfolio or others Sears stores which they have already alluded too.
And I would also point out that we got involved with Primark early on as our Klépierre team already had a preexisting relationship with them.
Research Division</strong> Craig has one question.
We've all concluded that we are all just [indiscernible] so we just want to go on record for that.
Alright? Us too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was just going to ask what were some of the take aways from your shopping block events? And just maybe some general thoughts on the millennials in the malls.
Well look I think they're an important customer base.
I think they represent a unique opportunity for us.
The millennials represent a bigger population than the baby boomers.
So it's very important for us to connect with them the way they want to be connected.
I think they like mall shopping.
And we're going to experiment and do lots of things oriented around them to continue to make them an important consumer base in our properties.
But we're not going to ignore the baby boomers either because they have a lot to spend.
So I think as millennials get older and we can continue to offer them entertainment restaurant and the right retailers in that -- in the properties and connect with them the way they want to be connected it's a great opportunity for us.
Rick do you want to add anything? The only thing I would say to echo David's point the research that we've done has shown that the millennials are in fact very supportive of the mall channel and are very much focused on going on there.
And so it's a natural thing for us to try and exploit and enhance.
Research Division</strong> I was also noticing you used 2 outlets to do the initial rollout with Refinery29.
How did those go? Very well.
So that relationship is early but I'd say generally we're very pleased.
We're creating buzz in that whole marketplace.
And are -- along those lines Craig we're making some initial investments in early-stage companies to really to enhance the environment.
But I think all the good news is that there is a lot that we can do to enhance our environments and we are as committed as anyone to do that.
We've got the balance sheet the capital the -- hopefully the creativity and the willingness to take risk to do that which all companies I think need to be in this position to do.
It would be easy for us to rest on our industry-leading growth.
But as you know us very well that is not in our DNA.
And so we're going to do it from marketing to leasing to development and everywhere in between.
Our next question comes from Andrew Rosivach from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Caitlin Burrows.
Retailers have been open about the needs for a physical presence to showcase even though much of their sales are generated online.
Can you talk about how you capture the economic value of a store that doesn't necessarily run through that store's cash register? Well look there's -- it's -- that's -- in our leases even if it's done in the store but fulfilled online that's part of our sales.
That's not really too much of an issue.
And I think for all physical retailers the important -- and even with their online business they have a multiplier effect that's very important that they see when they have a physical presence with their online consumers.
And they can describe it in great detail on it.
And it's anywhere from 3x to 4x.
So the convergence is there.
It's happening.
And the good news is our retailers are combating effectively the pure online retailer.
And the online retailer understands for them to beyond the first mover advantage that someone like Amazon had in order for them to really grow their business I think and many many believe they need to have a physical presence because of the way it's moved to mobile and the way it's -- the multiplier effect that the omnichannel world is presenting itself in.
So that bears I think extremely well for us in creating the next wave of retailers.
We don't -- we see that just beginning.
So the -- the interesting thing is the online retailers have still got this unbelievable advantage and we see it ourselves in [indiscernible]Nexus.
And giving that benefit even though they should be collecting that used tax instead of sales tax but taking advantage of that benefit that the consumer's not necessarily are entitled to.
As that has begun to swing because a lot of them have Nexus now with warehouses and the like.
As that has balanced that's going to level the playing field obviously it would be great.
We can get Congress to level that playing field which they should be doing that I think that's going to reinforce the advantages of bricks and mortar.
Because at the end of the day when you're looking to shop the mobile device or even the desktop really can't present the goods and services that are available with that retailer that a physical environment can.
Yes they can save you the sales or use tax yes they may have an advantage in convenience which is slowly being dealt with by our retailers through pickup-in-store ship from store but once that's sales tax use tax advantage is eliminated which I think it will be through Nexus for the government we'll see that.
I think our retailers can be really damn competitive.
Research Division</strong> Just on the topic of equal playing field.
So Amazon now charges sales tax in 23 states.
And what else is remaining to be on topic of tax parity? Is there anything that you guys are doing? Well we're trying.
But there are roadblocks in Congress and we're not here to complain about the government believe me.
But we just want a level complaint -- level playing field and then the consumer is going to make that choice but they shouldn't be -- they -- and we should let the states decide how they want to deal with it but it should be level.
And at the end of the day the best retailer the best mall operator will come out ahead.
I think it's got to be level it's just not right.
Our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of quick questions.
First about going back to the Sears topic.
If Sears decides to lease their space -- sublease their space on their own do you guys generally have veto power or do other anchors at the center have veto power and is there any chance that you can partake on the upside assuming they granted us prior money anything upside [indiscernible].
Well there's 2 questions there.
We certainly have substantial ability to control what Sears can do with their stores based on existing leases or reciprocal easement agreements so that is yes.
With respect to the upside to the extent the transaction is being done by Sears within their store with their capital it's their transaction but we certainly benefit in a position like where you're adding a Primark in or a Dick's in King of Prussia that certainly will strengthen our overall offering for our shoppers but not financially if it's being done inside the Sears store with Sears capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do other anchors have a stake? It depends on the documents and depends on the scope of what Sears is contemplating with their building.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question for me.
On Klépierre if I understand the deal correctly it's going to be a full stock deal between Klépierre and Koreo [ph] which would in effect dilute your equity stake from the 29% roughly to sub-20%.
And I'm sure you'll let me know if I got this wrong.
Any thoughts on re-upping your equity stake in Klépierre? Well you don't have it wrong but I'm not going to answer that question.
We like the investment.
It's been a very good investment for us.
We think as a reference shareholder and as -- and being on the board we've added real value and we are in a -- obviously we do believe in the merger or acquisition of Koreo [ph] and we support it and we believe that scale in our business is really important because it -- on all sorts of fronts capital retailer relationships ability to invest in the consumer experience et cetera.
So we're optimistic that that investment will continue to be good for us and grow in value.
But I really can't tell you about whether or not going forward we'll increase our stake.
But we're pleased and we think there is still opportunity going forward with our investment in Klépierre.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean the reason I asked is it seems [indiscernible].
I understand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] And I hope you understand why I couldn't answer it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I got that.
It just seems like a nice area where we could put maybe $1.5 billion of additional capital at a very attractive -- well roughly a cost capital for a very attractive yield.
So that's why I asked.
Yes.
It was in the yield on our investment in Europe in both at Klépierre and McArthurGlen and in Asia they have been fantastic.
I mean they've been yields so -- and that's what helped drive our industry-leading growth.
Our next question comes from Alex Goldfarb from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Steve congrats on the even earlier retirement.
So a question on Japan I mean I try to channel my inner David Harris.
If we read the headlines correctly retail sales in Japan have been impacted because of the increase in sales tax and yet your productivity over there is actually up year-over-year.
So is it just a nuance of when the tax hit or is there a difference going on from what the newspapers are reporting versus what's going on at your outlets? Well I think our outlets are just so uniquely positioned and with the increase in VAT -- there clearly you have some forward spending and then it did have an initial monthly impact but then it's kind of leveled back.
I just think the consumer there is going to look for even more value given the higher VAT rates.
So we just have a unique portfolio that will continue to perform but it's affected retail sales generally but it's really good to be in the value space there with great product and a great retailer line up.
But don't kid yourself.
I mean when you increase your VAT you're going to affect consumption.
We're just a little bit better positioned to deal with it than some other property types.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as the Sears transaction goes did the fact that Ed [ph] is going direct with retailers does this sort of indicate that basically the gap is too wide versus what he thinks his boxes are worth and what the mall landlords think it's worth and therefore he's just going direct or do you think that we will see some more trades? Because it would seem like the value of his boxes is maximized if you guys can get control of it and do what you want to do with it versus him doing something with it? Well look I keep -- look there is a long -- we've had a let's see 50-some-odd year relationship with Sears through a lot of ups and downs and good times and so on.
We expect to continue to have a excellent relationship.
I don't think any thing is off the table buying selling leasing subleasing working cooperatively nothing's off the table there.
Again I think the market wants to take one scenario extrapolate it I appreciate that.
Just like they want to take one Amazon space.
It's in fact they're doing it and extrapolate it.
I don't think you're going to extrapolate anything like that.
And we will -- they were -- on the Primark of King of Prussia given where they are situated in the mall and what they had already done with the one level which we cooperated and we felt like Primark would be a very good replacement where they're situated plus we needed their cooperation.
What we are trying to accomplish and it happened to be that we were absolutely aligned and that set of circumstances and we think we created a win-win.
Now I would expect given the 55-year history that we'll continue to find those kind of situations with Sears in most cases.
Our next question comes from Steve Sakwa from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just follow up on the Primark situation.
We understand in Europe and London there are kind of primarily 35 000-foot boxes.
And I think the initial 7 they're taking much larger footprint.
So I know you haven't announced direct deals with them but do you anticipate or would you envision sort of more Sears sublease space? Or do you actually think you could do direct deals with them? And would you envision them kind of being an in-line tenant if [indiscernible]? No and obviously I won't.
It'll depend upon the set of circumstances.
And just because the King of Prussia is one deal that we consented to doesn't necessarily mean that that's going to be the model on all the others.
So Steve like I said it's going to be a case-by-case scenario.
I would be -- if their model is a success here which certainly by every indication of the presence they have in Europe you would potentially anticipate but others have come here and have not done as well but let's -- if it is then I think it'll be a combination of all the above where there will be some consent with Sears on subleases we'll lease directly.
We'll redevelop pads and the like.
It's all going to depend upon the set of circumstances that present itself from that property.
Research Division</strong> Okay part of your first answer got cut off.
So I apologize if I didn't hear the whole thing.
Just in terms of kind of the type of tenent they are the price points do you envision that they could sort of fit into a large part of the portfolio? Or do you see them in different kind of segments within the portfolio? Well they're certainly not a luxury.
So our higher-end properties probably not a great fit but I'm going to wait and see and see how what their store looks like in the U.S.
how they're -- what kind of consumer they're delivering and we'll go from there.
In that King of Prussia was relatively a simple decision for us because of where that Sears box is and I think again it's going to be dependent upon the circumstances.
And I hope you can hear [ph].
I guess we're having serious problems with our communication but I hope you can hear it Steve.
Research Division</strong> No I did.
And just last question.
In terms of kind of the home delivery [ph] how was that sort of progressed with mall lease in general? Are there changes you're making for this upcoming holiday season and just kind of what's been early I guess maybe coming up on one year? How do you think that system and service were working? Well the lift is one of -- just one of our efforts along those lines.
I think we're pleased as a group.
They've signed up a couple of major major retailers.
And they're starting to do shipping this holiday season.
And I do think over time there clearly is going to be the ability to deliver or pick up a lot of mall goods at the mall environment.
And I think we're as an industry and individually we're just scratching the surface there.
Our next question comes from Jeremy [indiscernible] from EBS Security.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just one quick one it looks like you sold an asset this quarter and recorded a close to $80 million gain just any color on that sale? No just a couple of assets that didn't fit the portfolio.
Our next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> David I wanted to get updated read from you on the upcoming holiday season.
You like some of your peers noted last quarter that consumers are in a bit of a cautious state.
How would you assess that mood today? And in conjunction with that I'd love to hear your thoughts on how this year's back-to-school shopping season materialize your expectations.
And what you read on the consumer pulse today and your expectation for the approaching holiday season.
Simplistically consumer I believe is -- continues to be somewhat cautious.
The good news is there's an environment where I think at some point in the near future they will be less cautious lower oil or lower gas prices better job environment.
Hopefully wage growth continuation of lower interest rates just some of those out there.
But they're still cautious.
And that's how we're planning so we're running our business.
I don't like -- I am not equipped to make a forecast on the holiday season.
Others might I will not.
There's lots of forecasters out there on the holiday season.
The ones that I see are generally feel like it's going to be a [indiscernible] last year.
Weather hopefully won't replicate itself the way it was longer season to name a couple but I don't -- I'm not in that business.
Research Division</strong> Care to share any comments on this year's back-to-school shopping season? The -- I think it was generally spotty.
I mean I think it was certainly wasn't robust and I think it still represented the cautious consumer.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just one or two things here.
First at the recent Jersey Gardens and UPV acquisitions will hit the same store in 1Q '16.
And then any color on the lease termination fees? I was wondering if there are any other nonrecurring items in the quarter beyond because it looks like $0.02 of our lease termination fees and the debt prepayment charges.
Typically on Jersey Gardens they wouldn't be in our comp NOI for '16 that's correct.
And look listen.
We've got -- given it's complicated we are a big company.
So we're always going to have other income that could be higher or lower quarter-to-quarter same thing on the expense side.
The -- but as far as I can -- having examined the financials extremely closely nothing jumps out at me.
Lease income lease settlement income probably in the scheme of the total years.
It's not all that different than some other previous years.
It does ebb and flow.
We've always got a little bit of extra income here and an extra expense year in and year out given the nature of our business.
But nothing to highlight frankly.
Our next question comes from Jeff Donnelly from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've question about I guess I call the value proposition of SPG Asset Management.
If you were to benchmark the in-place rents to the 2 malls that you are buying from Glenshire [ph] to similar malls that you already own.
What do you think the delta is at revenue or NOI per square foot that you could realize under your management? It there a way to estimate or quantify that for us? Well a very good question Jeff.
I would say to you generally we don't buy any asset if we don't feel like we can improve it.
And there's -- so that's kind of a thing that we have regardless of what we do whether it's new development redevelopment or importantly acquisitions.
What can we do to beat the growth rate that may exist.
If that asset is -- just sits there unowed [ph] but the fact of matter is I'm not going to give you a number on that.
I mean I -- people are again not to put this in context but Sawgrass is a unique animal but when we took it over I remember the numbers more or less correctly.
It was around $55 million of NOI.
And next year we did add a little bit of space here and there and stuff but next year generally I think it's going to do around 130-ish.
Now we haven't gone lease-by-lease.
There we might skip lease-by-lease because it could take us 3 days.
But I think the fact that we were able to do that not only helps our investors but also helps the consumers and the retailers because I think they did a lot more business with it in our hands.
So we invested more in it we drove the tourism.
We've got better retailers.
We've got more consumers.
The retailers did more business and everybody was copacetic even though Mills have done a good job at $55 million or whatever the rough number was.
So we think we can drive more traffic to Jersey Gardens though I firmly believe Glenshire [ph] has done a great job with that asset.
So that we're experts in tourism.
It's right by Newark Airport.
I think we can figure out how to get a few more buses from Newark to go to Jersey before they go to -- Rick and I will flag them ourselves if we have to make the numbers work.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe Steve that could be your next career move.
Actually a follow up also David as it relates to the products you're looking at Copley Place in Boston there's a lot residential product in the pipeline in Boston for sale as well as for rent.
Does that give you any pause with proceeding on that project? Or are you sort of passed the point of no return? Or are you not as concerned about it? Well we're always focused on supply.
We are not passed the point of no return.
And we're still working on approval rights both within the appropriate agencies in Boston but also we have to work through some of the retailer issues.
So we are not at the point of no return and we studied the supply [indiscernible] similarly.
And it's going to be a gut check decision here I would say Jeff in the next 3 or 4 months.
Generally we still feel very very confident about it but that the -- this is a little bit different than what we've done historically as you might imagine.
We are really good experts on supply understanding supply and retail what's going to get done what's going to have an impact in competitive world very competitive world in retail.
This one is a little bit different.
We hired a couple of great experts to do comp lease.
And we've got the in-house expertise.
We also obviously hired the right people in Boston to help us go through that exercise but it's a good question.
It's going to be a gut check time but we have not passed the point of no return.
And as you know in real estate whether it's office retail whatever there's always announcements of some supply.
The real question is what gets built and who gets there first and who's got staying power.
I will tell you this it's an iconic asset it's only getting better.
The design is fantastic.
Boston is a great long-term city and that Lord I hope -- we have staying power.
So we've got a lot of stuff on our side of the equation that gives us confidence that if we do pull the trigger we will execute.
LLC Research Division</strong> And maybe just a last question for Rick.
I know you touched on spreads and on sympathetic to looking at it over long-term.
But someone had asked earlier about the pullback in the dollar spread and that came back a little bit slightly this quarter.
Is that just a function of mix maybe in the quarter? Or was there any kind of pushback from retailers in light of the softer retail sales? There really has been no pushback from the retailers in terms of their demand.
And it's basically a function of mix.
What yields come in in a given period of time.
So we're still seeing a very focused retailer the one space.
And candidly you can look at that with our occupancy and with all that activity that we have going on in the portfolio.
Yes.
And let me -- because again this is a good question it's a good focus but let me -- let you -- I want you to understand how we think about the business.
If we owned 1 property we could absolutely maximize rent to the last penny because at the end of the day that's all we would care about.
Jeff we believe in repeat business with our retailers.
So we're always calibrating -- and we don't -- we're not perfect at this.
Believe me we make mistakes all the time.
But we're always trying to calibrate the win-win all right? How do you keep the retailer who is our -- is our customer in addition to the consumer happy? How do we reach our financial goals? But we are not getting the last dollar because we do multiple deals multiple business with them year-after-year day-after-day.
And so we're never going to maximize rents if we just owned 1 asset.
And -- so I -- you just need to have that lens on.
Yes even with that lens on we still out produce everybody else but we're not trying to get to the point of no return.
We're trying to find that balance.
And I'll be the first to tell you sometimes we don't do it sometimes we make mistakes but we're always trying to find that balance for future positive relations with our clients going forward.
Just like any other business.
So let's put that in that perspective okay? But that's why we have the opportunity to find other opportunities that even though we may not maximize the spread being $9.67 is that the right number? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
It could've been $10.
Maybe that $0.33 we picked up because they're going to do this and that and the other thing for us.
So there's always that balance.
And you've got to put it in that lens.
And it's important to understand that.
Our next question comes from Jim Sullivan from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up to Jeff's question on Copley and I understand it's not at the point that it's finalized as you explained.
But can you give us kind of a ballpark number that the project would entail in terms of total cost? Yes sure.
It's around -- the total cost Jim is around $5.50.
And again the vision that we have on the -- the top roughly 10 floors would be condo sales.
We're also expanding Neimans as part of it and other retail.
So we look at it gross but then we have condo sales to net.
And that differential well it's an art not necessarily a science that differential and then we own the multi-family.
That differential is roughly don't hold me to these numbers it's roughly a $300 million-ish differential.
That puts it in this kind of financial consequence box.
And that number from a return as we look at it that return is acceptable given what we're doing there okay? And I don't want it -- I'm not going to give you that number just yet but when we go it'll be in our 8-K but that's essentially how we're thinking about the deal.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a kind of follow-up question on the earlier discussion about Primark as well.
I know you had mentioned Primark ZARA H&amp;M on the second quarter call.
And obviously the European retailers they're kind of categorized as fast session apparel I guess Primark this more promotional.
And all 3 have already have sizable market shares in Europe where they operate alongside smaller higher-priced higher price point apparel retailers.
Also we obviously have for every 21 UNIQLO growing aggressively here I'm just curious if we assume that these large-format retailers continue to grow their share of apparel sales do you view that as a positive or a negative regarding the same property NOI growth prospects of this domestic Simon portfolio? It's Rick.
I think that we price our real estate based on what we believe is the value of the real estate.
And everyone is going to have to compete for that real estate.
The bottom line is that it has taken H&amp;M a very long time.
They are now happily established and growing substantially.
We're working with ZARA but frankly we have a lot of very established domestic retailers here that are very competitive and continuing to grow.
So the more people we have are interested in our properties the better off we are will enhance this demand and our job is to do the right tenant mix and to price the space right and I think we've been doing pretty well so far.
Yes but it's a good question and its again it's a little more art than science.
You've got to weigh the traffic that they may generate versus the competitive nature they may put certain retailers under.
And whether or not they're bringing a different consumer in.
So you put it all together and you got to make judgment calls day in and day out.
So -- but it's a good question and it's an art.
You got to be very very thoughtful about that Jim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then finally for me and I maybe asking you to repeat yourself David but I think you did cut out on this.
In terms of the Primark deal at King of Prussia you mentioned it was I think is an easier decision because of the specific location.
Can you just clarify what you meant by that? Well if you've been to the mall they're -- in this case the Sears box is not as well located as if it were in the middle of the mall.
And our decision may have been a little bit different had it been.
And it just -- so it's really a location issue.
And the power of that mall is shifting in terms of kind of a focal point given our expansion is now -- we're actually under construction and it was really -- we felt good about it and we've got Sears' cooperation on what we were trying to accomplish to improve the mall and we did think that because of their position Primark would be great to drive traffic down to that wing.
Our next question comes from Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
On last quarter you guys talked about a couple of deals on the development side that were not outlets.
I'm just curious if there's anything to update on that front.
You mean on full price? Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes.
We are getting closer not quite there but we're working diligently on 1 ground-up full-price development that I'd say over the next short period of time that we'll be making an announcement on.
It's not quite everything is done but we are optimistic that this will be a partnership that we're looking forward to to working on but it's not quite all done handshakes in place but stay tuned on that.
We think it'll be great and it will be besides the redevelopment it will be our first full price now in quite some time.
Research Division</strong> And do you have a rough size sort of size? The total investment will be north of $200 million.
And we're going to be around the 50% owner.
Our next question comes from Mike Mueller from JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious if you would weight your sales based on mall NOI how different would that number be compared to the $613 that you report? Great question.
It would be much higher.
But that's a great question because -- it's a great question and in fact because every dollar is the same it doesn't really -- it doesn't obviously doesn't do that.
But the fact is we could do it but I don't have the [indiscernible] about 10% higher.
Yes 10% higher.
10%.
Steve Sterrett -- he's leaving so I wouldn't count on any numbers that he said.
Steve Sterrett says its 10% but I think we could probably do a little bit more work and get a better number but is a very interesting question.
There are no further questions so I'll turn it back to David Simon for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you and I look forward to seeing you in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
You can disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2014 Simon Property Group Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Towanda and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tom Ward VP of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Towanda.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group’s fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
Presenting on today’s call is David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Also on the call are Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; Andy Juster Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Broadwater Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we begin a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today’s press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please note that this call includes information that maybe accurate only as of today’s date.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the press release and the supplemental information in today’s Form 8-K filing.
Both the press release and the supplemental information are available on our IR website at investors.simon.com.
For our prepared remarks I’m pleased to introduce David Simon.
Good morning we had strong results to wrap up in exceptional 2014.
We open Premium Outlets Montreal started construction on two new Premium Outlets in strong and growing markets of Tampa and Tucson.
We announced our first new full-price development project in the last several years with The Shops at Clearfork in Ft.
Worth Texas anchored by Neiman Marcus and most importantly we continue to produce strong operating and financial performance.
Results in the quarter were highlighted by FFO of $2.47 per share.
On a comparable basis excluding the operating results from WPG properties in the prior year period our FFO per diluted share increased 12.3% for the quarter or $0.27 year-over-year.
As a reminder our FFO per diluted share is calculated strictly in accordance with the NAREIT white paper.
We encourage the industry to acknowledge the importance of using this long standing measure without modification.
Our fourth quarter FFO per diluted share was impacted by approximately $0.04 from our share of Klépierre’s costs related to both their bond tender offer and their tender offer for Corio as well as unfavorable effects of foreign currency devaluations.
For the year on a comparable basis excluding the operating results from the WPG properties the spin-off transactions and the debt extinguishment charge FFO per diluted share increased 13.9% after taking into account this spin-off and debt charge we beat our initial guidance of 2014 that we provided to you by an impressive $0.40.
We continue to record strong key operating metrics and cash flow.
Occupancy increased across the portfolio and our malls and premium outlets combined occupancy ended at the year at record 97.1%.
Leasing activity is healthy.
The malls and premium outlets recorded releasing spreads of $9.59 per square foot an increase of 16.6%.
Comp NOI increased 4% in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to an increase of 6.1% in the fourth quarter of 2013 and an increase in total of 5.1%.
So we had an increase of 4% over an increase of 6.1% last year.
And as a reminder approximately 95% of our domestic property NOI is included in our comp NOI calc.
Total sales in our portfolio increased 2.3% in the fourth quarter compared to last year even with major redevelopment occurring at several of our Premier properties.
As I said we open Montréal October 30 the great excitement we commenced construction in Tampa and Tucson and the construction in New Jersey with the Gloucester Premium Philadelphia Premium Outlets continues to move forward all of those will open in 2015.
And we are slated to begin construction of four new domestic premium outlets in 2015 which include Columbus Ohio Clarksburg Maryland Norfolk Virginia and Tulsa Oklahoma.
Now during the quarter even with all that new development we completed several redevelopments including the addition of Nordstrom and small shop expansions at St.
Johns Town Center the relocation of Bloomingdale’s at Stanford Shopping Center as well as the expansions at premium outlets in Mexico City and Toki Premium Outlets in Japan.
We started construction in King of Prussia we are underway with the expansion to connect Plaza and the Court.
Then we’ll add approximately 150 000 square feet.
The Pennsylvania’s top retail destination and is expected to be completed in August of 2016.
And at Phipps Plaza we are adding in AC Hotel by Marriott and luxury residents both expected to be completed in 2016 as well.
Construction continues on major redevelopment and expansion projects at some of our most productive mall properties including Roosevelt Field Houston Galleria Stanford and our premium outlets in Woodbury Common Las Vegas North Livermore San Francisco and Chicago.
These major redevelopments are to be completed in late 2015 and 2016.
Redevelopment and expansion projects are ongoing that is under construction across all three of our platforms in the U.S.
and Asia.
And have a total committed spend of $2.1 billion.
So again that’s under construction.
Acquisitions we closed on Jersey Gardens and University Park Village for $1.09 billion on January 15 and are excited to include these great properties and portfolio.
And both Jersey Gardens and UPV has sales per square foot of $850 per foot.
Let me turn to Klépierre.
We are pleased with our investment in Klépierre.
Our net equity investment is up $850 million even with the weaker Euro and as their largest shareholder we’re excited for them as 94% of our Corio shares were tendered in support of Klépierre’s acquisition and once the merger is completed expected by the end of the first quarter the integration of the two companies will begin.
Now let’s talk about our balance sheet.
We ended 2014 with a debt-to-market capitalization ratio of 29% industry-leading.
Our interest coverage was 3.8 times industry-leading net to EBITDA of 5.4 times industry-leading.
Our long-term issuer rating of A and A2 continues to be industry-leading.
So let’s not lose sight of the significant differentiating and positive attribute of our balance sheet as compared to our peer group.
A few other capital market activities other way this replaces Rick’s listing of tenants we’ve retired $2.9 billion of senior notes at an average coupon they were at 5.76% we issued $2.5 billion of new notes within weighted average term of 12 years and a weighted average coupon at 3.32% we amended and extended our $4 billion revolver until 2019 we closed 60 new mortgages within weighted average interest rate and term of 3.29% and 8.4 years and we became the first U.S.
REIT to establish a global commercial paper program issuing $400 million of CP at an weighted average interest rate of 18 basis points.
So let’s turning to the dividend we announced our dividend this quarter of $1.40 per share an increase year-over-year of 12%.
We will pay at least $5.60 in dividends of 2015 which is an increase of 8.7% compared to the last year in totality.
And if we include WP’s dividend we’ve more than doubled our divided since the great recession.
Now let’s turn to guidance our guidance of FFO is $9.60 to $9.70 per share.
This range represents 8% to 9% growth compared to our reported FFO per share of $8.90 for 2014.
Our range is based on comparable NOI growth of approximately 4% for our malls Premium Outlets and mills platforms it also assumes no additional acquisition or disposition activity beyond what we just completed with Jersey Gardens and UPV.
And it also includes the unfavorable impact to recent currency devaluations which should approximate $0.10 compared to the currency levels that existed in 2014.
So let’s conclude.
We produced another exceptional year with our results for the fourth quarter and the full year 2014 beating guidance for an unprecedented 10 plus years in a row.
We achieved record levels in occupancy FFO per share and dividends despite the loss of approximately $1 per share of FFO from WP and the debt extinguishment charge.
And we continue to improve our portfolio and consumer and customer services for the benefit of stakeholders and we’re very excited about 2015.
We are ready for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Please proceed.
Hey David good morning.
I guess it’s on first what’s coming I guess I get the honor of asking you what the heck is going on with may search? Well I thought we are going to talk about your headline that said mix bag? So what was mix bag? Our record revenue growth or record comp NOI growth our record balance sheet our record occupancy our record rental rates I wanted to talk about your headline first.
Can we do that? Yes we can all read the note but the guidance coming in below the Street is an offset to beating for the quarter.
One would call that perhaps a mix bag but we can talk about with all that.
I think on the guidance look first of all those are your numbers not ours.
And obviously that’s predominantly driven by the currency devaluation that’s occurring both with respect to the Yen and Euro.
The good news is even with that because of our at least our hedge in Europe we’re up $850 million in Klépierre.
So yes we’re going to have some volatility it’s about 1% of our - this where the rates are today versus where they are it’s above 1% of our earnings which to me is somewhat immaterial.
So I do think we need to put that in perspective.
I’m not sure that should have generated your headline but you certainly understand our position I understand yours.
I appreciate that.
So back to the elephant in the room.
Yes what’s your question? A little California-based mall company called Macerich what can you tell us about what’s currently going on? What was going through your head a couple of months ago when you put out the announcement that you did? What can you say about it? Well look.
As much as we - I’m sure you’d love to talk about we disclosed our stake of - was 4.1% and got diluted down to 3.6% in Macerich we still hold that position and at this point it’s really not appropriate for me to add anything other than the fact that we still own it.
And there’s not a lot more I can say actually let me take away the clarifying statement there’s nothing more I can add to that.
You may not want to answer this but I will ask it anyway.
If there were nothing going on one might assume you would be happy to tell us that you own a position in another company that you thought the stock was undervalued at the time.
But if you can’t comment on it would suggest that there is something going on other than that.
Well look we don’t - we never comment on M&amp;A activity.
And we still own the stake.
And as you know we’re significantly in the money of this on the stake there is been no P&amp;L impact on our stake as I know some people asked Tom that question.
And it is what it is there is nothing really I can add other than that.
And I’m sorry I can’t but there’s nothing more that I can add to that.
All right I and my mixed bag will get back in the queue.
Sorry listen you know it’s a two-way street you give it today we’re going to give it back a little bit anyway.
That’s what you like about us.
And your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with Citi.
Please proceed.
Yes it is Michael Bilerman with Christy.
David let me just try just a different angle.
When you made the statement you said you may seek a waiver and you put that out publicly.
So at least can you comment on whether you’ve made the ask for the waiver and if there has been a response? And if you haven’t made the ask why haven’t you? And then the second part is just the intent of taking the stake.
And was it solely for the purpose of a passive investment just to you thought you had a lot of cash hanging around so buy something that you think - you can’t buy assets in the private market so buy something that you know really well that you think is trading at a discount make money and go home? Or was it made for the purpose of moving forward with a non-passive agenda? Well I can’t - Ross ask a question I can’t add to that other than we have manage defined investments was evidence by the little over $1 billion that we just spent in January 15 by two really good assets with really good growth potential that we think this year will yield terrific results.
I’m still an old fashioned real estate guy I like current yield going in and the current yield going in is very attractive with once Rick and The Mills team certainly with Jersey Gardens works their magic I think we got a lot upside.
And not to say that I think Michael Glimcher did a great job with that asset.
But there’s nothing I can add other than what I said to Ross just earlier Michael.
And I’m sorry.
But as you know it’s just inappropriate for me to comment further.
Hi its Christy McElroy here with Michael.
Just following-up on the currency and the impact to 2015 you mentioned that $0.10 impact embedded in your guidance.
How are you thinking about hedging that exposure potentially would you to expect pick on more debts provided natural hedge or may be put in place any other foreign currency hedges just want to get a sense for how that’s rolling through the numbers? And then just related to that I’m wondering if you’ve seen any impact at all from the stronger dollar in terms of a change in traffic or sales at any of your centers that have a higher international tourism component to the customer base.
Sure I’m happy to answer those.
So let’s just talk about the net.
We’re pretty well hedged on the Klépierre initial stake though we are not as hedge with our McArthurGlen investment.
The problem as you know to get the perfect hedge and with rates as lowest they are in the Euro you’re never going to make up that.
But I would say generally we’re reasonably hedged in the Euro in kind of the 80% 90% range.
But since rates - with debt but with rates are so low there the math is such that it’s still going to have an impact on us.
So the good news that I see at least is that the business there is not necessarily reflecting the devaluation.
So I think the consumer there is still shopping and doing that.
And so I think it’s kind of more of a temporary thing.
But it’s going to impact us for next year.
And it is what it is the same thing with the Yen in a sense that from a book value point of view we’re basically completely hedged.
But again the Yen’s rates are so low there’s just no way to do it.
Now we’ve locked in some forwards on the dividend yields.
I’m sorry in the dividends that we both get from Klepierre and from Japan but as you know the equity account for both so that doesn’t impact that’s just cash flow which is important to be hedged on cash flow don’t get me wrong.
But still at the same time it does as we take our share of the equity income in those businesses.
We’re going to have exposure and it is what it is.
So I assume that answered your question on that.
I mean from an investment point of view book value were essentially hedged but it’s not going to mean a lot.
We’re still going to have some volatility.
Not from a cash flow point of view but from an earnings point of view.
That answered your question on that front? Yes it does thanks David.
Now on the sales look I think it’s very interesting because I’ve some commentary around it.
We did see a little bit of bit of flattening out in the Florida area kind of first is as one initial as you know in terms of devaluation that Latin American customer happened quicker than say the Euro devaluation.
We don’t have any earnings impact on that that just might have impacted sales.
We also as Christy as you know we are undergoing huge transformational redevelopment in King of Prussia the field even The Forum Shops were changing a lot of the tenant mix changing the transition hall from phase 1 to the phase 3 that’s out on this strip as well as we had this unusual anomaly that we have one retailer that’s in a state that doesn’t pay sales tax they had an extraordinary amount of sales in 2013 that didn’t repeat because of their own constraints that they post for 2014 that also may have flattened sales in terms of how you’re thinking about it.
But I would generally say you put all those things together our portfolio does what $620 a foot still industry leading given size and scale we’re adding to the mix we’re doing a lot of great stuff.
So you know how generally I feel about retail sales okay.
And you have seen even with flat retail sales generally over the last two years or three years you’ve seen our comp NOI increases you know my argument on that.
But at least I hope that gives you some color as to how you might think about our number compared to others out there but the portfolio is never been stronger or better.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you David.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you could comment on the trend of the outlet sales.
They actually were slightly better than the malls because the malls had this - those kind of two or three things Craig that I just discussed.
And our premium outlets on from a both the from a comp point of view had better results than the mall business.
Okay great.
And then how far is the ground of development shops at Clearfork from the University Park Village that you just acquired? How far a long is it? Well how far are they from each other? Well three miles are so.
Three miles Rick half way through? Yes three.
But its different trade here but I would say three because there’s a river that runs through it is one of those things.
Okay.
And then is there any further things that you could do with Costco just given the size of their project beyond The Shops at Clearfork? Hi Craig its Rick.
Right now we are obviously focused on the first phase.
There are a number of elements to that phase.
They do have some additional land and depending on how this goes we obviously be open to try and do some additional development.
But right now the first phase draws our attention.
Great and then finally just may be this is for Rick.
Have you seen what you think might be a change in pace in either store openings or store closings in the Mall space for 2015? Well basically obviously we’ve had the announcements that everyone has seen.
So there is a little more pressure on some closings but conversely where our record occupancy we’ve just come out of our meetings in December and we got a lot of momentum in the business because there’s lot of people that are looking for space.
And we certainly anticipate we’re going to be able to hold our market share and there is always going to be churning that we’ve had historically.
But we’re going to basically to be able to keep things pretty much where they are now in terms of occupancy.
And everybody we replace is going to be replaced by someone who is more credit worthy and more productive want to sales per foot base.
But Craig we clearly have at this point in time compared to last year more retailers in bankruptcy.
So as you know we’re not sure how many stores we’re going to get back some we’ve already announced so it’s really closing stores some in factory been liquidating.
So I mean I don’t - it doesn’t change the fundamentals of our business but 2015 is going to be a lot of work and really she knows those retailers because depending on when we get it and how much time we have to lease it up there could be a little gap there.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with MLV.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Your same store numbers have been bouncing sort of in the 4% to 6% range over the past three years and you’re lease spreads kind of in the 15% to 20% range.
I mean your guidance for same store was 4%.
How should I think about that in the context of the past few years where the average is sort of above that? And then kind of related to that where you’re at in terms of occupancy is that what you think of as maybe approaching a kind of frictional feeling and whether that could constrain your same store growth at all? Well I think what we’ve always tried to be realistic and conservative.
I forget Steve what we’ve announced last year for our comp NOI was but 4%? 4%.
So we were fortunate to outperform that.
So Paul we are taking into account.
We do have more bankruptcies this year.
So I think it’s appropriate for us to be conservative because as you know we don’t control we don’t get the space back and then we can have downtime and so on.
So if there is a conservative element to what I’d say it’s a little bit because of the just the bankruptcies that we’re having to deal with in 2015 versus 2014.
Okay thanks.
And then just maybe you think about investments you’ve got $3 billion in developments redevelopments at what you target as a 9% yield.
On acquisitions the cap rates for today are kind of have that for decent properties.
And I mean how do you think about that spread both in terms of kind of evaluating acquisitions what makes an acquisition whether it’s a single asset or portfolio or an M&amp;A deal at a much lower yield and then you are getting on your redevelopments? I mean what makes it compelling from your perspective? Well look I mean there’s nobody been more active in new development and redevelopment than we have been.
But it’s not like oh let’s just do a redevelopment there’s a lot that’s required to get there.
And then new development we want to build stock that is at the end of the day going to fit in the certainly in the top half of our portfolio over the long run.
So that’s - we have a hell of a portfolio so that’s hard to achieve.
And we’re going reasonably quick when we get to new development and redevelopment.
And so at the same time we are not going to buy anything or anybody unless we feel like we can add significant value to it.
Now let’s take a couple of recent examples.
It’s not bad for my net investment in Klépierre to be up 4x okay not bad.
And we felt like we could add value to that business and thankfully we have.
The same thing on the going in yield with the two deals we brought for Glenshire is around five.
And we think they are A assets A+ assets and obviously we think we’ll be able to grow those.
So that’s a great opportunity.
And look at the one thing that I think the market has lost sight of is just everybody’s balance sheet again.
It’s like forget about it.
Our balance sheet is 5.4 EBITDA multiple it’s 3.8% interest coverage despite having I still look at those ten and three-quarters that I got outstanding to my team.
Right Andy? My team.
Right.
We still have room to depending on where rates are to roll that down and even to make a stronger coverage ratio in balance sheet.
So I mean we’ve always looked at every thing we’ll look at everything.
We’re not going to chase deals and when it comes to acquisitions unless we feel like we can add value to that property with our either our infrastructure or leasing know-how development know-how we just don’t do it.
That’s your leverage and your balance sheet advantages.
I mean do you think of that as an important lever to pull when you’re looking at bigger deals capitalizing on that? Well sure.
I mean look it led to - let’s just go back to ‘09 I mean the fact of matter is there’s - in the retail real estate sector there’s nobody because they were so levered and we did some tough financing including equity but there is nobody in our sector other than maybe say Taubman that has out grown whatever dilution.
And not only we’re growing it we just blew it away.
Everybody else is still trying to get back to the record FFO per share that they had in 2006 2007 and the dividend.
We are blowing through those dramatically.
And what that balance sheet that we had even though we panic like a few others allowed us that to be conservative yet signaled the market that we’re alive and well blow through the growth that we had we had a year or two of flatness or step back.
But we were able to use that to find good investments that have fueled our growth.
So I would hope even in capital rich times we were able to do that as well.
But it’s - we’re pretty conservative we don’t want to blow the balance sheet we - as you know my background in the real estate world besides being an M&amp;A banker which was outside of real estate and in all sorts of industries was directly involved in restructuring real estate workouts.
And having no fund and we are never going to get there.
So we have a great asset we’ve worked hard to achieve it and it’s a great thing but you can’t take it for granted.
Okay thanks.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of George Auerbach with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Just a follow-up on Christy’s question Dave have you quantified the impact of redevelopment at King of Prussia fields and I forgot the other asset that you mentioned but just sort of what that’s done to the overall sales growth trying to think about your portfolio on a more normalized level adjusting at some of the noise.
Look yes I’m not making to excuses and you know how we’ve all had this discussion about our tenant sales and how I think about it.
But if you take these anomalies I’d say generally we’d be around 4%-ish but again it - our number is our number and you know how management feels about it.
I appreciate you may have a different point of view we have nothing to hide or we had a few anomalies we’re not making excuses will accept being dinged on it if you want.
But there is a lot of transforming we do have exposure to certain markets within Brazil takes a little breather.
And we had this strange thing in a state I mean I’m giving you enough but we tend not to talk about specific retailers.
But you could figure out what the state that doesn’t have sales tax.
And it is what it is.
Same time we do FFO per still into the white paper the number is the number.
We pointed out the $0.04 only because we thought may be the market didn’t know we had to pickup our share Klepierre’s transaction cost associated with the bulk tenders as well as the currency drop pretty precipitously quarter-over-quarter of last year.
So we thought it was important do it but the numbers were not.
Well no I was asking because in the Macerich Analyst Day they mentioned that I think there were three big redevelopments they had that lowered their same-store growth on that whole portfolio by 100 basis points.
So I know one or two assets can really move the number.
That is why I was asking.
Yes no no it’s a legitimate question.
I was talking more about tenants sales on our comp NOI they’re in our number.
For all of those that I’ve talked about are in even though we’re taking some immediate step backs as we redevelop it.
So those really aren’t an effect in our comp NOI at least those assets that I talked about it.
Great and I guess just a last one from me you and the Board have increased the dividend pretty meaningfully over the last couple of quarters at a pace above FFO growth.
I guess as the redevelopment spends kind of may be tapers off into 2015 and 2016 should we anticipate that the dividend growth will continue to outpace FFO or AFFO growth for the foreseeable future? Yes we’ve got taxable incomes got a lot of variability we are - as you know we paid out 100% of our taxable income last year.
And I did underline I hope you saw that at least $560 I will underline that that’s at least $560 or so.
The answer is our taxable income is growing significantly as our earnings are and so it’s very conceivable that that could be an outcome of that.
Great thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with Evercore ISI.
Please proceed.
Hello.
Mr.
Sakwa your line is open.
Your phone maybe muted.
Hello [indiscernible] We’ll move the next question.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O’Neill.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning David.
Good morning.
Hey and it is I know you’re not commenting on the Macerich.
But it is interesting the market is cheering you guys and your stocks out performance.
So clearly the market seems to be suggesting that it wants something to happen.
Just as far as Macerich in the guidance Andy are you saying there’s no impact the way you are accounting for there’s no impact to the 2015 numbers or we should be picking up something? No impact.
Okay okay.
And then hi David.
Let me do clarify that I mean we - let me just clarify that they do pay us a dividend so we do have the dividend income in our numbers.
Okay.
Okay.
But not but obviously it’s the movement up and down goes in the comprehensive income or loss in this case its income because its up.
Yes but that’s not an FFO number so and the only thing in our FFO guidance is their dividend have income.
Okay Alex.
Yes yes yes that’s right.
I just want to make sure that that’s the way you are accounting for it.
Just the next thing David is right after the world’s woke up to lower oil after Thanksgiving you announced two projects down in oil country.
So just sort of curious what you guys have obviously tenant demand was unaffected by it.
So should we just take away from this that the retailers are un-faced by the drop in oil and they just see continued strong sales down in those markets or is your view that may be some of the tenants who initially indicated that they would be in interested in both of these projects may start to have second thoughts? Well Houston Galleria is been under construction for quite some sometime well over a year or so.
But Texas itself is so diversified than it used to be 20 plus years ago 20 plus years ago with oil.
And basically real estate today its tech Houston is very diversified obviously oil and gas is important but it’s got the medical focus on the universities and Dallas Fort work that’s less and less oil and gas completely that’s more.
So the answer is we don’t think it’ll have the any impact.
Fort Worth we’re excited about because Neiman Marcus is obviously huge in that area relocating for one mall for this to be their flagship store in Fort Worth.
And we think the demand for that is great no issues in Houston Galleria which one of the top five centers in the country.
And so when you put it all together it’s really long run was no issue at all.
Okay and I guess same applies to Tulsa? True yes.
Okay.
And then final question is as you guys start to do more of these mix use or added density to some of the projects some of your malls how do you underwrite the projects as yes there is a return from obviously adding apartments or adding hotels and then there is hopefully the additional return of just added traffic to the mall that allows you to drive higher NOI and cash flows.
So if we think about the returns as you guys pencil out densifying some of the sites how should we think about the incremental return from just boosting NOI versus just adding an additional use to a center? Hi this is Rick basically when we add an apartment or a hotel those stand on their own.
It is a separate analysis.
If there is some incremental benefit great but we do not theoretically create any kind of incremental return based on adding more match or densifying in assets.
Okay.
So Rick is there like an incremental that we can expect or you guys expect or you don’t underwrite but any way shape or form? We do not underwrite that.
Okay.
None.
Zero.
Don’t give my guys any ideas.
To sandbag the numbers? Never would cross our minds.
No don’t give that no no no don’t give my development guys when they come in and they want the project approved don’t assume they’ll come in and say it’s going to do this to the mall we should improve that forget it.
It doesn’t happen that way.
Okay thanks a lot.
Yes no worries.
Your next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple with Hilliard Lyons.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
How are you? Fine have you all noticed any change within the last three months in your conversations with Sears and JCPenney’s about buying some of the boxes back? No.
Okay.
And then are there any new concepts that are coming into your malls or outlet centers that you are excited about that you can share? Well here we go again alright.
So Rick this is Rick.
You love this part.
So Rick let her go.
Okay here we go.
Here is a list.
Unleashing the fear in the Outlet sector every literally every month we’re finding more and more retailers that understand that this is a very valuable and profitable distribution channel.
And so Jeff Alice and Olivia Citizens Watch Jonathan Adler [indiscernible] literally we could go on but the answer is there’s a great deal of new entrants into the outlet sector.
Into the mall sector we’re Accolade and David T.
We’re doing NYX as a new concept from L’Oreal.
And UNIQLO is very actively looking.
And interestingly it’s is lost in the sauce but L Brands is dramatically growing pink and Victoria’s Secret.
So there is a lot of very good dynamic demand for our properties.
Okay thank you.
Yes thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Omotayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi yes good morning everyone.
Good morning.
I would like to kind of go back to the 2015 guidance and again the point of guidance relative to where consensus is.
It sounds based on your comments that’s about 1% of earnings which is about $0.09 to $0.10 that is FX related.
But I’m wondering what else is in guidance that maybe we are not - maybe the Street is not fully appreciating which is why our numbers seem a little bit high? Is it again some of the working through of some of the retail bankruptcies that have happened that may… Yes I think I don’t know what your comp NOI is and I also think a lot of it has to do in maybe how you are factoring in our development spend because most of 2015 and a lot of 2016 is backend weighted.
So we’ve got our share around 2.1.
So I mean that that would be our only other gas but I’m sure Tom can walk you through how you are doing.
But maybe you have a little bit higher comp NOI.
I mentioned we are conservative on that number because we are looking at a little bit higher bankruptcies than we look at last year.
We obviously always try to do better but our development spend tends to be back-end weighted depending on how you factor that in and then obviously the currency delta from the Yen and the Euro is around $0.10 from 2014 to 2015.
So you added up and it is what it is.
Got it.
Could you just talk about in 2015 guidance what average occupancies baked into those numbers? Pretty consistent with what our 2014 showed.
Great okay that’s helpful.
And then in the supplemental when we just take a look at the development page the Outlet - the yield on the Outlet business on the Outlet development is up to 11% versus 9% previously.
Is that just a mix change? Yes Montreal was little lower yield and Tampa is much higher.
Tampa we think will be a great outlet center.
One of the - at the end of day one of the leading outlet centers in the country and it absolutely is that mix change.
Great.
And then lastly with Jersey Gardens just curious what your thoughts are in regards to what NOI growth could look like once rents start to reset for a lot of the tenants? What we have this is Rick we have already set the base line overall in our NOI growth and Jersey Gardens should be in excess of that once we start doing what we think can be done there and as David said they did a great job before we’re just now taking it to the next level and allocating space and bringing in incremental more productive tenants that’s going to drive rent and sales.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you gentlemen.
Yes no worries.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Hey everyone.
Just maybe thinking about the comp NOI guidance slightly differently.
Just as we think about the 4% versus the 5.1% and also in light of the comments about higher levels of bankruptcies.
I guess what would - and how much of the higher level of bankruptcies is sort of the difference between the 5.1% and the 4%? Well look again that we’re factoring that in.
And like I said last year we had - our business has certain level of volatility to it not a lot because we’ll have to go sell our products at the start of every year like a lot other companies.
So because we have mostly contractual rents the big variability is on anticipated bankruptcy the timing of which that occurs when we’d get it and then how long it takes us to lease it up.
So and I said last year Steve Broadwater we projected what was our NOI projection? 4%.
4% we got 5.1%.
So again we’re factor in that in we’ll see obviously we’ve got variability to some extent marginally on expenses.
And we have certain variability on overage rent but we have long history of kind of modeling that but it does create some variability.
We also have a lot of redevelopment work where we are not necessarily taking out a comp.
The big projects like Roswell Field and King of Prussia and those where we’re moving a lot of tenants around and the forum shops.
We’ve got Copley I think Copley if I remember from our budget sessions is going down $2 million this year really pissed me of in our budget meeting because we’re retaining into a better group.
But that’s the nature you got a re-tenant you got to improve the mix when you’re bring in a better tenant they have a longer build out all of that takes time.
So we hope to do better it’s not too shabby we move on.
Okay thanks.
And then just one other question on the FX I apologize if I missed it.
The $0.10 headwind what euro rate and yen rate is that based on? It’s based upon our view of it over period of time.
But this is really in comparison to 2014.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Haendel St.
Juste with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
How are you doing? So a few questions for you.
First David on Klépierre I was curious if you could help give us a broad sense of the magnitude of upside you think you might have there perhaps in terms of percentage of G&amp;A expense portfolio upgrading closing evaluation gap with Univie [ph] just curious for your thoughts there.
Well its better that the management team there does there.
But I will say generally just for my perspective where they’ve done a really good job over the last couple of years with our strategic help to continue to move in the right direction smaller - reduce the smaller assets focus more on the bigger ones upgrade the marketing tenant mix et cetera.
I think Corio has got a better portfolio than a lot of people think.
The integration there is a little bit complicated than it is say in the U.S.
when it comes to integration because of the rules out there.
I’m going to grieve all the technicalities about it but I think net net over a period of time there is great upside in running a better more efficient company with after the Corio mergers completed.
And I would expect that that gap would continue to narrow which it has dramatically but we’ll continue to narrow.
And unlike I said I mean I’m not.
The most important thing this is great but are you making money.
Our net invest is up $850 million in two years two and a half years and maybe its three years - okay so I’m sorry its three years.
So - and I felt that they’ve got upside to move forward.
I appreciate that.
And following-up on I guess some of the earlier stronger dollar questions clearly makes your purchasing power better overseas.
I am wondering is that perhaps might make you more perhaps aggressively inclined on expanding your international portfolio? We only want to do it if we think we can make money.
So I have no desire to expand international as we think it’s a profit opportunity for us.
Fair enough.
And then last one.
Wondering how much of your energy costs are variable just trying to get a sense of if there could be a positive impact to margins.
Not really because we tend to charge that to the tenants.
And so we just pass on that savings to them.
To some extent the share that we pay for ourselves will have an added benefit.
It’s not overly material.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
So just turning to your expenses if I look at the trend just in operating expenses as a percent of your revenue has been trending down for a very long time which has helped obviously your expense recoveries and whatnot.
And just curious is this a trend - I mean it is hard to imagine it going more favorable towards - versus the perhaps run rate.
But given like rising expenses and rising taxes do we - where do you think this settles out? And how does that impact your expense recoveries going forward and maybe should we expect some kind of reversion to the mean at one point? No I think we’re always trying to improve our operating margins.
So every once in a while there will be modest changes from year-to-year.
Obviously in 2009 recession we took a very tough year that now we’re still getting the comp NOI growth even though we’re less focused on that like we were in 2009 I shouldn’t say less focus but we’re not as - we’re not trying to wring every nickel out of it.
We also have marketing expenses customer relations - consumer relations expenses that we’re focused on doing.
So there will be year-to-year variability to it but we’re still trying to improve it.
So if I - maybe I can ask it in a different way.
For 2014 you ended with about 32%-33% operating expenses as a percent of rents.
In your guidance are you implicitly modeling that stays flat or improves or reverts back? Relatively the same.
Okay.
Relatively flat.
And just last question.
How do you compare the quality of - and I know there is different regions but Klepierre with Corio versus a Macerich? How would you describe the quality between those two portfolios? Well that’s a good one.
I mean I would say it’s hard to necessarily compare one to the next.
In Europe the supply and demand is reasonably favorable but on the other hand the U.S.
is really caught up on that front because there has been as we all know no new really full price development for number of years.
So the occupancy costs are a little higher in Europe than they are - for a retailer than they are in the U.S.
But I don’t know I have to get that little bit more thought.
I don’t necessarily - I look at more in that specific market as opposed to one country to another country.
It’s a little tougher comparison to do but let me give us some thought.
Yes I mean so the reason I ask that is when you have your choices of capital - where to deploy capital and you have Macerich trading at 4.5% and I know if you take it further there is probably some operating margin you can pull out of it if you did take down the whole portfolio.
And when I compare to maybe a Klepierre with Corio on quality with that portfolio trading at maybe a 5% cap rate - and this is just rough math by the way - or higher how do you make that relative comparison in terms of where to deploy that capital? I mean the most important thing as you got a risk adjustment and you don’t - in the U.S.
you don’t have currency risk.
So as you can see no one is really happy about our currency risk today.
So I mean I don’t - I’m not overly worried about it but it is we do have a little bit of risk.
The U.S.
is a safer - we should give a higher return when we go outside of our natural boarders.
That is slightly harder to underwrite.
It is a little more complex.
There are more rules and regulations to do what you want.
Even though we’ve had a profound impact on Klépierre we know U.S.
investing better than we know outside U.S.
investing.
So you certainly would want a higher return anywhere outside the U.S.
for those and other reasons.
So in your question you got a factor that into it.
The rates there - I mean the rates there really really attracted.
So if you can take into account the higher risk adjusted rate of return you may have better better investment opportunity.
But at this point we don’t look at mutually exclusive: the U.S.
or Europe or Asia.
We like to look at each individual idea more investment on its own and then stress test with our own corporate opportunities and our own internal opportunities and see what it means for the balance sheet and our management bandwidth.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi just a quick one.
What sort of yield are you looking at for the Clearfork development? And is there any update on any thoughts on plans for the Oyster Bay site? Clearfork will be - it’s not had been started construction but we will outline that once we put it into service.
So it’s not in our 8-K yet because we haven’t actually started construction.
We’re getting - it’s going to happen but for finalizing our cost numbers and the leasing plan and all of that and should start in the next two months or so.
So there is some great thing going on in the site now but - so we’ll let you know on that but it will be attractive value enhancing return.
And your Oyster Bay; Oyster Bay I think will be a very active year.
We have an unbelievable plan and vision of what we want to do with the properties.
We’re working now with the various town and the various agencies about going through the approval process.
I’m sure you’ll see more of that this year as it comes out but we’ve actually developed the plan a very unique lifestyle mixed use center that we think we’ll have great appeal to ask financially as well as that all of the community groups there.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Linda Tsai with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hi.
How would you characterize holiday sales overall? Does the outcome say much to you about the underlying strength of the economy? And then also in the context of recent store closure announcements I realized a lot of these retailers were already struggling but how much of an impact did the holiday season have or were they likely to close anyways in your view? I think on the later question the arch of the retailers that have already announced bankruptcy or closings was really beyond a given quarter at a given results in the holiday.
They have been struggling for an extended period of time.
In terms of the holiday sales in some places they were stronger some - the stronger retailers reported better sales but there were a larger percentage that were weaker.
But overall is the economy stronger is the lower oil and gas prices putting some incremental disposable money into the consumer’s pocket it is.
Confidence is up.
So overall the macro factors are encouraging.
Thanks.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Caitlin Burrows with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hi I guess good afternoon.
Now this is getting a little long so I’ll try to be quick.
If you could just comment on your capacity and interest in issuing more Euro denominated debt [indiscernible] is at 0.3%.
Yes good question I think the answer is we’re going to seriously consider it right Andy.
Yes absolutely we always look at both currencies.
Right now we could issue 10 year Euro debt at under 1.5% significantly under.
So that’s something we’ll look at.
And the basis play has become a lot more favorable in the last couple of months.
Okay great thanks.
And then also just acknowledging that you’ve already spun off your lower tier [indiscernible] within the portfolio you have now.
Could you just describe any differences between tenant productivity and your top-tier versus lower-tier centers and also tenant interest? Within our - the existing SPG portfolio after spend? That’s correct.
I would say not dramatically different in terms of tenant demand.
I mean sure the top 20 centers always are going to have somewhat more demand than the next 20 but generally nothing no great variation there.
Okay.
Great thanks.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hey guys good afternoon.
I wanted to just make sure I understood - the redevelopment pipeline you guys have right now is pretty much completed in 2015 and 2016.
But then as you look forward what kind of annual spend in redevelopment do you think you’ll have as you go out to 2017 2018 et cetera? Well Rich the 2.1% is directly from our 8-K and that is only projects that are actually started and then corporately approved through our approval process.
So for instance it doesn’t include Clearfork yet it doesn’t include Oyster Bay it doesn’t include Copley it doesn’t include the whole host of other deals.
So the number that we’ve kind of said generally was around $1 billion a year.
For the foreseeable future and I still Rich would generally say that’s probably a pretty good number.
Okay good.
So you feel comfortable with that.
That is great.
Thank you.
And then I also wanted to ask usually early in the year maybe by the middle of the year you’ve pretty much covered a lot of the leasing Rick that is going to happen for the year.
So 2015 by middle of the year would pretty much be handled.
And I am curious with occupancy as high as it is is that moving up? I mean are you done with more leasing at this point in the year for 2015 than you might normally be? We are ahead this year over last year.
We’re about 65% through our renewals in 2015.
And we’ve obviously made a major focus on getting as far out ahead of it as we can.
So we can be responsive.
And because our occupancy is higher those tenants that are looking for space understand that if they don’t commit someone else is going to get the space.
So that obviously is also encouraging people to accelerate there just as you making as well.
Okay good got you.
So normally this time of year you would be maybe half done something like that or less? Yes.
Okay.
Good thank you guys.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott ODonnell with MetLife.
Please proceed.
Yes hi good afternoon and I’ve got a quick question.
You guys have been a great steward of the balance sheet for bondholders.
I guess I have to ask the question why the commercial paper program? How does that make sense from a strategic standpoint? And can you explain the strategy around exposing yourself to the short-term money markets? Well Scott we go back it’s handy.
We go back for long time.
As you know we’ve got a 70 billion equity market cap it’s less than 1% of our total market cap and it helps us.
One of the things we’re looking at is as we significantly want to roll down our debt cost we have a huge opportunity over the next two years as our average interest rate is about 5.65% on the $5 billion of debt it comes to.
It allows us to look at potentially one prepaying some of our secure debt where we can borrow at was at 15 basis points to 16 basis points and there is absolutely no risk.
It also diversifies our investor base.
We’ve had significant strong investors and there is really no risk because it is like in the olden days as you know when we used to have the banks fit on a competitive bid line now we just replace that with as you know commercial paper.
And the regulations in the market is far far different than it was five ten years ago.
So we had no problem.
We started in October there were some volatile market s.
We had absolutely no problem rolling over any of our if you would euro paper or our USD paper and it’s again something in a small way that we’re going to continue to do and to be proactive and opportunistic.
So I get that.
So you are viewing it more from a transactional flexibility standpoint rather than a strategic part of your capital structure because I think we have talked over the years about this.
You guys have long-term assets and you tend to want to fund them long-term right? And yes absolutely and that’s why we significantly increased our average weighted term as we reduced the rate and that will continue to be the case.
Okay.
Thank you.
I think any other questions operator? At this time there are no further questions.
I would now… Thank you Ma’am.
Thank you everybody.
Have a healthy New Year happy New Year and we’ll talk to you soon.
Thank you for joining today’s conference.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2015 Simon Property Group Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Whitley and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Tom Ward Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Whitley.
Good morning and welcome to Simon Property Group’s first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Presenting on today’s call is David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Also on the call are Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; Andy Juster Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Broadwater Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we begin a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today’s press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please note that this call includes information that maybe accurate only as of today’s date.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the press release and the supplemental information in today’s Form 8-K filing.
Both the press release and the supplemental information are available on our IR website at investors.simon.com.
For our prepared remarks I’m pleased to introduce David Simon.
Okay.
Good morning.
We had a strong start to 2015.
As you know we closed on the acquisition of Jersey Gardens and University Park Village two great properties that we are excited to have in our portfolio.
We created two joint ventures with two of our longstanding retail partners one with Hudson's Bay Company and the other with Sears Holdings which will serve as additional avenues for growth.
And of course we continue to produce strong operating and financial performance.
As you know results in the quarter were highlighted by funds from operation of $2.28 per share exceeding once again the First Call consensus by $0.03.
And that was achieved even though we had a decrease of approximately $0.03 for the quarter due to the strong dollar against the euro and the yen.
And on a comparable basis excluding the operating results from WPG properties in the prior year period.
Our FFO per share increased 6.5% or $0.14 even with the currency devaluation.
Let me turn to our operating metrics cash flow.
Occupancy was 95.8% leasing activity remains strong and healthy.
The malls and premium outlets recorded leasing spreads of $11.19 per square foot an increase of 18.9%.
Now let’s talk about comp NOI.
Comp NOI increased 3.5% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to an increase of 5.3% in the first quarter of 2014.
As a reminder approximately 95% of our domestic property NOI is included in our comp NOI calculation.
And very importantly with respect to this quarter our comp NOI in the first quarter was negatively impacted by about 50 basis points due to a significant overage retroactive billing within the mills in the first quarter of 2014 and if you remember we put in the mills in terms of our comp NOI beginning last year.
If you wanted to understand our comp NOI on the outlets and the malls it’s approximately 4% and right on our budget.
Total sales across our portfolio increased 2% in the first quarter compared to the first quarter of last year and I will also point out there was a recent pitch affirming our A rating.
They did a report that I would suggest at the Analytic community review just to put in the back of your mind on our comp NOI growth.
We have exceeded our peers by an average of 240 basis points from the period of time of 2005 to 2014.
I thought that was interesting reading in any event let’s go to construction.
We continue new premium outlets in Gloucester which will serve the South Jersey in Philadelphia areas and new centers in Tampa and Tucson as well as our designer outlet in Vancouver.
All our great high quality major markets and each is scheduled to open later this year.
We are slated to begin construction on as many as three additional domestic premium outlets in 2015 as well as three international outlets in 2015 for a total of six.
We are beginning side work shortly at the shops at Clearfork which as you know is our new full price development in Ft.
Worth anchored by Neiman.
We plan on opening that in early 2017.
Yesterday we were excited to announce our partnership with Swire and the Whitman family for the retail component of Brickell City Centre which is anchored by Saks.
We look forward to contributing our leasing and management expertise to this signature project which includes a significant residential component and that will open in the fall of 2016 and on Oyster Bay which we are renaming Syosset Park.
We have began the approval process for what will be a unique mixed use life style center with retail office hotel park for the families of the Oyster Bay area and residential components.
Initial feedback on our plan has been positive.
We expect the process to go well.
On the redevelopment and expansion we’ve got 24 properties across our three platforms in the U.S.
and Asia for a total commitment of $1.8 billion at the end of the first quarter.
During the quarter we completed a 265 000 square foot expansion at Yeoju Premium Outlets in Seoul and recently completed a 136 000 square foot expansion of Shisui Premium Outlets in Tokyo both off to great starts; and let’s not forget construction continues on major re-development expansion projects at some of our most productive malls all under construction including but not limited to Roosevelt Field The Galleria in Houston Stanford Shopping Center King of Prussia Del Amo and our premium outlets in Woodbury Las Vegas and San Francisco and Chicago all under construction all bringing significant amount of new square footage for 2016 and over the next 18 months.
Klépierre we were pleased to have played the key role in Klépierre’s acquisition of Corio which became effective at the end of March creating the leading pure-play retail property company in Continental Europe.
We now have a €21 billion portfolio in 16 countries.
And to remind the investment community this was a €7.4 billion M&amp;A transaction.
We are pleased to see the rebound in the European shopper.
Klépierre will report the results next week and we expect a higher and stronger growth portfolio given the acquisition.
Capital markets we expanded our $2 billion revolving credit facility to $2.75 billion and extended its maturity to 2020.
Our current liquidity including revolvers and cash on hands is over $6 billion.
Our industry leading balance sheet continues to differentiate us from our peer group.
As you know we announced a $2 billion share repurchase program.
We have not yet repurchased any shares as a result of our trading window blackout due to earnings and the timing of our buyback announcement.
And proudly we are proud to announce yet another dividend increase of $1.50 which is a year-over-year increase of 15% and a 7% increase from the first quarter of 2015.
Again nobody has got our dividend growth.
We will pay at least $5.90 an increase of nearly as I said 15% from last year.
So let me turn to guidance.
We’ve increased our guidance based on our view of the year again from $9.65 to $9.75 again nobody in our peer group has the kind of growth that we have.
And we continue to feel very comfortable as I mentioned to you on the comp NOI growth of 4% for the year for malls Premium Outlets and Mills.
And we are ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line Christy McElroy with Citi.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning.
It’s Michael Bilerman here with Christy.
How are you doing? Great.
So David I was curious as to how you think about your stake in Macerich at this point.
You sort of view it as a $470 million mall that’s given you a 3% yield you think it is potentially worth $570 or do you sort of view it as worth $470 million you bought it for $370 million you have a $100 million and sort of take that money and go home? Well Michael frankly since we were not able to engage with Macerich even though we tried very hard to as you know we put what I felt was a unbelievable hell of an offer on the table and I obviously tried very hard to engage.
We have been so busy between the Sears and the HBC finishing Brickell doing Clearfork making sure our redevelopment is on time and on budget.
The three new deals that we have internationally I have really not had the luxury of figuring out what I’m going to do with that stake.
So at this point I can’t really answer your question but at some point I will address it in the near future.
But we had just been too busy running the business producing very good strong results raising the dividend doing the buyback doing all the redevelopment all the new ventures that I haven’t really sat down and figure out what to do next.
I’m open to your ideas if you have any though.
Yeah.
I don’t think I should publicly say that on a call.
In terms of Europe and you talked about the Klépierre Corio transaction and being instrumental in that deal as you think about potentially putting additional to Europe when you originally made the state the euro was about EUR 1.30 you are under EUR 1.10 today you obviously have some hedge because you have some euro denominated debt.
But I am just curious as you think about potentially taking your stake backup to a 30% level if that’s in the cards and putting capital out given where the euro is and how you sort of think about that.
Well that kind of opportunity is always on the table.
I will say that we are up a EUR 1.4 billion in our investment.
Guys right? Yeah.
So that’s not too shabby of a trade if I can quote out on Sandler who is one of my heroes.
I quoted him last year not last year but in 2013 annual letter but all you talk about is Steve Ross letter he haven’t mentioned mine but I thought I had a pretty good line in there.
I mentioned in our call I think people who site we did helped engineer a $7.4 billion European merger.
That again is not to – don’t underestimate the fact and the role that I played – we played in putting together those two companies that was a EUR7.4 billion investment.
And as you know that the capital going towards Europe and the timing of that deal I think is going to be very attractive for us in the long run.
So I couldn’t be more pleased with my investment but we will just see how that evolves.
There were couple other large shareholders they certainly haven’t indicated to me anytime that they’re going to – that they’re looking to get out.
I think they are very pleased with what those transpired since our involvement over the last three years.
Hi good morning David.
It’s Christy here.
You’ve talked often about your larger regional model re-development and expansion projects but I am wondering with the new Hudson's Bay and Sears JVs and this may be more or so with the Sears boxes.
But is your new control over [indiscernible] boxes unlock any future potential major redevelopment projects in any of your centers or is it too early to tell? And maybe you could just provide some general comments on the future opportunities for investments that could arise from these JV? Well I think the JV with Sears clearly is all about redeveloping those boxes with Sears potentially as taking some of that space and in some cases maybe not.
And as also part of that deal we bought the Plaza store which is a fantastic mall does I don’t know 750 a day of food.
It got a lot of demand.
So that also gives us the ability to look at expanding that mall.
So the answer I don’t want to put a number on it Christy but I would definitely say that it’s all about retaining with Sears maybe downsizing their stores and then into Plaza certainly – there is a major expansion in the works there that we are going to move very very fast on.
And that will the Plaza just is a general scope will get couple of hundred million bucks at the end of the day.
So all of that was part of about – all of that was done in the mind to faster redevelopment for sure.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
This is something related to Christy’s last question.
There seems to be more churning in both the mall especially in the mall anchor space.
I am just wondering from Simon’s mall portfolio perspective is that actually an opportunity for you something you actually would welcome just given your dominant portfolio and opportunities at distance you from your peers? I would say we have – we don’t use the word dominant here.
We have a very high quality portfolio that’s produced outsize comp NOI growth with our peer over and I know we get focused on a quarter here quarter there but if you look over any kind of extended period of time we’ve clearly outperformed our peer group.
I would say there is there is not a lot of churning in the department store world I think we have brick one empty box out of how many Rick? 450 onwards.
I should know it actually.
It’s in [indiscernible].
Okay yeah yeah yeah that’s a tough one.
But in any event like in Riverside we got the Saks building back we actually just approved internally yesterday a whole redevelopment of that Box so we were down to one box but clearly on the specialty side we did lose a handful of retailers and I think at the end of the day there will be an opportunity from it obviously we are focused on releasing it on that space but we are going to put in better retailers and as you know I mean the retail business like any business in today’s environment is Darwinian and the retailers that are going away are relatively weaker ones.
There is a whole host of stronger ones in the pipeline that we would expect to be able to add excitement to our properties and ultimately increase our cash flow from their participation in our building.
So that’s the nature of our business.
As you know Craig we like showing the slide about the top 10 retailers at 93 we went public till today it is a little more going on today then maybe it was a year or two ago but nothing that we are overly concerned about and we are poised to do the work necessary to make these properties better and obviously having a high quality portfolio like we do will make it happen.
Okay and then just beside your significant redevelopment pipeline efforts.
Are there any emerging areas or real estate formats that you are looking to down the road that could be in the area of growth for Simon? Like other users or…? I mean obviously you haven’t been that interested in highs steel but is there I mean just thinking you know the malls is mature business at some point the opportunities for premium outlet slow and then what are you seeing maybe five years down the road that might be an opportunity to grow? Well look we have always looked.
I think the Hudson Bay joint venture is going to give us another avenue of gross in that whole single credit tenant kind of business both internationally in the U.S.
you know street retail potentially out of that I don’t know you know the values there are pretty salty when the deals that we have seen.
So you know I think Craig we’ve always been creative in trying to find other areas it will focus around retail real estate but we are not concerned not at all about not being able to find avenues of growth but clearly we still got a big pipeline of redevelopment.
The outlet business our outlet business is very strong.
So we posted great comp NOI numbers this quarter.
Sales were very strong.
So we see that growth continuing and then with the redevelopment that we are doing at some of our iconic mall properties again these aren’t pipe dreams.
They are – Houston Galleria Roosevelt Field Stanford Galleria Del Amo King of Prussia I mean this stuff is maybe we should put on our website to show you the steel but this stuff is all happening.
So we got plenty to say grace over right now.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Just a first question on – back on Macerich.
What were the pursuit costs related there? And I guess where do they fall in your Q1 numbers? It’s in other expense and they are done and we have no more.
Are you able to give an estimate or? Immaterial.
I mean I don’t know – I don’t want to – it basic – immaterial.
We do a lot of this in-house you are looking at them.
Okay.
For better or worse okay? And you work cheaply.
So… Some may argue that.
But the point is for better or worse you are looking at the M&amp;A guide here okay? Okay.
Maybe to switch gears I’m just curious on occupancy.
I think Q1 occupancy was down a little bit year-over-year; and maybe I missed it in your remarks but is that just a return to a more normal – what I will call sort of pullback post-holiday or is there something else going on there? Well I would say Jeff we clearly – normally we are always going to close 60 bps to 80 bps from the seasonality part of our business right? We had more than that this time and that’s all related to I’d say another 50 bps or so all related to bankruptcies.
Okay.
And again we had planned that that’s why we were cautious on our comp NOI growth so there is no surprise there.
Cautious being – I’d argue 4% is not – is pretty significant when I look at other categories I look at office I look at industrial I look at across the platform 4% ain’t too bad.
But nevertheless it is a little bit lower and it was all because we were planning the guys that were on the ropes.
And the guys that were on the ropes ended up on the mat so to speak.
In the spirit of the upcoming Pacquiao/Mayweather fight okay? Okay.
They ended up on the mat.
The only thing I would say Jeff is we expect that occupancy to go up as we move through the year and get some of that space redeployed which we’re in the process of doing right now.
Yes because I think at the end of the fourth quarter you guys were looking for sort of flat occupancy by year end.
I wasn’t sure if that was still the case.
Yeah.
Yeah look could we be a few basis points below it? Sure.
But again you also have to factor in we’ve got a lot of redevelopment going on.
So our portfolio is in a pretty significant – undergoing a pretty significant activities going on.
So it will be very close to that number.
I saw that David Contis was working on converting temporary space to permanent space.
How much do you guys have in the way of short-term tenancy today and how does that compare to history? It’s been going down pretty significantly.
I’m going to say again we don’t – in our occupancy we only include folks that have a lease of a year in.
So now we do – sometimes we do year-to-year leases because we are looking for a better group but that number has been – is high.
The year-to-year guys have been as high as the mid-5%s we are down about 4% now Jeff roughly rough numbers right guys? Yeah.
Getting close we will get there.
And just the last question or two is on WP Glimcher.
Is there a set date when you expect that arrangement on providing services to end? May 16th is the end of that right Rick? May 2016 Yeah.
Okay.
Then on Oyster Bay how close are you guys – Let me clarify May 2016 not May 16th.
Okay? Right right.
And just on Oyster Bay how close are you guys to getting the necessary approvals to move ahead there? Look it is a process; I think by the end of this year we will be in very good shape.
But we have a lot – there is a lot to go through.
So we are shooting the next six months or so are going to be very important but that’s how we are thinking about the timing.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
How are you? David let me first ask in stock buyback.
Do you intend to actually buyback any stock around the current levels or was it put in place as a placeholder or was it a statement to Macerich a little of everything.
Well I mean I think the REIT market I would say this obviously I am not going to tell you when or how we’re going to buy stock back but I would say we wouldn’t have announced it once we were serious about it.
We couldn’t buy any stock back because we were in our blackout period when the announcement came.
And as I look at other companies and their valuation and I look at ours and our growth prospects and our track record I continue to think we are extremely well positioned.
As I look at history year-after-year quarter-after-quarter and all that we’ve got going on look at our valuation compared to our peer group and I feel very comfortable that we are a very strong and good investment.
Now with the added volatility in the REIT sector we want to be able to take advantage of that volatility.
So I think you will see us at the appropriate times of volatility and no statement had nothing to do with Macerich obviously had that deal gone forward maybe the capital would have been allotted differently but I look at our growth profile I look at the history of our results I look at our balance sheet I look at the peer group I look at revaluations generally and I think I can’t pick a better investment than ours as we look forward.
So we will take advantage of volatility.
We’ll do this opportunistically and you will see us in the market at the appropriate times.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
Can you talk a little bit about what’s going on in the department store industry right now? And I know you’ve got different motivating factors behind what happened with Hudson’s Bay and with what is going on with Sears.
I guess a couple of questions.
One is did you discuss with Sears or do they want to sell you more than what you actually bought? I am curious what you think of their I’ll call it spin rights offering and do you see other department store companies also transacting with their real estate any time soon? Well look I would say that Sears and us got comfortable with the portfolio.
It wasn’t dramatically different from the beginning to where we ended up.
And I think it’s good to have that kind of relationship.
I think it can grow overtime.
I think they have valuable real estate and we see [indiscernible] has been able to know as a company we wouldn’t invest in it less we saw that going forward.
And frankly Hudson’s Bay I think they – I really like their management team.
I really like that real estate being a partner with them and their real estate and looking for future growth opportunities [indiscernible] and other avenue of growth.
So I see that as another very good opportunity.
Could other retailers take advantage of their inherent real estate value? Sure but if they do it to the extent or they’ve got a balloon if they squeeze one end too high you got to be very careful on how they do it.
But if they’re thoughtful about how they want to take advantage of the real estate I am sure those value to be made for their shareholders.
But that’s not necessarily a focus for us.
We are very pleased to have partnered with both these folks and we expect them to grow.
Rick? The only other thing that I would add is that it does put a spotlight on the fact that the credit worthiness and operating stability of our department store companies I believe is greater than the analyst in the investment community has recognized before and when we’ve said all along we thought that they were in a stable position.
I think that’s being worn-out by the ability to add financial stability by taking a focus on the real estate asset.
And David did you separate out the Hudson's Bay venture from SPG because you didn’t want a bunch of boring long terms net leases in SPG or was there something other than that? Well I think it is part of SPG and first of all it hasn’t actually closed yet.
We are closing when we announced that it should be closing in the next by the end of the quarter probably but we’ve always view that is ultimately a standalone business going forward.
Now that will help grow faster the credit the net lease retailer I mean we – they are great retailers.
We are going to run that joint venture.
They’ve got great real estate entrepreneurs.
We certainly can underwrite retail credit.
We have ideas on how to grow that business.
So ultimately that business could in fact end up separated from us but we will want to add value to it through our deal making capabilities and yes it probably if it ends up more focused on the credit you know the credit lease business you know it’s – that probably is better separated from SPG in long run but of that is to be determined whilst as we go forward.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler ONeill.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
David just a few questions here first you brought up the rating agencies in your comments.
So two questions on that one is the 7% cap rate that they are using clearly we’ve had a number of demonstrable mall trades that show cap rates are well below so curious if they are going to move away from the 7% and second on that is as you guys entertain the Macerich to buy them did the rating agencies do any push back to you guys on your rating or their view is they know who you are and even if anything was breached they know that you would resolve that in due course and therefore a rating impact was unlikely.
Well.
Look I will speak to the last first I mean no they have all the confidence in the world in us when it comes to doing a transaction of that nature that we were – that we did not expect to be downgraded or notched at all right Andy? Right.
I mean they’ve done $40 billion of acquisition and they’ve been very pleased with the results.
So and again as not that this is all that interesting anymore but part of the reason we were selling assets to GGP was in fact you know the primary reason was in fact to make sure that our A rating would stay in place.
As far as the seven yes they should update it it’s silly.
But you know… It is a disastrous scenario… But they are being conservative.
It’s not market I agree with you.
I don’t know what to do about it.
I used to be eight and nine.
Okay.
So glacial compression there.
Second question is on the Hudson Bay can you just talk a little bit about the challenges of having real estate and other people centers and we’ve seen other companies in the past trying to do that hasn’t worked out was there a different perspective that you guys have on making that work or how should we think that this time it may work versus what we’ve seen historically? That’s not really even there is no thinking that boy it’s great to have own real estate in other peoples centers.
That’s really not – this is a growth vehicle to go find other opportunities in the credit world based on retail real estate.
Right now Hudson’s Bay has all of the plans to operate those stores so there is nothing about in that sense.
Obviously if for whatever reason they decide to not to operate the store we would have that opportunity.
So that’s really not anywhere near on the agenda.
We value this at a pretty attractive cap rate 6% and 8% in really good mall.
So we think it’s attractive accretive transaction for us from a value point of view and it’s really about creating the entity to go do more stuff and seeding it with these stores as opposed to we’re going to go play.
We have no intention at all to go play any kind of habit or anything in other people’s mall so that’s not even on the agenda.
Okay.
And then just finally your presentation on Macerich you guys disclosed your top center productivity and some of your mall stats.
If there is any way if that could be obviously quarterly would be great but annually I mean it was tremendous retail candy for us and obviously helps in the analysis of you guys.
So if there is a suggestion box would love to see that on an annual basis.
Speaking of suggestion boxes I better not say this because I might get criticized but I remember at a golf club that was built by Pete and Dye a Crooked Stick here in Indianapolis.
And the member’s suggestion box is in the middle of the pond okay.
But I will not that will not be duly noted and I am not saying that but duly noted.
And look I think we put that together because we felt it was important if there are any confusion about stuff that was said there we wanted to clarify that.
Frankly Alex we look at ourselves differently than a collection of assets but duly noted express – everybody express their views on that.
To Tom we have been I think as clear and as articulate in our financial presentations as anybody.
We have never wavered from FFO as an example.
We delivered via the white paper.
Occasionally like with WP Spin we separate that out because it’s important to note a transaction of that nature but we give you WP first or we give you FFO first and then we show you whatever is important to change.
So I feel like we necessarily are a little different in that area but duly noted we won’t make [indiscernible] to the pond to put in your suggestion.
We will take it up Tom and we’ll see about it in the future.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with Evercore ISI.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning David.
Hi.
Couple of questions I don’t think you disclosed the percentage ownership in the Brickell transaction.
Is that something you could provide and what role exactly is Simon playing in this development? We’re going to have a 25% interest in the retail and we are going to see the manager of the retail portion of the project and we are going to be leaving the leasing effort along with Swire and Whitman Property.
Okay.
So you will be the – I guess the leasing agent on this.
Yeah.
Okay.
I guess David on Copley I didn’t hear any talk on that.
Where do we stand on the residential project? Well we have an upcoming BRA meeting which is there in the next month.
We are hopeful to get approved and there will be a couple other hurdles after that but that puts us on the path to start construction.
So the next month or so we thought we were going to be able to do it.
This month things got a little couple of political things happened out of control but we’ve been assured that we can get back on the agenda here in this upcoming month.
No it sounds like maybe kind of June July start.
Yes.
I think we should we feel comfortable by July.
We will have all of the permits and all of the approvals done.
You know it’s a fluid situation but that’s correct.
And if that’s the case I guess when would the sales process like just help us think through the timing if you start construction.
When does a sales office start just how far after that is that a year later? That’s not going to start for a year after that only because you know the complexity of this build is significant.
So we have to go down the turnpike support the foundation and then we got to go into Neiman Marcus store relay that and then go up.
So there is no real need to rush that.
I’d say roughly a year from now that would be the focus a lots going on at the mall.
We are going to start the renovation of the actual interior of it.
We are going to do the south west portal entrance.
So there is a lot – we are finishing the office reno so it is a property that were a lot is going on but I’d say the sales office would be probably roughly a year from now.
Okay and then last question I mean you mentioned all of the major projects you’ve got going on in the U.S.
here I am just curious how do you feel about sort of the international investment opportunities versus domestic? Well with the outlet business you know we’ve got I mentioned in my call we have three that we think we’re going to start this year.
We have great outlet in Provence partnering with MGE McArthurGlen.
We’ve got a new site with fantastic developer in Mexico [indiscernible] which has built some of the best malls who is our partner in Mexico City.
We expect that to start this year and then we’ve got with Genting Group we are very close to finalizing the deal to start our second outlet in Malaysia and I mentioned to you we just finished Yeoju and Shisui expansion.
So that’s a lot of activity internationally.
We are also working on a couple of other opportunities in the outlet with some new joint ventures and then we have got another site two sites in Canada.
So internationally on the development front with the outlet premium outlet product we are busy.
And then again with Klépierre we help do this huge deal that here domestically people don’t think about but it was a 7.4 billion euro deal.
They just closed March 31.
They also bought a great asset in Spain shortly thereafter you know there is tremendous amount going on with the integration and the portfolio review of the long terms assets.
There is a lot of development work going on as well within the total combined portfolio.
So that to us is kind of we view that as our full price retail entity going forward in continental Europe and I expect that company to continue to grow.
So we are active internationally.
I don’t see us buying full price retail in Asia or other parts I mean I think right now it is kind of finding new markets for our premium outlook product.
Okay.
Thanks.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Haendel St Juste with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Can you guys – I guess first question just on the factors behind your higher FFO guidance curious if there is any changes to your FX outlook and the middle guidance.
And if there is any level of perhaps share repurchase baked into the full year with outlook? The answer is no on the share buyback and no – we’ve factored in the currency where it is today.
So we have a few cents.
Last quarter quarter one of ’14 the Euro was $1.37 average this year it was $1.13 so that’s a pretty big gap now it’s $1.08.
41% right.
We are pretty proud that we took a $0.03 hit in our Q1 ’15 and still beat consensus pretty good within our numbers.
It’s clearly going to affect our total.
We have $0.10 roughly year-over-year that was in that range.
We have a little bit exposure but drops further but nothing that we can’t deal with.
Okay fair enough.
And following up on the Miami project with Swire just want to clarify first.
The 25% ownership that’s just on the retail or is that the entire project? Just the retail.
Okay.
And then the strategic decision involved with the project now.
Why now did you approach them did they approach you and then how should we think about the project in terms of merchandising mix? It looks like GDP their nearby design district has a bit of stranglehold on luxury.
How much of a challenge do you think that might present your ability to track a higher tier tenant retailers? Well they approached us and look we have been involved in this for a while.
We feel unbelievably confident we are going to deliver obviously they designed it and they’ve done the most of the work but we feel together we’re going to deliver a great product that I think is going to the marketplace.
There is no question that this is going to be a unique terrific long term mixed use retail asset.
I think it will blow – I think it’s going to blow people’s minds away and the leasing.
We’ve made a lot of progress on leasing and we are very very confident about our ability to deliver a very very compelling mix.
The only thing I would add is that this project in and of itself as a hotel to condo towers and to office towers and surrounding it there is another eight or nine residential office and hotel projects going on in the hotter brick haul.
So it’s a very young very sophisticated and very well paced submarket inside of the State County overall market we are very excited about it.
Too early to talk about target yields? Yeah.
Look since we have partners in there it will be put in our 8-K but that kind of stuff is probably not going to be singled-out out of respect for partners but we think it’s an attractive investment and we wouldn’t make it otherwise.
And as I said this will be produced in a very high level.
Swire and the Whitman family are first-class operators you couldn’t pick that of partners and we all know Bell Harbor for sure and we all know what Swire has done in China and Hong Kong.
It built some of the most amazing stuff.
So to be associated with those kind of folks on a long term basis we couldn’t be more pleased and we will make money in this investment otherwise we wouldn’t do it.
Could there be more or you contemplating additional investments with Swire or is it again too early to talk about that? We are not in Hong Kong and this is their big investment in the U.S.
which certainly have a lot of respect for that organization.
Okay but just to be clear at this point there is nothing talked about perhaps overseas with them in Asia Hong Kong or China.
No.
Alright thank you guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Rosivach with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Sorry guys I tried to get out of the queue it was running away but really quick you guys have listed amazing metrics specially relative basis especially when you are taking to account leverage and unfortunately you can go through quarters where that actually doesn’t influence your share price and I am just curious just in terms of unfortunately my clients have tried to get rate and discussions over the last couple of quarters you know when you bid for another company that your shareholder don’t own you can actually harm the relative performance of your supporters and I’m just wondering like is that part of the decision making process you kind of know it will hurt and you make the call that the long term gain actually offsets a certain pain or is it not in the calculus? Well we always want feedback from our shareholders and we always take that into account but hopefully they have confidence in us but we are making right decisions that will add to the value of their investment and we are always confronted whether it is a M&amp;A deal or new development or redevelopment to weigh short-term paying for long term gain.
We thankfully hopefully will continue but certainly historically we’ve made pretty good decisions on that front.
We’ve certainly have embedded a 1000 of where we’ve been made risky investments.
We’ve done it on a low key basis and small basis compared to the enterprise and I go back to two to jump out of me you know one was the one in China.
The other was in I call my blue period where we are doing all the technology you know in the late whenever I was – I try to forget about it.
Late 90s early 2000 so you know I would say to with this last situation I mean the shareholders that we spoke to at least what they told me they were supportive of what we were trying to accomplish and that’s what they told me and again I mean we never got to the point where we were able to lay out all that we could do there but we certainly always factor that in.
We do know that sometimes doing these things is not the easy road.
You know the easy road is to just do what a lot of other folks do which is not a lot okay.
But this company is all about not doing what is easy.
And then it’s easy just to you know I don’t know redevelop a thing here build something there but that’s not what we are about we are about and are trying to make this company unique and when you do that you sometimes you do create short-term confusion and/or short term underperformance.
We hope all we can do we hope is that people look at the track record and look at dividend growth.
I mean 15% dividend growth at a company our size … There is not push back on that.
There is no push back that you are actually great at doing M&amp;A it just when it goes on for a quarter and most of my clients are based on one of your performance on a relative basis that after a while it starts to hurt and I even got the impression you know when you wrote your March 20 final offer I got a sense when you were saying not to go through multi-year proxy I think you were starting to notice the pain it was creating with your share price.
Well look that is a whole different subject that is probably better off I am happy to have you with or anybody else but it is probably better off to have that not necessarily on – in this kind of format but we – look short term we are all about short term gain if there is a long term play there but it’s important to have support from our shareholders.
And I can say to you that they were the ones that I talk to or relatively support of what we try to accomplish but on the other hand going through a multiyear proxy fight et cetera.
If we had done that that’s when we might have lost support.
That’s a judgment call I have to make and I made the judgment call and I did.
I think the support would have been there had we on the deal rather the support would have been there on a long drawn out battle I don’t know.
But I decide to not to ask for.
Thanks for your commentary.
Appreciate it.
Sure.
No problem.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning everyone.
Just wanted to go back to the FX question a little bit I appreciate the comments on the earnings side of things.
Just curious last quarter we talked a little about the impact on some of the tourism driven markets.
Just wondering if you could give I guess an update on what you’re seeing in those markets as it pertains to FX impacts? In the U.S.
side with the strong dollar.
Right.
Yeah okay.
Fair enough.
We are seeing a little bit – I would tell you that it’s just really volatile right now on some of those tourist markets where there is a good month a good week and then there is a bad month and a bad week.
So it kind of balances out but I would say it’s safe to say that the strong dollar is affecting to some extent sales in some of the really highly international assets that we have but nothing that’s going to change our financial profile or earnings or any of that.
But it is a lot more volatile you hear occasionally in South Florida a little bit you hear – we haven’t seen anything at Woodbury but I’ve heard a lot in New York now we have no exposure there but you hear and then when I say hear I’m hearing from the retailers but with something to pay attention to it.
Okay thanks.
And then just more domestically just given the drop in oil prices it seems like there was expectations that would flow into the economy but seems like it’s being saved.
Just curious if you are seeing anything different from that in your own mall traffic and that kind of that.
I’d still say generally we are still dealing with a cautious consumer it’s safe to say and it’s volatile.
So the comment I heard about the tourism also applies to just the domestic consumer as well.
The patterns of the consumer are tougher to predict right now.
I still think there is – confidence is getting better but there is still a lot of debt being reduced and it’s still there is a good month good week and then a bad month a bad week and the pattern is sloppy enough but it’s certainly not getting busters.
And look we had 2% total sales increase from quarter-over-quarter ’14 to ’15.
That’s the kind of world we are in right now.
We did get unbelievably so we did not mention this Nova [ph] mentioned in it so I probably shouldn’t mention it but we had another awful winter in northeast.
For those of you in Boston only we have a lot of exposure in northeast.
Believe it or not our snow expense was higher this year than last year across the portfolio.
So we still had to deal with a little bit of the weather but we are dealing with a cautious consumer and we are delivering – the good news is we are delivering results in that environment.
That’s all we can do.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple with Hilliard Lyons.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thinking about the premium outlet pipeline out there how much room do you think there is for premium outlets of Simon’s quality to be built in the U.S.? Can you quantify a number? Are there 20 possible sites left in the U.S.
or where do you think that number would be? Well I think that would be a real challenge of our kind of quality to produce.
Right now the way we look at it 20 additional outlets.
I still think it’s a handful.
We are going through – the industry is going through a little bit of a growth spurt.
But Carol I would say 20 would be a stretch.
I’m going to – this is so hard to give you a real number but I would say – as we look at the stuff that we might see building we’ve got three now that will start maybe another two or three next year.
But from our standpoint I would see under 10 over the next three to five years domestic starts within our portfolio.
Okay.
The one thing I would say to you Carol is when you think about growth please don’t forget about the expansions that David mentioned earlier.
They are almost the equivalent in terms of productivity of a new outlet.
We are adding a lot of square footage at Chicago and at Woodbury and at San Francisco.
And all of that is adding mass and that’s absorbing demand in the most productive way that could possibly happen.
And I encourage all of you to go out and see what we just opened at Desert Hills and if you are out in Las Vegas what we are opening in Las Vegas North the week of the ICSC convention.
These things are dramatic expansions with great retailers that are highly highly productive.
Okay thanks.
And then this question is for Rick.
We’ve heard a lot about store closings.
I know you love to give your list of who wants the space.
Do you have any new names for us? I can’t wait.
Well you have to relax and stretch.
But I think one thing that I would like to point out to everybody is we talk about all this the tenant that has the broadest footprint in our portfolio is L Brands with Victoria’s Secret and they are doing great results and they are growing and they are expanding and they are adding things to the Victoria's Secret stores.
But we are doing with a lot of international retailers that people haven’t -- DAVIDsTEA has come down we are growing UNIQLO we are growing H&amp;M we are growing Sephora and we are growing Altar’d State which is a great retailer that has got a significant growth platform.
And frankly as David said the ones that left are low productivity oversized.
So that gives us the opportunity to bring in higher productivity retailers that are just going to increase the market share of our properties.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Yes hi.
Just a quick one.
It sounds like a lot could be going on at Syosset.
So how much of that project would you actually do yourselves? Yeah in terms of the mixed use we haven’t gotten to that point Michael.
We probably – when it gets to the office we will probably sell the office.
We might partner on the residential but – again there is roughly 400 000 of retail so that we will do with our partner.
The other hotel we may or may not do.
So my guess is at the end of the day we’d probably look to either sell or joint venture.
We probably won’t do the office; we might sell or joint venture the other uses.
Got it.
Okay.
That was pretty much it.
Thanks.
Sure.
No worries.
Your next question comes from the line of Linda Tsai with Barclays Capital.
Please proceed.
Hi.
When people talk about omni-channel my sense is that they think of traditional mall-based or full-priced stores.
To what extent are you seeing omni-channel capabilities incorporated into the Premium Outlet model? Do you think this is something that makes sense for you and the retailers? Well I think the retailers as they bring in the omni-channel world to their physical stores will certainly apply to the outlet world as well.
And again they are all at different degrees of that integration.
But I don’t think outlets would be ignored on that front at all.
So I would expect that to be part of it.
Thanks.
Sure.
Your next question we have a follow-up from the line of Christy McElroy with Citi.
Please proceed.
Hey it’s Michael Bilerman again.
David I’m just curious to get your thoughts a little bit on Land and Buildings and Orange Capital’s proxy campaign post them rebuffing your offer.
And at least in Jon’s letter he references a conversation that he had with you and obviously I don’t know if that conversation is done verbatim.
But it implied that what you had told him was based on where Simon’s stock is currently almost $200; that that would imply $100 for Macerich.
So I’m just curious how you think about that as well as their campaign.
Well look I’m not – put it this way I’m not surprised by Land and Buildings’ and Orange’s – that they might pursue something like this or others.
But as you can see from their proxy materials we are not participating or providing any financial support in their proxy.
But I’m not surprised that someone like them would take up this particular issue.
But again we are not—this is not us this is them.
And I said to you you can see it from their preliminary proxy stuff that we’re not supporting or involved in that at all.
And then as a shareholder we will wait and see what happens.
Right.
I guess as a shareholder when they came out after rebuffing your offer for the final time then they put out their presentation of the plan forward I guess as a shareholder would you have wanted to know how they achieve a price equal to or greater than the offer that you had put on the table? And I guess did that surprise you that that wasn’t in there? Well look that’s up for Macerich to respond to.
I mean I can only tell you what I told you earlier which is I think we put a hell of a deal on the table and I was looking to engage with Art.
I consider Art a peer.
We’ve had a good relationship.
People say hostile offer.
I don’t – let me give you my thinking on this.
Any time somebody offers a lot of money to somebody I never consider that hostile okay? Now it may not be – it maybe unsolicited but it ain’t hostile… At a 30% premium no less.
Okay.
It ain’t hostile.
So I hope Art and the board realizes that I didn’t view it as hostile.
I view it – sure it was unsolicited but it was a hell of an offer done in the spirit of trying to negotiate a deal at a big number and I will leave it at that.
It’s yesterday’s news but I will leave it at that.
But it was not hostile.
Unsolicited absolutely.
But again anytime I think – I’m a simpleton when it comes to this – but anytime you offer a big number to somebody I don’t view that as hostile.
I just view that as of the way of the world I guess.
Yes okay.
Thanks David.
All right.
No worries.
There are no further questions in queue.
I will now turn the call over to David for closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you everyone and take care and we will talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Hello everyone and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Simon Property Group Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to the Vice President Investor of Relations Tom Ward.
Thank you Lauren.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Presenting on today’s call is David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Also on the call are Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; Andy Juster Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Broadwater Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we begin a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today’s press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please note that this call includes information that maybe accurate only as of today’s date.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the press release and the supplemental information in today’s Form 8-K filing.
Both the press release and the supplemental information are available on our IR website at investors.simon.com.
For our prepared remarks I’m pleased to introduce David Simon.
Good morning.
We had a productive quarter we completed several significant redevelopment projects started construction on others announced even more that will further enhance the value of our real estate.
We identified additional avenues for growth through our two new retail partner joint ventures.
And most importantly we continue to produce strong operating and financial performance.
Results in the quarter were highlighted by FFO of $2.63 per share which included a $0.22 gain on a sale of marketable securities.
Excluding the investment gain FFO per share was $2.41 which exceeded First Call consensus again by $0.06.
These results were achieved even with the negative impact of $0.04 for the quarter compared to the prior year quarter due to a strong dollar against the Euro and Yen.
On a comparable basis excluding the contribution from WP properties in the prior year period and again the investment gain our FFO per diluted share increased 14.2% or over $0.30 year-over-year.
Occupancy was 96.1% leasing activity remains healthy.
We recorded spreads of $10.87 an increase of 18.4%.
Comp NOI for the quarter increase 3.6% which was coming of a 5.6% comp increase in the second quarter of 2014 and for those of you that are interested we do not include lease settlement income in our comp NOI or new deals such as Jersey Gardens or our recent joint venture activity and we also do not include the impact of recently developed or expanded centers.
And finally we continue to produce strong comp NOI increases year after year as well as continue to operate at the highest margins in our industry.
Total sales across the portfolio will increase 2.2% for the trailing 12 months even with the loss of bankrupt tenants.
On a comparable basis the sales per square foot increase for the 12 months ending June 30 was 4.2%.
And as a reminder our sales per square foot metric is not adjusted to remove any tenants who have vacated their spaces and includes tenant sales activity for all months a tenant is open during the trailing 12-month period.
Redevelopment is ongoing to 28 properties across all three platforms for total spend of $1.7 billion.
We opened significant expansion activities at Las Vegas North and Shisui Premium Outlets in Japan started construction on several new and strategic projects during the quarter.
Construction continues on some iconic properties including Roosevelt Field The Galleria in Houston Stanford Shopping Center King of Prussia Del Amo and our premium outlets are expanding in Chicago San Francisco and Woodbury.
This is my opportunity to develop my list as opposed to Rick's.
Our Chicago and San Francisco outlets open – expansion open in August and the rest of those kind of expanding of those iconic centers open in the next 12 months.
We also announced plans for further expansions in Sawgrass The Mills at Jersey Gardens La Plaza Mall and the shops at Riverside.
And we expect our redevelopment investment to be at least to $1 billion annually through 2017 substantially funded with our annual free cash flow which will continue to contribute incremental growth in our NOI and reinforce the positions of those assets in the respective marketplaces.
Now let’s turn to new development construction.
It continues on three new outlets all in very major markets and they are scheduled to open in the next three months.
Gloucester in Southern Jersey in Philadelphia in fact opens in two weeks August 13.
Tampa and Tucson open in October.
And finally we opened Vancouver on July 9 with traffic that exceeded expectations.
Construction continued or in fact started in Columbus with our partner Tanger and we are slated to begin construction in one new domestic premium outlet which will be announced for year-end.
We also started construction at the shops at Clearfork our new full-price development in Fort Worth anchored by Neiman Marcus which will open in early 2017 and we are pleased to partner with Swire and the Whitman family on the retail component of Brickell City Centre which will open in the fall of 2016.
We own 25% of its project and will manage this center upon completion.
Klépierre continues to progress according to plan.
Their integration of Corio is proceeding well they continue to recycle their assets and in fact announced a deal to sell a portfolio of Netherlands assets for €770 million and which will continue to delever their company.
We also purchased 2% of Klépierre from the BNP offering.
We’re now over 20 point – we’re at 20.3%.
We purchased those and the stock is obviously trading higher than where we purchase that additional 2%.
Balance sheet activity continues strong we did several secured financings in the quarter continue to lower our borrowing cost increased our debt maturity.
Our liquidity is $5.5 billion.
Our industry-leading balance sheet continues to get reinforced and separates us from our peer group.
Our unencumbered cash flow is well over $2.5 billion as Andy shakes his head affirmatively.
And finally on the balance sheet we as you know announced our $2 billion share repurchase we in fact in the quarter bought $505 million during the quarter of both common and units which is disclosed.
Now the dividend and let’s not lose side of the dividend.
We have announced yet another increase sequentially at 3% through $1.55 and the year-over-year increase of 19%.
We will pay at least $6 in 2015 which is an increase of at least 17% from 2014 and well above where we were in the great recession at the height of $3.60 in 2008.
So finally guidance has been increased again up to $10.02 to $10.07.
And we are now ready for your questions.
Our first question will be coming from the line of Ross Nussbaum.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks.
Good morning guys.
Here with Jeremy Metz.
Hey David with the repurchase from the OP unitholders who were the sellers of those units? Did you approach them? Did they approach you? How did that work? A little bit of both it was associated with the prime transaction loss that we completed in 2010 and they were the sellers.
Okay so no members of the Simon family sold… That's correct.
Okay.
Okay and then on the buyback as well how should we think about it from a balance sheet perspective? If I look at your funding needs against your after-dividend free cash flow my math is basically you can fund your entire development program with call it $1 billion of free cash flow a year.
So if you continue to buyback stock at this rate obviously the leverage of the company would tick higher.
So how should we all think about continued buyback versus balance sheet? Well it’s a very good question.
I think the first – we want that in our arsenal.
We are sensitive to – it’s part of our capital allocation strategy.
I think you should look at this first step is a trade from one from our other marketable securities that we had held with no reason to hold those we basically took that capital and reinvested in our business as we wanted to signal the market that we believe and the continual growth of our enterprise.
I think it should also signal we are out of the big deal business.
So I think no ones picked that up but we don't see any big deals on the horizon for us.
So we are obviously very focused on the development redevelopment as you know I mean I stumble I’m not a very good reader of a text but you look at our activity in the redevelopment and new development it’s astronomical it’s industry-leading lots of great stuff going on and I think that's the way to look at it.
We are price-sensitive we wanted there.
REIT stocks have been very volatile but I think if the signal that we took one investment and reinforced that we’re out of the big deal business.
That's not to say we might find a deal here or there but the balance sheet is sacrosanct to us we haven't worked 22 years to do it we survived the last great recession with flying colors we quadrupled our dividend and earning per share and all the other stuff that I won’t go through it all but I think it's a more of a signal and the belief in our business and also signal the market that were out of the big deal business.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Michael Bilerman.
Your line is open.
Great.
Hey David good morning.
Just continuing in terms of the buyback you talk about your business and having confidence in your business.
You didn't talk a little bit about discount to NAV and the arbitrage that exists between public and private.
I take your comment exactly in terms of flipping out of Macerich that $450 million putting it into your own stock which I think has great prospects.
But would you think about accelerating or selling interest in any assets to go further into your stock and narrow that discount that exists between public and private? Well look I think the reason - it's more than just NAV.
It’s what your enterprise can do in terms of growing your earnings and cash flow and then ultimately increasing your dividend.
I mean as you know I mean if you strip out the gain in that WPR our quarter-over-quarter growth was 14.3% which as you know a lot of people have criticized our size yet we continue to be industry-leading earnings growth.
So you’ve got to look at whenever you invest in something what's that yield going to get you? And as our earnings grows you know that’s not a bad investment.
So it’s more than just the NAV analysis.
We also - we will continue to sell what I call lower quality non-important assets to us.
We don't publicize it until after it's done but we’ll continue to prune the portfolio.
But we’re not a big believer in selling our top assets to reinforce the value of our company for external purposes I mean we know what we’re worth and we operate - I mean that’s why we are in this job.
We’ll operate accordingly.
But selling the top assets at the end of the day those top assets tend to grow the most.
And I'd rather have our shareholders own more of it than less of it.
We have the free cash flow to take advantage of the arb that may exist between private and public values and it’s just another tool that we have available to us to take advantage as we look for investment opportunities.
Great.
Just one quick one for Rick.
The popular press wants to focus a lot on shrinking retailers and closing stores.
Can you just give us an update in terms of who are the fastest-growing retailers the most exciting retailers that you're seeing pick up stores? And maybe just break it up between a larger format and a smaller format store base.
Well thank you for the opportunity to talk about my list.
I think there’s four categories of retailers that we’re really seeing a lot of business with.
International retailers the e-tailers that are looking for a presence in our properties.
We recently just announced and have opened Blue Nile and Bauble Bar and we’re working with a number of others that want to come into the properties.
Our existing retailers that are looking to grow through brand extension.
Maybe you just saw Dick’s announce the Chelsea Collective this fall.
L Brands is rolling out White Barn Candle.
And the last are just the new retailers that are coming online and just to - we’ve done deals recently with Mont Blanc Frye Boots Jo Malone's Suitsupply [Aritskina].
All of these are really exciting concepts that are relatively unique in the number of stores and that’s going to separate our properties.
Great thank you.
And I would just say this Michael what’s exciting – yes we have had bankruptcies this year it does take time to replace them.
But the amount of new concepts and new entrepreneurs coming into our environment whether it’s restaurants the e-commerce going to physical brand expansion is really at a – is that high and our leasing folks.
If you seen what we’re going to do at Roosevelt Field with some of the new food operators as well as some of the e-commerce with physical I mean its good stuff.
So I mean in that sense it’s comforting to see that there is whole host of new entrepreneurs they want to be in our own environments.
Yes thanks.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Paul Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
You talked about how your same-store numbers don't include your redevelopments.
I'm just wondering.
At this point right now it seems like you have a very large share of some of your top centers in redevelopments.
Is that a drag having that excluded given the strength of some of those? First of all we don’t consider to drag you have to put comp numbers in a – Paul you have to put comp numbers in a historical perspective.
And you can’t look it one quarter over quarter you’ve got to look at it over three to five-year period upon.
And if you look at our comp NOI increases over that three to five-year period of time there clearly you would conclude that we have significant outperformance.
And I don't look as much as everyone wants to focus on a quarter here and quarter there.
I want to reinforce we do have the highest operating margins in the business.
We also have the lowest overhead in terms of however you want do it enterprise value – percent of EBITDA percent of revenues in the business.
And that’s why we have the best balance sheet in the business and that’s why we’re able to grow our dividend 15% to 20% a year.
So again certainly there are – yes we’re remerchandising Houston Galleria and Copley and Stanford and Roosevelt Field and King of Prussia and we’re moving tenants left and right.
We encourage everybody to go see the properties and yes from a quarter perspective it's going to – it's not going to impress some but I’ll tell you what we’re doing I’m really impressed with internally.
But I would encourage you and others to look at comp NOI over a more of an extended period of times than comp quarter-to-quarter.
So I mean if I do that… But again long story short yes we are having some impact on all the remerchandising going on in our portfolio.
So I mean if I take that longer view and look back over the past say two or three years in your numbers is there any reason to think as I look forward two or three years that you wouldn't be able to do kind of the same type of numbers I guess deeper into the economic cycle? Well listen history is a good indicator of what you might be able to do in the future but we would hope that all the stuff that we’re doing will accelerate the growth profile of those assets.
We have to execute believe me we are not out of the execution phase but I would think Paul at the end of the day that these assets are going to grow very very nicely and we’ll increase our comp NOI growth and meet our historical growth.
Now the fact is we’re subject to economic cycles we’re subject to tenants going bankrupt we are subject to downtime we’re subject to sales of our retailers volatility.
So we don't control everything but we’ve had a pretty good track record.
I would hope that would continue but it's not you don’t follow-up a lot for this stuff.
You got to do it each and everyday and our team was pretty good at it.
Thanks.
And then just my follow-up on the Sears joint venture.
How far you into the process of going through and saying: well here's what we're going to do near-term here we’d like to do longer-term.
And kind of how – the size of the potential redevelopment and the timing and when we might get some of those details? Hi it’s Rick.
We are very far along in that process we’ve already had multiple meetings with Seritage.
We have developed redevelopment plans for each of the assets they are in the process right now of being priced and as they become mature we will announce them and proceed forward but they include the addition of specialty stores mall expansion adding restaurants adding boxes and appropriately sizing Sears.
Bear in mind in our venture it’s almost 850 000 square feet of additional space if you are going to be able to redeploy along with those TBA auto centers.
So it’s a great opportunity and we are well into it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector.
I just wanted to focus a little bit more on the redevelopment pipeline.
David I believe you said that $1 billion through 2017 and I know it's been going on for a number of years now.
I mean what are your thoughts I guess at this point beyond 2017? Is that – by 2017 you are really at this point touching those top-producing assets? Or do you think you can expand that program beyond? Well I think as Rick mentioned I mean I do think Sears gives us whole host additional redevelopment opportunities.
We are closer and closer to starting – in fact we are actually starting the Southwest Corridor and Copley which is not in those numbers yet.
We are absent something really out of the expected we are going to start Copley very very shortly we've got fail safes in that investment but we are moving with speed to deliver that we think that's great Sears presents a lot of opportunities.
We've got outlets that we've done the big ones we’re doing a bunch of small ones that we need to look at.
Rick you want to add to it.
I would also tell you we’ve already announced the expansion in Jersey Gardens that’s going to be a major redevelopment we have announced the expansion of Sawgrass.
Right now we're finalizing an expansion of Colonnade redeveloping the Oasis.
And I can tell we are continuing the mine this portfolio and I believe we’ll have a continuing series of pretty substantial value add opportunities across all three of our platforms.
Okay thanks.
And then one of the other focuses that Craig and I have been paying attention to of course on the technology front the winners in the Simon Launch and in particular the SKU IQ.
So from where we sit I guess it's just been hard over the last year to really keep track of exactly what's going on here on these different initiatives.
Can you discuss either the winners or SKU IQ in particular and where you think this may go? Yes look I don't get mad at me Jeff but I believe we are happy to do – I think we are close to putting together with Skyler and Michael and investor I don’t know what you call them investor not roadshow but investor meeting to kind of layout all the investment we made and maybe with not exactly you maybe with somebody else but well-respected peer of yours and we’ll lay it out for the investment community all that different investments we've made and why.
So I think we’re shooting for sometime in October but there's a lot of neat stuff here.
These are little - in the scheme of things little investments but they run from creating energy efficiency with all of our LED lighting to helping retailers to actually new e-commerce ideas that may go to the mall.
So it’s a lot of different categories different levels of investment in the kind of the A B C rounds.
We’re happy to share that data.
It’s a lot though to do it on a call like this.
But we will be sharing a lot of that stuff with our investors.
Okay thanks.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim.
Thank you.
A quick follow-up first.
Have you bought any more shares post the quarter end? We operated - if you are familiar you have to operate under a 10(b) 15 rule once your quarter is completed.
We gave guidelines because you can't be in the market during that period of time and the guidelines that we gave to the broker were not met.
So the answer is we have not purchased any further.
Okay.
The second question is there any incremental change in trends you're noticing in the outlet business? Maybe not the premium at more infill outlets but maybe more secondary where maybe the pricing gap between full-line mall retailers and outlet businesses or retailers are maybe narrowing? You've seen like T.J.
Maxx and Ross doing better.
Have the secondary type of outlets - do you notice any less importance or less traffic or any kind of incremental trends? Not really I mean I think not really at all.
I mean I think our outlet retailers are very focused on finding the right balance between full price in outlet that’s why they are very focused on not overexposing the brand.
There have been certain retailers that have had disappointing sales both in full price and in outlet.
Outlet’s no different than full price in that if a retailer is not hitting it it will affect their sales in full-price and in outlet.
But no trend in that at all.
We have outlets in Cincinnati Columbus Indiana St.
Louis that are all doing just fine.
They are affected by retailers that may not be doing as well as they were a year ago but that's similar to the full price small business as well.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb.
Hey good morning out there.
Good morning.
Hey how are you? Just a few questions here David first just going back to the dividend and stock buyback certainly as you guys outlined where you want put your money redevelopment and development seems to be the first and foremost.
And then when you move down from there once you've solved for paying out appropriate with the taxable income it sounds like your bias is still towards increasing the dividend versus buyback.
So I just want to see if that’s the proper interpretation from your comments or if you are thinking that any excess cash may now go more towards buyback versus the strong dividend growth.
Well the dividend - listen this sounds weird but we're highly profitable right? So as our earnings increase you know our taxable income increases and therefore our dividend increases.
Very simple that’s the REIT model.
We’re great believers in the REIT model that’s why we are all here.
And so our dividend is going to increase.
There is just no two ways about it because we have created a very nice earnings machines as long as we don’t make mistakes about where we invest capital we’ll be in good shape.
So I always like increasing the dividend more than stock buybacks we had this unusual situation where we basically took one investment and felt the most immediate interesting return would be buying our stock back.
I think having the flexibility to buy it in a volatile market when there is a big disconnect is what will be focused on.
But I would continue to expect knock on wood that our earnings continue to move up we’re going to be focused on increasing our dividend.
And it’s under appreciated in the REIT sector but if you look at our dividend yield compared to our peer group and you look at our dividend growth in the expectations of a higher dividend growth.
We look like a cheap stock so I mean do what you want with that.
I guess I don’t know.
Well which as an analyst we can't do anything with it because we can't own it.
But obviously it's good to cash dividend checks.
Moving over to Europe you guys announced the JV with HBC in Germany and it involves a lot of High Street retail.
In the U.S.
you've shied away from doing High Street retail.
You've stuck to the malls and outlets.
So just sort of curious do you have a different view with High Street retail in Europe that you don't share in U.S.
or it’s really again just a pure credit play in focusing on retailers and you're not trying to do something as far as potential to get at High Street retail in Europe.
Look I think the market in the U.S.
with respect to High Street retail is sophisticated expenses there are lot of guys that have been added for a long-time.
We think Europe is a little bit different in that maybe there is more opportunity for us to do that just like the opportunity that we saw with Klépierre at the outset a few years ago.
So that’s not to say the HBC thing is a little bit of credit play it's a little bit accretive to grow vehicle it’s betting on.
I think extremely talented CEO and team in HBC.
These guys are entrepreneurs they are smart they are sophisticated they want to grow their business.
We are happy and pleased to be their partner and I think that entity ultimately will look to create a broader portfolio.
High Street Europe is a little more interesting maybe from evaluation point of view.
U.S.
is a little more pricey got a lot more sophisticated players but we’ll see how it evolves but we are making I think a good bet where we’ve got very strong partner strong assets strong credit and between the two of us that have the nose and instinct for good deals we should find some opportunities.
Okay that’s helpful.
Listen thank you.
Our next question comes from Vincent Chao.
Hey good morning everyone.
Just want to go back to the Sears JV.
Just curious in the context of investment opportunities there's a lot of chatter about different retailers doing something with their real estate.
Just curious if you are having more conversations with others on structures like the Sears or the HBC deals that you have.
Well I think there's got to be more than just marking or financing retailers real estate.
So for instance I can just contrast – the reason we did Sears is because partnered with them is because it’s all about redeveloping over time those boxes.
Sears’ store of the future may be part of it they may not be but that’s basically a redevelopment play.
HBC that contrast it was yes they got a mark out with real estate but to me we created – if HBC only wanted to just mark the real estate and do credit we wouldn’t have played we saw an opportunity to bet on a very accomplished entrepreneur great brands and low and behold we did the deal and they are buying the German department store but we are entering in German real estate in a big way.
If it's just marketing real estate or just a credit that’s not really exciting for us.
So we’re happy to talk strategically with our retailers about it but there's got to be more to it than just that.
And so I think this world will present opportunities but there's got to be more than just marketing the real estate whether it's redevelopment or creating a growth vehicle to go do something there's got to be more to it than what is just said.
That makes sense.
But I guess I would just – it seems like there would be plenty of redevelopment opportunities beyond just Sears although Sears offers plenty of opportunity in itself I guess.
But maybe just thinking about other areas I mean can you just comment on the McArthurGlen pipeline? I think there's one project that you were expecting to start here this year.
But how does the rest of the pipeline look like for potential additional developments there? Sure there is – in Provence we are in fact we just bought the land we are starting construction in September after the growing season believe it or not is finished and that’s an all systems go deal we are in the final throes of expand – about to start the expansion in Roermond which we'll be a partner in with other partners in that project.
We have pipeline in Normandy in Spain with – we are partnering with [Sonali] and we got – we are looking we are not quite there but we’re looking seriously expanding Venice.
So I would say it's a very active type in terms of new development and obviously to be able to build starting in September in South of France is very very exciting very pleasing.
Okay.
Just one last one cleanup question in terms of the guidance.
Assuming that does not include any future buybacks just what's closed already? Well Tom and I had this philosophical discussion today.
We are a pretty large company we are going to earn $10 a share this year thereabouts.
We have so many ins and outs we’re just not a portfolio we’ve got so many things going on.
That’s our best guess we put it all on the blender we give it you and it’s all subject to change quarter-over-quarter.
The good news is we hit our numbers knock on wood.
Hopefully we'll continue.
We don’t isolate one particular thing over another and we’ll see where it shakes out.
Okay thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Carol Kemple.
Good morning.
Good morning.
At this point with your other department store tenants are you seeing any of them want to right-size space like Sears? Not really we are constantly in conversations with them and we are doing a number of other potential things involving relocating department stores.
For example at Stamford we had a Bloomingdale's that was oversized we worked with them they built a brand new store and now we’re redeveloping the old Bloomingdale's into small shops.
Did the same thing with Saks at Houston Galleria.
So it’s a very dynamic process.
We’re constantly in conversation with them and we’re doing a lot of things as a result of that.
But there is not another store out there that has the kind of focused programmatic approach to decreasing their footprint size.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Mueller.
Yes hi.
Just going back to Sears again what's a rough idea of the dollars that could be invested in those 10 or 11 boxes over time? I think we’re going to use that on a project by project basis but obviously as we’ve articulated it’s a substantial opportunity and it would certainly be in a larger amount as opposed to a lesser amount.
But it depends on the scope of the individual projects but that is to come.
Got it.
Okay.
So it sounds like it could be in the couple - in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
Potentially yes.
Got it.
Then I guess how does it work? If you demolish a Sears box and do a major expansion well beyond the footprint do they participate in that? Or is it just to the scope of the footprint? Each project is differently.
But in the Sears venture they own a part of the Seritage our venture owns a parcel of land.
So the venture would be focusing its redevelopment efforts on the parcel of land that is owned in the venture.
And that would be the extent of the activity in the venture.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Caitlin Burrows.
Hi good morning.
Just quick question on occupancy and the impact of bankruptcies from earlier in the year.
I think we were pretty happily surprised to see that your second-quarter occupancy and same-store NOI were actually somewhat stronger than the first quarter.
I was just wondering if you could go through some of the progress on re-leasing that space and when you expect to have made up for the lost occupancy and NOI.
I will just say our goal we are going to – we still think we will come close to our year end occupancy of last year but its going to be - its not a no-brainer.
It could slip what I’d say immaterially but others may have a different view of that so I respect that.
But we’re trending up we are making progress and I think we’ve got momentum but it takes time.
So our goal is still try to get back to last year.
But we lost what Rick? 940 000 Yes 940 000 feet so that’s a lot of work.
So we are little bit on the treadmill but we're a fit athlete and we're running...
David is speaking for himself.
I wish.
I would just add one thing that we are making very good progress going through it and it is an opportunity its hard work it has the short-term impact but the tenants that we are brining in are certainly higher productivity tenants from the sales perspective and so far the rents that we’ve been able to generate or in excess of the rents that we are being paid by the former tenants that when bankrupt.
Got it.
Then just also is there anything you could say on the difference you're seeing in re-leasing the space at say your trophy properties versus whatever you would call the next tier and the next tier of your properties? Look it's axiomatic that the higher-productivity properties have a broader band of interest but that’s what we do and happily we're also blessed with a portfolio that is predominantly those strong properties.
Great.
Okay thank you.
You are welcome.
Our next comes from Linda Tsai.
Hi.
I'm not sure if this is something you could comment on deeply but when you look at your redevelopment plans for Sears do you think you're approaching your plans any differently from GGP or Macerich? Or is it relatively straightforward in terms of figuring out what the property is missing and splitting boxes and adding entertainment? Look I think they’re very – they are both very confident developers redevelopers.
So at the end of the day my guess is it’s not going to be all that crazily different.
But it’s so much of that dependent upon the location and the local market but they’re both confident developers.
I would probably venture to say it will be similar but if they are better than us we intend to copy immediately okay.
Then retail is cyclical and while there's been a recent wave of closures you also noted that there's also a lot of entrepreneurial concepts popping up.
Do you think there's anything different about the cycle time around as it relates to maybe omnichannel selling or bifurcation amongst brands catering to high-end or low-end consumers? Well look would you say generally there is obviously the whole movement towards value on one hand and luxury on the other continues.
The general – the good news about that is we’re positioned in both of those barbells extremely well.
But that’s not to say people lose sight of that that's not to say the middle American mall isn't doing well.
Its part of the community it’s ignored from a media point of view there's assumptions made about those assets there is extrapolation because one mall went out of business that all malls are going out of business.
But I would say to you that the solid middle malls throughout America continue to do well serve their purpose.
But you’ll clearly see a movement in a lot of retailers from either aspirational higher end goods or value.
There is no question about that.
One comment I would make to you on the new retailers we are dealing with is that they are substantially more sophisticated than the crop of new retailers we dealt with say 10 years ago better financed much more focused on their niche and it’s been much easier to deal this new crop of entrepreneurs than might have been the case.
Look in today's world we’ll have to be better we’ll have to be on our game better.
So that comes with – okay what industry it’s – let’s say I mean everybody the rapid changes in the world is putting pressure on every industry every operator and that’s why you got a strong people strong assets and strong balance sheet to deal with it all.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa.
Thanks.
Just a couple quick questions.
Rick if you look at kind of the sales and leasing trends is there anything that you can talk about regionally? Any big differences that you see? Look there are a couple of differences across the thing in our business.
The Great Lakes Southeast and Pacific are stronger; mountain and New England were a little weaker.
The better categories were home furniture food personal care jewelry and athletic shoes.
Okay.
I mean I say Steve you clearly – the stronger dollar and the economic upheavals in growing markets but with wealthy people Brazil what's going on with China and their focus on obviously Europe with the stronger dollar.
I mean it has impacted sales in the high tourist centers and we’ve got them.
I mean there is no question.
We've got them in South Florida.
We've got them in Orlando.
We don't have New York City we have Woodbury which is been relatively flat and that's usually a center that grows every year I think that’s more of all the stuff going on with the center and the tourism but the tourism centers have had a little softness you see in the hotel industry.
So we are not immune to that.
I presume that's not having much of an impact on leasing just given their long-term nature.
Or do you actually think it's impacting leasing at all? I would say it had no impact on leasing.
Okay.
And then David any just update kind of the Copley kind of residential project? Well I mentioned it briefly earlier which is look we’re doing the Southwest Corridor.
We’re finalizing the permit and there which is more administrator.
So it is all shaping up to we start to dig down to support the foundation going up that's all moving should start the Southwest Corridor should start in the next month.
So we have certain fail safe the way that building is being constructed we have fail safes so for instance we are going to do the Southwest Corridor first which is because we’ve got to create a new entrants to create the way to build.
We have to go down into the Turnpike so we have to create new entrance first.
That’s happening that’s been approved by us then we go down into the Turnpike then we go up to support this field going up.
So we will be making that incremental decision but once we do the Southwest we will do that.
And then building the podium is where it's really guts poker that’s a year decision from now but all systems are go and we are cranking we don’t see any reason to stop.
So we – the kind of nice thing about this is that we can stop looking this for the market a year from now and yes we would have an investment in it but we’ll always be able to go up.
I don't see any reason why we wouldn't go up but we are certainly going to go down and build our way up to create the platform to build the power.
Okay and then just last question.
Anything on Deliv? That kind of system just seems to have taken a backseat.
Haven't heard much about it.
Any thoughts about that or how it's working or…? I would comment on Deliv that Macy's just recently announced that they are expanding the footprint of stores in which Deliv is going to be working with them.
So that is certainly a positive sign and we continue to believe that there is a significant role for all of our properties to play in the fulfillment aspect of an omnichannel retail business and it's moving a pace.
So Rick do you think it’s more a function of just consumers not really realizing it exists to kind of get more critical mass? I think it’s just the function of getting the systems right getting the retail so the point were they are ready to fulfill from their store that there is a big systems upgrade it’s going on right now across the entire industry.
And ultimately there is going to be a seamless integrated experience for our consumers and certainly fulfilling from the store to their home has going to be part of that and Deliv can be part of that solution.
Okay thanks.
Our next question comes from DJ Busch.
Thank you.
Just one quick follow-up on Sears.
Given the potential size of the capital spend for some of the Sears projects that you were talking about earlier if Seritage can't meet its share of the capital requirements is there an opportunity for you to put up a disproportionate amount of the capital to potentially grow your interest in the joint venture? Well that have to be a negotiated – that would have to be a negotiated part of the deal but it seems to me they have got the balance sheet to be able to do that but I’m sure we could figure it out as they didn’t.
But is it correct to assume you guys are controlling kind of the process and the strategies at each of the center? We’re joint venture partners it’s both – it’s approval on both sides.
I’d say we are taking the lead on coming up with the plans and the redevelopment and the different uses.
But they are riding copilot with us.
And I would also say to you that we have significant another number of Sears stores that are not in our venture that are in Seritage.
And when we meet with Seritage we’re actively working with them as we have done in the past to help them redeploy those phases in a productive way and an example of that is King of Prussia where Dick's now opened and Primark is opening this fall.
And between the two of them they will 100% occupy the former Sears store.
And just a follow up on that Rick.
With Seritage kind of taking control of the Sears space and the talks of other department stores potentially monetizing the real estate do you see any difference in the operations? I know it's early but do you see any potential impact to the way you negotiate or lease or deal with the anchors if the landlord is no longer the retailer? No.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes they don’t have the infrastructure to get stuff done like we do.
So I don't see the dynamics changing.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim.
Thank you.
Just a quick follow-up.
I know most of the conversations are always circling around upgrading quality and reinvesting in your better assets.
But given that you do have some of your walls tied into WPG and the history there and just because the stock price has gotten cheaper over the past year is there a certain point where a lower-quality portfolio might look interesting just because it's so cheap? Or should we just basically consider this like a permanent divorce? I don't know even how to interpret your question.
We spun off WPG well over a year ago.
They are separate independent company they are focused on the strip center and the B mall business.
You can hear that directly from them we do services for them that ultimately will go away mid next year and their growth opportunities are better discussed with them.
I think our focus as you seen over the years is to buy the bigger assets or assets that we feel we can improve upon but the primary focus is on our redevelopment or finding different vehicles for growth whether its Europe whether its HBC et cetera and continue to grow our business.
I said the amount of the big deal business we are not going to buy B assets I think that’s better for others to do given what’s on our plate but I’m not sure I answered the question but I tried.
Yes you kind of did.
I was just basically asking if there's a certain price where something like that would be interesting again? I think that this is better for others to do but that’s not up to me to.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Rich Moore.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
My question David was kind of on the flip side of that.
You have 200 assets.
If you rank them all does it make sense to get rid of 190 through 200? That kind of thing? Well we are always doing that we just do it – we don’t do it ahead of that so we have a deal that’s closing mid-August that was a lot work and we just didn’t want to deal with it.
We are closed on another deal so we do that all.
Rich I know if you looked at our history sold a bunch of stuff so what we get we’ll always sell assets always part of… Okay so are you marketing things actively or is it just sort of an opportunistic? Yes? Okay.
Yes.
We market.
We've marketed - the two that I am referring to were marketed yes.
Got it.
Okay.
Then on the lease term income you guys got this quarter it was kind of big.
I'm curious; I know you can't tell each quarter what's going to happen.
But is that something that's going to pick up here you think in the last two quarters of the year? Are there more discussions you're having on this kind of thing? There could be a few deals here or there.
But if you look at it year-over-year year-to-date it’s not all that different 2014.
So it’s lumpy towards lumpy but I don’t think it’s going to be all that different Steve right? From But the same as 2014.
Same as 2014 that’s the business that’s lumpy in terms of quarter-to-quarter it actually relatively consistent year-over-year.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
End of Q&amp;A I would now like to turn the call over to David for closing remarks.
Okay thank you.
Have a wonderful last few weeks to summer.
Sorry to have ruined your Friday on a summer Friday.
Enjoy.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you so much for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
And you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Q3 2015 Simon Property Group Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Julie and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Tom Ward VP of Investor Relations please proceed sir.
Thank you Julie.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Presenting on today’s call is David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Also on the call are Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; Andy Juster Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Broadwater Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we begin a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today's press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please note that this call includes information that may be accurate only as of today's date.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the press release with supplemental information in today's form 8-K filing.
Both the press release and the supplemental information are available on our IR website at investors.simon.com.
For our prepared remarks I am pleased to introduce David Simon.
Good morning we had a productive quarter.
We opened started and completed several new projects and closed our joint venture with HBC including the acquisition of certain cop-op department store which will serve as another avenue of growth for us.
And most importantly we continue to produce strong operating and financial performance.
Results in the quarter were highlighted by FFO of $2.54 per share which exceeded the first call consensus by $0.07.
These results were achieved even with the negative impact of $0.04 in the quarter compared to the prior year quarter due to the strong dollar.
On a comparable basis excluding the loss on the extinguishment of debt in the prior year period FFO per diluted share increased 12.9% or $0.29 year-over-year.
Key metrics occupancy was 96.1%.
Leasing activity remains healthy.
The malls and outlets recorded releasing spreads of $11 per square foot an increase of 18.4%.
Comp NOI increased 4.3% in the third quarter of 2015 an increase 3.8% year-to-date keeping us on track for full year guidance of 4% comp NOI growth.
This is on top of our industry leading growth of more than 5% in 2014.
As a reminder we do not include lease settlement income in comp NOI disclosure or new transaction.
We also do not include the impact of recently redeveloped or expanded centers.
Total sales across the portfolio increased 1.8% for the trailing 12 months even with the loss of bankrupt tenants.
On a comparable basis the sales per square foot increased for the 12 months ended September 30 was 2.7% positive.
They were strong in the mall but effective in the outlet business due to the strong dollar as had on sales activity from the international tourist in property zone; the Canadian Mexican borders as well as traditional tourist markets.
At the end of the third quarter redevelopment and expansion projects are ongoing at thirty properties across all three of our platforms with a total committed spend of $1.7 billion.
During the quarter we opened significant expansion at two of the country's most productive outlet centers San Francisco premium outlet centers and Chicago Premium Outlets.
Following the expansion the outlets in Chicago and San Francisco are the largest respectively.
In Illinois and California we have recently opened the Fashion Wing at Del Amo.
The Wing includes a new Nordstrom and more than a hundred exceptional brands many of them exclusive to the trade area.
With this transformation we have completed Del Amo is just another example how we continue invest in our proven assets to enrich the shoppers experience and enhance the value of our real estate.
We have started construction on several new strategic projects during the quarter including significant redevelopments at the shops of Riverside the Westchester and our progress is excellent with our Sears boxes at Seritage.
As we move forward construction continues on major redevelopment expansion projects.
Some of our most productive properties including Roosevelt Field The Galleria and Houston Stanford Shopping Center the King of Prussia Mall Sawgrass Mills and Woodbury Commons; all of these projects we expect to be completed over the next 12 months.
In terms of new development we opened two new in the quarter Vancouver and Gloucester.
We also opened Tucson Premium Outlets on October 01.
And we are opening Tampa on Thursday of this week.
During the quarter we started construction on a new premium outlet center in Clarksburg which is projected to open in October 2016.
We are also with our partner McArthurGlen.
We started construction on a new outlet and Provouge Spranz which is scheduled to open in March of 2017 which will be the only designer outlet in the south of France.
And our share of investment at new outlets in full price is currently 725 million not including the recently completed Gloucester and Vancouver.
And let's talk quickly about the balance sheet activities.
We issued $1.1 billion of new notes with the weighted average duration of 7.8 years and an average coupon of 3.05%.
We completed several secured placements during the quarter as well as the U.S.
and German loan facility financings for a joint venture with HBC.
Our current liquidity between the revolvers and cash on hand is approximately 6 billion.
Our industry leading balance sheet continues to differentiate us in a very positive manner.
We exercised caution during the third quarter with respect to our common stock repurchase program and did not repurchase any stock during the period due to the increased market volatility and the dislocation in the debt markets.
We remain committed to our buyback efforts of course subject to marking into conditions.
In addition we announced our dividend of $1.60 per share for this quarter.
That's an increase of 23% year-over-year and in fact that's the fourth consecutive quarter that we've increased our dividend.
We will pay $6.05 in 2015 and that's an increase of 17.5% compared to $5.15 of last year.
So with all that said no one is as active as we are in terms of redevelopment and new development.
And I'm pleased based upon the performance to date.
Once again we raise our guidance of 2015 of $10.10 to $10.15 per share.
This compares to our original FFO guidance of 9.60 to 9.70 per share or approximately $0.48 higher from the respective midpoints.
We are now ready for question.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Please go ahead sir.
You are live into the call.
It's Michael Bilerman here with Christine Kilroy.
David your comment about the stock buyback being I guess it's a volatile stock market and some uncertainties in the debt markets; isn't that exactly the time where you should be exercising your fortress balance sheet and significant cash proceeds to be able to buy the stock.
I know high insight is 2020 watching the stock go up $27 but I'm just curious about the mentality at that point in time about not being aggressive at that point.
Well Michael I think stock buybacks in terms of the marketplace reaction to the may be overstated.
What I'm most interested in at this company is growing our earnings and our dividend and maintaining our balance sheet improving our properties and enhancing our relationship.
So I don’t look at it quarter by quarter basis.
We are more focused on growing our earnings per share and our dividend.
And the fact is that in August the market was very volatile as you know the debt markets gapped pretty significantly.
We chose for one quarter to be cautious.
I have no regrets about that because our number one priority is to grow our earnings and our dividends.
And that to me is more important and I think that's what the market should value more importantly than what one's buyback activity may be from one quarter to the next.
We remain committed to it while we're going to be opportunistic about that because we continue to believe.
I'm terrible at reading from the script.
I can barely get the words out.
But as you know our activity in redevelopment and new development is not hypothetical.
It is ongoing and I think prudence in that category of the buyback is appropriate.
And again I think our number one priority is earnings growth and therefore dividend growth.
And then buy stock back when we feel like it's a real opportunistic time.
And that Christine has a question as well.
Sure.
Hey David just thinking about the Simon venture Group stuff and we appreciate the in-depth look at that business earlier this month beyond just sort of the small financial investment you've made what do you view as the primary benefit of this business to Simon over the longer term as consumers shopping habits continue to evolve and maybe you can sort of give us a sense of how big you think that your investment in this business could reach over time? Well let me just talk about what I think the goal is ultimately it's to help connect with the consumer.
The mall business is historically as always felt like the our job was to get the box reach to the right retailers and let the retailers do most of the connecting and driving most of the traffic but I think the industry has a evolved where we've got to become the driver of traffic and we've got to connect with the consumers.
So what I'm looking for in that those investments and that connection with technology is how do I connect with the consumer to drive traffic and make their shopping trip more enjoyable or more effective two: how do I help the retailer do that as well and then maybe third is there some new concept or new retailer that ultimately can proliferate our portfolio through these kind of connections.
And if we can accomplish those two or three goals then I think we will have succeeded.
And it's all about trying to take the mall box making a smart connected box to help our retailers and the property owner connect with the consumer so that their trip is better more efficient and more productive which we think will lead to sales growth.
So that's the goal.
We may do a little bit here and there that's a little far afield like funding the new retail or restaurant concept because we think maybe that has potential down the road and in terms of size we're not going to get carried away but it's really hard to pinpoint right now exactly how big that can be but we have a sense where we're kind of will ultimately be in the mid-20s by the end of this year maybe we'll do another type of investment like that next year.
So it wouldn't shock me if we are in there 50+ range by the end of next year but that's just a swag.
Thank you for your question.
We do have another question and it comes from the line of Jeff Spector from Bank of America.
Please go ahead sir you are live into the call.
Great thank you good morning.
I guess just thinking about the bumps throughout the year David what exceeded your expectations and how were you thinking about the budgeting process for 2016? I guess can you compare year-over-year your mindset? Well I think what's interesting before the end perspective first of all is that as you look at our earnings growth we have had an increase in lease settlement income but we've also had the negative of the currency negative from our foreign operations.
If you put the two together over ’14 we've actually had a negative $0.05 variance.
So the increase in the lease settlement income from ’15 to ’14 offset against the reduction in earnings that we've taken from our foreign investments due to the strong dollar net-net year-to-date has been a negative $0.05.
So you have to put that in perspective.
We've had good rental growth good leasing spreads.
We are obviously had a lot more bankruptcies in ’15 than we did in ’14 and the other impact we've had on the negative side is that we've lost certain amount of percentage rent from the outlet business because of the fact that the strong dollar has also heard tourism shopping and we've seen that impacted more in the outlet business the outlet tourists centers then we had in the mall business.
The mall comp sales have been a better than our expectations and our leading portfolio in terms of that.
So the fact is we always though year in and year out that's what makes us a little bit unique we always had some positives we always had some negatives and we somehow manage to hit our numbers exceed our numbers produce very strong industry leading results.
I'd also say to you as we look into next year I mean the key focus for us frankly is we have anniversary the stronger dollar.
So that will not be the negative it was this year and the big focus obviously is going to be leasing up the bankrupt tenants were probably 60% to 70% on our way there a total loss score footage is the [million three].
So we've got our work cut out but we've seen this movie before.
The good news is we have quality real estate that allows us to do it and we have other leverages to continue to have industry leading comp growth.
And I think the big exciting thing that we've got in ’16 which won't show up in our numbers is all of the major redevelopment that we've done between King of Prussia Roosevelt Field Stanford I want Craig to go see Del Amo it's unbelievable what we've started there of course we're still finishing it.
It's a big complicated projects but we've got Woodbury Common coming on board we've got the extension of Sawgrass colonnade new development et cetera is going to be really terrific to open up in the latter half of ’16 which positions us ’17.
The model is reinvest generate excess cash flow pay high dividends and I should of course remind you that our dividend [indiscernible] was $3 and actually $2.70 it’s $6.05 today we'll have significant growth in next year as well but we've got to show up and we've got to go work every day.
Thank you that's helpful.
Good timing on the yes? I hope it answered your question but I'm not but we've got work to do and we have one thing about comp and alike if you look at nine I'm sorry if you look at ’13 I don't know 5% what we have guys 5% ’14 we had 5% this year we are going to have 4%.
So we are building it up a pretty strong base and we didn't have any down years of non-performance to build it off right.
So it's great to build also base if you had non-performance but we haven't had that frankly and in the great recession our comp and ally was relatively flat which was industry leading as well.
No it's very helpful thank you and good timing on the Del Amo because I know Craig has put in a request to visit it.
Come on down.
Great.
And then my only my one other question was just on your previous comments on the redevelopment pipeline.
We believe you've mentioned through ’17 or you at the point where you think that pipeline could continue a billion plus beyond ’17? Are we correct on that? Yes.
I feel pretty good about that.
Yes.
Beyond ’17 or not yet? Yes no no.
Oh beyond? Okay.
No rest for [indiscernible] so this morning we're going through our budget cycle now which is a lot of fun but this morning we were going through our capital plan through ’16 and ’17 and ’18.
And we don't see it abating it’s actually in’17 it will be higher probably around $1.5 billion and in’18 in that range.
And the big unknown is how fast the Seritage things happen.
We are not it’s a joint venture.
So it's not just the question of how fast we can go but also how fast Seritage can goes and how fast Sears can go which is clearly we're trying to influence but we don't have complete control in that but we certainly have a lot on the drawing board to do there.
Great thank you.
Thank you feel question.
We do have another question it comes from the line of Caitlin Burrows from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead you are live into the call.
Hi good morning.
Earlier this year mall REITs were of course impacted across the board by retailer bankruptcies but your same-center occupancy was down 80 basis points this quarter which is actually more than the first and second which seems surprising.
So I was just wondering if you could talk about what drove that year-over-year decline in occupancy to remain in the third quarter and how you expect it turn going forward.
We had more bankruptcies in the third quarter.
So Jones went out just more bankruptcies and then we've also opened up a few centers which had some decrease.
We just saw people understand we don't in our statistics we put in new centers.
The minute the rent in terms of occupancy or new expanded centers.
They're not in our comps NOI growth but they are in our sales per square foot and they're in our occupancy.
So part of that decrease was also that we added some new centers and some new expanded centers which actually drove our occupancy down [flat plenty depth] as well.
Got it and then like you're mentioning before you guys have had consistent pretty strong same store NOI growth but do you think that this creates some easy occupancy comp for 2016 and that should be able to help you even more? Nothing is easy if you see my grade here recently.
Nothing is easy.
Well I won't say anything about gold but we did read this retail report; we found your list of 100 malls curious so I assume the real estate folks didn't have much to do with that but we're happy to help you.
It will.
Our retail team that put it together.
Right and you quoted traffic statistics which I would encourage you read the footnotes from your source.
We will do.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Happy to help.
Thank you for your question.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan from Canaccord please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just on the sales trends I mean could you talk a little bit about it I mean whether and to what extent the tourist markets were drag due to the dollar or maybe looking at any differences between the Mall and the premium outlet portfolio.
We're not going to run from this.
We're just going to tell you reality.
We have unbelievable tourist centers.
In our outlet business Orlando Woodberry throughout Las Vegas and those generate a lot of tourism dollars and the tourists because of the strong dollar you know was quiet.
The high end luxury retail market in say New York City and Miami has been hurt as well and we saw that have an usually it has very little impact but we saw that a little bit more in the outlet business and very little in the mall business.
We think it's more or less temporary these are great assets has no impact on retail demand and we've seen a space that comp NOI growth but that’s why the sales metrics are a bigger reaction from you than they are from me but we tell like it is.
So they had an impact on our retail sales per square foot but we don't think it's going to have an impact on our ability to continue to grow comp NOI growth.
Okay that give some other question I guess which is just if you look at the public retailers a lot of them or at least stocks have gotten hit pretty hard over the past several months and as we head into the holidays I mean as you talk to them engage with them about they're open to buys for next year.
I mean how is their sentiment? Is it been shifting at all? Is this just kind of sort of the shift in market share between different retailers or is there anything more kind of systematic in terms of maybe how they're approaching their growth over the next year or two? I'd say this it’s retail dependent but they are better retailers who are dealing with the stronger dollar which has it short term impact on them and second the fact is our GDP growth is anemic I mean we are growing our general economy 2% below I think retail can’t avoid that fact.
The good news is we outperform not because we cater to generally the better consumer and what I think we've seen from the better consumer this year is a little bit move toward which happens in cycles a little bit more toward durable goods than non-durable goods which has the impact of making kind of a flattish comp sales growth increase but like I said the mall business we had very strong comp NOI I'm sorry comp sales retail sales growth this year and which was offset as I said only by the tourist centers in the outlet business.
So net-net we are up 2.7 but if I isolated just the mall we'd be up much higher than that and that is a testament even though in the anemic GDP growth the better consumer is spending even though there's been a significant increase in durable goods purchases but retail right now is generally a challenge but we're producing results and we intend to continue to do that.
I mean would you Would you say it kind of hasn't translated into a meaningful shift in the appetite for space in your centers as people talk about next year? Not really.
I think the opportunity to growth their business in good real estate for better retailers is strong and I don't see the current environment affecting that.
Great.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thank you for your question.
The next question comes from Ross Nussbaum from UBS.
Please go ahead.
I am here with Jeremy Metz.
Hey David when we met the other day you talked a little bit about the amount of money that consumers are spending in your mall for every minute they are there saying there's like a one-to-one ratio I am curious if you've done any work to think about spending of millennials and teens versus say their parents to sort of further dig into whether the impact of the internet and technology is going to be a growing problem just from a generational perspective? I don't have in front of me but yes we've looked at you know the typical generational gaps that you would see Baby Boomers Generation X and so on yes I don't have that in front of me but those numbers are-- it's not it's not what you think it.
I mean in other words there was not a big differential between Generation X and millennials.
The one thing we're starting to see is the Baby Boomers probably more of a trend on their decreased expenditures than anything else.
Again I think the millennials offer great opportunity for us because they're looking for they are generally going through their increased income opportunity over the next decade.
It's a huge population base greater than even the Baby Boomers.
These folks will get married.
They will have children.
They will move out of urban environments especially with the more difficult living conditions that's going on a lot of urban environments.
They are we believe loyal mall shopping consumers.
And we're making the mall generally a better experience for them to be at.
So I don't think there's a big differential.
I don't have the numbers in front of me.
It did grew up in the mall environment.
They're comfortable with the mall environment.
And as their income grows and as they aged and have kids I think they'll be loyal mall shoppers especially given the environment we're creating.
I appreciate that.
I think Jeremy has got a question as well.
Sure.
Just two quick ones.
In terms of the lease cancellation income it was the high suspend long time.
David earlier you mentioned Jones.
I was just wondering if there is any other tenants in particular to maybe drove I think Forever 21 was in a few supersized locations.
They were looking to downsize not sure if they were a part of it this quarter? No Forever 21.
It’s basically the big one was Jones.
There were couple of others that year to date that we dealt with but I hate going through retail.
Retailers on that it's somewhat confidential.
The good news is lease settlement income does have been slow the good news is that it's not any time we do that we still have this space.
So if I get three years of rent and then I get the chance to lease the space back again I mean that’s a good business there is nothing wrong with that and to put the earnings in perspective I mean may not have caught the original response to the earlier question net-net when I look at the stronger dollar from our foreign investments versus the increase in a lease settlement income from ’14 to ’15.
I'm in the whole $0.05 year to date.
So please keep that mind as you think about our business.
And then just switching gears quickly Highwoods recently announced they were looking to sell Country Club Plaza.
I was just wondering is that something Simon would be interested in or any thoughts on where that process is at? I understand that there is a process.
I think it's a good real estate.
It's got a good position and it's marketplace.
But beyond that I am not informed in terms of numbers or anything else or profit but I understand there's a process and it's always been very good real estate good market.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
Thank you for your question.
The next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just may be sticking with leasing I'm just curious David do you think the increase in lease settlement income you are getting foreshadows potentially more space coming back to you guys after the holiday season through bankruptcy? I actually think it’s tailing down.
As I look at what generated the list it’s a couple of odd things and our watch-list is actually the guys that we were worried about is kind of happened and done that.
So it's out there it's possible but I actually think next year it will be less it will be less impacted by bankruptcies than we were this year.
Okay and switching gears I'm just curious for your take is Macerich has taken to joint venturing some assets at a low to mid four cap rate that we've been told are fairly middle of the pack for them.
Does that pricing in the market maybe lead you to feel there might be pockets of your portfolio where you are open to JVs or even selling out of some assets entirely to expand your repurchase initiatives? I don’t really I want to rephrase it.
I only want to comment on what may switch did so.
I'm just curious as a comp for transactions in the market does something in the 4s compel you to say gee maybe you'd look at selling your assets to fuel repurchases? I don't know.
I mean the fact to the matter is where we are very comfortable with what we're doing.
We sell our assets there generally is complexity when you go to joint ventures.
We like to do joint ventures when there's new opportunities because there is it's easier to justify.
So for instance just to take a few with that we're pleased to be part of a new joint ventures on a couple of the new developments like Brickell and Clearfork very good partners.
Great real estate.
That was the only way we could do that.
I like those kind of joint ventures where it's more new opportunity than otherwise we sell assets we sold a bunch of assets don't forget we did a significant spin off of our strip centers in our smaller malls.
I don't I don't rule it out.
I don't think we necessarily it's not our priority to do.
The priority for us is to grow our innings grow our dividend execute our redevelopment development pipeline.
And we have the buyback and I don't think we necessarily need the capital from existing properties in terms of a joint venture that execute on the buyback.
Speaking of JVs I guess you teamed up with Hudson Bay to acquire was it Galeria Kaufhof Stores? What can you tell us about those properties and just maybe what are your plans of those locations down the road? Well it's great.
Mostly city center real estate in Germany which is a very strong market very little retail space per capita as compared to the U.S.
as an example.
It's got built in growth even if it just stays kind of the credit lease that it is but we think there is some ability to redevelop some of the stores take back some of the front edge much like we are doing with some of the department stores here in the U.S.
And it's a strong cash flow business appropriately valued with some redevelopment upside.
Thank you for your question.
We do have another question and it comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just going back to your retailer watch list comments last year when we had RadioShack Wet Seal and Deb Shops and Delia's and some others how early did you have a read into that they would go BK overall? Those particular ones? In general.
I was just curious how much of an early warning sign does the watch list provide to you? Pretty early.
We certainly can see this coming a long way away based on the trends of what their leasing activity is or sales activity when they probably reported they are looking for new equity so none of these are surprises but as David said the ones that want to away they had been on the ropes for years and years and they just ultimately ran out of the incremental equity sources and out of file.
Okay.
Maybe if you could put it in an easily digestible number.
You mentioned 1.3 million square feet that was impacted this year.
In broad numbers what does that look like next year? It’s hard to predict what next year is going to be but as David said we anticipate that the next year will certainly not be as large year on bankruptcies as we had this year.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
I know we spent quite a bit of time on the impact of the dollar and tourism sales but just curious if you could maybe give some more specific color about Miami and then specifically Brickell Center.
Well Miami is feeling some of the heat from obviously Latin America but actually the leasings at Brickell.
Brickell is doing very well.
It's opening fall of next year.
We've been announcing periodically the tenants that are starting up with the wonderful mix of designer tenants and restaurants and it is anchored by Saks with the Cinema.
And if you have been down there it's a very incredible project with two condo towers the East Hotel and two office buildings in addition to the retail in a market that is really the financial center of that market.
So we're very excited about it going forward.
Okay so safe to say no impact on demand despite some of the maybe tourism impacts in the near-term so similar to your comments for the other overall.
I think what I said earlier is consistent with that retailers.
Now look that's going to attract the better long term thinking retailers.
So the fact that tourism is a little soft right now; doesn't detract the better retailer.
When I say better I'm not just talking mix but just they're better retailers.
So I was just trying to explain to you what's been reported in our sales per square foot but I also made the comment to you I don't think that is going to detract from the demand of our real estate and our ability to drive comp NOI because we're going after the better retailers.
And the better retailers will work through a quarter or two of sales volatility for whatever reason.
And that's the point I've been trying to make to a lot of folks a lot of time over retail sales.
Retail sales is interesting but not a predictor comp NOI growth and we've done all sorts of regression analysis.
I've talked about this ad nauseam but we report the facts for you to have but it doesn't detract from the ability to generate increased cash flow because that's more supply and demand oriented and what the market rent of our space rolling over is and what that particular location is and we got a good space and a good mall you're going to be there to generate given that rent will lower that rent has been there for seven years.
You go look at where that rent was rolling over seven years ago.
So and that's why we are re-leasing spreads of 11 bucks a foot.
That's the focus.
The volatility of retail sales is more interesting from a retailer point of view less from the landlord.
So take New York City street retail.
There is volatility in that retail sales there but has the market value of that real estate changed.
Probably if you talk to a lot of people they would probably tell you no.
We have another question from the line of Mike Muller from JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
A couple of questions here.
One you may have indirectly answered before but what was your share of the lease term that you booked this quarter? It’s in our supplemental.
The share of it is because I thought that was the consolidated amount? Well if it is consolidated that's our share.
We may have a little minority interest in that.
But if it is consolidated it's our share right? And then secondly on the outlet development side can you talk a little bit about the returns you are seeing when you compare Europe starts to US to Asia and how you think about the pecking order of opportunities? I would say that the due development in Europe tends to be a little lower than -- our developments here around a 11% return on cost generally.
In Europe they may be a touch lower say 8 or 9 to start with.
And in Asia we really don’t do unless they are double digits because you got tax impact and we want a better risk adjusted return.
I would say they are probably around the 12% or 13% range.
Got it.
Okay.
And I guess as you are thinking about opportunities going forward is it more skewed towards the US for new starts at this point or do you think you're going to see a little bit more pickup in Europe? Europe like I said we're really excited on the Provence deal 90% of it's -- it's a big project and a big market that hasn’t seen a quality outlet like that.
So that's good news.
There are two or three others through McArthurGlen that were making good progress and one in Spain that we hope to start construction in '16 as we go through the permitting.
So that's up there as well.
Another one in the western part of Paris that we are making good progress on other one in Belgium where we are making good progress on.
And in Asia we've got two or three others that are a little more difficult to predict but we've got our second one in Malaysia that we’re confident that we will get started as well as Mexico.
In Mexico we expect to start one next year as well.
So we're making progress.
The next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple from Hilliard Lyons.
Please go ahead.
How does your volume of temporary and pop-up tenants for this holiday season compare to the recent past? And then historically do you know what rate of those tenants convert to a longer-term lease once their temporary lease expires? The pop-up generally they don’t convert -- the main pop-ups to decide whether they want to do a longer term deal.
But I would say generally there is an increase this year primarily because we have a little bit more space from the bankruptcies that we've had this year.
But Carol just to remind you we don’t include that in our occupancy.
It's got to be a year in that but there will be more activity in pop-up stores for the season just because now we have got a little bit more vacancy due to some of the bankruptcies.
And I was thinking of your American Girl Store that's open in Castleton I've seen where they are basically doing that to test the Indianapolis market.
Are you seeing more retailers not just doing a pop-up store for the season but more so to actually test the market? You are starting to see a little bit more of that.
I think that's safe to say.
We do have another question that comes from the line of Ryan Peterson from Sandler O'Neill please go ahead.
I just wanted to ask about the Houston Galleria and the Houston market and if you guys have seen any change in the shopper demographics there or the retail sales trends more generally and what your expectations are going forward? In what sense? Just whether you think that Houston will be hit whether retail is kind of the second impact of oil prices there? Our Galleria is such a great asset.
It tends to -- it's kind of the unambiguous number one.
For market of that size it's kind of unambiguous number one shopping center.
So it tends to whether any economic downturn generally but I will say this.
Our retailers are not immune to a little bit of a down economy and Houston is also a big tourist market for the Mexican nationals.
So there might be some slight sales retail sales impact.
But it will have no impact to the long term great asset that Houston Galleria is as well as we're doing a significant amount of transformation of that asset with the new Saks store the new Saks Wing the new Webster's which is going to open in the next thirty days or so.
We have a lot of phenomenal stuff going on there but sure because retail sales be marginally impacted there.
Sure but Houston Galleria tends to continue to way outperform just because it's such a great asset.
Rick I don't know if you want to add anything.
I think it is very well positioned and as David said it's got the unique mix of anchors restaurants and small shops in that market and it's been very enduring over cycles in the energy belt for decades.
And if anything well I think Houston generally has become less of a -- I would certainly say twenty plus years ago was more boom bust.
But with the medical it's with the universities the medical facilities there it's much more diversified economy than just oil and gas.
We do have another question that comes from the line of Steve Sakwa from Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Just two quick questions.
I know you've talked a bit about the weakness in the US and all that business.
But just what about stuff north of the border south of the border? Just how kind of are the international assets performing? I'm sorry I didn't hear your first part.
Sorry is that better? Yes that's better thanks.
I know you've talked about the weakness in the tourism markets for the outlet business here in the US.
I'm just curious how the assets in Canada Mexico over in Japan the few that you have over in Europe how are the non-US ones performing from a sales and leasing Perspective? Again I don't want to overreact.
I mean there is a little bit of softness due to the strong dollar U.S.
tourism.
You're seeing that in all sorts of businesses hotel business whatever maybe we are dealing with it.
But the fact is the international properties are actually performing very-very well.
Europe retail sales is actually relatively impressive in the Klepierre portfolio the outlet sales that we have with McArthurGlen are very impressive.
Japan you see that's in our 8-K.
They are very impressive up about 7%.
Korea a little bit soft I think the only market that's a little soft is Korea a little bit because they are not the stars but whatever the last version was.
Mars whatever and the Chinese consumer they're probably going a little bit less to Korea for the time being.
But I would say Mexico sales are we've go one asset.
Canada is great.
Toronto is terrific.
Montreal is finding its market increasing.
So generally those centers are very-very we've been very pleased with those results.
And I guess the second question you sort of briefly touched on Klepierre.
I didn't really hear much on the call but just how has the integration gone? If you had to kind of rank on a scale of 1 to 10 of just all the things you want to do where are you guys in the process of transforming the combined company? You mean with respect to Corio? Yes Klepierre Corio and just kind of overall business [multiple speakers].
I just want to -- look they brought Corio we don’t know and then so we are not integrating with them.
I just wanted to distinguish.
I would say look they've gone over the three years we've owned it they have done a lot of transformation selling a bunch of stuff buying a bunch of stuff.
That's pretty much packed them.
The big focus next year is really operationally which they through osmosis or improving their capabilities of doing that and that's been the big focus I'd say in '16.
Now that the integration with Corio was pretty much done.
The sale of the big Carrefour portfolio was done and so I think it's going to be an operational story.
But we are not operating the business we're providing strategic input and I think they've done a very good job of gleaming whatever nuggets of strategy we are able to impart and ignoring the ones that have no value.
What sometimes we don’t have the right strategy.
So they are doing a good job.
But I think operationally there is I would say they are the first to admit they can continue to improve just like we can.
And I think that's a big focus for them in the upcoming years.
But we are not integrating.
I they are running their business.
No-no I understand that.
I'm just saying sitting as Chairman you kind of can sit at the top and look at what they are executing strategically and just trying to figure out how much of the playbook has been done and how much is left to do? Well there is always a gap in terms of how we might do things versus how they do things there.
I still think there is room where they could be operationally better and that will take longer for them to achieve but I am confident that they will get better.
And we will help out as much as we can.
They are pretty good and they are doing a good job.
The next question comes from the line of DJ Busch from Green Street Advisors please go ahead.
Just a quick follow-up on the Hudson Bay partnership.
Is the opportunity set to do deals like a Kaufhof greater abroad versus here in the States? I guess how do you see that investment growing from a geographic perspective? I do think perhaps the international business may offer a few more opportunities but they are very creative folks along with our resources dedicated to it so I wouldn’t rule out domestic opportunities but I would say maybe marginally more opportunities internationally than here.
But I wouldn’t rule out domestic opportunities as well.
And then is the joint venture open to kind of retail leaseback opportunities outside of the traditional department stores as well? Yes.
Okay.
And not to belabor the point on international the softness in international tourism but the mills operating metrics were pretty impressive again.
I think those are obviously greatly influenced by Sawgrass.
Is that similar to your comments on the Galleria? Is Sawgrass one of those assets that kind of bucks the trend? Yes.
But we did feel a little bit of softness there as well.
So all of these asset is about to trend but they might have again the retail sales not the cash flow may have some short term impact.
But Sawgrass had a little bit of softness as well.
It is not immune.
Thank you for that.
We have no further questions at this time.
So I would like to turn the call over to David Simon Chief Executive Officer for closing remarks.
Thank you so much and we will talk to you soon.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Simon Property Group 2015 Earnings Call.
My name is Lauren and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Ward Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Lauren.
Good morning everyone.
Presenting on today's call is David Simon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Also on the call are Rick Sokolov President and Chief Operating Officer; Andy Juster Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Broadwater our Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we begin a quick reminder that statements made during this call may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today's press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Please note that this call includes information that may be accurate only as of today's date.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included within the press release and the supplemental information in today's form 8-K filing.
Both the press release and the supplemental information are available on our IR website at investors.simon.com.
For our prepared remarks I am pleased to introduce David Simon.
Good morning.
We had strong results to wrap up a great year.
We opened started and completed several new development and redevelopment projects.
We successfully executed several capital market transactions extending our average term and reducing our weighted interest cost.
We continued to achieve strong operating and financial results.
Our full-year 2015 FFO per share was $9.86 which peaked our initial guidance range of $9.60 to $9.70 a share even with a net $0.11 loss reported during the year which was derived from $0.33 loss on extinguishment of debt partially offset by $0.22 gain on the sale of marketable securities that occurred in the year as well as $0.12 negative impact from foreign currency devaluations.
On a comparable basis excluding the impact from WPG spin-off in the prior year and the net loss mentioned above full-year FFO increased 11.4% to $9.97 per diluted share.
We posted record FFO results once again and have achieved a compound annual FFO growth rate of more than 14% over the last five years.
For the fourth quarter FFO of $2.40 per share included a $0.33 loss on extinguishment of debt and exceeded the consensus estimate by $0.02.
On a comparable basis excluding the loss on the extinguishment of debt in the quarter FFO per diluted share increased 10.5% year-over-year.
Now let me turn to operating metrics and cash flow.
Our Malls and Premium Outlets occupancy ended the year at 96.1%.
This was 100 basis points lower than year-end 2014 due to the timing of lease up of more 2 million square feet of new space we brought online this year from expansions and new developments as well as replacing the 1.3 million square feet of space lost due to tenant bankruptcies during the year.
Importantly we are more than 90% leased on the new space we brought online this year.
The timing of the lease up on the remaining space to be leased impacted our year-end occupancy by approximately 50 basis points.
By the end of the year we replaced more than 70% of the space loss to tenant bankruptcies and the remaining space to be leased impacted occupancy by 50 basis points as well.
Put the two together and that's a 100 basis point differential.
Leasing activity remained healthy as evidenced by the Mall and Premium Outlets reported leasing spread of $10.62 per foot an increase of 18% and the base minimum rent was $48.96 which was up more than 4% compared to last year reflecting strong retailer demand for our locations.
As I mentioned retailer demand per space remained strong.
Retailers who want to grow their business were adding brand extensions and creating new brands and pure-play retailers want physical locations to increase their revenues.
Retailers who opened bricks-and-mortar stores experienced increased consumer awareness and subsequently greater organic site traffic and lower customer acquisition cost.
We have repeatedly heard from retailers that online sales is directly influenced by the presence of a physical store in that market.
When the retailer opens a physical store in a market they see their online sales increase and likewise if they close the store they see their online sales in that market decline.
Successful omnichannel retailers are increasing their buy online and pickup in store.
This functionality not only increases convenience for shoppers but also facilitates incremental purchases and upsell opportunities when the shopper enters our retail environment.
For 2015 sales per square foot for our Mall and Premium Outlets were $620 a foot compared to $619 a foot.
Comparable sales per square foot for the Malls increased 5.7%.
We were up a greater amount at the Mills and we were down slightly at our tourist oriented premium outlets and up slightly at our non-tourist outlet centers.
We have great centers in key tourist locations that generate incredible sales volume and is the envy of the industry.
The strong dollar however impacted tenant sales as these unique centers which negatively affected our overage rent for the quarter.
I know you've all heard about mall traffic decreases.
But let me give you some facts based on our internal data across the largest retail portfolio in the U.S.
and not just estimates derived from arbitrary algorithms.
Traffic at our Malls was flat for the year including the Holiday season traffic at our Premium Outlets increased 1.5% for the year and more than 2% for the holidays and traffic at the Mills increased slightly for the year as well.
Comp NOI increased 3.7% for the full-year 2015 and increased 3.4% for the fourth quarter of 2015.
For the fourth quarter overage rent declined $13 million year-over-year due to the lower sales volumes that I mentioned already at our tourist oriented centers.
The lower overage rent impacted our comp NOI for the quarter of approximately 100 basis points.
I will strongly remind you we do not include lease settlement income new acquisitions or the impact of recently redeveloped or expanded centers in our comp NOIs -- in our comp NOI number.
Total NOI from our consolidated and unconsolidated properties increased more than 7% to $5.8 billion in 2015.
That was on top of 6.7% growth in 2014 and this includes any NOI contribution from Kle'pierre.
Now let me quickly talk as we could spend hours on our redevelopment and expansion.
At the end of the fourth quarter but I'll give you some highlights at the end of the fourth quarter redevelopment expansion projects were ongoing at 29 properties across all three of our platforms with a total committed spend of $1.5 billion.
During the quarter we opened two significant expansions and completed number of other strategic redevelopments including the new Fashion Wing at Del Amo which includes the new Nordstrom and more than 100 exceptional brands expansion of The Colonnade Sawgrass where we added 20 small shops very high-end small shops and two restaurants and the redevelopment at Phipps Woodfield Mall and Menlo Park.
We also started construction on several new projects during the quarter including The Shops at Riverside and Copley Place.
Construction continues on other major redevelopment and expansion projects at some of our most productive properties including Roosevelt Field Stanford King of Prussia Woodbury Commons The Galleria in Houston.
Most of these projects will be completed in '16 and Houston Galleria will go into '17 as well.
Now not to be ignored we continue to be active on new development.
We opened two new outlets during the quarter in Tucson and Tampa both off to very strong sales start.
Construction continues on two new domestic outlets in Columbus and Clarksburg both scheduled to open later this year as well as a designer outlet in Provence France which is scheduled to open in the spring of 2017.
We also started construction in upscale outlet center in Seoul Southwest Seoul Korea scheduled to open in the spring of 2017 this will be fourth there.
And we also recently announced a new partnership with Ivanhoe Cambridge developed a premium outlet collection at Edmonton International Airport which will be our fourth outlet in Canada.
This is expected to open in the fall of 2017.
Two new full price developments are ongoing as you know one in Miami a Brickell Centre opening this fall and Fort Worth at The Shops at Clearfork scheduled to open in early 2017.
Leasing demand at both are great.
Brickell will be anchored by Saks; Clearfork will be open air and anchored by Neiman Marcus.
Portfolio changes.
We sold The Shops at Sunset Place and we recently completed the sale of Columbia George outlet.
And we also recently acquired with our partner McArthurGlen the majority interest in a leading outlet center in Ochtrup Germany Northwest Germany.
This successful center is well-positioned within the market and has significant value added expansion opportunities.
Let me run through the balance sheet two senior offerings and totaling $1.9 billion was done last year with an average weighted coupon of 2.34% term of 7.5.
We redeemed four series of senior notes totaling 1.7 with an weighted average coupon of 6.
We closed 23 new mortgages with an average interest rate of 3.2% and 8.5 years.
Our liquidity was $5.5 billion.
At the end of the quarter our fixed charge coverage is up to 4.5% or I'm sorry 4.5 times and recently we completed a very successful senior notes offering earlier this month raising $1.35 billion at an average interest rate and term of 2.9% at 8.2 years in a very volatile capital market scenario.
Dividends.
We paid a record dividend in 2015 of $6.05 per share.
This has achieved a compound annual growth rate of more than 18% over the last five years.
We announced our dividend today to be paid this quarter of $1.60 which is an increase of 14% year-over-year.
Okay that's pretty busy.
Now let me talk about our guidance for '16 it's $10.70 to $10.80.
This range represents 9% to 10% growth compared to the FFO per share of $9.86 for 2015 and again will be industry leading.
Our range is based on the following assumptions: comp NOI for our portfolio malls outlets and mills of at least 3.5%; and total NOI growth of more than 6% for the portfolio; no additional planned acquisition or retail disposition activity than what we recently completed; continued unfavorable impacts related to foreign currency devaluations which should affect us by approximately $0.05 compared to 2015; and importantly we are not assuming any additional share count decrease so an average diluted share count of $362 million.
We are now looking forward to your questions.
Operator are you with us? [Operator Instructions].
Hello operator? Yes.
Can you hear me? We don't have any question ma'am.
Let's go to the next.
Your first question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum UBS.
Please proceed.
David you touched on the link between retailers having stores at your Malls and Internet sales in that local market.
One of the questions I get recently from investors is the concept of occupancy cost being measured as a percentage of sales just at that Mall store.
When you're talking to retailers now about the rent they should be paying how is the conversation going such that you can capture some of those Internet sales in the rents that you're charging them at the physical Mall? Because to me that seems like an important shift in the business going on.
Well I don't -- again I -- let's separate media narrative to reality.
But we're including anything any sale that comes from their store and it could be driven by the Internet is in our sales that come from that store.
So we're getting the benefit of that.
And so I still think occupancy cost is still going to be very important to the overall negotiation of what the rent they're able to proceed.
However it is important to note that stores for these retailers are part of their distribution network.
And when they look at whether or not they're going to keep a store open they're also going to affect evaluate what their decrease in overall Internet sales might be in that market and that is a benefit to us -- not that we have a lot of stores that are risk for closures other than through bankruptcy.
So at a 12.3% given our productivity and given where our rents are and what you've seen from the history I mean we've got we still have a very good run rate to continue increase our rents.
Okay.
And then a second question.
Can you touch on your interest in Macy's real estate now that they are clear that they want to do something there? In particular I guess in theory it would be with your Hudson's Bay joint venture.
But may be just touch on your interest level there.
Thanks.
Well look they've been a very important partner of ours and obviously they have very good real estate.
So I can say nothing really is happening that's material or meaningful other than our normal ongoing business and that's been very productive and we have a excellent relationship with Macy's both from a real estate and a corporate point of view.
They've been very supportive in our efforts to enhance the quality of our real estate through our expansion and redevelopment activity and if they've got ideas on how they want to look at the real estate we're happy to do it either as part of the HPC JV or on our own.
But nothing really is happening other than day-to-day business.
And the only thing I would add in the course of that day-to-day business we acquired a Bloomingdale's store at Stanford demolished it creating small shop they build a new Bloomingdale's store.
We combined three Macy's stores into two at Del Amo to facilitate our expansion.
So that day-to-day business does involve activities with respective of their existing stores.
Thanks guys.
And look I think it's very interesting that the market needs to understand on these retailers Macy's and the Penney and down the list.
I mean does that vast vast vast majority of their stores have four-wall profits.
And Rick and I just did a tour in Texas this week and I'll let you guys figure out who the retailers are a major note in Texas are and we hear that repeatedly.
So Macy's I'm sure that vast vast vast vast majority of those stores that they have four-wall profits.
So I don't anticipate there to be significant changes but we will see and I think it will give us the opportunity.
I think Rick made a great point in that.
We can pickoff a Bloomingdale's at the Stanford in the middle of the Mall and release it to high-end shops and they can build a new store that's a win-win for everybody involved.
So I think there will be a few of those as well.
Thanks.
Sure.
Operator? Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy Citi.
Please proceed.
Hey David.
It's Michael Bilerman with Christy.
Just a question about the balance sheet and as you think about your very conservative balance sheet with exceptional cost of capital and access to capital.
And I'm curious as you think about maintaining that really strong balance sheet how much of it is thinking about opportunities down the road -- and I don't know how quickly those opportunities will come into view -- and how much of it is that your concern perhaps about the macro environment? And I recognize that use of capital you can buy back stock which you haven't really done in the back half of the year and you have a very large development and redevelopment pipeline which is funded by free cash flow.
But your overall leverage metrics and access to capital are -- never been better in the Company's history.
And I'm just trying to think about what's driving that in your mind as you run the Company? Well I think it's a great point and it's ignored a lot in terms of how people look at our company.
But I love the fact that our interest coverage is 4.5 times given the size of our I should say fixed charge coverage not just interest coverage.
And I love the fact that we can fund our development and new development from our free cash flow and yet at the same time have a compound annual growth rate dividend increase of 18%.
I mean you can't put those kind of metrics against anybody and they can't issue in a day paper at under 3% when the CMBS market is cracking and the life company market is cracking and the high yield market is cracking and yet we're able to go whether it's in the Euro market or the U.S.
fixed income market but to place that kind of paper in that kind of speed and it's undervalued by the equity markets.
So me that is sacrosanct.
And I have been very reluctant enter the big deal business I continue to be.
And where we are so busy I mean I -- as you know I have a hard time speaking generally and I -- when they get -- when we write our script I can barely get the words out because I didn't take elocution classes in high school.
But the fact of the matter is we are extremely busy building and adding value to the portfolio using our external free cash flow that remains the focus.
I think we'll be very conservative on buying our stock back in today's market and my view on the big deal business really hasn't changed.
Hi David it's Christy here.
Just following up on some of the stats that you mentioned earlier with traffic in the malls flat but sales up 5.7% which is encouraging.
I'm wondering if you have a sense for what's driving that differential are people staying in the Mall longer visiting fewer stores are conversions higher just several retailers out there commenting that Mall traffic is down and the impact that that perception is any share prices just any information that we can get from your data would be helpful.
Yes I think it's a very important point to make the following distinction.
So remember we get the overall traffic number and yet most of the folks that quote -- most of the folks that quote numbers are based on algorithms so it's not real necessarily data like we have and number two is it is derived from certain stores.
So it doesn't it necessarily equate the mall traffic and it gives you store data but not mall traffic data and that's the distinction that I really important to make.
And I will tell you the trend though with mobile technology is that the consumer today clearly is going to the physical environment more educated they're doing less browsing and they're going to less stores.
So we think that the store data that you get is in fact maybe it's a little bit not that far off but it doesn’t represent mall traffic and I just think the consumers go and do a few less stores because they’re doing less browsing because they’re more informed prior to their visits.
But overall the mall traffic is what we say it is our comp sales are what they are and its so operator driven you could be in a category where one retailer is selling and another one is not and it's not tied with all boats but it's really retail and operator driven.
And the good news is overall given the size of our portfolio we have a pretty good handle on this -- overall we're having pretty good comp sales increases.
So the bottom-line is the same number of people are coming to the mall but sales are up 5.7% there are just spending more while they are there? That's the bottom-line and they may be going to few less stores.
I think yes you're probably right I probably could have shortened the explanation but that's the bottom-line.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
It's Craig Schmidt.
I hope that's Craig.
I hope that's Craig.
Yes it is Craig.
Right.
No transformation.
My question is really on the future role of anchors at regional malls.
How is your view changing of the anchors? I mean there seems to be a lot of repurposing going on such as the JVs and Seritage.
And I'm also thinking about what you've done at Florida Mall and what you're going to be doing at Shops at Riverside: it seems like you're taking a somewhat different view of what the anchor's role is.
Well look I think it's such as and I'll let Rick weigh in here.
I mean it's such as real estate specific equation but in a lot of cases you know the vendors that go into a department store in certain cases would rather have mall stores.
And when we feel as that's the case while we'd rather just have the mall we just rather have the vendor as a retailer and we don't necessarily want to rely on the department store to bring those vendors.
So again it's specific and it's all about creating the right environment and experience and in some cases having this department store as part of that is vital I take Del Amo with Nordstrom.
They built a fantastic store it is so complementary to what we've done.
We couldn't be prouder of that redevelopment and that Nordstrom store and the environment is helping us create.
In other cases the vendor we had a Saks store at Riverside.
They don't do well in New Jersey all at all.
And we feel like those vendors that were in that store actually would have a better experience in our redone environment than they would in the Saks box.
So it's and Florida Mall is a great example of just taking underperforming Saks that was not attracting the consumer we went from I think at $10 million Saks to $50 million of revenue generated after repurposing that that box and that's what it's all about.
Rick? Yes the only thing I would add is that every mall has its own story.
So for frankly at Roosevelt Field the addition of Neiman Marcus is going to be a fundamental expansion of the market area that's traditional fashion anchor.
At Florida Mall we added the Crayola Experience that in that market is just doing great business and expands the trade area of that property.
What we're all about is trying to put in the appropriate retailers to maximize the importance of our properties in the markets that they serve.
Okay.
And how is some of the progress on your JVs with Seritage? Pretty good I just had breakfast with Dan.
I think hopefully we’ll get four or five started this year Rick right? That's the plan.
Yes we literally we've got performance plans done.
That frankly the most interesting timeline is working with Sears is to how their store is going to be reconfigured and that just takes some time.
But we've identified the replacement tenants we've identified the performance and as David said we anticipate having developments underway in at least half the properties we have in our joint venture this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Caitlin Burrows Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Just on the topic of occupancy cost it has been steadily increasing over the past few years as you've done a good job of really being able to push the rents despite slower sales growth.
But I was just wondering: Is this something we should be concerned about? To what extent are retailers pushing back or are the higher occupancy costs just a part of doing business in a strong mall now? Well look I mean at 12.3% I would not worry at all.
And I think we have to put into perspective how much our growth is ahead of GDP growth.
I mean we are in a I mean if you look at our results this year and what we did above and beyond our expectations to pick up the extraordinary gain and losses that I mentioned.
But if you just look at our numbers and the fact that we overcame relatively softer retail environment a lot of things going into that move towards durable goods and increase in healthcare cost and taxes and general economic malaise we overcame our foreign currency translation from outside of the U.S.
here and then obviously the strong dollar.
If you look at our outlet business I mean traffic was up across the portfolio yet sales were down there because the international tourist spent less it's not -- it's pretty good execution with some of the headwinds that we've done.
The 12.3% the way I look at it is an insurance policy against a slow growth U.S.
economy that we continue to well outperform GDP growth and if it were up 15% 16% maybe that's when we would raise the alarm.
But at 12.3% we've got rate insurance to continue grow their cash flow.
And if you look at our comp NOI which is a real number okay which is a real number of at least 3.5% and what's the Goldman -- tell me what the Goldman -- today's Goldman get the conservative economist to Goldman.
Not the bullish one get the one that you've got in the closet.
What's their GDP growth? What are they saying 2% 1.5%? Okay.
Well tell me what do they say Caitlin.
I want to say 1.5%; I mean we're 2.5% -- Sure.
We're 200 basis points above that and part of that is because we do have leases that are under market and we will be able to continue to push that.
At the same time our business is all about repeat business.
We've got to find a win-win with our retailers.
We try to do the best we can meeting the expectations of our growth for us for investors at the same time we want our retailers as strong as possible it's a very -- it's challenging to find that equilibrium.
We do a pretty good job of it and I’m confident we can continue to do it not completely sometimes we screw up on -- it's all the various ends there.
But at the end of the day we try to find that equilibrium that will satisfy our retailer partner satisfy our own internal expectations satisfy our investors that's why I've been able to -- we've been able to grow our earnings 14% per annum increase the dividend 18% per annum over a long period of time industry leading.
We try to find that equilibrium we have an insurance policy.
Got it okay.
So it sounds like we shouldn't be concerned yet there.
And then just -- I will let you know okay.
Okay.
And then just regarding your current share price the market appears to be supporting other mall REITs that might have some take-out potential while perhaps punishing you as a potential buyer.
So the stock's down today.
Can you comment on basically turning this argument over and by buying yourself and repurchasing shares -- I know you mentioned before that you'd be very conservative with doing that in the future? Well look I think what Bilerman said earlier asked earlier I mean we are out of the big deal business.
So people can speculate all they want.
And I do think the market should understand and as our plan that we will be conservative on buybacks.
As some of the higher -- I understand Tom that some of the higher estimates out there on first call were due to the buyback number.
So that's part of the issue there.
We're going to be conservative there.
I love having a great balance sheet.
This is not a short-term game here.
This is long-term.
But I'm out of the big deal business somebody wants to call me up and talk to me and show me how to make money I'm all happy to have that conversation.
But my opinion hasn't changed since really last Spring.
So I don't really know what else I can tell you on that front.
And we won't be afraid to buy back stock it's just we're not planning right now.
We have the authorization to do it.
People are betting against that for whatever reason that's the markets but we have a growing dividend and growing earnings and that's usually a bad thing to bet against.
I agree.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen your next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning David.
How are you doing Alex? Doing well doing well.
So just quickly I'll go to the second question first and then I'll go to my first question second because you mentioned dividends.
Last year you guys to raised the dividend quarterly.
Obviously it was up almost 20% for the year.
This year should the expectation -- you didn't raise it from fourth quarter.
So should we think about just more normalized sort of annual increase? Or do you think that we'll see a steady state of increases throughout the year? And part of that is just trying to read into cash flow use.
May be with what's going on you guys are trying to husband more cash; or maybe it was just how you raised it a lot last year and now you want to go back to an annual increase.
Yes I think what we were we've always -- we've been chasing our taxable income as you know and there is a lot that goes into that equation.
If we kept it at $1.60 that would be 6% growth year-over-year I would think that that would be at the bare minimum of what happens but I would start to like to get into a normalized once a year raise.
So we don't do it sequentially sequentially like we've been doing at quarter after quarter and I think that should be your expectation going forward.
And we'll probably assess that at near the end of each year now as we had in the past.
But that's subject to change obviously with the input of our taxable income calculation as well as obviously our boards input but at the very very least 6% growth over 6% growth.
I would like for it to be annualized and -- I'm sorry once a year when we evaluate it which would probably most likely be in the back half so we can position it for the proceeding or the subsequent year.
But as you know with our NOI growth of least over 6-plus-percent our taxable income is going to be increasing.
And so that will be driving our dividend increase up as well.
Okay.
And then the second question is on -- I think it was in your response to Christy's question if shoppers are getting more selective and visiting fewer stores: one it sounds like a merchandising issue from retailers; and then two does that mean that we should expect higher retailer turnover? Like we should see more stores closing if they can't get their merchandising right? Or your view was the retailers that had trouble attracting shoppers last year are quickly addressing their merchandising issues? Well look I think the retailers clearly are in that boat and they're not as what there is we did experience in '15 a number of bankruptcies of kind of the really poor performing retailers.
There was clearly a slowdown in retail sales in the back half of the year.
And then when you couple that with the tourism issue you couple that with the normal weather I mean it was so to speak a perfect storm and it took a lot of retailers out.
I mean we've seen this movie and I don't know if it's Rocky 7 -- I'm ready for Creed.
Okay.
So we don't have to keep seeing this movie over again.
I think our retailers are pretty sophisticated adapting very aggressive.
And I think part of the responsibility of driving traffic for more stores is -- the onus is on us.
I mean we've got a great environment which does and is able to communicate to the consumer what's going on in the mall so that they can visit kind of more stores than they have and that they at least did in '15 and take advantage of them when they're in our store.
And I think clearly as our retailers sneak up their information drive traffic to the stores fill out of the stores return out of the stores I mean all of that is going to be incremental as their systems get more sophisticated that I think hopefully will extend stays and allow people to visit more stores.
So it's all the work-in-progress we've got to do some of that ourselves.
And as you know we're doing a lot of that we're at the forefront of lot of that activity to try and figure out how the best way to communicate to the consumer so they go see eight or 10 stores as opposed to four five or six.
Okay.
And then just for your -- I know how much you love your Crooked Stick suggestion box but as you guys do a lot of the development and redevelopment it would just be helpful from our end to have a table in the supp that just sort of quantifies the amount and quarter that developments and redevelopments will come online just for a modeling perspective.
Yes we're happy well I think I'm happy to do that it doesn't -- now I will say this.
I know there was a comment or two that said about our returns going down absolutely not our mix changes every quarter which we probably Tom could do a better job of pointing that out.
And I assure you that if we are doing to deliver; I mean we do have to have a materiality threshold for the size of our company.
But I assure you and the market that if we have a major development or a major redevelopment where we're going to lay an egg we'll let you know.
That's not what happened in today's supplement.
We had some things come off and we had some things come on just like we do every quarter and Tom is happy to walk you through what went in and what went out.
But I assure the market if we're going to lay an egg on anything that's new or whether it's new or redevelopment we'll let you know with some materiality threshold obviously.
But that's not the case with the changes in our development pipeline and redevelopment pipeline.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa Evercore.
Please proceed.
Just I guess two quick questions.
You mentioned that I guess comp sales were up.
I think you 5.7%.
When I look in the supplemental and just looked at total sales it's basically flat December to December.
And I realize that comp sales are only a piece of the overall sales.
But as you replace weaker tenants with new ones I would think there's an uplift.
I guess I'm just trying to reconcile the strong comp sales.
Remember our comp you got to be in place for 24 months.
So that's not the case that's number one.
And number two I mean we did have our -- that the -- we did have slippage in our tourist oriented centers not just the outlets but in a number of the malls that were I mean that we had to deal with.
And again it wasn't a traffic issue and it's not anything other than and I know we've seen it from the retailers but the tourism that is important to the economic growth of the United States of America may have come if they spent less and we have unbelievable great properties that in the long run are fantastic.
And the sales have come out.
I mean we have small shops and medium size shops that do $30 million $40 million of volumes in some of these places.
But the tourism affected that.
And as you know we've got a lot going on in some of our major properties moving tenants in and out.
So we put it all together and total sales were relatively flat.
We don't view that as a big deal.
Okay.
Any sense as to what -- of the overall sales comp sales make up what percentage of that total sales number? Is that two-thirds of the bucket three-quarters a half? 70%.
70%? Okay.
And then I guess as it comes to -- or in terms of bankruptcies this year I realize you guys got hit pretty hard last year.
You're working through.
What is your expectation for bankruptcies this year? And how is that impacting that sort of 3.5% NOI number that you're giving us? Well look at it is.
I mean we still have lease-up from last year and we're -- we've budgeted in some of the weaker tenants whether they go bankrupt or we do we renegotiate short-term deals while we replace them with strong tenants I mean that’s all factored in there.
So we have been conservative on overage rent.
I mean these -- we're not a perfect science model I mean nor is the U.S.
economy.
So we do the best that we can budgeting the best that we can being as conservative as we can.
We clearly thought in '15 we would hit 4%; we didn't because of the overage rent thing that we did mention.
And that was as you know overage rent you hit breakpoints or if you're over the breakpoints there is a lot of volatility the fourth quarter is important in total sales.
And I mean that's hard to necessarily model.
But we took a very conservative approach in how we look to the books at year-end.
And we're taking a reasonably conservative approach; we still have work to do.
But conservative sales conservative lease-up conservative restructuring at certain tenants whether in or out of bankruptcy is all factored into that number.
But importantly Steve and this is the true distinction.
I mean our number is -- our 3.5% is different than most people okay.
So you have to put that into perspective.
No I do.
I appreciate that.
I'm just trying to get a sense.
Do you think the 1.3 million will go up or down in '16? Is that -- do you think you have similar amounts? I think it will go down I think it will go down '15 was a big year.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan Canaccord.
Please proceed.
Just in terms of the impact you mentioned if I understand correctly in terms of occupancy from the space that was added but wasn't -- and is leased but wasn't occupied at year-end.
Was that I mean was that sort of part of the budget that may be we just didn't fully understand going into the quarter? Or was there any openings that may be kind of slipped into the first quarter that were expected for the fourth quarter? I think when you open a new project and you get the 90% what was it 90.7% or whatever it was? I mean when you open a new project and you're at 90.7% year one that's pretty good it’s not just as 96% or 97% and that creates a little bit drag on the overall occupancy.
So that's just real estate development.
I mean I don’t know of any project that opens a 100% occupied I mean may be a few do.
And as I think we mentioned in the third quarter we did put a lot in the system last year.
So our resources were maxed out between all the redevelopments and all the new stuff I again it's not like we're delivering these things at 60% occupied or 50%.
I mean 90% after 90.7% after at the end of year one is pretty good.
So I think that's pretty good execution.
Yes okay.
And then you've got a lot of your kind of A+ assets that are under construction right now with expansions and redevelopments.
I mean is there any dislocation that takes place either in the numbers or just in terms of traffic? I mean if some of the malls are kind of getting torn up in pretty major ways as you're doing the expansions.
I mean does that trickle through to sales in your expectation or CAM or anything that's material? Well I -- look I mean I -- we don't want excuses but yes I mean we ripped up Roosevelt Field we ripped up King of Prussia and we -- those were in -- we didn't take them out of our sales numbers and those things.
You move tenants around.
We had a number of that -- of those scenarios this year which is investing in the future and it's not an immediate return.
So I would tell you that all of those we had a setback in Copley because we're ripping Copley to shreds moving tenants around making room for the potential of the apartments/condo tower.
So that's clearly affecting us.
But at the end of the day I mean that's just -- we're just not going to -- we're not going to use that as a basis to say here is a little bit of a slippage but yes it clearly is affecting -- it clearly affected '15 both from a NOI point of view and a sales point of view.
And -- because a lot of these were moving traffic around were closing entrances and there is absolutely dislocation going on.
Thanks.
Then just lastly I mean any update on your kind of current thoughts about mixed-use? You've got obviously some of it in your redevelopment pipeline.
But is it -- as you think about your shadow pipeline both with your own properties and then specifically with some of the Seritage opportunities I mean how big a piece of your portfolio is residential or other mixed-use? Sort of something we could see over the next decade? I still think it's going to grow but selectively.
I mean I kind of view this as the good news in that it's almost like our international investments.
We've had such great results from our international investments.
I mean if you looked at what's on our books and what the value of this real estate is it's a homerun a homerun.
If you look at the yield on cash flow returns a homerun.
That gives us -- the only wrinkle on that is we lost $10 million in China.
But if you look at Kle'pierre McArthurGlen our own development in Japan Korea Canada homerun.
We've also had great experience.
And I can't think of a problem we've had Rick in your mixed used development.
So I -- as we gain more confidence in that business I think we'll continue to do it.
But as you know that's so driven by supply and demand and it's so specific to the real estate.
But we like it we have had good success in it we'll continue with it assuming we can continue to produce the results that we produced in that area.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Adornato BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Was wondering if you could compare the performance of your top-tier properties minus the noise of any redevelopments versus the bottom tier.
The market seems to dislike Class B properties.
I was wondering if your lower tier is subject to some of those same risks.
Well look I think our portfolio is the -- our results and our averages kind of the indicate -- indicative of kind of what results were.
So I don't think there is any unusual trend.
I think market sometimes may be overreacts to the only game in town mall.
We think that business is good and very viable.
If that's the only game in town market have too much retail it's going to be heard but that could be in an A market too.
I don't think we had any real unpleasant surprises and the not exciting markets that we still own.
The only thing that was a little out of the ordinary from our results this year was the tour of spend that we've mentioned.
And obviously that happened at some of our most unique landmark properties.
I mean we can't hide from that fact not a long-term issue I hope.
And -- but the tourist reined in a little bit they rein in New York City Madison Avenue Fifth Avenue down in Miami North and South of the Canadian dollar the Mexican peso.
We have Mexican Nationals to shop at our -- some of our premier properties.
We've got the Canadian snowbirds I mean that's -- that happens.
That's the only trend that I would say is a little bit different than what we've experienced not the only game in town which is -- we are in some of those markets but they continue to perform very well.
Thanks.
And as a follow-up could you talk about rent growth at the luxury side of the retail business? Which we expect given the dollar.
I think it's good because as you know a lot of that even with the growth even with that the tourism spending down most of those leases are well below market and -- number one.
And number two is they are still unique enough properties that when the opportunity presents itself that the demand is still there for that real estate.
So very few people -- I'd say very few retailers don't -- that are of that nature that we want in those properties don't look at the long-term opportunity.
But if it -- if there is a difference it's on the margin.
But we still -- we're still pretty insulated from that demand is good and our leases are under market there.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim SunTrust.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
So David hypothetical question.
Given that we know a little bit more about the market and what the equity markets are doing versus last spring all else equal -- and I know Macerich has sold some assets -- but in your mindset today and what you know about the world would you still be a buyer of Macerich all else equal if it was back in the market today? I'm not going to comment on that.
Okay.
All I can -- all I'm going to comment on is where we are today.
And I've explained that a couple different places okay.
Okay.
Okay and then the second question on your Outlet business you've already talked about the traffic or tourists being down a little bit.
But does that eventually translate into lease spreads? Where it's not just the overage rents that are taking a little bit of a hit but if this continues are your lease spreads that the tenants are willing to pay eventually become more at risk? Well the reality is I wish they were at market because then the volatility -- so just say when we roll over a lease we try to get effective rent which is base rent plus overage rent and the reason we have a little more volatility is because the lease hasn't expired.
So the good news is as these leases expire we're going to be able to get them at market rent.
I mean that's why we had a little exposure in the fourth quarter because we're not at market rent we're not at market rent.
So even with today's decrease in tours and spend the important point though also is that the traffic was up and so that's an important point.
I mean the traffic was up it was really just the spend was down.
And I think that's just going to be an adjustment until we get where the currencies are a little more stable and anniversary these sales.
But the -- it's our intention to make that overage volatility go away and that's marking the leases to market.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning or good afternoon.
Just curious going back to the 1.3 million square feet of bankruptcy space that was taken back I thought I heard earlier that 70% had been re-let as of the end of the year.
And apologize if I'd missed this but I guess how did that stack up relative to your expectations? I mean would you have expected to have more of that re-leased by now? And just I'll leave it at that.
Hi.
This is Rick.
In fact we were doing very well with that releasing.
What we are going to do is we are not going to put our space on sale we are holding margins.
In fact the rents for foot of the space that has to lease are above the rents of the tenants that left because of bankruptcy and we're making sure that we are getting in the right tenants at the right price at the right space.
So we're on track with that and there you'll continue to see the benefit of that coming into this year as more of those leases open.
Okay thanks.
And on a slightly different topic just going back to the -- sort of the changing profile of the mall and may be the decreasing importance of the anchors particularly as a traffic driver just curious if this -- or if you think about shortening lease terms from the traditional leased deals five years or so just so you have more control over how to control and create that experience given that tastes change pretty quickly and things like that.
When we do our leasing every space and every tenant has their own situation and we are strategic about our terms.
If we feel that it's a tenant that is underperforming the mall may be we'll do a shorter-term if it's a tenant that were higher desires of having in the mall we want them to remodel we may give them a longer-term.
So there is no overarching strategy on term it's really a lease specific strategic decision.
Your next question comes from the line of George Hoglund Jefferies.
Please proceed.
I was wondering if you could give some additional color on the trends in asking rents.
Because what we've been hearing is that asking rents are down year-over-year in the A malls as it's getting a little bit tougher to back-fill space and the balance of power may be shifting a little bit towards the tenants.
Just wondering if you could just give some color on that.
May I ask where do you hear that? Hearing it from brokers out there.
And what cities are these brokers from? Are they talking about like city street space? Or they -- I mean is it mall space? It's mall space.
Well I think you could -- I would put more faith in what we would tell you and the answer is that we don't see that.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Muller JP Morgan.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Hi.
Just a couple quick ones here.
I guess first where do you see occupancy ending at year-end '16? We are projecting an increase from where we are this year.
Okay.
Any shot at narrowing that down a little bit? No no because look the end of the day -- we're -- listen we made our FFO this year was $3.6 billion right? Yes.
So we -- which happen to be more than certain technology companies I won't name names okay.
And -- I mean I know everybody wants all these metrics but you've got to look at what we're all about which is growing earnings growing dividends investing for the future.
And I do think there is this move on metrics that I just want to put it in overall perspective that it's not how we -- we don't stress over metrics the way others might.
We're just focused on increasing our cash flow investing for the future making our properties the best they can be in a particular market for the benefit of shareholders communities retailers.
And we will just tell you that we -- as we model all this we are expecting an increase in occupancy it takes a lot of work.
How many leases did we sign this year my friend? Over 10 million square feet.
10 million square feet right? So you know it's hard to model.
But we've had a pretty good track record.
But certain things were out of our control bankruptcies tourism spend and so on.
So again it's a slight uptick and we hope to be able to achieve that.
Okay.
And then may be a quick Andy question.
It looks like interest income tripled in the fourth quarter relative to the third just wondering what's driving that? Now -- I know it's not a huge number in the grand scheme of things but still.
Yes.
We can get back to you on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Floris van Dijkum Boenning.
Please proceed.
David Floris.
Quick question on your NOI growth.
You posted 7% this year.
If you do that for 10 years you've basically almost doubled your NOI.
Is it reasonable to expect that kind of growth going forward sort of the 3% on top of your same-store numbers that you're expecting to post? Well it's a good question.
I can't -- 10 years is a hard time for me to project.
But look I think the redevelopment and development pipeline that we've got I mean I think we've got a pretty decent shot of continuing that as we go forward.
I mean I think fact is of course as you know a lot of people who have doubted our ability to grow our earnings because of the size of the company and obviously math does make it a little bit harder but the fact is nobody in our industry -- and when I say industry I -- I'm talking about retail real estate nobody in our subsector of our industry retail real estate has been able to do that over a sure a quarter here or quarter there a year there or year there.
But over the life of our company nobody has been able to do this.
I mean we started out with I think if I can remember the math $200 million of earnings we're at $3.6 billion okay.
That's not too shabby.
As I said in my annual report quoting Adam Sandler but nobody liked but I kind of thought it was funny.
But point is I don't know I -- but we got a good runway for the next few years Floris.
One follow-up question may be David on Aventura.
I noticed there it's not in your supplements but there are potential plans for I guess an expansion that Seritage is suing Turnberry over.
Can you make any comments on that? No we're not named in that lawsuit so we have no -- and we haven't seen the complaints so we've got nothing more to add.
And the one question on the other income was the cash flow that we got from our investment in Value Retail which tends to happen year-after-year but it -- we -- since we only -- we cost account for it.
For those of you old like me you know what that means? We don't equity account for it.
So we only book the income upon receipt of cash and it happened to be in that quarter but it tends to happen year-after-year.
Operator? I would now like to turn the conference over to David Simon.
Okay.
Thank you.
Very very good questions.
Appreciate staying with us and we'll talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.