Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Steve Davis.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Rochelle.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I’m Steve Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's first quarter 2011 financial results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team including Don Felsinger Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Neal Schmale President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Snell Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Debbie Reed Executive Vice President; and Joe Householder Senior Vice President and Controller.
You’ll note that Slide 2 contains our Safe Harbor statement.
Please remember that this call contains forward-looking statements that are not historical fact and constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.
As you know they involve risks uncertainties and assumptions so future results may differ materially from those expressed on our call.
These risks uncertainties and assumptions are described at the bottom of today’s press release and are further discussed in the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
It’s important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis.
With that I'll turn it over to Don who will begin with Slide 3.
Thanks Steve.
And again thank you all for joining us.
On today's call we'll start by reviewing our first quarter financial results and I'll then give you an operational update on our businesses.
Early this morning we reported first quarter earnings of $258 million or $1.07 per share compared with $106 million or $0.42 per share in the same period last year.
The first quarter of last year included a $96 million or $0.38 per share charge related to the settlement of energy crisis litigation.
Excluding the impact of this charge in last year's first quarter our quarterly earnings per share increased by 34%.
All of our businesses are performing well and each of our business units reported an increase in earnings in the first quarter over the year-ago period.
There are 2 things I'd like to highlight before Mark goes into the details of the financial results.
As we discussed at the March analyst conference with our exit from the commodities trading business we have refocused our strategy on regulated utilities and contracted energy infrastructure.
This quarter's strong results across all of our business segments demonstrates our execution on that strategy going forward.
And second a key element of our renewable business strategy is in the contracting of our portfolio of projects at Sempra Generation.
We recently received regulatory approval for the first 150-megawatt phase of the 700-megawatt Mesquite Solar project and signed contracts for 2 wind projects totaling about 175 megawatts.
Now I'd like to hand it over to Mark so he can take you through some of the details of the financial results beginning with Slide 4.
Thanks Don.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the first quarter of 2011 were $89 million compared with earnings of $83 million in the year-ago quarter.
The increase was primarily due to $7 million of higher authorized margins offset by $5 million of higher wildfire insurance premiums this year.
And in last year's first quarter we had a $3 million charge related to the passage of the healthcare bill.
At Southern California Gas first quarter 2011 earnings were $68 million.
That's up from $65 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Last year's results included a $7 million regulatory award and a $13 million tax charge related to passage of the healthcare bill.
Now let's go to Slide 5.
Our generation business [Sempra Generation] recorded earnings of $44 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared with a loss of $51 million in the same quarter in 2010.
The increase for the quarter is due to lower operating and maintenance costs less scheduled plant maintenance and an $84 million charge related to a litigation settlement last year.
Now please move to Slide 6.
Sempra Pipelines &amp; Storage recorded earnings of $54 million in the first quarter of 2011 up from earnings of $38 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The quarter benefited from $8 million of higher earnings from pipeline assets in Mexico which were acquired in the second quarter of 2010 and from $6 million of higher operating results in Chile and Peru.
I'd also like to mention that in the next quarter we expect to report a onetime gain related to our increased ownership stake in Chile and Peru due to a step-up of our prior investment to fair value.
The size of the gain has not yet been determined and it was not included in our earnings guidance that we previously provided for this year.
So now let's please go to Slide 7.
Sempra LNG had earnings of $33 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared with earnings of $32 million in the prior year's period.
Both quarters included $11 million of earnings from customer payments related to contracted cargoes that were not delivered.
And with that I'd like to turn it back over to Don who'll begin with Slide 8.
Thanks Mark.
Now let me update you on activities at our California utilities.
Last month Governor Brown signed into law California's Renewables Portfolio Standard legislation which calls for a 33% renewables mix by 2020 for all retail providers of electricity in the state.
You may recall that SDG&amp;E had previously made a voluntary commitment to reach 33% renewable.
Since the beginning of this year SDG&amp;E has signed contracts for about 700 megawatts of renewable energy and is well on its way to reaching a 33% threshold.
Now moving to Sunrise Powerlink.
Construction on the project is well underway.
We're now installing towers and have more than 100 towers in various stages of construction.
The project is proceeding according to plan and we expect to complete this line in the second half of next year.
And finally at SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas we filed our applications for both utilities' 2012 general rate cases last December.
The CPUC rate case plan calls for a decision in approximately March of next year with rates retroactive to January 1 of next year.
Now let's go to Slide 9.
Earlier this year the CPUC opened up proceedings to assess new safety and reliability regulations for natural gas pipelines following the tragedy in San Bruno.
We fully support the commission's efforts and are actively participating in this process.
Last month SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E responded to the commission's request for records supporting the maximum allowable operating pressures of their pipelines.
This extensive review renewed our confidence that the maximum pressures on our systems have been appropriately set and that we operate our system safely.
Our utilities operate about 4 000 miles of transmission pipelines and the records reviewed covered about 1 600 miles of those pipelines in populated areas.
Federal regulation issued in 1970 requires specific documentation of pressure testing for transmission pipelines built after the regulation went into place.
Approximately 500 miles of the pipelines were installed after 1970 and our records and operating procedures give us a very high degree of confidence that all of this pipeline has been pressure tested and is operating safely.
Of the remaining 1 100 miles installed before 1970 we have records indicating that nearly 700 miles of this pipeline was pressure tested.
The remaining 400 miles of pipeline had operating pressures determined by using alternate procedures under state and federal regulations.
Of these 170 miles have been smart-pigged meaning sophisticated devices were inserted into the pipeline and inspected to make sure they are safe.
We also have extensive construction and/or operating records that support the maximum operating pressure on all of those pipelines.
We have also voluntarily taken a number of precautions to provide an added margin of safety including further reducing operating pressures in certain pipeline segments conducting tests to validate pipeline strength assessing possible replacement of certain segments and conducting bimonthly patrols and weekly surveys.
I want to stress that safety is our top priority.
We have a strong pipeline-integrity program in place and our financial plan includes a significant amount of spending and investment in this area.
The costs we've incurred this year to gather records has been less than $2 million and we don't expect our utility earnings plans to be impacted by these efforts.
We don't know what the commission will ultimately decide regarding new pipeline regulations but should new requirements result in incremental costs we would expect to recover those costs.
Now let's move to the next slide.
At our analyst conference in March we discussed plans to develop 1 000 megawatts of renewable capacity at Sempra Generation over the next 5 years.
Just in the first 4 months of this year alone we've made significant progress toward that goal.
Last month we received CPUC approval for a 20-year contract to sell PG&amp;E the output of the first 150-megawatt phase of our Mesquite Solar project.
Construction will begin next month and we expect to complete this first phase of the project in early 2013.
When fully developed the Mesquite Solar complex has the potential to generate up to 700 megawatts of solar energy.
Two of Sempra Generation's wind development projects also reached important milestones with the signing of long-term power sales contracts.
Energía Sierra Juárez is a wind project located about 70 miles east of San Diego and just south of the U.S.-Mexico border.
The first phase to be developed is a 156-megawatt project.
Given our land position and the wind resource there we have the opportunity to develop as much as 1 200 megawatts over time.
For the first 156-megawatt phase SDG&amp;E has signed a 20-year contract for the output from the facility.
The contract is subject to approval by the CPUC and the FERC.
Pending the receipt of these approvals we expect to begin construction next year and to complete this phase of the project in 2013.
We've also reached a preliminary agreement with BP Wind Energy to bring them into the project as an equal partner.
Sempra Generation also signed a 20-year power sales contract with Maui Electric for the 2 100-megawatt Auwahi Wind project on the island of Maui in Hawaii.
The contract is subject to the approval of the Hawaiian Public Utilities Commission and we expect the project will be operational late next year.
And finally I'd like to mention that construction is almost complete at the 250-megawatt Cedar Creek II wind project in Colorado and operations are expected to begin this quarter.
This project is a 50/50 joint venture with BP Wind.
Consistent with our long-term contracting strategy there's a 25-year agreement in place for the sale of the project's power.
Now move to the next slide if you would.
Last month Sempra Pipelines &amp; Storage increased its ownership stake in 2 South American electric utilities.
We now own 100% of Chilquinta Energía in Chile and 76% of Luz del Sur in Peru.
Luz del Sur is a publicly traded company in Peru and the remaining 24% of shares on Luz del Sur are held by institutional investors and the general public.
Last week the groundbreaking of Luz del Sur's 98-megawatt Santa Teresa hydroelectric project was held in Peru.
This $150 million run-of-the-river project marks Luz del Sur's entrance into generation and is expected to be complete in 2014.
We're excited about the opportunities to grow the business in both Chile and Peru.
Now please go to the last slide.
Let me conclude by saying that I'm very pleased with our strong financial results for the quarter where refocusing of our strategy on regulated utilities and contracted energy infrastructure drove our strong results across all the business segments.
These results have us on track and meet our earnings guidance for the year.
I'm also proud of our recent accomplishments which include contracting and development of renewable energy resources and closing the accretive South American acquisition.
With that let me stop and we'll take any questions that any of you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question we'll hear from Leslie Rich with JPMorgan.
Just have a question on your renewable CapEx.
Given the progress that you've made during the first quarter and also I think the new information -- or at least I don't recall BP being an equal partner in that Sierra Juarez project -- is your CapEx for renewables still slated to be in the range of about $600 million next year? Do you mean next year or this year Leslie? Well this year.
At your analyst presentation you had about $200 million this year about $600 million next year.
So if these projects all do get regulatory approval moving forward are those CapEx numbers still good? Or does because BP is involved now the CapEx number come down.
I'll let Mark take this.
Leslie no there's about $600 million.
We actually anticipated BP or a partner in these wind projects and so that was in our plan.
Okay great.
And next we'll move to Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just a few quick things.
The RBS investment my understanding was that that was going to be sort of coming down throughout the year.
And it seems like it's pretty much holding in there.
Could you elaborate a little bit what's going on in that in the balance sheet? I'll have Mark take you through this but I think what we have stated is that by the end of this year we'll recover all the investment out of the commodities joint venture.
Yes Paul that's correct.
What we did have happened -- unfortunately it happened about 3 days after the quarter ended.
We got about $330 million so that reduced our investment and you'll see that in the next quarter.
And we're hoping to get kind of ratable payments over the next 3 quarters bringing it down to 0 at year end.
Okay great.
And then also you mentioned something about the wildlife reserve premium impacting earnings and I'm sorry; I just didn't get that.
Could you just repeat that again? Okay well what we had was about $5 million of additional insurance expense related to the wildfire insurance premium.
Over under -- at the utilities under our old -- or our current rate case we incurred higher cost related to wildfires for insurance.
And we did recover some of that in the z-factor last year and we may recover some of this later on.
But right now we don't have a recovery mechanism in place and so it's being expensed.
Okay.
I noticed that the liability actually went down.
I mean the asset -- no the liability I think went down about $150 million.
I know there was a $300-million receivable that you guys had at the end of the year.
Could you just describe just a little bit on the balance sheet what's going on with that reserve thing? Is that...? Yes sure.
Well of course that asset receivable has got -- it's separate and apart from the insurance premiums.
But the liability going down is related to payments that we've made during the period.
We paid about $100 million during the period and we moved about $71 million to long-term because it won't be paid out for a couple of years.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the pipeline it sounds like you guys pretty much have all your records and you're not finding any -- there doesn't seem to have any issue in terms of collecting all of that and what have you.
And is that pretty much getting it right? Paul no I had anticipated that there would be some interest in this and we invited Mike Allman who is the CEO of that business to join us this morning.
And Mike would you like to respond? Yes that's right Paul.
We've completed a substantial review of our records and we are really in pretty good shape at this point.
So I'm happy with what we've found so far.
Okay.
Have you guys asked for a memorandum account for this? Or do you think that's necessary? We did ask last week and our expenses have been relatively low so far.
We've been able to complete this review by reassigning existing resources but last week we did file for a memo account to capture expenses going forward in case we need that.
Okay great.
And next we'll move to Ashar Khan with Visium.
Just wanted to go over -- Mark can you just -- is there any update? You had -- I believe there was some portion of earnings from the analyst day like 9% for this year and 15% for next year which were to be end of the contract and development projects.
Has that number a little bit changed? And as we stand right now more firming of those things or no? Are you referring to -- do you mean the uncontracted earnings the ones that we don't have? That's correct.
There was like in your chart like 9% for this year and like 15% for next year that were to be contracted or development project earnings.
I was wondering if there's any update on those numbers as we stand today.
They're still relatively close.
We're a little bit ahead of schedule on some of the contracts for the renewable projects but I wouldn't be changing those numbers at this time.
Hey one other thing too is we also did -- we did -- some of that was the anticipation close of Chile and Peru and that has happened.
So that does update it a little bit.
Yes that I have.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Ashar.
[Operator Instructions] And next we'll hear from Debra Bromberg with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a question on Peru.
I was wondering if you could share your thoughts on the upcoming presidential runoff election and any implications of a possible win by Humala? Well I mean it's -- the elections are about 3 weeks away.
Neal and I went down to Peru last week for the groundbreaking of the hydro project and had a chance to meet with the current president.
He's fairly optimistic that Fujimori is going to win.
His insights are his insights.
But I think as we look at it and I think both Humala and Fujimori -- both came out of the back of the race and are now in a runoff.
Whatever happens here with either one of them I don't see any real changes to the regulatory framework that we have in Peru.
So I think we left there with a pretty high degree of comfort that the economy in Peru is going to continue to grow and whichever one of these individuals end up becoming President will kind of maintain the status quo.
Next we'll move on to Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Just a couple of real quick questions.
First anything new on those remaining PEMEX assets? I know they delayed the decision or decided to wait for now but have you been in negotiations? Have you been talking to anyone from PEMEX? I mean what's...
There's been no change.
We had expected when we made this acquisition that PEMEX was going to be required to exit.
So far they haven't.
The good news is that having PEMEX in the partnership we have a fairly robust portfolio of new projects that we're looking at.
So I think we were kind of indifferent at the very beginning whether or not they stayed as a partner or exited.
We're indifferent.
We see the business still to continuing to grow.
Okay.
And just lastly about the potential for the buyback later this year.
You'd obviously mentioned maybe a small one later on.
I mean any more -- given maybe some new project opportunities or something like that is that any more or less likely you think at this point? Or...
I don't think there's much update over what we said at the analyst conference last month.
But Mark do you want to add some more color to it? No I think that's right.
I mean at the analyst conference we said that we would kind of address this later in the year as we looked whatever our capital spend was and where we were.
I will point out that the share count that we gave at the analyst conference did not anticipate a buyback and we're sticking with that number for the year so.
But it's something we'll look at later on in the year and decide if there's anything that make sense.
Okay great.
And there are no further questions.
I will turn the call back over to Don Felsinger for any additional or closing remarks.
Wow this is the shortest call we've ever had.
I guess the business is getting too simple for you guys.
Hey once again thanks for joining us in this first quarter call.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact Steve Scott [ph] or Victor [ph].
Thanks for taking time with us.
Have a great day.
And that will conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Steve Davis.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I’m Steve Davis Vice President of Investor Relations.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's second quarter 2011 financial results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team including Don Felsinger Executive Chairman; Debbie Reed Chief Executive Officer; Neal Schmale President and Chief Operating Officer; Mark Snell Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Joe Householder Senior Vice President and Controller.
You'll note that Slide 2 contains our Safe Harbor statement.
Please remember that this call contains forward-looking statements that are not historical fact and constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.
As you know they involve risks uncertainties and assumptions so future results may differ materially from those expressed on our call.
These risks uncertainties and assumptions are described at the bottom of today’s press release and are further discussed in the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis.
With that I'll turn it over to Don.
Thanks Steve and thank you all for joining us.
I'd like to begin today's call by commenting on our recent CEO succession process.
We'll then review our second quarter financial results and then provide an operational update on our businesses.
In light of Neal Schmale's retirement later this year and my retirement next year our board engaged in a thoughtful year-long process to ensure a smooth leadership succession.
That process culminated in the election of Debbie Reed as CEO and as a Sempra board member.
As many of you know Debbie has a broad understanding of the energy industry and has excelled in her 30-year career with the Sempra companies.
She has demonstrated outstanding leadership at every level of responsibility.
She is also well respected by key stakeholders that we interface with including customers regulators elected officials community leaders and our employees.
Given this we decided that she was the right person to lead the company going forward.
Once the decision was reached that Debbie would succeed me as CEO we decided to make that transition effective immediately.
This timing provides Debbie with the opportunity to focus on Sempra's annual strategic review of our business.
Additionally this timing allows Neal and me to provide support and guidance to Debbie and the rest of the organization during this transition until our retirements.
We have an excellent management team in place to take the company forward.
The board and I are confident that Debbie Mark the business unit presidents and the rest of the management team will continue our excellent track record of creating shareholder value and delivering great service to our customers.
Now I'd like to hand the call over to Debbie.
Thanks Don.
I'm pleased to join you all in my new role today.
Before I review our second quarter results with you I would like to address the question some of you have asked concerning my strategic vision for Sempra.
I want to start by reiterating that our strategy has been and will continue to be focused on regulated utilities and contracted energy infrastructure.
It is a space within our sector where we have demonstrated success and one in which we have deep competency.
As Don mentioned we have just begun our annual strategic review at Sempra in which we update our 5-year business plan.
This year I have 3 objectives that we will complete as part of this process.
First we will conduct a thorough market assessment of the short- and long-term business environment in which we operate.
We will be analyzing market trends to identify opportunities and risks.
As an example environmental regulations are prompting retirements of coal plant at the same time that nuclear plant development has been substantially slowed.
This trend is likely to create opportunities for natural gas-fired generation and the development of new gas infrastructure including storage.
Secondly we will be reviewing the current and expected performance of our asset portfolio considering market cycles and focusing on getting the greatest value from these assets.
We will develop specific strategies for assets not meeting our return expectation in this market environment.
Lastly we will put in place the organization and leadership to execute and deliver on our plan.
I feel fortunate to have Don Neal Mark and the rest of the management team available to draw upon and support me in this process as I transition into my new role.
As always we will update you on any developments on our quarterly earnings call and at our analyst conference next spring.
Now let's move on to the review of our second quarter and year-to-date financial results.
Earlier this morning we reported second quarter earnings of $511 million or $2.12 per share compared with $222 million or $0.89 per share in the same period last year.
This year's second quarter earnings included a gain of $277 million or $1.15 per share reflecting the write-up in the value of the company's original investments in Chile and Peru.
This was a result of the acquisition of a controlling interest in those utilities during the quarter.
Excluding the impact of this gain our quarterly earnings per share increased by 9%.
Earnings for the first 6 months of 2011 were $769 million or $3.19 per share compared with $328 million or $1.31 per share in 2010.
First quarter 2010 earnings included an after-tax charge of $96 million or $0.38 per share related to a litigation settlement.
Our financial performance for the first half of the year is in line with our expectations for this point in the year and on a full year basis.
We remain on track to generate earnings of $4 to $4.30 per share.
This of course excludes the impact of the write-up that we recognized this quarter.
While our earnings in the second half of the year will be impacted by the expiration of Sempra Generation's 10-year contract with the California Department of Water Resources at the end of the third quarter we expect higher second half earnings at our California utilities consistent with our past performance.
Additionally we are expecting the contribution from some regulatory matters that we anticipate to be resolved later this year.
SDG&amp;E will be requesting the CPUC's approval to recover a total of about $90 million of increased wildfire insurance costs from July 2010 through December of this year.
About $60 million of that has already been requested and we expect to file a request in the third quarter of this year for an additional $30 million.
You may recall that late last year the commission allowed SDG&amp;E to recover $29 million of insurance costs for the July 2009 to June 2010 policy period.
It also provided guidance for future recovery requests until our next general rate case and our 2 requests will be consistent with that guidance.
The other regulatory matters that we anticipate to be resolved by the end of the year are applications for $17 million of energy efficiency awards for SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas and a $6 million gas cost incentive mechanism award at SoCalGas.
I'd note that all the items I just described are on a pretax basis.
Now I'd like to hand it over to Mark so he can take you through some of the details of the financial results beginning with Slide 4.
Thanks Debbie.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the second quarter of 2011 were $71 million compared with earnings of $75 million in the year-ago quarter.
The small variance was due to higher AFUDC earnings which were more than offset by higher litigation expense and insurance premiums.
For the 6 months of 2011 SDG&amp;E's earnings were $160 million which is in line with the $158 million of earnings last year.
At Southern California Gas Co.
second quarter 2011 earnings were $59 million compared with $69 million in the second quarter of 2010.
The second quarter of this year was impacted by $5 million from lower storage revenues and higher expenses net of higher CPUC authorized margin and a $4 million adjustment to prior year employee benefit costs.
For the 6 months of 2011 SoCalGas' earnings were $127 million compared with $134 million of earnings last year.
Now let's go to Slide 5.
Sempra Pipelines &amp; Storage recorded earnings of $337 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared with earnings of $39 million in the same quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of the $277 million gain earnings were $60 million for the quarter and the quarter benefited from $14 million of higher earnings from our increased ownership stake in the utilities in Chile and Peru and also from $5 million of higher earnings from the pipeline assets in Mexico which were acquired in the second quarter of 2010.
For the first half of 2011 Sempra Pipelines &amp; Storage had earnings of $391 million.
Excluding the impact of the $277 million gain this year earnings were $114 million for the first half of 2011 compared with $77 million last year.
The increase was mainly due to $20 million higher earnings from Chile and Peru and $13 million higher earnings from Mexican pipeline assets.
Now let's go to Slide 6.
Sempra LNG had earnings of $18 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared with earnings of $13 million in the prior year's period.
For the first 6 months of 2011 Sempra LNG's earnings were $51 million up from $45 million last year.
Both the second quarter and year-to-date 2011 results included $11 million higher earnings from customer payments related to the nondelivery of contracted cargoes.
Now please move to Slide 7.
Our generation business recorded earnings of $50 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared with earnings of $52 million in the same quarter of 2010.
For the first 6 months of 2011 Sempra Generation's earnings were $94 million up from $1 million of earnings last year.
Last year's results included an $84 million charge related to a litigation settlement in the first quarter.
The improvement in earnings was also due to $15 million of lower operating and maintenance costs as a result of scheduled plant maintenance and earthquake damage to our Mexicali power plant in 2010.
This was offset by $4 million higher depreciation expense this year.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Debbie who will begin with Slide 8.
Thanks Mark.
Now let me update you on activities at our California utilities.
Last month SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas filed updates to their general rate case applications which reflect the impact of bonus depreciation.
The updates were consistent with what we had included in the guidance provided you in March.
The CPUC schedule for the rate cases call for intervener testimony in September hearings late in the year and a final CPUC decision around March of 2012.
The CPUC has already approved making the new rates established by these rate cases retroactive to January 1 2012.
Another important regulatory proceeding is the CPUC's examination of what changes should be made to natural gas pipelines following the tragedy in San Bruno.
As we talked about on our last call the CPUC requested records supporting maximum allowable operating pressures for 1 600 miles out of 4 000 miles of Department of Transportation defined transmission pipelines that SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E operate.
We conducted an extensive review which renewed our confidence that the maximum pressures on our systems have been appropriately set in accordance with current regulation and that we operate our systems safely.
The CPUC has also directed the natural gas utilities in California to file implementation plans to comply with new requirements to test or replace all transmission pipelines that have not been pressure tested.
We will submit our plan to the CPUC by August 26.
We believe that complying with these new requirements has the potential of increasing capital spending at our utilities particularly at SoCalGas by several hundred million dollars per year over a 10-year period.
But it will ultimately be the commission's decision to set the appropriate level of spending going forward.
Both SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E expect full recovery for all incremental costs related to complying with the new requirement.
Please go to Slide 9.
Now let's move on to some of the major utility projects.
For the $1.9 billion Sunrise Powerlink project construction is progressing as planned.
The project is on budget and is now about 30% complete.
We continue to expect to complete the line in the second half of next year.
Turning to SDG&amp;E Smart Meter program this project is now essentially complete.
The mass deployment phase has concluded as of the end of the second quarter over 1.3 million electric and 850 000 gas meters have been installed.
I'd also mention that SoCalGas' advanced metering project is on track and the upgrade of 6 million natural gas meters is expected to begin next year.
As for the push towards meeting the 33% renewables target SDG&amp;E has made significant progress this year.
Since the beginning of the year contracts for more than 1 200 megawatts of renewable energy have been added to its portfolio.
One renewable project that I'd like to highlight is Rim Rock which is a 189-megawatt wind project that demonstrates a unique approach to helping meet the renewable goals at SDG&amp;E.
Last month the CPUC unanimously voted to allow SDG&amp;E to make a tax equity investment for up to $250 million in the Rim Rock project.
The investment will be included in rate base and represents the first regulated tax equity structure in the nation.
We will also make an additional shareholder investment in the project which is expected to be about $40 million and should earn a utility-like return.
This innovative structure benefits customers by lowering costs for clean energy and serves as a model for future projects.
Now let's move to the next slide.
Last week we announced the expansion of our Copper Mountain Solar complex in Nevada.
The project creatively called Copper Mountain 2 is supported by a 25-year power sales contract with PG&amp;E that is now pending approval by the CPUC.
We expect 92 megawatts to be complete by January of 2013 and 58 megawatts by 2015.
And at the end of the second quarter the 250-megawatt Cedar Creek 2 wind project at Colorado was also placed in service.
This project is a 50-50 joint venture with BP Wind.
There is a 25-year agreement in place with a utility subsidiary of Xcel Energy for the sale of the project's power.
At our last analyst conference in March we discussed plans to develop 1 000 megawatts of renewable capacity at Sempra Generation over the next 5 years.
Already half of this goal has been met with projects that have been completed and under construction or have been contracted.
Also out of these 500 megawatts about 300 megawatts have already received the necessary regulatory approvals.
We are developing and building a robust pipeline of renewable projects and including in our slide presentation is an appendix summarizing these projects that we've launched today.
In addition to the 1 000 megawatts in our 5-year plan we have the potential for roughly 1 700 megawatts of additional renewable projects based upon our existing land position.
I'd also like to update you on our efforts to maximize the value of Sempra Generation's natural gas plants.
We recently signed a 25-year agreement to supply 240 megawatts of electricity to an association of electric utilities in Arizona and southern Nevada.
The contract which starts in 2015 provides us with an attractive long-term strategic hedge for a significant portion of our existing generation capacity at Palo Verde and serves as a platform for further optimization of the 2 remaining gas-fired plants we will have following the transfer of El Dorado to SDG&amp;E on October 1 of this year.
By the way I'd also like to share with you that I recently visited Peru and had the opportunity to meet with Peru's new president as well as the prime minister and energy minister.
We had a very constructive meeting and it gave me confidence that the positive regulatory framework our electric utility has operated under for over a decade will continue.
There is great interest in ensuring that Peru has a robust electric grid and increased generation capacity to keep up with its economic growth.
Now please turn to the final slide.
We're pleased that we're on track to meet our guidance for the year and I have confidence that our utilities will deliver strong results in the second half of this year consistent with our long track record of solid performance.
The major projects at our California utilities are moving forward according to plan and our infrastructure businesses are performing well.
Before I open up the call to take questions I'd like to take a moment to acknowledge the fact that this is Neal Schmale's final earnings call before his retirement later this year.
In his prior role as Chief Financial Officer and his current role as President and Chief Operating Officer Neal has made countless significant contributions to Sempra Energy in his 13 years with the company.
I want to thank him for his leadership and dedication to our company and wish him the very best in his retirement.
With that I'll stop and open up the call to take any of your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Faisel Khan of Citi.
On the power generation contract I believe you guys signed at Sempra Generation about the 25-year contract for 240 megawatts beginning in 2015 can you guys talk about that a little bit more in terms of what the pricing outlook is for that? I know we have the contract falling off at the end of the year.
What does -- what is that contract exactly -- how this is structured? I would just say that we're not going to disclose the commercial terms.
But we feel that this is a really good starting point for hedging our fleet and we feel very positive about the contract.
We think it's good for the customer and very good for our business as well.
Okay fair enough.
And then if you could give us a little update on what -- how you guys are thinking about some of your gas infrastructure assets within the U.S.
particularly your equity investment in REX and your storage assets and your LNG assets are you guys still thinking about or do you ever look at the MLP structure and how that could enhance the value of Sempra stock or how that might help you guys grow that business a little bit further? Well Faisal I will start and then I'll ask Mark to add anything to that.
As was mentioned we're engaged right now in our strategy works that we do every year around this time.
And those are the kinds of questions that we're looking at as part of the strategy work.
We're looking at every asset we have and what's the best structure for that asset.
Is it an asset that we can add assets to and increase the value and what is the best way to maximize the value of our existing investment? And certainly we will look at structures like MLPs as part of that.
Mark do you want to add anything? Yes I would just say we've looked at it in the past and I think we're focused on it now and I would expect that we would -- I don't know that we'll go exactly the MLP route but I do think that we'll do something to maximize the value of our assets.
But that's certainly an option that's open and we're exploring it in the current market.
Okay.
And then have you guys also looked at the liquefaction option at your Cameron facility? Is that still a possibility or do you -- how are you guys thinking about that? I would say that that is a possibility if we can get long-term contracts from a credit worthy counterparty for that.
I think Don has stated before and I would reaffirm that my view is we're not going to do that unless we can have long-term contracts in place.
But certainly that's something that we're looking at with other parties.
We'll go to Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
The tax rate for the second quarter seemed a bit low and I was wondering if you could sort of describe what's going on there and if there's been any change in the tax rate outlook for this year and others? I'm going to ask Joe Householder to answer that.
This is Joe.
Our tax rate is right in line with what Mark presented at the analyst conference roughly about 30% for 2011.
The low rate you're seeing in the statement of operations is simply due to the noncash book gain we had on the step-up of our basis of the preexisting Chile/Peru equity investment so that's why it's 17% and 25% or so.
But we're really at the 30% rate if you take that gain out.
Okay great.
And then you guys have thought about a buyback and with the falloff in the share price and what have you I was wondering if you guys might want to sort of talk about what your current thinking on that might be or how you're looking at that in relation to some of the activity we've seen in the market in your stock? I'm going to ask Mark to address that.
We've had a number of discussions so.
Well certainly we think our stock is an excellent investment right now.
But I do think -- we are still looking at where we come out at SoCalGas with the increased capital spending that we fully expect to have to pay or to have to invest for the next couple of years and as we've said it's probably to the tune of several hundred millions of dollars a year for a multi-year period.
And so once we know what those numbers are then we can think about whether there's room to do any kind of buyback or anything like that.
So we're probably talking in terms of timing still a ways off is that how we should think about it? Yes I would think we wouldn't make any decisions until the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then the pipeline analysis it sounds like you guys have done a thorough analysis and you're okay with the pressure.
Another company in California has had quite a few things come out I guess as part of their review in terms of past practices and other issues perhaps not directly related to pressure.
Can you guys tell us if there's anything potentially like that that you guys are seeing or any revelations that you guys have had about your -- with your safety review that might be noteworthy? I will just say that we have had people doing thorough reviews because we've had the same reporting requirements to the CPUC as other companies in California have had and that we have not found anything that concerns us in terms of our past practices or how we operate our pipelines.
We operate our system very safely.
We have looked at lessons learned from the San Bruno incident and are making modifications going forward that we think would improve our responsiveness if something like that occurred.
But we have not found any deep concerns at all in terms of the way we've operated our system.
And we just had a recent audit of this by the CPUC and they didn't find any concerns either that's significant.
We'll take our next question from Mark Barnett of Morningstar.
Couple of just real quick questions.
With the tax equity investment alongside just the normal equity investment in -- was it Rock Rim sorry are you considering doing that maybe outside of just wind or I mean is there like a sort of a targeted technology? I mean maybe you might be considering geothermal investments as well or perhaps solar? What we've looked at thus far is most of the projects we focused in on have been on the wind side but it wouldn't preclude doing other technologies.
I would stress that this investment is being done within SDG&amp;E within the regulated company and so the big issue there is ensuring that the entire structure is a benefit for customers as well.
So if there was a competitive solar deal that could be structured in the same way and provide benefits to customers we would certainly consider that.
Would you be considering kind of the same set up where the tax equity investment alongside the equity? Yes on the geothermal I don't think that that would -- we would be looking at that.
But in this case this was a regulatory structure that was negotiated as part of a settlement.
And that the CPUC basically had the structure approved where we would have the rate based investment and then we would have a shareholder investment alongside of that.
So my sense is that that would be the type of structure that they would want us to have going forward.
Mark this is Mark Snell.
The one thing on that would be is the tax equity helped us get a lower cost to customers because it lowered the financing cost for the developer and any of those.
And that would be -- that same structure could work very well with a solar development as well as wind.
Anything that has a high tax component to it we think it could be effective and literally -- I mean it is one of the few times where it is sort of a win-win for everybody.
We get lower pricing for customers the developer gets -- has lower cost and we get a tax benefit at the utility that's shared with the shareholders.
So all of that kind of works out well.
Okay.
And then just one more quick question on the PEMEX assets has there been any further discussion around those remaining kind of assets in the JV? Or is it just going to sit pat for now? Well as far as the PEMEX assets right now we're working with PEMEX on some potential growth projects.
There has been no additional movement in terms of them exiting the partnership.
But as long as we remain in the partnership we believe that there will be a number of growth projects that we could do jointly.
So that's where that stands at this time.
We'll take our next question from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Just wanted to check in where do we stand on distributions from the sale of the commodity business could you just help us where we are in that? Have you gotten everything or just still -- how much more is there to go? Well we've gotten about -- we expect to get between $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion.
We've gotten a little over $1.4 billion and we would expect to get the remaining $400 million to $450 million by the first quarter of next year.
And we did get about $320 million in April of this year as a distribution.
Yes and we're kind of on a quarterly distribution schedule.
We should get another $100 million here in a week or so.
And Debbie as you guys go through the strategic review I guess one thing as we've gone through the sale of the commodity business to make it more simple and all that it's still -- I don't know we're still not getting the multiple and I don't know is there some way you're thinking how to simplify it to the investor base so the I guess the different components of the businesses get their multiples reflected into the price? I'm trying to see which way you are thinking about strategically as you think over the fall.
Yes I would say that that is one thing that we will be looking at.
We'll be looking at all of our businesses and the long-term value of those businesses in our portfolio.
We will also be looking at how do we focus on increasing some of our domestic earnings growth.
And so those will be things that will be part of the strategy work.
And since -- and I've just been in this job a month I can't tell you much more than that but we will be doing that work over the next few months.
And our next question will come from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Your Latin American businesses can you talk to us -- I think one of the times we were out there meeting with you guys your -- George had discussed and I think in the follow-on you all had about significant potential growth opportunities around your Peruvian and your business in Chile.
Can you just talk about whether those growth opportunities are adding bolt-on distribution businesses or are they branching out in other things like hydro or electric transmission? Yes I'd be happy to talk about that.
As I mentioned I was down meeting with the new president the energy minister and the prime minister and they are very interested in seeing that more electric generation gets built.
And in Peru we are working right now on our first hydro project that will be about 100-megawatt project to be completed over the next couple of years.
That project will then give us an opportunity to do more.
But I want to stress just in our basic distribution area kind of our basic growth in our Chilean and Peruvian businesses so you get a good sense of that.
If you look at the customer growth that we're seeing in those businesses it's about 2.5% a year.
If you look at the sales growth in those businesses it's about 5.5% to 7% per year.
And we are interested and if there are some potential distribution companies that could be consolidated and we feel that they would be wise investments for us we would certainly consider those investments as well.
It does have a very high growth environment and have a very stable regulatory environment which we believe will continue.
Got it.
And one follow-up.
Can you talk about the capitalization of the business and if growth opportunities don't emerge whether there's a potential to recapitalize that business and eventually to bring back some incremental capital back to the U.S.
or use it for like investment in Mexico or elsewhere? Yes there is some opportunities and I'll have Mark go through the details of that.
Of course all of the expansion projects and even the acquisitions that we could possibly do in South America would all be funded at the local level down there.
We have additional borrowing capacity at that level and we also have offshore cash that we could use to invest there.
So we wouldn't anticipate funding from the U.S.
to grow those businesses.
We would anticipate doing that there locally.
And then obviously we like a lot of other companies in the U.S.
are lobbying and talking about some kind of change in the tax system that would allow U.S.
companies to bring cash home and invest in opportunities here.
And we certainly are poised and ready to take advantage of that if that should happen.
But we have in our models also anticipated that even if it didn't happen at some point in development we will have enough cash we will have to bring some of it home.
And of course we have to pay the taxes on that.
But we think the right answer right now is since we have good investment opportunities is to continue to invest that money offshore.
How sizable is that? Meaning like if you were to make the decision to bring back some of the capital today what are we talking about? Well in our 5-year plan we'd build up about $1 billion of offshore cash over the 5-year planning period.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take a follow-up from Faisel Khan.
Sorry guys just a couple more questions.
I think there's talk of this brass LNG project maybe moving forward and I think you guys might have a small stake in that project.
Are you still interested in participating in that project? Or is that something that you have to review? I would say that we're looking at all opportunities in terms of that and I'm going to ask Neal to put some color around it.
Yes this is Neal Schmale.
And we did have an interest in acquiring a small stake in that project emphasize the word small and the project like all of these takes a long time to get going.
But I think the general idea is that to acquire molecules of LNG internationally will allow us to improve that business.
Okay understood.
And then on the SoCalGas side you guys talked about kind of lower storage revenues.
Can you highlight that a little bit more or go into that a little more? What causes those storage revenues to be lower? I thought that was mostly a regulated business but I guess there's a little bit of industrial and power generation load that affects that number? Yes it is a regulated business and on the storage piece so we have an incentive design that allows us to make some additional money by selling storage at a premium to some of the market pricing and packaging storage in creative ways.
And we've earned incentive historically earned some incentives this year for that but the incentives were less this year than we've had in the prior year.
That's all that's happening there.
And there was a couple of million dollars on a pretax basis and nothing real significant.
Okay.
And then just is your Sunrise when I look at the CapEx for the first 6 months and is it possible to break out kind of what Sunrise and the Smart Meter programs was because these are very distinct projects that will -- that have come to a close or will come to a close in the near future so that represents kind of a ramp down I guess CapEx although I think some of your other...
Yes for Sunrise the number was $347 million for the first 6 months of the year.
And then for the Smart Meter CapEx we were looking at a total this year of about $120 million for the entire year and I don't have the number in front of me for the first 6 months.
But it's pretty much -- it's in that range.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn it back over to Ms.
Reed for closing remarks.
Well thank you for all joining us today.
We really appreciate you being with us this morning.
And if you have any questions please don't hesitate to call Steve Davis Victor or Scott with any follow-up.
Thank you again.
Bye-bye.
Once again ladies and gentlemen that concludes our conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Steve Davis.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I’m Steve Davis Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's third quarter 2011 financial results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team including Debbie Reed Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bruce Folkmann Acting Controller.
You'll note that Slide 2 contains our Safe Harbor statement.
Please remember that this call contains forward-looking statements that are not historical fact and constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the day of this call.
As you know they involve risks uncertainties and assumptions so future results may differ materially from those expressed on our call.
These risks uncertainties and assumptions are described at the bottom of today’s press release and are further discussed in the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information future events or other factors.
It's important to note that all the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis.
With that I'll turn it over to Debbie.
Thanks Steve and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
On today's call we'll start with a review of our financial results.
I'll then give you an operational update on our businesses.
Before we begin I want to take the opportunity to acknowledge that 2 of the long-standing members of our leadership team are joining us today in new roles.
As part of our ongoing succession planning process Mark Snell was named President of Sempra Energy.
Joe Householder who had previously served as our Senior Vice President and Controller was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sempra Energy the role that Mark had held since 2005.
In addition on January 1 Jeff Martin will assume a broader role as the head of U.S.
Gas &amp; Power and George Liparidis will take over all of our international operation.
I will discuss more about these changes later.
I think we have a great team in place one that has worked well together for many years and one that is ready to build on our success and take the company forward.
So now let's discuss our third quarter and year-to-date financial results beginning on Slide 3.
Earlier this morning we reported third quarter earnings of $296 million or $1.22 per share compared with $131 million or $0.53 per share in the same period last year.
On an adjusted basis earnings for the third quarter of 2010 were $270 million which excludes a $130 million write-down of our investment at RBS Sempra Commodities.
Earnings for the first 9 months of 2011 were $1.1 billion or $4.40 per share compared with $459 million or $1.84 per share in 2010.
This year's second quarter earnings included a gain of $277 million reflecting the write-up and the value of our investments in Chile and Peru.
And in 2010 earnings included an after-tax litigation charge of $96 million as well as the write-down of the investment in RBS Sempra Commodities that I just mentioned.
On an adjusted basis earnings per share for the first 9 months of 2011 were up 17% compared to last year and I'm pleased with the strong performance from all of our businesses.
Now I'd like to hand it over to Joe so he can take you through some of the details of our financial results beginning with Slide 4.
Thanks Debbie.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the third quarter of 2011 were $113 million compared with earnings of $106 million in the year-ago quarter.
The increase was due primarily to higher earnings from work-in progress or AFUDC equity mainly from the Sunrise Powerlink project.
For the first 9 months of 2011 SDG&amp;E's earnings were $273 million compared with $264 million last year.
The increase was due primarily to the higher AFUDC earnings net of increased interest costs.
At Southern California Gas third quarter 2011 earnings were $81 million compared with $78 million in the third quarter of 2010.
For the first 9 months of 2011 SoCalGas's earnings were $208 million compared with $212 million last year.
Now let's go to Slide 5.
Sempra Pipelines &amp; Storage recorded earnings of $66 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared with earnings of $43 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The increase in earnings was primarily due to $11 million higher earnings from the accretive acquisition we made in Chile and Peru and $18 million higher earnings from non-operating foreign currency effects in Chile.
Partially offsetting this was a net $7 million benefit last year due to nonrecurring items related to our investment in Argentina.
For the first 9 months of 2011 Sempra Pipelines &amp; Storage had earnings of $457 million.
Excluding the impact of the $277 million gain earlier this year earnings were $180 million for the first 9 months of 2011 compared with earnings of $120 million last year.
The increase was mainly due to $31 million higher earnings from operations in Chile and Peru $13 million higher earnings from the Mexican pipeline operations we acquired in April 2010 and $15 million from the foreign currency benefit in Chile that I just mentioned.
I’d note the currency gain in Chile resulted primarily from having over $200 million in U.S.
currency at Chilquinta while there was a strengthening of the dollar relative to the Chilean peso.
Some of the gain will turn around in the fourth quarter because the dollar has since weakened.
The cash has now been distributed out of the operating company.
And because we no longer plan to retain excess funds in excess of operating needs at Chilquinta we do not expect to see this as a significant item in future years.
Now please go to slide 6.
Sempra LNG had earnings of $24 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared with earnings of $5 million in the prior year's period.
For the first 9 months of 2011 Sempra LNG's earnings were $75 million up from $50 million last year.
The increase in earnings for both the quarter and year-to-date was due primarily to higher revenues for contracted cargoes that were not delivered.
Now please move to Slide 7.
Our Generation business recorded earnings of $49 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared with earnings of $59 million in the same quarter in 2010.
This decrease was primarily due to lower earnings from natural gas fired power plant operations was partially offset by an income tax benefit.
For the first 9 months of 2011 Sempra Generation's earnings were $143 million up from $60 million last year.
Last year's results included an $86 million charge related to a litigation settlement.
I also want to mention that as anticipated Generation's 10-year contract to sell power to the California Department of Water Resources expired at the end of the third quarter.
This contract anchored our fleet of gas plants for the past 10 years.
Also on October 1 the 480-megawatt El Dorado gas plant was acquired by SDG&amp;E for its book value about $200 million and now it will earn a rate base return at SDG&amp;E.
Now let's move to the next slide.
As we mentioned on our second quarter call there is a regulatory item that I'd like to point out as it relates to our expectations for the remainder of the year.
SDG&amp;E has requested the CPUC's approval to recover increased wildfire insurance costs for the period July 2010 through December of this year which if approved as filed will result in about $50 million of earnings.
You may recall that late last year the Commission allowed SDG&amp;E to recover its higher insurance costs for the July 2009 to June 2010 policy period which resulted in the recognition of $16 million of earnings.
It also provided guidance for the future recovery request until our next rate case and our 2 requests are consistent with that guidance.
The amount and the timing of recovery of these requests will play a key role in determining where within our guidance range we end the year.
Given our outlook for the remainder of the year and the strong performance across all of our businesses for the first 9 months we are on track to meet our 2011 earnings guidance of $4 to $4.30 per share this excludes the impact of the remeasurement gain from our South American acquisition that we recognized in the second quarter.
And with that I'd like to turn it back over to Debbie who will begin with Slide 9.
Thanks Joe.
Now let me update you in activities in our California utility.
In our general rate cases for SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas the interveners in the proceedings filed their testimony in September and we filed our rebuttal testimony last month which sets the stage for settlement discussion.
The proceedings schedules call for hearings in December and final CPUC decisions around March of 2012.
The CPUC has already approved making these new rates retroactive to January 1 2012.
Turning to the Sunrise Powerlink project at SDG&amp;E.
The project now is about 50% complete and remains on budget.
We continue to expect the lines to be completed in the second half of 2012.
Earlier this year the CPUC directed the natural gas utilities in California to file implementation plans to comply with new requirements to test or replace all transmission pipeline that have not been pressure tested.
We submitted our pipeline safety enhancement plan to the CPUC in late August.
This plan calls for spending a total of $3.1 billion over the next 10 years primarily at SoCalGas.
We have requested cost recovery for the first phase which entails spending $1.4 billion of capital and about $300 million of O&amp;M expense through 2015 to pressure test or replace pipeline in the highest priority areas.
Both SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E expect the CPUC to allow recovery for all costs associated with complying with these new requirement and to set the appropriate level of spending going forward.
Now please go to Slide 10.
Given the dramatic rise in North American natural gas production from shale resources and the disparity in natural gas prices between North America and both Asian and European market several liquefaction projects have now been proposed that would export LNG to international markets.
We have strong interest from large credit-worthy counterparties who want to procure liquefaction services from Cameron LNG on long-term 20-plus-year contracts.
Due to the significant interest we will be submitting an application for an LNG export license from the Department of Energy in the very near future.
Our goal is to get a long-term contract fully utilize our existing infrastructure and minimize our future investment risk.
Given the stature and enthusiasm of the interested parties we believe this is a realistic objective.
Now before I move on to the final slide I'd like to provide an update on our strategic planning process.
As we discussed on our second quarter earnings call this is an exercise that we undertake each year to update our 5-year business plan.
You may recall that I outlined 3 primary objectives as part of this year's effort which are: to conduct a thorough market assessment to identify opportunities and risks; review the current and expected performance of our asset portfolio with the goal of getting the greatest value from these assets; and put in place the organization and leadership to execute and deliver on our plans.
We recently announced management changes and a business unit realignment which is an initial step in the evolution of our business.
I want to stress that our strategy has been and will continue to be focused on regulated utilities and contracted energy infrastructure.
Our realignment reflects this continued focus.
The leaders of our 2 California utilities San Diego Gas &amp; Electric and Southern California Gas now report directly to me.
In his new role as President Mark Snell will oversee our operations outside the California utilities.
Effective at the beginning of next year Sempra Generation Sempra Pipelines &amp; Storage and Sempra LNG will be consolidated into 2 new business units reporting to Mark: Sempra International and Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power.
With regard to our market assessment and portfolio review our work is ongoing and we plan to detail the results at our analyst conference next spring.
Now please turn to the final slide.
To summarize I'm very pleased with the strong performance across all of our business units so far this year.
Our adjusted earnings for the first 9 months of the year are up 17% from last year and we're on track to meet our earnings outlook for 2011.
With that I'll stop and open up the call to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Debbie 2 questions.
One I know you're in the early stages of kind of taking a strategic look at the various assets.
Where do you think you have scale? And maybe more importantly where do you think you lack scale? Well certainly Michael I would say that we have scale in our utility operations both internationally and in the U.S.
and those are clearly profitable businesses for us.
I think that in our U.S.
Gas &amp; Power business this is an area where we want to focus in looking at those assets and how those assets can be utilized in more fully in some cases and in different ways in other cases to grow that U.S.
Gas &amp; Power business.
And Mark Snell and his team will be involved in doing that.
Research Division</strong> The other question and this thinking about the balance sheet over the coming years are you guys thinking about in terms of dividend growth versus share buyback versus funding CapEx versus even potential debt reduction or minimizing debt issuances at the holding company level? Well Michael I'm going to ask Joe to shine some light on that further but let me just say that that is part of our overall strategic review.
And we fortunately are in a position where we have a lot of good investments mainly in our utilities.
And so we want to make those investments in our utilities and we'll be looking at that as a top priority.
And then we will be looking at the dividend that always occurs in our February board meeting where our board looks at that.
So let me just hand it over to Joe and see if he wants to shine any more color on that.
Sure.
I think Michael I'd just stay with what Debbie was saying is part of the strategic review is to look at capital allocation.
And that question that you asked is simply around capital allocation.
How are we going to look at dividend? We have a policy now we'll continue to look at that with the board and we will maintain our strong investment grade credit ratings.
That's important to us so that's something we will focus on and we'll look at the great investment opportunities we have and decide upon the capital allocation and whether that includes more capital to the utilities or U.S.
Gas &amp; Power business or more to dividend or more to share buyback.
We're going to look at that in this process.
We'll be talking about that when we meet in March.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Patterson Glenrock Associates.
The income tax benefit and generation could you quantify that? Joe you want to? Sure.
I'm going to ask Bruce Folkmann to give you the details of that.
But it was a component of a Mexican tax benefits and obviously we have some solar credits that we're recognizing.
This is Bruce Folkmann.
The Mexican tax benefit is the primary is driver for the change in rate.
And let me just explain that.
It affected generation and it also touches on our other operations in Mexico.
Many of those subsidiaries use the U.S.
dollars as their functional currency.
So during the third quarter the U.S.
dollar strengthened versus the Mexican peso.
As a result U.S.
dollar denominated liabilities generally debt resulted in Mexican tax benefits.
This lowered the tax rate for our Mexican operations and for Sempra.
We have economically hedged this exposure in 2011 but the impact of the hedge isn't reflected in tax expenses it's reflected in other income and expense.
Another impact of the weakening peso is that our deferred tax liabilities was declined in U.S.
dollar terms resulting in lower tax rates.
Again lower tax rates for Mexican operations and for Sempra.
Okay.
And how much was this? The impact on generation? Yes.
Well it really drove the rate from 25% to 20% or a negative 20% rather of benefit.
Okay.
So I mean just a dollar number? Do we have that? Or I can circle back after the call if that's easier.
Yes we have it.
We have it.
Just one second.
It's I believe it's about $7 million in generation.
Okay.
Great.
And then the gas pipeline plan? As I’m sure you guys know PG&amp;E had quite an announcement this morning.
And I was wondering whether or not you could just sort of comment on how -- obviously it's a different situation different -- if you could just maybe comment a little bit about the pipeline safety enhancement plan and how that differs.
I mean it sounds like you're planning on getting full recovery.
Just if you could elaborate a little more on that? Sure very much so.
I think we are in a different situation clearly in that regard.
As I told you the filing that we made is really for new activities that the CPUC is requiring of the utilities as a result of the PG&amp;E situation.
And so they are requiring us to test all lines that haven't been tested and that was not previously required under the regulation.
So we made a filing consistent with the CPUC's request.
We would anticipate that they would authorize a memorandum account for us so that we can begin recovering costs or begin booking the costs to the memorandum account within the first quarter of next year.
And as I mentioned our total filing over 10 years is $3.1 billion $2.8 million of that is capital.
And then our 5-year request for funding which we have requested to occur prior to the next rate case is about $1.4 billion in capital and we fully expect to recover that.
And then on the liquefaction just if you could how much are we talking about? I mean that's usually a lot more expensive than the LNG terminal stuff.
I know you guys already have some stuff in place and what-have-you.
But could you give us a feeling for what you're thinking about here and sort of what the next steps might be in terms of when we might get a better picture as to what may or may not happen? And so the time frame if anything does happen when that would be? Yes.
Let me just give a high level and then I'll have Mark give a little bit more color.
We're in discussions with very strong counterparties about making this conversion but those discussions are still at pretty early stages.
And so we don't have a specific structure identified.
What we do have identified is that we would only do this if we had a long-term contract and we would not build something that we couldn't have fully contracted.
And in doing this we would really look at the rest of the investment and structure.
And we have not taken commodity risks and wouldn't intend to in anything that you would do.
So those are kind of the key things from our side that we're looking at in terms of any deal structure.
And Mark do you want to comment? Paul I just would say this look it's pretty early stage.
But the good news here is that we have a real opportunity to take the Cameron facility and start utilizing it to its maximum potential and I think that's really the exciting news.
And then beyond that how we structure it whether we do this on our own or in partners we have very sophisticated large counterparties that we're talking with here that essentially would become our partners in this.
And so at the end of the day we haven't really spelled out in ourselves here internally how we would fund this.
But it wouldn't necessarily be our capital that we would put at work.
I mean there's lots of opportunities to do different things.
I think you should just look at this as a very very real and very positive upside to a business that's just coming into its own right now.
I guess I'm sort of wondering though I mean just can you throw out sort of a ballpark number what a facility like this would cost given where you -- with the infrastructure you already have in place? I mean it may not be all your capital and stuff but just in general I’m wondering.
Yes.
It could be anywhere from $1 billion to a couple of billion dollars.
It depends on the size of the facility and what's optimal for the people that we're dealing with what they want.
And so it's really -- we really -- it's pretty wide parameters right now because we don't know how big of a facility that's going to be required or be desired.
So we're kind of looking at all those options and we'll keep you updated.
This is a longer-term process because as the DOE has recently announced they're going to review the export permits carefully and so this could take some bit of time before this comes to realization but we should be able to know sometime in the next year whether -- how this will move forward and we'll give you more detail as we know them.
Okay.
Great.
And then just finally the RBS wind down.
Are we pretty much set for the rest of the year I think you guys are about a little over $300 million there now? Do you expect to get all that by the end year or any thoughts on that? Yes.
We're on track with what we've told you before a little bit over $300 million that we would expect to recover.
Some of that may come in to the first quarter of next year but we would get the majority of it this year.
Okay.
And that $7 million gain that we talked about for the income tax thing is that going to be an ongoing thing or is that sort of just the quarterly impact with all the stuff you're talking about with the Mexican U.S.
debt thing? Joe? This is Joe.
That can fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter because of the difference between the Mexican peso and the U.S.
dollar but the thing is this is a non-cash adjustment to the deferred tax liability because that's in pesos and we have a dollar function of currency.
So it moves around.
It goes up and down.
It usually isn't quite as dramatic as it was this past quarter because the peso really devalued against the dollar quite a bit in the quarter itself mostly written in the last couple of weeks of the month as we're dealing with the Greek crisis and all that.
But I don't expect it to be a significant number from quarter-to-quarter.
We'll take our next question from Leslie Rich from JPMorgan.
Can you refresh my memory on your cost of capital mechanism? Do you have that sort of dead band range that annually gets tested to see if it triggers cost of capital change? Yes Leslie we do at both utilities and they’re different mechanisms at each of the 2 utilities.
The SoCalGas mechanism is based upon the 30-year treasury and the SDG&amp;E mechanism is based upon the utility bond index.
And so when we look at those mechanisms that we do not expect either of them to trigger so we would expect to keep the same cost of capital until we get into our next proceeding.
SoCalGas is a little closer than SDG&amp;E is in terms of where we are on the triggering mechanism.
But the 30-year treasury would have to fall below 2.81% for the remainder of this year in order for that to trigger and since it's been over 3% it's 3.11% today we would not anticipate a trigger.
So is that the kind of thing that's tested sort of once a year? Or is that up for potential adjustment? It's tested once a year but the last testing until the cost of capital will be for SoCal at the end of this year and SDG&amp;E test period is earlier and they've already cleared the test period.
So basically unless the utilities bond -- unless the 30-year treasury rate goes below 2.81% for the remainder of this year there will be no triggering at either utility.
We'll take our next question from Mark Barnett from MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
You may have already gone over this briefly but I think I might have missed.
The timeline on the review process for your submitted PSEP program.
When you might [indiscernible] first year back… Yes.
The timeline for the review we're anticipating that a memorandum account will be established in the first quarter of next year.
And the memorandum account would allow us to book costs for future recovery.
And then the proceeding is unclear to us exactly what the timing of the full proceeding would be for the approval of the entire filing.
But once we have a memorandum account then we can begin implementation.
Research Division</strong> And with the final I guess proposal or accepted proposal are you expecting it to just take the form of a writer or...
I'm not sure I quite understood.
Research Division</strong> Like an ongoing writer mechanism? Okay.
What we filed for is a surcharge and that that surcharge would stay in place until our next rate case.
And then on our next rate case they would look at the future periods and put into our next rate case an amount to continue with us -- through $3.1 billion over the next 10 years that we've requested.
So we broke it into 2 pieces.
The first piece is $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion of that is capital and we would look at that getting the memo account to begin that in the first quarter of next year.
And then the second piece would occur after the rate case period.
Research Division</strong> And just one more quick question.
With the LNG export the impact on your existing import capability would there be any just in terms of physical space or how might that work? Well as you probably know Cameron is about 1/3 contracted and so the facility has capacity to add the liquefaction and keep the gasification plant in operation.
So we would envision that we would be able to do both of that facility.
We'll take our next question from Faisel Khan from Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the Eldorado plant that gets dropped into SDG&amp;E do we see an immediate sort of true up in earnings as that plan has dropped in? Well it goes into rate base immediately and that was under a separate proceeding so there should be a true up in earnings for that plant because it was not part of the GRC.
It was incremental to the GRC.
It was transferred in the beginning of October at an amount of a little over $200 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then on the $3.1 billion sort of capital plan for pipeline integrity and I guess replacement at SoCalGas do you envision that being kind of front-end loaded or is that going to be kind of equally amortized over a 10-year period? Well as I mentioned over the first 5 years we're requesting $1.7 billion out of the $3.1 billion.
So it's a little bit front-end loaded.
But out of that $1.7 billion we're estimating about $1.4 billion of that being capital and the most of that is SoCalGas.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
I guess if I'm just looking at your earnings from the I guess Gas Pipeline &amp; Storage business that you guys have right now how much of that earnings is -- or Pipeline Storage business how much of that earnings is from kind of foreign entities? What percentage if you can give me an idea? I think yes I know that 60% of that is really coming from our utilities and that includes our utilities in Chile and Peru.
I don't have a precise percentage of what or how much is foreign but I would say it's probably pretty close to that 60%.
Research Division</strong> And then on the LNG side in terms of the earnings that we're seeing from the LNG segment is almost all of that coming from Costa Azul or is there a little bit of contribution from Cameron? Well there is some contribution for Cameron from the Eni contract that we have but the bulk of that is Costa Azul where we have the plant fully contracted and the contracts provide for if there's a lack of delivery of cargoes of B2B paid so...
Research Division</strong> And just on your statement of operations by business unit and that table that you guys provide I was wondering if you can just clarify just a few line items I guess in your consolidated adjustments to Parent &amp; Other you've got a $32 million I guess loss in the other segment I guess income -- sorry it's Other Income expenses of $32 million.
Okay.
Can you -- Faisel you're kind of fading out.
Can you repeat that question? I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Yes sure.
In Table F in your release you guys talked about a -- there's a $32 million expense under Parent &amp; Other.
It's I guess in the Other income and expense net.
I'm just trying to figure out what that is.
It's a big number year-over-year and it is also another -- this is a large income tax item too.
So I just want to understand what those movements are.
Okay.
Joe? I'm going to have Joe handle the details on that.
Yes Faisel.
As Bruce was mentioning earlier on the Mexican tax issue we have the FX and inflation effect on monetary assets in Mexico and we hedged that so that we don't have cash flow and earnings fluctuations from that but the hedge is at the Parent so there is a hedge loss in that $32 million number and the income tax benefit is the Mexican tax benefit that is offsetting that down in there.
So that's what's going on.
I don’t know if we give the actual -- if you have the actual number.
Research Division</strong> That’s the main driver.
Okay that actually makes sense.
Okay I appreciate that.
Yes that's what's happening there.
The other thing I'd mentioned in that column is that in the $17 million right above the $32 million we have a small adjustment to our net book value in the RBS Sempra Commodities which resulted in about a $10 million after-tax impairment there.
So that's what that $17 million is.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And SDG&amp;E the earnings attributable to non-controlling interest that negative $21 million.
It's a very large change over the last years; I was just trying to know what that is too.
It's from the Calpine Otay Mesa plant that we have to consolidate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's a variable interest rate entity or something right? Yes that's right.
Yes.
That's right.
And we'll take our next question from Winfried Fruehauf from W.
Fruehauf Consulting Limited.
Regarding the termination of the contract with the California DWR what is the estimated annual loss in earnings resulting from that termination of the contract? Well Winfried as you know the contract expired on the 30th of September.
And I would say that the impact of that was fully considered in our guidance that we gave you that when we gave you the guidance and Jeff went through all of this at the analyst meeting that impact was fully considered in our guidance and we don't disclose details on specific contracts.
But I would say that there's been some positive things happened since that time including us contracting with spur for 240 megawatts and we just are seeing some increased value of those assets.
So I think if you look at our guidance you can pretty well determine what we're anticipating there.
And have you any other plans to mitigate the impact of the loss of earnings from that contract with the California DWR? Yes we do.
And I'll have Mark talk about some of the things we're doing.
But certainly one of the things I want to stress is that we are really ahead of our plan on renewables.
We had planned to add another 1 000 megawatts over the 5-year period.
We're more than halfway there already.
So those are the kinds of things that and Mark you want to? Yes.
Look I think we've already done that.
We've taken a couple of steps already.
One we've signed some long-term contracts as Debbie mentioned with other counterparties that are going to start in the next couple of years.
And they're fairly good-sized.
The other thing we did of course was we did as part of the DWR contract litigation settlement agreed to transfer El Dorado into the utility at base.
So we're really -- we're down -- we have 2 plants that were in the market marketing and taking a look at what we can do to enhance our value.
And we're making some real progress on that and then also as a part of the strategic review we continue to evaluate the progress that we're making on that against what we could sell those plats for in the market.
So I think we're always sort of open to doing whatever we think is in our shareholders' best interest.
Before we go on to the next question I'd like to clarify or modify an answer that we gave earlier.
When we were looking at the percentage of foreign earnings coming out of our Pipelines &amp; Storage business we talked about 60% coming from our key utilities and that is correct.
The part that we didn't include is all of our Mexico operations and so the percentage of the Pipeline &amp; Storage earnings that are foreign is about 90%.
I have one more question if I may and relates to the decrease in earnings from your natural gas fired generation plants what caused those lower earnings? Mark? Well the one was the tax thing that Joe had talked about already.
And then the other was we did -- last year we had about $6 million of mark-to-market gains in the amount and this year we had about a $5 million mark-to-market loss and so than net change of $11 million makes up really most of the difference.
And the TDM plant this is Joe Winfried.
The TDM plant was down because of a fire for part of the period.
Right.
Okay.
And are you expecting any insurance compensation for the outage? I don't think it was out long -- enough days to collect on the insurance but there might be some small recovery.
So other than this fire there were no operational reasons that contributed to the lower earnings? No.
No there's no operational reasons but the market for power was lower in the period than it was in the year-ago period too.
So notwithstanding favorable natural gas cost that advantage was wiped out either in whole or in part by lower electricity prices? Well yes.
I mean I guess when you're in the generation business and you have very efficient plants favorable natural gas prices don't always help you right.
Because a lot of times that is -- as you have lower gas prices that tends to lower your advantage.
We'll take our next question from Kit Konolige from Ticonderoga.
Research Division</strong> I think Debbie you mentioned in the GRC that the filing so far I think you set the stage now for settlement discussions.
Can you discuss any say a likelihood that it will reach a settlement? And if it does what the timing on the settlement might be? Well once all the parties have filed their testimony as has now been done then this is the time when we can begin some settlement discussions.
And I cannot comment on settlement discussions because they're confidential but I can tell you that we have settled all of our last several rate cases and we think that in terms of what our past practice has been that we would very much like to work with the parties and see if we can settle this rate case as well.
But we're pleased -- also if we need to go to litigation on it we can go to litigation because we think we have a very strong case.
So we'll see if we can reach settlement.
We've had a history of doing that.
But if we can't we are prepared to go into hearings in December.
Research Division</strong> And would they -- if there were to be a settlement based on your history when might that occur relative to say the December hearings or the March kind of litigated decision timeline? Well that's hard to call because we've had some settlements that occurred before the hearings began some settlement that occurred during the course of hearings and some settlements after the hearings when the case was wrapped up.
So I would say sometime during the next 6 months would be likely.
But to call it beyond that I wouldn't be able to.
Research Division</strong> All right.
One separate area if I could.
You talked about the pipeline safety initiative and the higher spending that might be involved there.
At what point do you get concerned that the level of CapEx for that kind of program in addition to the other spend you're doing at the utilities starts to imply rate increases that get difficult to see implemented so that such that you can earn the allowed return? Let me address that because I think that the thing that is fortunate for us is that SoCalGas has some of the lowest bills in the country.
Our average gas bills are $40 to $50 on an annual average basis.
So we have very very low gas bills.
And so I think that because of the focus on safety and because of the need to make these kinds of investments in the system I think there is room in those bills to accommodate this kind of a expenditures and because we start with very low bills.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And does the gas initiative apply to SDG&amp;E as well? Yes it does apply to SDG&amp;E.
But as I said most of the dollars are on the SoCalGas side.
Over the next 5 years we're only requesting about $200 million on the SDG&amp;E capital side.
And the $3.1 billion includes both utilities.
We'll take our next question from Mark Sigal from Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Could you provide an update on the timeline on your smart metering project at SoCalGas? And then also has the introduction of an opt out clause or an opt out option on some of the electric meter -- AMI projects going on right now had any impact on your planning or the scale of your gas project? On the SoCalGas side we will start with -- we're doing all the IT work the systems work right now for the AMI rollout and we will start putting meters in at the end of next year beginning of 2013 and we will go through 2017 with our installations.
As far as the opt out it's interesting we haven't had on the SDG&amp;E side a big desire by customers to opt out.
We've had basically virtually no complaints on our smart meter program at SDG&amp;E.
But I would say that what we did is upfront we spent a lot of time acquainting customers with the system what the advantages are how to opt -- how to use this to their benefit.
And so I think that we would be doing the same types of things at SoCalGas.
And on the SDG&amp;E side we're nearly finished.
We're at about 98% completion right now.
And I think our total complaints were like 0.16% of customers.
So I mean it's nothing.
So I think we had good experience at SDG&amp;E we will apply that experience to SoCal.
We'll take our next question from Vedula Murti from CDP Capital.
I'm wondering in terms of if there was ultimately going to be some tax changes in terms of foreign repatriation and that type of thing can you quantify like in aggregate like what type of investment dollars or income that had the ability or cash that you have that is offshore right now that might be able to be repatriated back into the United States at some point in time that can either help fund the capital program or any other types of entries you might choose? Well this is something that we are very much on top of.
We have been involved in trying to work on a territorial tax system for the reasons that you say.
Because over time we do produce a lot of cash offshore that we would like to be able to bring back.
So I'll have go Joe through the particulars of how that builds up over time.
Vedula we support as Debbie said either a territorial system or lowering the corporate tax rate in the U.S.
or both and we're very encouraged by the dialogue that's happening now and the recent draft legislation from the House Ways and Means Committee.
You asked a question about what we would do if there were sort of a temporary bill a tax holiday if you will and we're prepared.
We have plans in place and we're prepared to lever up all 3 of the businesses where we have operations and we're fairly low debt levels in each of those 3 countries.
But recall also that we have very attractive growth opportunities in each of those 3 countries.
So we do have opportunity to spend the money there.
But I think if we have the chance of repatriating some money we probably would -- probably lever up and bring back at least $1 billion.
Okay.
And that would be so $1 billion you'd be able to come back to United States to help fund the utility capital program or the other U.S.
[indiscernible] or businesses? Yes.
Money’s fungible so it’d go for our whole capital program wherever that may be or other resource needs that we have.
And at this point when you lay out your capital program and financing and everything like that you make no assumptions that actually occurs? We do not.
And we'll take our next question from Ashar Khan from Visium.
Can I just ask you mentioned that depending upon the wildfire insurance proceeds it will depend where you end up as part of the guidance.
What is in the dispute over there the amount or getting it this quarter? I'll address that Ashar good morning to you.
We have filings before the CPUC now that would provide for a recovery of about $50 million on an after-tax basis.
And last year we got a decision granting us this incremental amount for wildfire insurance.
And this year we followed the process which was to file an advice letter which we did for part of this in April and part of it in September.
So if you look at the history we recovered these amounts last year the issue that we don't know when a CPUC decision might come out for this year for the $50-plus million of earnings that we're waiting for from the incremental fire recovery.
So the issue is only that it might go from the fourth quarter to the first quarter right? So that's the issue.
It's not the amount? I can't speak of what the commission will do but I can tell you that last year they approved the recovery of a filing that we had for $29 million or $16 million after tax.
And we recovered all of that in December of last year.
What the commission does going forward I can't say what they're going to do but we had a history of recovery and now it's largely a timing issue.
We'll take our next question from Michael Worms from BMO.
This may be a question more for Mark.
But with regard to the Cameron facility and developing the liquefaction plant and I know it's very early in the process and there's a DOE review at least at some point but what other regulatory approvals might you need? And let's just assume for argument's sake that at some point you get a green light and you go forward with all of this what's the time frame from at that point to completion when the liquefaction plant will actually be operating? How long are we looking at? 3 years 5 years? I'll have Mark answer those questions for you.
Okay.
Well look on the regulatory side the other fairly big permit that you need is from the FERC as well and then there's a host of other construction and environmental permits and those kinds of things that you’d have to go through in that area.
But I think the FERC permit could be a 12- to 18-month kind of process.
Beyond that the construction period it will depend a lot on the type of facility the size and how long it will take.
But it could be -- you would look think of this as a couple of year construction period at a minimum.
And so it's fairly far down the line.
And really our purpose in highlighting it today is because of the swirl of activity around it.
And also because we do plan to file for our DOE permit and you're going to see that as a public filing and we wanted to give you a heads-up on that.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go next to Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This may be a Jeff Martin question.
Just curious in terms of when you're looking out at the California and Nevada and the Arizona utilities where we are in terms of the RFP or the RFO cycle? Meaning when was the last time RFPs were issued by the 3 big California utilities the Arizona and Nevada ones when do you expect to get answers back from them? When would decisions likely occur? Well as I mentioned we're already we're successful in the spur deal for 240 megawatts and there is an RFP that is out right now.
And so I'll have Mark talk about that and the timing.
I can't disclose a lot about the RFP process other than to say that all of the Nevada and Arizona utilities are looking at different opportunities to change their generation mix the desire to kind of wean themselves off of coal move into natural gas fired generation and also to move into renewables is strong.
We're working with all the interested parties on a lot of different projects.
But they're – they'll kind of get done when they get done.
And there isn't really a season for this although that they do tend to try to solidify their summer their peak load needs early early on.
But most of these are multi-year types of engagements.
And so they're not really geared towards sort of the -- it's not just like we're not just looking for next summer.
They're looking for multi-year kind of commitments.
And with no further questions in the queue I'd like to turn the conference back over to Debbie Reed for any closing remarks.
Well thank you for joining us for Sempra's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact Steve Davis Scott or Victor and have a great day.
And this concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Sempra Energy Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Steve Davis.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
I’m Steve Davis Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team including Debbie Reed Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bruce Folkmann Acting Controller.
You'll note that Slide 2 contains our Safe Harbor statement.
Please remember that this call contains forward-looking statements that are not historical fact and constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.
As you know they involve risks uncertainties and assumptions so future results may differ materially from those expressed on our call.
These risks uncertainties and assumptions are described at the bottom of today’s press release and are further discussed in the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
It's important to note that all the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we'll also be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and the Table A of the financial tables in our fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings release for reconciliation to GAAP measures.
With that I'll turn it over to Debbie who will begin with Slide 3.
Thanks Steve and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
On today's call I'd like to accomplish several things.
First we'll review our fourth quarter and year-end financial results.
We'll then talk about our dividend increase and I'll give you an operational update on our businesses.
Now to the financial results.
Earlier this morning we reported fourth quarter earnings of $292 million or $1.21 per share compared with $280 million or $1.15 in the same period last year.
For the full year 2011 we recorded earnings of approximately $1.4 billion or $5.62 per share compared with 2010 earnings of $739 million or $2.98 per share.
On an adjusted basis earnings for the full year 2011 were $1.1 billion which excludes a gain of $277 million that we reported in the second quarter to reflect the write up in value of our investments in Chile and Peru.
Adjusted earnings per share for the full year 2011 was $4.47 compared to $3.93 per share of adjusted earnings in 2010 which is an increase of 14%.
I'm very pleased with our strong results in both the fourth quarter and for the year.
Each of our businesses performed extremely well enabling us to beat the upper end of our adjusted earnings per share guidance for 2011 which was $4.30.
Now regarding the dividend.
I'd like to mention that earlier this morning we announced that our Board of Directors have authorized a 25% increase in our quarterly dividend which brings the annualized dividend to $2.40 per share.
You may recall that last February we also increased the dividend by more than 20%.
The strong and growing operating cash flows from our utility and contracted infrastructure businesses we expect to continue to grow the dividend while reinvesting capital to achieve above average long-term earnings growth.
Now let me hand it over to Joe so he can take you through some of the details of the financial results beginning with Slide 4.
Thank you Debbie.
San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the fourth quarter were $158 million up from $105 million in the year-ago quarter.
The fourth quarter of 2011 included $50 million of earnings related to increased wildfire insurance premium recovery for an 18-month period and $13 million of higher equity AFUDC earnings compared to the year-ago period.
I'd like to point out that in December of both 2010 and 2011 CPUC approved SDG&amp;E's request to recover the increased cost of wildfire insurance premiums.
SDG&amp;E has one additional request pending to recover increased wildfire insurance premiums which we expect the commission to approve in the second quarter.
$15 million of the benefit we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011 reflects this anticipated cost recovery.
Going forward the anticipated recovery of wildfire insurance is contained in SDG&amp;E's 2012 general rate case.
SDG&amp;E also expects to recover any costs incurred that are associated with the 2007 wildfires in excess of amounts recovered from its insurance coverage and other responsible third parties as we've disclosed in our 10-Ks and 10-Qs.
As of the end of 2011 SDG&amp;E has booked a regulatory assets of $594 million associated with its anticipated recovery.
Full-year 2011 earnings increased to $431 million from $369 million last year.
The increase of $62 million was due primarily to $31 million of higher equity AFUDC earnings net of higher interest expense and $28 million for higher revenues related to wildfire insurance premiums net of the higher insurance expense.
Moving to Southern California Gas.
Fourth quarter 2011 earnings were $79 million compared to $74 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
For the full year 2011 earnings for SoCal were $287 million compared to earnings of $286 million in 2010.
Now let's go to Slide 5.
Sempra Pipelines &amp; Storage recorded earnings of $70 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with earnings of $39 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The increase was due largely to $24 million of higher earnings from our operations in South America through the accretive acquisition we closed in April of last year.
For the full year 2011 Sempra Pipelines &amp; Storage recorded earnings of $527 million compared with earnings of $159 million in 2010.
Excluding the $277 million gain that was recorded in the second quarter of 2011 related to the acquisition of controlling interest in the operations in Chile and Peru earnings were $250 million in 2011.
The increase from the prior year was primarily due to $55 million from the increased ownership interest in South America $13 million of higher earnings from the Mexican pipeline assets that we acquired in April 2010 and $10 million from nonoperating foreign exchange effects related mainly to a U.S.
dollar-denominated cash balance previously held in Chile.
Now please turn to Slide 6.
Sempra LNG had earnings of $24 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with earnings of $18 million in the prior year's period.
For the full year of 2011 Sempra LNG had earnings of $99 million up from earnings of $68 million in 2010.
The increase for the full year was due primarily to higher earnings from contracted cargoes that were not delivered.
Earnings in 2011 also included $18 million in marketing activities that we currently do not expect to recur in 2012.
I'd also like to take a moment here to discuss our contract with the Tangguh partners to supply LNG to our Energía Costa Azul terminal.
We entered into this contract in 2004 and the 20-year contract became effective in the second half of 2009.
You may recall that the contract permits our counter-party to divert cargoes to other markets in exchange for a fee.
Given the wide disparity between the price of natural gas in Asia and the U.S.
we have seen a significant increase in the amount of diverted cargoes and a resulting in increasing our earnings.
In light of these market conditions we have amended this contract to provide enhanced value to both parties including certainty of cargoes for Sempra and additional flexibility for the Tangguh partners.
For Sempra this will result in more consistent earnings from that contract going forward.
With that said we currently expect 2012 earnings from LNG to be more in line with our prior guidance of $50 million to $70 million as the benefit of the contract amendment will be offset by lower natural gas prices.
Over the longer term however we expect earnings from our existing LNG operations to be roughly $65 million to $85 million per year.
As you may recall Sempra LNG will no longer be a reporting segment starting with the results in the first quarter of 2012 and we do not expect to regularly provide earnings guidance for this business going forward.
Now please move to the next slide.
Our generation business recorded a loss of $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with earnings of $43 million in the same quarter of 2010.
The loss in the fourth quarter of 2011 was due to the exploration of the 10-year contract with the California Department of Water Resources which expired on September 30 2011 and also to a mark-to-market loss of $9 million.
For the full year 2011 Sempra Generation recorded earnings of $137 million compared with earnings of $103 million in 2010.
The increase in earnings for 2011 was due primarily to an $87 million litigation settlement that negatively impacted 2010 results and due to the lower earnings from our natural gas plants due primarily to the expiration of the CDWR contract.
Now please to move Slide 8.
Through the end of 2011 we recognized the investment tax credits from our solar business as a tax benefit in the year that the new capacity was placed in service.
This method called the flow-through method created an even earnings profile for our solar business.
Beginning in the first quarter of 2011 we will begin using the deferral method of accounting for these projects.
Under this method the book basis of the asset will be reduced by the amount of the investment tax credit resulting in lower depreciation and more  even ongoing earnings as compared with the flow-through method.
I want to stress that this change in accounting method has no impact on the economics of our solar projects.
These projects are contracted for 20-plus years with utility counter-parties.
The switch to deferral accounting does however result in a decrease of approximately $0.40 per share in 2012 compared with the earnings under the old method.
The offset to the lower initial earnings will be lower depreciation and higher earnings in future years under the new method.
Taking into account the use of deferral accounting and considering other changes across our business we are now expecting our earnings per share to be within the range of $4 to $4.30 per share in 2012.
And due to strong business unit growth and performance we continue to expect Sempra's long-term EPS growth rate to be in the 6% to 8% range.
Now please go to the next slide.
As Debbie mentioned earlier our Board authorized a 25% increase in our common stock dividend.
This takes the dividend to $2.40 per share on an annualized basis up from the current annualized dividend of $1.92 per share.
You may recall that our Board established a target dividend payout ratio of 45% to 50% last year.
While we are not changing our long-term target payout ratio we expect to exceed that level for the next several years and we do expect to increase the dividend as our earnings grow.
One of the considerations behind the dividend increase relates to the significant amount of earnings from our South American utilities and Mexican businesses coupled with certain tax position.
Historically we have reinvested those earnings into our international businesses.
Beginning in 2013 we intend to distribute current earnings of about $300 million to the United States from certain of our international subsidiaries.
The additional amount of cash tax that we will pay is expected to be very minimal in the near-term but the tax will largely be offset by net operating losses from bonus depreciation and renewable energy tax credits.
While the use of these tax assets is a good economic decision it will reduce earnings by approximately $0.30 per share beginning in 2013 due to additional booked tax expense.
We expect to use of most of the repatriated earnings to repay debt and to a lesser extent to support the higher dividend we announced today.
The point that I'd like to leave you with is that we have stable and growing businesses both in the United States and internationally that produce strong cash flows that can support a higher dividend going forward.
And with that I'll hand the call back to Debbie.
Thanks Joe.
Now let me update you on some of the key activities within our businesses starting with our California utility.
Last month hearings concluded in San Diego Gas &amp; Electric's and Southern California Gas Company's general rate case proceedings.
The schedule for the rate case which was issued by the commission late last year calls for a rate case decisions around March of this year.
But now we expect the case to be resolved later than what had been set forth in the original schedule.
The commission has yet to issue a revised proceeding scheduled but opening brief have been schedule for April while reply briefs are due in May.
It is important to mention that the revenue requirement established in the rate cases will be retroactive to January 1 2012.
And I'd also note that until a final decision is reached we'll be recording revenues based on currently authorized levels.
In the quarter in which a final decision is reached we'll record the retroactive increase in earnings since the beginning of the year.
Moving to some of the major capital projects.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric construction of Sunrise Powerlink is now more than 75% complete and we continue to expect that it will be going into service in the second half of this year.
Turning to our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
Last week Commissioner Florio released a proposed schedule which calls for hearings during the summer and briefs due in October of this year.
We're also waiting for the commission to authorize a memorandum account to track the project cost.
Now I'd like to take you to Slide 11.
On renewables business construction has begun on the 150-megawatt expansion of the Copper Mountain Solar project in Nevada.
In December the CPUC approved our 25-year contract to sell the power generated by the plant to PG&amp;E.
We expect to complete 92 megawatts by the end of January 2013 and we'll bring the remaining 58 megawatts into service by 2015.
Also in December we agreed to partner with BP Wind to jointly develop 2 projects that will have a combined capacity of 560 megawatts at a total cost of $1 billion.
These projects include the 419-megawatt Flat Ridge 2 project in Kansas and the 141-megawatt Mehoopany project in Pennsylvania.
Both projects are expected to be completed by the end of this year.
These 2 projects will more than double the amount of operating net wind capacity at our U.S.
Gas &amp; Power business all of which is in partnership with BP Wind.
We now have nearly 1 000 megawatts of renewables project either in operation under construction or contracted.
We've made tremendous strides in the development of our renewables business and is a great example of how we've been able to leverage an existing asset decision to drive future growth.
Now let's go on to the final slide.
I am very pleased to the results of all of our businesses for both the quarter and the year.
Adjusted earnings per share grew by 14% in 2011 and we exceeded our financial outlook for the year.
While our new 2012 earnings per share guidance of $4 to $4.30 was negatively impacted by $0.40 due to the move to new solar accounting method the change provides more consistent and growing earnings going forward as we develop our solar portfolio.
And with strong business unit growth and performance we expect to grow our earnings per share at a compound annual growth rate of 6% to 8% over the longer term.
Finally I'd like to remind you that we'll be holding our Annual Analyst Conference here at San Diego on March 29.
At the conference we'll provide an update on the strategic direction of the company and we'll provide an overview of our earnings outlook and capital program at that time.
I'll leave the details for March but we expect to show you a plan that generates above average earnings growth which when combined with our competitive dividend provides a compelling investment opportunity.
With that I'll stop and open up the call to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Stephen Byrd from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk about the dividend and growth here.
So then the new dividend certainly is above the overall payout ratio target and I think I follow what you're indicating in terms of ability to grow into that and continue to grow the dividend.
As we think about dividend growth given that right now the dividend is essentially sort of above that long-term payout ratio level should we be thinking about growth in line with further earnings growth or how should we think about just how that dividend may grow over time? Well Stephen when we set the dividend level -- the Board obviously sets the dividend level.
But one of the things we looked at is the long-term earnings growth that we have in our 5-year plan that we'll be showing you at the analyst conference.
And as we mentioned we see 6% to 8% growth in that plan.
So we believe that there's still upward potential for that dividend.
It may be slightly less than the earnings growth that we have in that plan but we could still have that 50% payout ratio 45% to 50% on a long-term basis and continue to have some growth in the dividend.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just as a follow-up as we think about earnings growth over time you've laid out the target growth level it sounds like over time you'll be able to repatriate some capital from Latin America which sounds great.
Sounds like there would be an earnings impact.
Does this earnings growth profile reflect in the EPS impacts of that cash repatriation? Yes and you will see this and we're not going to go through the details of the 5-year plan here on this call but the 6% to 8% that we've quoted reflects in the -- bottoms up strategic review of our businesses the repatriation scenario and all the things that we're reflecting in our business plans going forward which we'll share with you in detail in March.
We'll take our next question from Leslie Rich from JPMorgan.
Inc.</strong> Just to clarify so the impact of adjusting the accounting methodology for the solar impacts earnings $0.40 a share in 2012.
And then what would -- how should we think about that on an ongoing basis for 2013 and beyond? And I understand you don't want to give specific guidance but then that separate and apart I think from the $0.30 per share negative impact from the higher taxes associated with repatriating the money from Latin America.
I'm just not sure to what extent those 2 items are related if at all? Well Leslie there's actually 2 different things going on and you correctly indicated that they are separate items.
The item where we changed the accounting method for 2012 that's about $0.40 a share.
We'll go through the details with you in the analyst presentation because we really have to build up on what solar projects we were planning in each of the years.
And so there's some variability in that from year-to-year but $0.40 is a pretty reasonable number to use for that.
And in separate and apart from that is the decision to repatriate which we would begin in 2013.
And we would then be able to see what happens with all the tax law changes potentially and all but begin the repatriation there and would take a reduction in our earnings outlook for 2013 of about $0.30 related to that.
Joe did you want to add anything...
No think that's right.
I think over to 5 years it's a $0.25 to $0.35 for the repatriation cash.
It's not cash tax it's book tax.
We'll have a very small cash tax on that.
But we'll have book earnings impact of $0.25 to $0.35 over that 5-year period.
Our next question today comes from Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify on the deferral treatment method for the solar tax treatment that's just on new projects going forward there is no impact to the previous projects you brought online is that right? Yes I'm going to have Joe describe exactly how that works.
Joe? When we get to the first quarter now that we're on the new method in Q1 when we report our results for the 10-Q we will have to go back and recast the prior year's but it's fairly small.
But what you saw in 2011 is under the old method under the flow-through method but all of 2010 and 2011 will be recast under this method.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that the life of the facility so is it like 20 years of kind of deferrals is how that works? Yes it's over the depreciated life.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just so I'm clear on the foreign tax issue for 2013 because you pay lower taxes in other countries and in South America the difference basically is the tax that you pay there versus the tax you pay here and that's the $0.25 to $0.35 you're going to end up having to occur next year is that right? Yes.
Faisal this is Joe.
That's correct.
We have an average tax rate on all of our foreign income that's accumulated throughout all the periods of around 20%.
So to bring it back and pay Federal and California taxes is about another 20% let's say.
One thing I do want to stress that Joe mentioned is that that there's very little cash tax.
It's deferred tax and so the earnings that we talked about with the $0.30 starting in 2013 is not a cash tax amount.
It's a deferred tax amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
Fair enough.
And then just on the generation business if I exclude the mark-to-market loss in the quarter is there any way for your guys to give us kind of an idea of how much of a drag the gas-fired generation fleet was on that business? Because as I suspect that your -- on a pretax basis your renewable portfolio was profitable but at the fossil fuel fleet that was probably a drag on earnings but I have no way of kind of figuring that out? Yes.
I'll ask Mark to go through a little bit of high level on that.
Right.
Faisal it's Mark.
Your intuition is correct.
I mean we did have a small loss on the fossil fuel fleet.
Although in our plans going forward we expect to operate that fleet profitably even on a GAAP basis kind of a break even to slightly positive and certainly very positive on a cash flow basis.
And then we also have the earnings from the fossil fuel -- from the renewable fleet in addition to that.
But we'll get into the details of that at the Analyst Conference and we'll show you those numbers.
And we'll go next to Michael Goldenberg from Luminus Management.
LLC</strong> I'm sorry if I'm going back to the same questions on accounting but I just want to be crystal clear on the 2 items that you've identified.
On the repatriation of international earnings the $0.30 the higher tax rate that you'll be paying when you repatriate is that going to be backed out as a onetime item or basically every year when you bring it back in it will just grow at the state of income tax expense that we will see on the income statement? As we record that it'll be shown every year.
It'll be recurring as a deferred tax item that we'll be recording.
As I mentioned we won't be paying the cash taxes because we'll have a net operating loss and so those cash taxes for the most part are deferred for 5-plus years.
Joe I don't know if you want to add anymore to that...
I think that's right.
Michael I'll just add this.
I mentioned that we intend in 2013 to start bringing back current earnings from some of the subsidiaries and our expectation is about $300 million for several years in a row at least.
And so if you think about the book tax effect of that might be about 20% of $300 million for several years in a row.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And then the other question is on the solar tax credits that changed from onetime to deferral method.
So I understand that will significantly smooth out the earnings profile.
But based on my understanding the way other companies do it there's still a higher tax benefit in year 1 versus year 2 through the end of the life.
Can you give us a sense of relative tax benefit for year 1 versus years 2 3 that will now be for a new solar project? Yes Michael this is Joe.
I'll just try to do it with a rough example.
If you spend $100 million under the investment credit method you would reduce your tax basis by 1/2 of that investment credit of 30.
So then you have to book a deferred tax liability we'll call it 35% of that difference about $5 million and then you have $30 million of ITC.
So you book the $25 million benefit on the $100 million that you spent.
Under the new method the book basis goes down by the whole ITC so it goes down by 30.
That tax still goes down by 15 and you actually a book a deferred tax benefit of 5.
So you're booking 5 instead of 25 in that first year.
That's just the one-time sort of 5% of the cost you're booking it right then.
LLC</strong> And what will be the tax benefit now in years 2 through 5 6 our life of the project? Your $30 million will reduce depreciation.
It's not going through the income line.
It's going to reduce depreciation over the 25 or so years 25-year life of the project.
Yes I would say we will go through this in detail at the analyst conference and go through some examples and also that you'll be able to see the effect of this.
[Operator Instructions] Moving on we'll hear from Greg Gordon from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I'm sure you realized you were opening up Pandora's Box when you gave us some but not all of the goodies from the Analyst Day.
But I just wanted to ask just structurally speaking clearly the earnings -- you re-based the earnings here in 2012 by making the accounting change on the solar which I think most of your investors and analysts would say was the right way to go.
But I guess when I think about '13 '14 '15 it's clear how you're generating the incremental cash flow to fund the dividend payment.
Thank you for articulating that.
You're going to show us at the Analyst Day what the offsetting factors that sort of fill in that $0.30 incremental sort of headwind associated with the noncash tax impact.
Because in order for you to sort of -- if we think about a straight-line 5% to 6% earnings growth rate you'd have to have a fairly significant offsetting earnings growth driver in that year to not have sort a growth rate at least in '13 that looked  like your longer term aspiration.
So are you going to be able to show us what the sort of the puts are that offset that sort of incremental headwind in '13 when we see you in March? Yes we will show you when we see you in March and what we've shown you before which is the 5-year growth rate.
And the growth rate is not going to be necessarily even in each of these years.
It's not necessarily a linear function.
And I so I don't want to leave you with that impression.
But over the 5-year period we're looking at 6% to 8% growth in our plan over the 5-year period of time and we'll be able to show you how that occurs.
And what fills in that growth and a lot of it if you look at our 2 utilities as an example over the 5 years SoCalGas is going to grow at about 7.5%.
And SDG&amp;E over 5%.
So you have a lot of it embedded in projects that have already been approved at our utilities or are in the regulatory process of our utilities then we'll go through all of that at the analyst conference.
Research Division</strong> So we shouldn't assume a linear progression but over the sort of normal 5-year forecast horizon that you usually roll forward you'll be able to sort of validate how you get to [ph] that aspiration? Yes.
That's how you should look at it.
We'll take our next question from Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
I wanted to ask you just I mean I guess I don't want to belabor this and it sounds like a lot it is going to be other analyst meeting.
But just to clarify the $0.30 of impact in future years associated with the repatriation you guys are still expecting to grow 6% to 8% growth in spite of that correct? That's correct.
The 6% to 8% growth over the 5-year plan period includes the impact of everything we've talked about today.
And it also includes the bottom-up review of all of our businesses.
And as an example if you look at what we talked about with the forecast for 2012 in our guidance we would have been at $4.40 to $4.70.
It was $0.10 higher than where we were last year based upon the performance of our businesses but then that's reduced by the $0.40 from the change of accounting method which again has no economic effect on the business.
But we've heard from a lot of you that you would like to have a better sense not to have to time when these projects go into service precisely.
And so this allows for that type of greater predictability.
All of that's incorporated the repatriation is incorporated.
And with all of that we're looking at 6% to 8% growth over the 5-year time frame.
Okay.
And then the $0.40 and I know you went through these the calculation on the book deferral and what have you just what is the impact of the $0.40 in 2013 if we could just get a little bit of flavor for that in other words by taking a hit in 2012 there will be a benefit in 2013.
Do you guys have a rough approximation as to what that would be? Yes we're going to hold off to go through the 2013 numbers at the Analyst Meeting.
The only thing that we wanted to do was to let you all know that we were making this change so we didn't surprise you with that at the Analyst Meeting.
So we wanted you to know we're changing in terms of repatriation and the rationale behind that.
Again it's a good economic decision for us because we have this net operating losses that we can use now by doing this and we just wanted to give you awareness of that.
We will go through all the details at the Analyst Meeting.
Okay.
And then just on the decision to do the repatriation from the international business could you just like give us a little more flavor as to sort of what's kind of caused this? I mean is it simply because of the international outlook versus tax issues? And just in general is there any issue with respect to potential changes because we keep on hearing about tax reform in various things showing up regarding taxing of foreign entities and taxing of just in general I mean vast changes perhaps in the tax code.
I mean just in terms of your flexibility with respect to this issue and what have you? Yes that's an excellent question.
And we spend a lot of time on this.
I'll give you a very high level on it then I'm going to have Joe go through the details on the flexibility.
But from a strategic standpoint these businesses are doing really well and they are generating a great deal of cash and if we did not repatriate cash we would build up excess cash in excess of what we need to grow those businesses by 6% to 8% per year of something over around $1.5 billion.
And that it didn't seem appropriate to us to keep that cash offshore and be able to fund all of our growth and not look at some changes to the capital structure of those businesses because we have the ability to put leverage on those businesses locally.
We feel that is a better long-term capital structure for those businesses.
And with this net operating loss that we have because of the bonus depreciation and because of the solar tax credit if we were going to repatriate funds then this would be the best time to do that but for any type of tax holiday and all.
And I'm going to have Joe talk to you about our assessment of that and what flexibility we have because we do have a great deal of flexibility relative to changing our timing of repatriation based upon what might happen within a national tax policy.
Joe? Okay.
Thanks Debbie.
Yes Paul exactly what Debbie was saying this started out in our strategic review and our capital allocation process and looking at the international operations what their requirements were the very low debt-to-cap ratios we have in those countries and then the overall tax position as Debbie articulated.
And we took all that into the account.
Then we thought about well what would be the effect if there were a change in tax policy.
So what we've decided to do and this is why we're announcing it now is we want to let you know is that we were thinking about doing this in 2013.
We would like to be able to see what happens with the election.
See what happens with tax policy.
It's not clear to me that very much will happen but there's a lot of people talking about it.
But what we intend to do is start taking the earnings effect of it in 2013 but probably not actually repatriate the cash until the end of the year which gives us a long runway from now until the end of 2013 to see exactly what's going to happen with tax reform.
If anything happens it's likely that if it's going to benefit us we'll know that and then we would be repatriating anyway.
As Debbie said we have more cash buildup there than we need to even grow those earnings at 6% or 8% and towards the top of that range.
So this -- a repatriation build that would allow cash to come back at lower rates would benefit us more.
If it goes the other way and something like the President's proposal that came out and says you're going to have to pay a minimum tax even if you don't bring the money then what we're doing now even makes more sense.
We might as well bring it here and use it in the U.S.
and use up these tax assets that we have sooner than we would otherwise use them.
Makes a lot of sense.
Finally just the Tangguh and the lower gas pricing you guys mentioned the contract changes and amendments and lower gas prices kind of offsetting each other.
Could you just give us a flavor as to the impact of both of those? Yes I'm going to ask Mark to...
Yes with respect to Tangguh we renegotiated the contract and where we ended up with is we allowed our partners to have more flexibility to divert cargoes and we were compensated for allowing that extra flexibility.
And that offset the effect of lower gas prices on our plan going forward.
So all in all it was a positive for them and it actually is a positive for us to because we have a guaranteed number of deliveries.
It's a small number but it's the total amount we need to keep the plant cool.
And we're also allowed to divert a cargo to other our facility in the Gulf which eliminates the need to buy an expensive cargo there to keep that plant cool.
So I think all in all the renegotiation it's always kind of trite to say that it's a win-win but it's truly one that would turn out better for both parties.
Okay.
So the financial impact of that versus to get lower gas prices is sort of what? Yes kind of flat.
Okay.
But what was the impact I guess from one of them? Well we're not disclosing what the financial impact of the contract is.
But you'll see it in the LNG numbers when we do the Analyst Conference.
We'll go next to Ashar Khan from Visium.
Just wanted to I don't know I guess coincidental I was just looking -- I just want to understand the assumptions I think if I understand.
But if I look at Slide 2 from the last deck that you provided at your Analyst Conference the 2011's outlook was $4 to $4.30 growing 6% to 8% percent and then we came to a $5.50 to a $5.80 number as part of the 2015 target.
So if I -- using what you are pretty consistent of course we lost now '12 is back to $4 to $4.30 the growth rate is 6% to 8% EPS.
So I'm assuming the range if I impute it from last year the range should be similar because the growth rate hasn't changed the base is the same and so the range should be I guess '16 should be $5.50 to $5.80 if I impute what was done last year.
And am I thinking through this rightly? The base is going to be '12 and you're looking towards the '16 targets.
I'm not going to give you the '16 target until we get to the Analyst Meeting.
But I think your calculations do make sense and we'll go through the details of '16 and what our estimates are at the Analyst Conference.
But your methodology is how we get to our 6% to 8%.
Okay.
And then if I could just go back I guess the business that -- I'm just looking through which did better than forecast one was pipeline and storage.
I guess it came out $2.50 versus the high-end of $2.20.
I know there was $18 million from a kind of like a tax related issue when you brought the money thing.
But is there anything in that business that I guess the rest of the gains were all permanent better operations that are going to go on forward just trying to ...
Excuse me I'm sorry...
No just trying to get a sense of the strength of the business I'm assuming it's permanent and we can grow from there? The main thing that happened of course in pipes and storage is we acquired the South American utilities in April of last year.
And that that business -- those utilities performance will be ongoing and we'll have a full year's effect of that this year.
So when you look at the earnings in pipes and storage and the significant increase there it's largely from the acquisition.
There were up couple of a onetime things that I think were mentioned that there was some gains from some cash some U.S.
dollars we held in Chile at the time.
It's not there anymore.
But originally it was there.
And there was some foreign exchange gain of about $10 million and we had some Mexican tax benefits in that business also.
So there's a roughly $20 million in there that was I would say more a onetime than continuing.
Moving on we'll hear from Mark Barnett from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Mark Barnett Morningstar.
Just a couple of quick questions maybe out of the weeds here a little bit.
So you know you had at the end of last quarter 2 plants left to kind of on the contracting side after the expiration of the DWR contract.
And I'm wondering how those plants are looking and whether you had finalized kind of marketing those for the next few years? Let me have Mark talk about that because this -- clearly as part of our strategic review we have looked at every market and we have looked at every asset and we've done a full assessment.
And so let me have Mark just comment on that and again we'll be going through a lot of this detail at the Analyst Day.
Good question Mark.
Let me talk to you a little bit at how we're looking at these assets and I think it will be indicative of kind of our entire strategic review process.
The first thing we're doing is we are doing a fairly thorough market review of what we think those assets would sell for in the marketplace.
And we're just about done with that with respect to the plants.
And then as we figure out what that number is then we look at what we believe our earnings from those operations will be.
And we then frankly do a very simple calculation and say that if we got those proceeds could we do better in other parts of our business? And we're kind of making that evaluation right now.
But if we can think we can do better someplace else with that money we're likely to move it into another part of the business.
If we think that the current market just doesn't put enough value on those and we're getting an extraordinary return on the value we can get we're likely to hold them for a while until that situation changes.
Obviously we wouldn't do that if we thought it was going to get worse.
But if we thought it was going to get better we'd continue to hold them.
And we're making that and we'll probably have some of those decisions done by the Analyst Conference.
But we are looking at those.
We put everything on the table and it's just a way that we're thinking about it right now.
And frankly I think we're in -- it's that process that just continues to move forward.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess this is probably something else you will so forgive me you will probably address at the Analyst Day.
But you received at the end of last month the initial permit for liquefaction from Cameron I believe.
And then I know that there's a second round for exploring the countries without free-trade agreements.
I'm just wondering had you already initiated that or are you waiting to sort of evaluate what you want to do on the investments side to apply for that second license? Yes.
In terms of that we filed for and received the U.S.
free-trade export license from DOE already in January.
And we also filed separately for the non-FTA countries which is now pending.
We also have to file a FERC permit which we would expect to do sometime around the second quarter of this year.
And that's likely to take 12 to 18 months.
So that's kind of the timeline we're on.
And we'll move on to  Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Debbie rate case.
How do you think about how far apart you guys are versus the interveners at both SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas kind of what's the bid? How far are apart are you on both O&amp;M and on actual rate base expectations? And what are the likelihoods of settlement? You guys have been one of the best at settling rate cases in California over the years.
Just curious to see where we stand now.
Thank you Michael.
It's nice to speak with you this morning.
In terms of the rate case as you mentioned we have a history of settling our cases and the thing that I would note it that while the numbers between ourselves and the DRA staff may seem large on the surface when you start drilling into them there are a lot of the things that have been litigated time and time again in rate cases.
They deal with what's the relative level of compensation or they deal with how we account for certain depreciation of asset.
So there are issues that have been raised multiple times in rate cases.
They have been litigated and/or settled and settled in the favor of how we filed them in the rate case.
So I don't feel like we're truly as far apart as it might seem when you look at the filings that have been made by the parties and ourselves.
We have been in discussions with parties.
But I also say we have a strong case.
We completed the hearings in January.
And if we're not able to reach a settlement that we think is the right amount for us to operate our business safely and effectively then we are fine going through the regulatory process.
But we do have a history as you mentioned of settling and we always like to be able to try to work with the parties and see if we can't come up with a resolution that works for everyone.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
One other thing rate case or tied to the regulated utility subsidiaries what's remaining in terms of incentive compensation of earns -- incentive structure that the utilities can earn above and beyond kind of the traditional GRC? I'm thinking gas and -- your purchased gas incentive.
I'm thinking energy efficiency.
What's left going into 2012 versus what is kind of already halted and won't be there going forward? Okay let me try to hit the major categories.
We have at the gas company the gas cost incentive mechanism and that is remaining in place.
In fact we've just got a draft decision this week granting or recommending that we receive the incentive from what we filed last what year.
And then we have a storage incentive mechanism at the gas company that allows us to market storage and to the extent we recover more than our embedded cost and there's a sharing mechanism on that.
In terms of energy efficiency that is up for review right now by the commission as to what is going to be a mechanism for energy efficiency going forward.
And so we're not quite certain as to what the mechanism will ultimately be but that is something that's up for review.
And then at SDG&amp;E we also have a gas PBR mechanism similar to what we have at SoCalGas.
And so those are the key mechanisms that are still in place.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last item renewable projects.
Obviously you've got a lot in the hopper.
How do you think about whether you have the capability to expand upon that in the next 2 to 3 years not necessarily next 5 but thinking more near-term next 2 to 3 years meaning the potential for incremental solar projects in all likelihood? Well as you know we have exceptional land position.
And that -- as an example at ESJ in Northern Mexico we have a project now that is just the first phase and maybe about 10% of the total capacity potential to be built at that location.
That is for approval at the commission on March 8.
So that there is some great opportunity there for wind potentially to grow.
We have land positions adjacent to our power plants in Arizona and Nevada and then we have a land position in Central California all of which we will participate in RFPs and be able to bid out.
And then we have some partnerships that we've formed where we work with other companies as we have with BP to take partner projects that they have and us be a 50-50 partner.
Mark I don't if you want add any more color to that.
Well I just would say I think it is a very robust pipeline that we have.
And I think we'll continue to grow the business at significant rates.
And it's a very profitable business for us.
About look at all of our options down the line with respect to renewables I think we're pretty excited about where it can take us and where it'll go.
There's all kinds of options with respect to capital availability and things where we can put very -- continue to put very little capital into it and get great earnings and great returns.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I'm sorry I wanted to cheat - last one here.
Joe I want to simplify the tax issue.
In 2012 GAAP tax rates versus cash tax rates and if you can give that for '13 as well that'd be great.
Just a minute Michael let me grab that.
2012 let's say our GAAP tax rate is going to be around 30%.
Cash tax rate will be fairly low.
I don't have a percentage but we would have a modest Californian tax and probably between California and our foreign businesses maybe around $100 million of tax.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In '13? In '13 -- or '12.
In '13 I think we'll get more into those numbers when we get to the conference.
We'll take our next question from Vedula Murti from CDP Capital.
Let's see most of my questions have been answered but I just wanted to make sure if we think about the repatriation issue if we think about the kind of like the status quo such that nothing changes how many years of NOLs and other types of things do you have such that you could repatriate $300 million a year back to the U.S.
with minimal cash taxes? Joe? Yes this is Joe.
We're expecting depending on how this plays out but assuming the status quo we would probably repatriate about $300 million a year to around 2018.
Okay.
So you can do that with...
So you've got both NOLs and -- sorry go ahead.
So you've got about 5 years or so with very minimal cash taxes? Yes.
We have several years of net operating losses that we could absorb.
And then we also have renewable energy credits that we can use.
Okay.
And we've just spent a lot of time talking about EPS growth off of these headwinds of 6% to 8% but all these headwinds have had no effect on cash.
Can you talk about the cash flow growth rate over the next 5 years so does the EPS growth rate? Should we -- will we see a commensurate increase in cash flow growth or are we going to see the reversal which we have seen where cash flow is fine and EPS reported GAAP has these headwinds and then EPS -- and then EPS improved but cash flow kind of stable or doesn't keep up? Can you talk about the growth rate of cash flow over the period? Yes I would just say that I wouldn't see a big disconnect between cash flow and earnings over the period of time.
If anything the cash flow should be a little bit higher for the tax reasons that we talked about.
And some of our assets are cash flow positive but they're not producing stronger earnings.
So I would say that for the purposes of where we are today we'll go through that again at the Analyst Meeting.
The purposes of where we are today to assume they're relatively parallel.
Okay.
And one last question.
In terms of where payout is and that type of thing and obviously with the outside uptick in terms of dividends today should we just kind of think that going forward just kind of plug that dividend growth going forward should be somewhere like half of like your targeted growth rate from here going forward? Well I'd say our board looks at this every year.
And the decision that they made this year with a larger increase in dividend was not predictable last year.
But if you just kind of look at our earnings and you look at getting to a 50% 45% 50% payout ratio you can envision the opportunity over the 5-year growth rate that we have that we should be able to continue to increase the dividend at some level that's slightly less than our earnings growth rate.
So I mean I think that we'll show you some of this when you show you the 5-year earnings growth rate and we'll show you the earnings and then you can kind of look at that dividend payout ratio and figure for yourself about how much greater it can be over the period of 5 years.
Great.
I just to make sure that in terms of what I understand that you've got a running room of about 5 years or so in terms of various NOLs and tax credit such that irrespective of U.S.
tax policy you'll be able to repatriate $300 million a year with minimal cash back and that the growth rate on cash flow going forward is going to be comparable if not superior to what you're going to -- what you're striving to achieve in terms of GAAP EPS growth rate.
That's correct.
And we'll take our next question today from Naaz Khumawala from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I had just a couple of one clarification question and just a couple of other questions.
On the $0.30 a share of hit is that all in '13 or is that like $0.06 a year over the next 5 years? I was confused about how that was kind of said over the call.
Yes.
The $0.30 per share it continues.
It doesn't increase but it basically continues.
We'd factored the time is based upon the amount you repatriate that year and what if you're repatriating $30 million -- $300 million a year every year then you'll have that hit for that one year for the deferred tax on the amount you're repatriating.
So as long as you're repatriating and let me just clarify as long as your repatriating then you would have that.
If we decided to repatriate in 2013 and then something changed our view and we elected not to repatriate in 2014 then we would not have that $0.30 again in 2014.
When we do have a lot of flexibility in this as to how we choose to repatriate and when we make those elections.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think the last time markets said that you have $1 billion of cash overseas is that more like $1.5 billion now if I just do $300 million from 5? This is Joe.
I think you'll probably referring to when Mark was talking about how much cash we had available including that was prior to the acquisition of the South American utilities.
So we have basically brought back or used in investment cash.
There's not any big amounts of cash sitting there today.
We have very low debt-to-cap ratios as I mentioned.
So we have the ability to grow those.
We're not going to repatriate funds that we needed there to grow the business and we also have the ability to borrow there if we want to fund additional investments beyond their really good growth that they have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question on California on the pipeline safety memo account that you had applied for do you know what kind of timing you expect to receive that for this year? Well the memo account we're anticipating sometime in the first half of the year getting the memo account established.
And the assigned Commissioner Florio basically set the schedule for the proceeding that would have the closing brief filed in October hearings in the summertime and then closing briefs in October.
But we would expect the memo account to be put in place before that time.
The other thing that was very positive is that in his decisions setting forth the procedural schedule he encouraged us once the memo account was established to begin the rate collection of that so that there was not spikiness in terms of the rate recovery.
So I think you'll see some movement in the first half of this year on the memo account in the latter half of this year early next year on the whole termination or completion of the preceding.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of how much of the $3.1 billion if you did get the memo account let's say midyear how much of that spend could you potentially do in '12 or how much have you anticipated in the guidance? Yes in terms of what we would do in '12 it wouldn't be a great amount in '12.
It would certainly be less than $100 million.
And a lot depends on the timing of the memo account.
But I would not anticipate a lot of expenditures in '12.
It would be more of a ramp up.
And then in '13 we will begin.
Research Division</strong> And so I think you guys before have included about $400 million of pipeline safety spend in your 5-year CapEx is that right? What we have for pipeline safety spend we had $1.4 billion over the 5-year period of our plan.
And as I said when we did the 2012 numbers we did a bottoms-up for 2012.
So we looked at the situation that we feel that we're in today and what we think is going to happen today and we redid our guidance for 2012.
So whatever was in 2012 would now be deferred most likely to 2013.
And that the total amount is still anticipated at $1.4 billion over a 5-year period.
We'll take our next question from Stephen Huang from Carlson Capital.
I was just wanted to double check and reconfirm something.
The long-term growth rate we're starting at the $4 to $4.30 2012 base is that correct? Yes.
Okay.
And then Joe the second question I had was you mentioned that you would go back and recast the '10 and '11 solar and then bring them back forward.
So is that basically you'll do like a onetime charge in '13 first quarter and then you'll kind of add $0.05 a share of earnings going forward per year? Are you basically taking '10 and '11 earnings and adding $0.05 going forward? The 2010 and 2011 the financials will just be recast as if we had been on the other method in the prior years.
And so there'll be slightly higher earnings over the next 25 years because we're moving those credits going forward into the future years.
But there's no effect of...
There's no onetime effect in 2012 or 2013 of it.
There's the continuing slow amortization of the ITC over the 25-year life.
Right.
But it would add about $0.05 to ongoing -- in that ballpark of ongoing earnings starting from '13 and going forward.
I'm not sure where -- how you're computing that number but we'll go over this at the Analyst Conference [indiscernible].
But it should add a couple of pennies of earnings going forward.
Or are you just moving it out? Yes it should add a modest amount.
That's correct.
The next question comes from Michael Worms from BMO.
Michael Worms.
Just a quick question on the repatriation of the money in South America.
At what point I thought the plan was to build some transmission lines down there and to potentially build another hydro plant or 2.
So are those plans now and you going forward will just bring back money to the U.S.? Can you kind of give us some color on that? No those plans are still in existence.
And when we've done with our 5-year plan we've incorporated the requirements to have that growth.
We're still looking at transmission projects.
We're building the hydro project right now in Peru that should be online at around 2013.
And we have other hydro projects in Peru that we're bidding on as well as transmission projects in Chile.
Those projects are still incorporated in our plan and we have the ability through operating cash flow from those businesses and local debt.
We talk about the fact that those businesses really don't have any debt on them.
And that we really feel that there's a preferred capital structure for those businesses where we would pay off some of the U.S.
debt with the repatriated dollars and have local debt on those businesses which make more sense for the projects that we're doing.
So that's the way we will structure those projects in more of the kind of cap structure we'd like to see there in the long-term.
And James Heckler from Levin Capital Strategies has our next question.
It's actually Neal Stein from Levin Capital.
I have a couple of more questions on the repatriation issue and just as it relates to the growth rate.
So you'll book a $0.30 adverse impact EPS impact from repatriation in 2013.
Are you still able to grow 6% to 8% in that year or are you saying the 6% to 8% is applicable over the long-term and maybe you can't grow in '13 by that amount? Yes.
I'm not saying that it's going to -- I think I've made a comment before and I'll restate it.
Our growth is going to be 6% to 8% over a 5-year time frame.
And that there will be some unevenness in that growth from -- not every year is going to be 6% to 8% over their prior year.
Some years maybe 3% some years maybe 9%.
And a lot of that has to do when projects come in especially some of our renewable projects and when they start providing earnings.
And so that we've never grown evenly.
If you'd kind of look at our historical growth it's been over a longer-term time frame that we give you the projections.
And then when we see you at the end of March we will give you the projections as we have and what our growth rate is over the longer term and then what we expect it to be in each of the early years.
Well could you say are you able to specifically offset this $0.30 impact in '13? We're not giving 2013 guidance today.
And so I'd rather wait and go through all of that with the total plan at the Analyst Conference.
We've given you the 2012 guidance which is what we always do on this call and then when we get to the Analyst Meeting we will go through and lay out for you what our expectations are over the 5-year time frame and in 2012 2013.
Well let me ask this.
There's the possibility you may book $0.30 maybe in one year or just a couple of years.
I guess there is also the possibility you may book at meeting you'll repatriate $300 million of cash every single year over the 5-year period? Is that a possibility? And if you were to be booking this $0.30 adverse impact from the repatriation tax would you still be able to grow 6% to 8% for the 5-year period? Yes.
I mean what we've assumed is that we would have the $300 million a year repatriated every year over the time frame of the 5 years.
And even with that that we would have a 6% to 8% growth rate over that 5-year time frame.
Our next question today is from John Ali [ph] from Decade Capital.
Sorry to keep asking about this.
Just to be clear the 6% to 8% growth so you're going in year 5 if you took the repatriation you'd still have that number? Yes.
Again the way -- yes.
The way we've looked at it is we've calculated the growth over that 5-year plan and it includes the change in solar accounting and it includes the repatriation.
Every year? And we look at it over the 5-year and we said that that compound annual growth rate over that 5-year period will be 6% to 8%.
Now that doesn't mean that every year grows 6% to 8% over the prior year.
It's not always even.
But if you look at it over the 5-year time frame then the average growth rate the CAGR and earnings ends up being 6% to 8% over that 5-year period.
And then -- it's Joe.
Just to confirm the repatriation is in the plan from 2013 through the remainder not in 2012 but 2013 going forward.
Yes.
The other thing I would say is that we're not going to give you the 2013 number today.
But it's always positive growth.
We're not going to have a decline in growth over the period of time.
But it's not always going to be 6% to 8% year-over-year-over-year on a linear basis.
But it will always be a positive growth even taking into account the $0.30.
Okay.
And the $300 million a year how does that relate to the earnings you get every year meaning what percentage of earnings is that or are you just re-levering the business? It is most of the earnings from Mexico and Peru that we don't need in the business.
Okay.
I guess what's the level of international earnings every year? And the other question I have is Peru and Chile how fast as they growing? Well Peru and Chile have growth rate of about 6% to 8%.
And that's been the historical growth rate and that's kind of the projected growth rate without some of the special projects.
And that's just inherent in the basic utility business there is that you're running around 6% to 8% growth in total electric demand in those 2 countries and then about 3% to 4% customer growth each year.
And then in addition to that we have these special projects like the hydro project and transmission project.
Okay.
But just the run rate business is about 6% to 8% in terms of net income? Yes towards the high end of that.
Got you.
And how much cash do you have overseas internationally? Well we just did a large acquisition so we don't have -- we used up a lot of our cash.
But we are like Joe just said too we don't have a lot of leverage overseas.
And so we have a lot of borrowing capacity.
So roughly how much borrowing capacity [indiscernible] business we could get back into it? $1 billion probably.
That's borrowing capacity? Yes.
That will come from Chris Shelton from Millenium Partners.
A quick follow-up question.
I guess in terms of the $300 million that you guys are repatriating each year as far as uses of that cash obviously you had a dividend increase which will take up a portion of that.
But what are the kind of -- what are the potential uses of that cash that you see going forward? I'll cover the high level and then ask Joe to add anything he wants to.
As we said really the dividend is secondary for the use of this cash that the majority of this cash is used for debt repayment in the U.S.
And what we're trying to do is repay off some of the U.S.
debt and then have some local debt established in Chile and Peru and Mexico for the projects that we're doing there so that the leverage in each of those countries has the kind of cap structure that we want to have eventually.
That is the way that those businesses should be structured there.
They're very underleveraged right now in each of those locations.
We'd rather have local debt.
We think there's a lot of good reason for having local debt in those countries and then we'd like to be able to bring this back while we have these net operating losses so that we can repay some of the U.S.
debt.
Got it.
Makes sense.
And maybe this is an Analyst Conference question but what is the -- I guess on the U.S.
side what is that kind of desired level of debt? Yes we pretty much keep a 50-50 kind of a cap structure 51-49 in that range.
Okay.
And so $300 million a year for how many years would get you -- I guess where -- the better question is where is the balance sheet currently for the U.S.
portion I guess? It's about 51% debt to cap.
Okay.
So if you're repatriating $300 million a year for a number of years would you expect to kind of use I guess use some of that cash in the business as opposed to sort of paying down debt because it seems like you might overshoot the balance sheet capacity? Yes you have to look at too what our capital spending is for the 5-year period.
And we're looking at spending something like close to $14 billion of capital during that period of time mostly in our utilities.
And so that -- and this is what we'll go through at the Analyst Meeting because you really need to look at this in terms of the 5 years what the capital spending is what the repayment of debt is what the growth is in our international businesses and see it on our composite basis which we'll show you at the Analyst Meeting.
But principally to keep our credit stats strong and all we're intending to use the funds that we repatriate to pay off debt and then we will be issuing other debt as needed for our capital projects to fund this incredible growth that we have with really great projects.
I see.
And I guess because last year you had some pretty good -- last year's Analyst Day had some pretty good growth -- took pretty good growth assumed without repatriation was that the assumption for last year? And now the assumption is that you'll repatriate so are there kind of other projects incremental last year is that the way we should think about it? Well in this 5-year plan another year is added to it.
And there are some additional projects that we will have obviously in that extra year.
But what I want to leave you with is the growth will continue in our South American businesses.
We'll be able to fund that and we'll be able to create a capital structure there that are appropriate for those businesses and fund the growth that we showed you last year in those businesses including transmission and generation projects.
And then we will repatriate and use the cash to pay off debt and we'll most likely leverage up those utilities internationally and get the cap structure they should have and produce -- and have more debt than internationally.
And then the cash will be used to pay off debt here so you're basically paying your leverage in a country where you're doing business and bringing back the cash and paying off U.S.
debts.
Chris we expect that debt U.S.
ratio to stay about the same.
We have really solid growth.
In our view look money is fungible.
So whether repayment of debt or spending it on your projects right now for the first few years we're spending more than our free cash flow.
So we're increasing debt in the early years and paying some in the later years.
But we're roughly keeping our debt in that ratio about the team and we're looking at our credit statistics and making sure we have strong credit ratings.
Okay if there are no further questions then I'd like to thank you again for joining us on this morning's call.
And if you have any follow-up questions please don't hesitate to call Steve Scott or Victor and have a great day.
Thank you very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy First Quarter Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I'm Rick Vaccari Vice President of Investor Relations.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's First Quarter 2012 Financial Results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team including Debbie Reed Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bruce Folkmann Acting Controller.
Before starting I'd like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's reports filed with the SEC.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today May 3 2012 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that I'll turn it over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thank all of you for joining us today.
Before we get started I wanted to note that Rick Vaccari is with us today in his new role as Vice President of Investor Relations which he assumed following our analyst conference.
Rick takes over for Steve Davis who is now Senior Vice President of External Affairs.
If you haven't had a chance to meet Rick I trust you will very soon.
I'd also like to thank those of you who joined us here in San Diego for our analyst conference at the end of March and those of you who participated in the webcast.
It was a great opportunity for us to meet many of you and to show you how we plan to produce above average long-term earnings growth and support a competitive and growing dividend going forward.
Now on today's call I'd like to accomplish 2 things.
We'll review our first quarter financial results and then we'll give you an operational update on our businesses.
Let's begin with our financial results.
Earlier this morning we reported first-quarter earnings of $236 million or $0.97 per share compared with $254 million or $1.05 per share in the same period last year.
All of our businesses performed well and we're on track to meet our earnings guidance for 2012 which is $4 to $4.30 per share.
You'll note that this is the first quarter of reporting our financial results under our new operating unit structure.
We now have 6 reporting segments which include our 2 California utilities SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas.
We have 2 reportable segments within Sempra International the South American Utilities and Mexico segments.
And finally we have Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power which consists of the Renewables and Natural Gas segments.
Now let me hand it over to Joe so he can take you through some of the details of the financial results beginning with Slide 4.
Thanks Debbie.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the first quarter were $105 million up from $89 million in the year-ago quarter.
The increase in earnings was primarily due to higher equity AFUDC earnings compared to the year-ago period driven by the construction of the Sunrise Powerlink project that is very near completion.
Moving on to Southern California Gas first quarter 2012 earnings were $66 million compared to $68 million in the first quarter of 2011.
I'd like to point out that until we receive final decisions in the SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas general rate cases we will be recording revenues based upon our 2011 authorized levels with no attrition plus an adjustment for the actual incremental costs of wildfire insurance premiums at SDG&amp;E.
Once those general rate cases are resolved we will expect to -- which we expect to occur in the second half of this year we'll record the cumulative impact of the decision from January 1 through the quarter in which the final decision is issued.
Now let's go to Slide 5.
Within the Sempra International operating unit we have 2 reporting segments as Debbie just mentioned.
At our South American Utilities which includes the electric distribution utilities in Chile and Peru earnings were $40 million in the first quarter of 2012 that's up from $22 million last year.
The $18 million increase was due to higher earnings as a result of the acquisition of the controlling interest in our 2 South American utilities in April 2011.
Our Mexican operations include the Energia Costa Azul LNG terminal natural gas pipelines the joint venture we have at Pemex the Mexicali natural gas fuel generation plant as well as a small natural gas distribution business.
For the first quarter of 2012 the Sempra Mexico segment produced earnings of $37 million compared with $39 million in the same period last year.
Now please turn to Slide 6.
In the U.S.
Gas &amp; Power business our 2 reporting segments are Renewables and Natural Gas.
The Renewables segment represents our U.S.-based wind and solar business.
The Renewables earnings were $10 million in the first quarter this year that's up from $4 million in the same period of last year on a restated basis to reflect the change in accounting method for projects that we have with investment tax credits.
The restatement reduced first quarter 2011 earnings by $4 million which is $0.02 of earnings per share.
As we've previously mentioned beginning in the first quarter of 2012 we are using the deferral method of accounting for these credits.
In the Natural Gas segment which includes our storage and pipeline assets the Cameron LNG terminal the 1 250-megawatt Mesquite natural gas fuel generation plant and the small natural gas distribution business earnings were $1 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The decrease in earnings of $62 million compared to the prior-year period was primarily due to the expiration of the CDWR contract.
And with that I'll hand the call back to Debbie.
Thanks Joe.
Now I'd like to update you on some of the key activities within our businesses.
Starting with our California utilities.
Last month we and the other major utilities in California filed our application in the cost of capital proceedings seeking approval of a new proposed cost of capital to be effective in 2013.
In these proceedings the CPUC determines the appropriate and reasonable rate of return necessary to attract capital.
This compensates the utilities for their business and financial risks and promotes continued safe and reliable operations.
Both SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas requested adjustments to their capital structures and the authorized cost of debt preferred stock and return on equity.
SDG&amp;E requested a decrease in the overall rate of return from 8.4% to 8.2% reflecting a lower cost of funds raised by the company since its previous proceeding in 2007.
The proposal included a decrease in return on equity from 11.1% to 11% and an increase in the common equity component of its capital structure from 49% to 52%.
SoCalGas requested a decrease in the overall rate of return from 8.68% to 8.42% also due to the lower cost of funds raised since its last adjustment in 2003.
The proposal included a slight increase in the return on common equity from 10.82% to 10.9% and an increase in the common equity component of its capital structure from 48% to 52%.
Both utilities also proposed to continue mechanisms that automatically adjust the cost of capital until the next proceeding proposed for 2016.
The mechanisms would trigger adjustments in the event of market changes that exceed certain measurement levels.
SDG&amp;E currently has the same mechanism as Southern California Edison and Pacific Gas &amp; Electric that propose a safeguard provision to protect against extreme changes in interest rates.
SoCalGas currently has a different adjustment mechanism that is based on U.S.
Treasury.
The other large California utilities used a mechanism based upon utility bonds and SoCalGas has also requested to use utility bonds.
SoCalGas also proposed the safeguard provision against extreme changes in interest rates.
We expect the final decision in the cost of capital proceedings by the end of this year which will be effective in January 2013.
I'd also like to remind you that for SDG&amp;E this cost of capital filing only covers CPUC jurisdictional assets.
SDG&amp;E's electric transmission assets are regulated by the FERC which currently has an authorized return on equity of 11.35% on actual equity.
The currently authorized FERC return is effective until September 2013.
Please turn to the next Slide.
Now on to some of the other key regulatory proceedings.
In San Diego Gas &amp; Electric's and Southern California Gas Company's general rate case proceedings opening briefs were filed last month and reply briefs are due in May.
We expect the decision in the second half of this year which will be retroactive to January 1 of this year.
Turning to our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
Last month the commission approved memo account to track the project costs at SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E and also transferred the proceeding into the Triennial Cost Allocation Proceeding or TCAP which is a natural gas transmission and storage rate design proceeding.
And finally at San Diego Gas &amp; Electric construction of Sunrise Powerlink is now nearly 90% complete and we expect that it will go into operation this summer.
When completed Sunrise will add about $1.2 billion to SDG&amp;E's FERC rate base which includes the impact of bonus depreciation.
None of the project costs are currently in rate base but once the line is operational we'll transfer the projects of work in progress to rate base.
Now I'd like you to go to Slide 9 for an update on our Cameron LNG export project.
We've made excellent progress in moving our Cameron liquefaction project forward.
Last month we announced commercial development agreements with Mitsubishi and Mitsui.
These agreements commit the parties to fund the engineering and permitting of the liquefaction project.
In addition the commercial development agreements are the precursor to the tolling agreements and equity agreements.
The project we are developing is a 3-train 12-million-tonne per annum liquefaction facility.
We have already agreed upon the key commercial terms of tolling agreements with Mitsubishi and Mitsui for a total of 8 million tonnes per annum from 2 liquefaction trains.
This morning we also announced that we have reached an agreement with GDF SUEZ for the remaining 4 million tonnes per annum of capacity.
On the permitting and approval front we initiated the FERC pre-filing process earlier this week and we expect that the FERC approval process will be complete in the second half of next year.
And our application with the Department of Energy to export to non-free trade countries is pending.
We previously received approval from the DOE to export to free-trade countries.
I'm very pleased with the early progress that we've seen with the Cameron export project and I look forward to updating you in the future as we take steps towards making this project a reality.
Before we move on to the summary I also wanted to mention that the CPUC approved SDG&amp;E's power purchase agreement with 156-megawatt Energía Sierra Juárez Wind project that we are developing within our Sempra Mexico business.
We expect to develop this as a joint venture and to start construction this year following the receipt of the remaining authorization including those from FERC and DOE.
Now let's go to the final slide.
I'm very pleased with the results of all of our businesses for the quarter.
We continued to execute on our strategy throughout the quarter and made significant progress on our key initiatives.
We are on track to meet our guidance of $4 to $4.30 per share for 2012 and believe that we have a clear path to achieving 6% to 8% earnings growth over the long term.
Now with that I'll stop and open up the call to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk about the Southwest merchant gas-fired assets.
Given the SONGS outage and just with low natural gas do you have any just updates or implications for the performance of those assets or just general interest in those assets? Well I would say that there has been a lot more interest generally in generation in the Southwest.
There are a number of RFPs that are out right now or coming out in the very near future so we'll get long-term contracts for generation.
Some of that is associated with the ones with cooling issues some of that is associated with looking at possible coal retirement.
And I'll ask Mark to add a little bit of color on what's happening in the current marketplace.
Well clearly with the outage at SONGS and some of the other maintenance issues with some of the other plants in the region we've had a tighter market than we expect in the -- for this time of year and as we roll into summer it looks like we're going to have I would say as we look at it today it looks like we could have a slightly tighter market than what we've experienced in the past couple of summers.
So that should have some upward pressure on pricing but we're not -- we really haven't made any change in our outlook for what we think that business will do for the year.
We could be pleasantly surprised but I think at the end of the day we're kind of sticking to the numbers that we gave you at the analyst conference.
Research Division</strong> Great That's helpful.
And then just on the LNG export actually this is on Costa Azul.
I'm just curious are you having any discussions on possibly turning that into export or is that not really a focus area right now? We certainly are taking a look at that.
It's an interesting opportunity for us.
It has some advantages as being closer to Asia and not having to go through the Canal and all that.
So we are definitely taking a look at it.
It isn't -- we don't have as much land there as we do in Cameron but it is something -- we could handle maybe 1 maybe 2 trains at the most there but -- it is something that we're exploring but our top priority is to get Cameron online and to move that forward.
And obviously we took a big step on that today and we're really excited about it and we think that that will add tremendous value.
Let me just add that unlike Cameron the facility in Baja is fully contracted for 20-plus years.
And so it's not -- for us the priority is definitely on getting Cameron which is not fully contracted fully utilized and producing earnings.
And we'll go next to Kit Konolige with Konolige Research.
LLC</strong> Couple of questions kind of following on this.
On Cameron can you give us some perspective on I think Shaner is -- I think got their equity infusion and is kind of ready to roll.
Can you update us on where they are and what if any implications that has for you guys on a competitive basis? Well [Technical Difficulty] The GDF announcement that we have today kind of completes the circle for us.
So we have all 3 trains now that we have customers for and we're just going to work forward on moving that.
And I think one of the things that where we are what we feel very comfortable with is our partners in this project and our major customers are all experienced LNG players that have long customer relationships with Korea with Japan with Chile with places that are some of the biggest users of LNG in the world.
And so we feel like we're in a very good position to move our project forward.
LLC</strong> And if I can just follow up on that a little bit can you then point out to us what you see as -- I think I know generally but what you see as kind of the next critical steps that we need to keep an eye on? Obviously ultimately we need federal government approval to go ahead and financing but if there are specific benchmarks? Yes.
Look I think the things that are -- the big milestones to come forward is first let me just remind everybody that we do have export capability to all the free-trade countries and that includes Korea which is a very big user of LNG.
The next step is to get the non-free-trade export permit.
And we expect to get that as we've said sort of later in the year could be at the early part of next year.
But that's something that we've got to get done.
We also would need a FERC permit to construct and we are working on that right now.
We would expect to get that sometime later in the year.
We are working on the final design and engineering those kinds of things need to be done to get the FERC permit.
So we've got a ways to go we're just off to a very good start.
And we'll go next to Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I'm sorry if I missed this.
You were talking about the MICAM filing that you guys are -- that you asked for a waiver on I think and what's the procedural schedule for that? When do you think the CPUC will act on that or whoever it is who acts on that to give you the waiver on it? Well we would anticipate that since we've made our filings for the cost of capital that that would really take precedent.
And that we have had -- we have made a prior filing a couple of years ago at SoCalGas because of the impact of some of the government policy issues on using [ph] in U.S.
Treasury and that was never envisioned when that mechanism was put in place.
And so when we made those filings we had some discussions with the CPUC at the time about us filing for the cost of capital.
So they were expecting us to be making this filing.
So I think that we will be on the same schedule as all of the utilities and that would have us having a decision by the end of this year with new cost of capital mechanisms and cost of capital structures going into place on January 1 2013.
But is there any idea when they'll actually formally sort of like say that you don't have to file this MICAM letter? No I don't know.
Okay that's fine.
And then the wildfire litigation liability seemed to go down I was wondering what led to that and what the -- if there was an EPS impact I noticed on the balance sheet just what the -- what was going on there? I'm going to have Joe go through the numbers on the wildfire reserves and litigation.
Paul it was mostly payments that were made.
We're resolving many many.
-- we're mediating many of these cases like 60 a month.
And so mostly it was about $130 million of payments during the quarter.
So it wasn't an adjustment to the reserves so much as it was payments down.
There was no impact on the P&amp;L as a result of that.
And then on the liquefaction just on the DOE the issue of potential export restrictions with non-free-trade agreement of company -- of countries excuse me.
Some companies have in their negotiations with shippers put that risk on the shipper if you follow me.
In other words it's not one that the actual terminal owner will have.
At least that's my understanding.
And I'm just wondering how you guys have approached that with your contracts with the shippers and stuff if you can tell? I'll have Mark go into a little bit of color on that.
It's a great question.
In the commercial development agreements that we have signed with our 3 customers and partners they have agreed to a long-term tolling arrangement which does not include an out or losing that license.
So if we were to get the license and lose it or not get it the long-term tolling arrangement doesn't have an out for that.
But the long-term tolling arrangements haven't been signed yet so there is some -- if we never got it between now and the time that we would sign those long-term tolling arrangements it may change things.
And I think the way we stand now given the partners that we have it probably has more to do with the sizing of the facility than whether it actually moves forward or not.
I mean we feel like there's enough of a market currently that there would be a market for the facility even if we didn't get it.
But at the end of the day we expect to get it.
It makes the most sense.
And frankly the -- but the long-term implications of that would rest with the shipper.
Now that's one of the reasons too though that we want them to be partners in the facility because if there was any kind of disruption like that it's nice to do this as everybody has an equity interest in the facility and we would work together to make -- to have the right outcomes.
Okay that's excellent.
I think that's great.
and then just finally any sense as to how much liquefaction does the North American continent can actually handle? I mean as you know you're not the only ones who are announcing this stuff.
Just sort of any sense we should think about like the natural sort of just economic constraints there are of just the amount of stuff we're hearing being announced.
Let me take that first and I think Debbie has a comment on it too.
But I'd -- look it's a great question because I think there is an awful lot of concern in the country about exporting a tremendous amount of gas.
And I think one thing we all have to remind ourselves is that the LNG market while it is big it is a fixed amount and we have lots of competition around the world to sell that gas to those countries that need it.
And so right now we think that there's a potential kind of excess capacity in the near term -- or excess demand in the near-term primarily driven by Japan's desire to -- as they've shut down their nuclear fleet and their desire to wean themselves off nuclear and move to gas and then as the economies pick up it's probably something like 20 million tonnes a year.
And I think what we're talking about is a facility that could be as much as 4 -- and then when we look at some of the other facilities there's plenty -- there's enough to absorb what could come out of the U.S.
but you're not going to be in a situation where we're going to have 20 30 Bcf a day being exported.
It's probably not that big of a market right now.
Yes.
I just want to clarify something Mark said I think he was talking about in CFD versus metric tonnes.
Because when you look at the potential for export it's higher than the 20 number...
Yes.
I confused the numbers.
Yes.
But it is -- the potential is just Japan alone is probably an excess of 10 million cubic feet a day 10 billion cubic feet a day or something like that.
So there is some potential for export but it isn't an unlimited market.
So I don't think the U.S.
has to worry that we're going to have a large share of our gas supply go offshore that's probably not the case.
And what I was going to say is yesterday I'm sure many of you saw that the Brookings Institution published a study and they looked at an export level of 9 Bcf a day out of that study and showing very very minimal impact on gas prices coming from that.
And at least their approach was that it should be open to all parties who can participate in the market.
And I mean I think that's the position we would really like to see adopted is that this becomes market-based we think of this as market-based we have a very competitive facility.
And that we will be with our counter-parties that we've signed these CDA agreements and we will be moving forward with construction and export if we can have a market-based type of approach like Brookings suggested.
And we'll go next to Greg Gordon with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on LNG.
Can we talk a little bit about the cost of capital filing? Specifically we know that you've asked for ROE at the level that you put in your presentation.
But I think when we look at the trends for authorized ROEs nationally an ROE of 10.9% or 11% is a bit above the national average but more importantly there are some cases pending in California namely a water case or 2 where it looks like the ROEs could come in demonstrably lower than that.
What gives you comfort that in your dialogue with the regulators you are going to be able to articulate the facts that's supportive of ROEs closer to what you filed for? First of all let's take a water case as a good benchmark example.
If you look at historically the differential between energy companies and water companies and ROEs authorized it is about 100 basis points.
So an authorized ROE of water companies in the 10-range would definitely be equivalent to for energy companies in the 11-range based upon historical precedent.
The risks seen in those businesses are quite different and so there's always been a much higher ROE granted to the energy companies.
I would also say that California have seen the need to have ROE's that will allow us to attract the capital necessary to make the kinds of investments that the State is expecting in terms of clean energy renewables having the 33% renewables contracted having the balance sheets to support that all of the infrastructure the pipeline safety investments that we will be making.
And so I think that if you kind of look at those facts I think they do support an ROE that's in the 11-range.
And we'll go next to Ashar Khan with Visium.
My question has been answered.
And we'll go next to Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on the GDF SUEZ agreement too many earnings calls to see it the announcement yet but is that also going to include a future equity investment from GDF? Yes.
The way that all the parties that we worked with and signed agreements are we're looking at making this a joint venture where we would have most likely 50% ownership and they would the 3 parties have a sharing of 50% ownership.
And all of those parties have expressed an interest in taking equity.
We haven't negotiated the final terms of that but that is what's envisioned.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess given the approval last month of the memo account is any of your pipeline CapEx has any of that timing shifted a little bit closer into 2012 or are you still kind of comfortable with where you presented at the analyst day? Yes.
We're still looking at 2012 being largely about doing the engineering studies and the planning for the construction and expecting that the expenditures would be somewhere in the $100 million range for 2012.
And we'll go next to Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions one related to the utilities.
Utilities posted great quarters especially SDG&amp;E and especially given the challenge of not having a rate order in hand.
If we go back and look at PG&amp;E's first quarter from last year or Southern Cal Edison from first quarter this year both had pretty significant challenges in terms of year-over-year earnings at the utility.
Can you talk a little bit about what the drivers were at SDG&amp;E was it all just AFUDC was there a significant change in the O&amp;M level and significant change in the cost structure et cetera? The main driver at SDG&amp;E Michael is definitely the AFUDC from Sunrise.
That is a significant issue.
What I would say though is that both utilities were trying to operate at the revenue requirement that we had last year because until you get a decision that's the prudent thing to do.
And so we've had a history of trying to operate our businesses until we get the CPUC decision at the level that has been previously authorized and raised.
Research Division</strong> The other thing on the Renewables side here in the U.S.
Can you talk about where you see -- what RFPs are kind of out in the market and therefore publicly known for either solar or wind in the desert Southwest I'm thinking some of the bigger ones.
Mark do you want to -- the renewable RFPs in the desert Southwest and what are some of the bigger ones that are out right now? Well I guess we wouldn't really talk about the ones that we're currently bidding on.
But there are still some several fairly large ones that are out there and there are some that have been in process for a while that people have had trouble now meeting some of the requirements and they're coming out for additional opportunities.
But we don't probably the numbers that we presented at the analysts conference for our fleet are likely to be what we've have been for the rest of the year.
We haven't seen -- I don't think anything that would come up now would have happen at least until the following year.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no further questions in queue.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Debbie Reed for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us this morning for our first quarter call.
If there's any follow-up questions you have please contact Rick or Scott or Victor and have a really nice day.
That does conclude our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Sempra Energy Second Quarter Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I'm Rick Vaccari Vice President of Investor Relations.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's second quarter 2012 financial results.
Live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team Debbie Reed Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and CFO; Trevor Mihalik Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; and Bruce Folkmann Assistant Controller.
Before starting I'd like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
Factors that could cause our actual result to differ materially are discussed in the company's reports filed with the SEC.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our second quarter 2012 earnings release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today August 2 2012 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that I will turn it over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
You may have noticed a new name in the list of introductions Rick just made so let me introduce Trevor Mihalik our new Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
He has extensive industry experience in the energy business and also a strong accounting background and he is going to make a great addition to the already strong management team that we have here at Sempra.
I'd also like to mention that Bruce Folkmann who has been our Acting Controller since October of last year will become the Vice President and Controller of our U.S.
Gas &amp; Power business starting next week.
On today's call we'll review our second quarter financial results and then we'll give you a regulatory and operational update on our businesses.
Let's begin with our financial results.
Earlier this morning we recorded second quarter earnings of $62 million or $0.25 per share excluding a $179 million non-cash charge related to our investment in the Rockies Express Pipeline or REX.
Adjusted earnings for the second quarter of 2012 were $241 million or $0.98 per share.
In the second quarter of 2011 we recorded adjusted earnings of $226 million or $0.94 per share which excluded the $277 million remeasurement gain we booked when we completed our acquisition of South American Utilities.
As many of you are aware Kinder Morgan a 50% owner of REX is in the process of selling its interest in the pipeline as a result of its merger with El Paso.
The REX pipeline is contracted through late 2019.
The current market conditions for the pipeline are weak due to low gas prices and low basis differential.
The sale by Kinder Morgan coupled with the weak market conditions led us to determine it was appropriate to record an impairment at this time.
Joe will provide more details on this a little later in the call.
After adjusting for the REX impairment our businesses are performing well and consistent with the plans we shared with you at our Analyst Conference.
Given our performance through the first 6 months of the year we continue to expect to meet our earnings guidance for 2012 which is $4 to $4.30 per share.
The full-year guidance excludes both the charge related to the REX and a tax benefit related to a change we've made in the holding period for the life insurance contracts we own.
Joe will also discuss this change in more detail and in fact let me just hand things over to him now to take you through details of the financial results beginning with Slide 4.
Thanks Debbie and thank you all for joining us again.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the second quarter were $95 million up from $71 million in the year-ago quarter.
This increase was primarily due to higher earnings from Sunrise Powerlink which was put into service in June of this year.
In addition the earnings comparison was impacted by the timing of wildfire insurance premium recovery.
During 2011 insurance premiums expensed in the second quarter were not recovered in revenues until the fourth quarter when the CPUC issued a decision approving the recovery.
Moving to Southern California Gas.
Second quarter 2012 earnings were $53 million compared to $59 million in the second quarter of 2011.
A decrease was primarily attributable to higher operating expenses and depreciation without the usual revenue increase due to the delay in our GRC decision.
Majority of the increased expenses are costs which we expect to recover in full once the rate case decision is final.
Please keep in mind that until we receive final decisions in the SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas general rate cases we will be recording revenues based upon 2011 authorized levels plus an adjustment for recovery of incremental wildfire insurance premiums at SDG&amp;E based upon recent CPUC decisions for prior year's premiums.
Once those general rate cases are decided which we now expect to occur in the fourth quarter of this year we'll record the cumulative impact of the decision from January 1 2012.
In addition to the retroactive impact resulting from the change in authorized revenue we also expect certain pipeline inspection expenses that are unrelated to our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan to be fully recovered.
Now please go to Slide 5.
For our South American Utilities earnings were $38 million in the second quarter of 2012 roughly equal to last year's results after excluding the remeasurement gain Debbie mentioned earlier.
Second quarter earnings for the Sempra Mexico segment were $43 million compared with $35 million in the same period last year.
The increase here was primarily due to tax benefits related to currency and inflation adjustments that were booked in the quarter.
This benefit effectively just reverses the tax expense for the same items that we recorded in the first quarter of this year.
Now please turn to Slide 6.
Moving on to Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power the natural gas segment lost $193 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding the $179 million charge related to REX the segment lost $14 million.
This decrease of $61 million in adjusted earnings was attributable to lower natural gas and power prices including the impact from the exploration of the CDWR contract at the end of the third quarter of last year.
I'd like to spend a few minutes on our decision to impair REX.
As Debbie mentioned current market conditions are different than when we originally decided to invest in this pipeline and the current market value suggests that the current book value will not be recovered in full on a present-value basis.
Accordingly we have taken a $179 million after-tax charge to reflect our estimate of the currant value of REX based on a set of assumptions using current market data forecast of future pipeline capacity and various pipeline flow scenarios.
I think it's important to point out that we expect to effectively recover our original investment in REX on a cash basis through a combination of distributions and tax benefits prior to the end of the existing contracts.
Renewables segment generated earnings of $24 million in the second quarter of 2012 up from $4 million in the same period last year.
The increase was driven by the addition of solar and wind assets.
As you'll recall we now use the deferral method of accounting for investment tax credits.
The change in accounting method reduced the originally reported second quarter 2011 earnings by $8 million or about $0.03 per share.
Now please go to Slide 7.
For the second quarter Parent &amp; Other had earnings of $2 million as compared to a loss of $27 million in the same period last year.
This quarter's results included a $54 million tax benefit associated with our decision to hold life insurance contracts that we keep in support of certain benefit plans to term.
Proceeds from death benefits under those contracts will be tax-free.
Previously we took the position that we might surrender these contracts before maturity and those transactions would have been taxable.
As such we had recorded taxes on the unrealized gains on investments held within the insurance contracts.
This tax benefit was partially offset in the quarter by an $11 million tax -- consolidated tax expense which we expect to reverse by year-end.
Year-to-date tax benefit related to the life insurance contracts is $47 million net of a $7 million income tax expense recorded in the first quarter of 2012.
Excluding both the noncash charge related to REX and the $43 million net tax benefit recorded at the Parent this quarter we are pleased with our business unit performance for the quarter and remain on track to meet our targets.
With that please turn to Slide 8 and I will hand the call back to Debbie.
Thanks Joe.
Now I'd like to update you on some of the key activities within our businesses starting with our 3 major regulatory proceedings at the California utility: the general rate cases the cost of capital and the Pipeline Safety Enhancement proceedings.
As we mentioned earlier we are awaiting a final decision on our general rate cases.
We now expect to receive a decision in the fourth quarter of this year.
Turning to our cost of capital filings at SDG&amp;E SoCalGas the commission issued a schedule for this proceedings which calls for intervenor testimony on August 6 hearings in September and then final decision by December 20.
The new rate set in this proceeding will be effective January 1 2013.
As you'll recall for SDG&amp;E this cost of capital filing only covers CPUC jurisdictional assets.
SDG&amp;E's electric transmission assets are regulated by the FERC which currently has an authorized return on equity of 11.35% on the actual equity held.
Currently authorized FERC return on equity is effective until September 2013.
Our Pipeline Safety Enhancement proceeding is progressing.
All intervenor and rebuttal testimony has now been filed and evidentiary hearings are scheduled to take place later this month.
We'd still expect the final decision on our plan by the first quarter of next year.
Let's move to Slide 9.
On the operational side this was a very significant quarter for us as SDG&amp;E energized the Sunrise Powerlink in mid-June.
117-mile 500-kV transmission line is a key resource that will bolster our region's electric reliability particularly the summer during the extended outage at San Onofre.
Sunrise will also deliver a significant amount of renewable energy to San Diego plus provide over $100 million annually in regional economic benefit.
From a financial perspective Sunrise will now move out of our construction work-in-progress account and into rate base.
At year-end we expect our rate base investment in Sunrise to be about $1.4 billion which reflects the impact of bonus depreciation.
As with all transmission and substation investments Sunrise will earn at the FERC-authorized rate of return on equity.
We also receive CPUC approval in the second quarter on the East County or ECO Substation.
This is a $435 million project that will boost electric reliability in the region and help in increasing the delivery of renewable power to utility customers.
Construction should begin later this year and the project being placed in service by 2014.
When placed in service this investment will be included in SDG&amp;E's FERC rate base.
We continue to find attractive growth opportunities in our international businesses.
And in Chile we formed a joint venture with SAESA a similarly sized distribution company to develop electric transmission projects.
The Chilean government has awarded our joint venture 2 projects as part of a competitive bidding process.
These projects which we expect to complete in 2017 will require a total investment of $160 million by the JV and our share can be funded by local debt and cash.
The Chilean government has also announced a bid due later this year for 5 additional transmission projects which provides further opportunities to expand our presence in the transmission sector in Chile.
Finally let me provide you with an update on our progress at Cameron LNG to develop a liquefaction facility.
We continue to work closely with our partners Mitsui Mitsubishi and GDF SUEZ on the design and development of the project and expect to complete the front-end engineering and design work by the end of this year.
We are working with these same partners on completing the definitive tolling agreements and those negotiations should be complete late this year or early next year.
We are also working with our partners on the project financing and the joint venture agreement.
On the regulatory front we remain optimistic that we will receive the DOE non-FTA permit late this year or early next year.
We've also begun the FERC permit process and we expect to obtain that permit in the second half of next year.
Now let's go to final slide.
I'm pleased that we had a solid quarter both financially and operationally across our businesses.
While we are disappointed to have to take the noncash charge related to REX this quarter we do remain focused on executing on our plans to derive the highest value from all of our operations and assets.
We remain on track to meet our operating goals and our long-term growth prospects continue to be strong.
With that I will stop and open up the call to take any of your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Naaz Khumawala from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
Joe do you mind letting me know how much was the Mexico tax gain in the quarter? Yes Naaz this is Joe.
It was about $8 million and prior quarter it was $7 million.
So it's virtually -- it's less than $0.5 million year-to-date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just can you guys talk about -- I know you impaired REX based on projected cash flow going forward kind of once the contracts expire what do you expect to do with REX? And kind of how do you see the pipe progressing is there a back haul opportunity? And what can you do? Let me make a couple of comments on it and I'll turn it over to Mark to go through some of our thinking on this because we have done a great deal of modeling looking at what we think may happen to gas markets post-2019 when the contracts expire.
And if you look at how we felt about REX the one thing that I want to make clear is because the Kinder is in the process of this sale the way that you value REX for the purpose of assessing whether it's an impaired asset is different because they're in the process of the sale and it's not the net present value of the future cash flows.
You use net present value of the future cash flows versus actual future cash flows.
So a lot of what we were looking at is what is the timing of some of the changes that will all occur in REX and we do believe that there will be changed flows on that pipeline over time with the development of Marcellus and Utica.
It's just a matter of when those occur and what it does to that asset over time.
So Mark do you want to talk about that? Yes a couple of things.
Look we -- this is still an important asset.
And it's a good system to bringing gas now to the Rockies East.
But of course with the development of the Marcellus in particular as Debbie mentioned we do think over time after our contracts expire that flow could reverse and gas for -- will flow from both directions then go up to Chicago and then to the Midwest but a couple of things.
Just keep in mind one as Joe said in his notes and I think it's important is that we're going to be by -- before the end of the contract period we will have recouped all of our investment in either cash distributions or tax benefits.
And from an accounting perspective we'll still have bases left.
But economically we'll have gotten our money back I think that's important thing to remember.
And two I don't think anybody can -- we don't know with 100% certainty exactly where -- what the revenues will be beyond the contract period but we know that there is interest in going from both directions and we know that we'll have significant revenues.
Now they may not be as good as we have now and that's what we've indicated by our write-down but I think -- we do think this will be a significant asset going forward.
Research Division</strong> And then just in -- once Kinder does -- if they decide to and then once they complete the sale is there -- would you guys reassess the value based on market conditions as this is my accounting failing me? Yes.
Let me ask Joe to talk about how we look at that.
Okay.
Naaz the Kinder sales process as Debbie and Mark said led us to evaluate the REX investment.
But our analysis is based on several scenarios that resulted in the fair value assessment that we put on REX.
So we would not expect that the eventual sale will really reveal any information that would cause us to change any of our assumptions within these scenarios.
So we would not expect any change in our assessment.
Of course over time new information could come to light we just don't expect that to occur in the next several years.
Moving on we'll hear from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give a little bit of an update on renewable projects put in place during the course of 2012? And also what you're seeing in terms of output or capacity factor levels for some of your gas power plants in the U.S.
meaning you're nonregulated gas plants? Yes sure.
Michael I'll mention some of the renewables and kind of go through what we have in operation and then what we have under development right now.
Right now in operation we have Fowler Ridge which is a 100 megawatt our share.
We have Copper Mountain Solar 1 and El Dorado Solar 58 megawatts and then we have 125 megawatts at Cedar Creek II Wind which is our share of that we own 50% of that.
Right now under development that's contracted and under construction we have the Flat Ridge Wind project which our share is 235 megawatts and that is to be put in service this year.
We have the Mahogany wind project which was just dedicated this week and our share of that is 71 megawatts and that's to be completed this year.
We're in the process right now of -- on Mesquite Solar of building that out to a total of 150 megawatts and we had 98 megawatts energized thus far.
And that will be finally complete in 2013.
And then we have Auwahi Wind which is under construction right now and that is a 11-megawatt wind project which will be done this year.
And then we have also under contracts that we're working on construction the Copper Mountain Solar project and that will be 92 megawatts.
And then the ESJ project which will begin later this year which will be -- our share is 78 megawatts.
And we have a lot of -- bottom line we have a lot of construction going on.
I mean massive amount of construction going on these projects.
All the wind projects are scheduled to be done in 2012 before any issues of PTC go away.
So they're all scheduled to be done in 2012 with the exception of ESJ which is not dependent upon PTC because as you know it's being constructed in Mexico and we just get accelerated depreciation on that.
And then I'll have Mark talk about kind of the capacity factors and maybe a little bit of information on what's happening in the generation front.
Yes on the generation front on the gas fired generation front here in Southern California and the West where our plants are located I think through the quarter we saw continued sort of weak gas prices and weak power prices.
Unlike the rest of the country we still have had fairly mild temperatures here in Southern California so we really haven't seen much of an uptick or pressure on prices.
We are expecting in August and September for that to change.
We are seeing an uptick in both spark spreads or -- higher heat rates and better pricing.
It's not significantly better but it is better than it's been.
We would expect to be a little bit stronger in the next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And finally I know you gave a little bit of an update of this at the Analyst Day but any further thoughts on natural gas storage development? Or any changes since the Analyst Day? Yes.
No real changes since the Analyst Day.
I mean I think the prospects for additional development on the storage side really is going to come in relation to the LNG projects that are in the Gulf.
And we are uniquely situated with one of our projects the Louisiana storage facility which is -- which would be ideal to serve both our facility there and also the Cheniere facility.
So we think that eventually that will get developed and it will be a good asset.
And that facility would be about 19 Bcf when fully developed.
Also as Mark mentioned in that area we have the Cameron pipeline that serves that LNG facility.
And we would anticipate the development of both the storage and that pipeline to serve our facility in Cheniere's.
Moving on our next question is from Leslie Rich from JPMorgan.
Inc.</strong> I wondered if you could just give an update on the cash that you are expecting to repatriate from Latin America? Is that likely to be in the fourth quarter? So we had indicated that we were planning on having the repatriation begin next year at the end of next year.
And I'll have Joe go through that.
One of the reasons that we feel that it's good to wait until next year is that gives us the opportunity to see what happens with all the tax law changes after the election.
And then we can really assess if anything is changing that would in anyway modify how we would do our repatriation.
Joe do you want to...
Leslie Debbie's right.
Everything she said was consistent with what we had at the Analyst Conference.
In addition to that we also still had some intercompany debt that we could move cash from those countries up to the holding company.
So we were going to pay off these intercompany loans during this year so we didn't need to actually pay the dividend this year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then separately on CapEx are you tracking in line with the breakout that you gave at the Analyst Day? Year-to-date I see you've spent about $1.8 billion but it looks like it's distributed a little bit differently.
So I just wondered if your CapEx plans are the same or different? Yes.
Our CapEx for Sempra is right on track to the numbers that we gave at the Analyst Presentation.
There's a little bit of differences between one business unit and others there may be more solar and then some like Humala and some other things that are in -- at SDG&amp;E for projects.
But basically they wash and the CapEx is right on track.
And also that -- SDG&amp;E is a little higher in the first because of Sunrise and then it'll slow off a little.
And we'll move on to Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Just -- a lot of questions have been answered -- but the impact of the REX write-off going forward I mean it sounds like you guys are contracted.
I'm just wondering how it might possibly benefit you guys a lower depreciation or something? Yes.
I mean there would be benefits from lower depreciations but it's very small in terms of the earnings impact from that.
I think that the -- probably I'm looking at REX that the biggest potential upside is what happens in the market post-2019 when the contracts expire.
And really how gas flows change in that region what happens with LNG export what happens with Canadian gas export and all of the -- and we see some real opportunities there.
So -- but that's -- in terms of just the write-down having an impact on earnings it's quite small.
Joe you want to add anything? No that's right.
I mean if you think about the total amount that we rolled off and then the pipeline's a 40-year asset it's not going to be that much per year.
It's something but not significant.
Okay great.
And then the other thing I was sort of wondering was the -- just to clarify on maybe insurance contract that was associated with some benefit program it sound like.
I was just wondering what a -- if you could just elaborate a little more and that what caused you to just change your mind in terms of how you're going to be treating that stuff just -- nothing tremendous just a little more clarification on that? Yes sure.
I'll ask Joe to answer that because this really came up as part of our Pension Investment Committee working with the present group so...
Yes.
Paul what we really did was we were studying the benefit plans and what it really relates to is how we fund within the company deferred compensation and Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans and we have a trust fund that's set up to do that.
And inside that fund we have a lot of these light insurance contracts and there are investments within those.
And when this got set up it was 10 or 12 years ago when -- just after the merger and at that time people weren't sure how all this was going to work and felt that maybe we'll have to cash these in it sometime.
But when I came into the job I started looking at all that and determined there was plenty of liquidity there was a lot of cash flow we could even access these life insurance policies to get cash when we needed it.
And so it didn't appear reasonable to think that we actually would collapse these policies or cash them in sooner and pay the tax on the income that was earned in there.
And so we reversed that tax that we'd been incurring.
We've taken the tax expense for the last 10 years on this.
It was just reversing what we had booked it's all a noncash issue.
And we'll take our next question from Kit Konolige from BGC Financial.
A question on SONGS.
Obviously you're a part owner there.
The Commission I think is on the verge of deciding whether to consider what they should do about a nonoperating generating asset.
What's your view of -- I don't know just your perspective on the operational outlook when and if it might run.
And any regulatory overhang and how you expect that to play out.
Well let me try to kind of put our position in light relative to Edison's position on this first.
And then kind of go through what we know about that and what our expectations are for the future.
First off just to remind you SDG&amp;E is a 20% owner in SONGS and we are not the operator.
We're not -- we've never been the operator.
And our company had no involvement in designing the steam generator replacement or any of that we basically get the energy out of the plant then we have a long-term contract with Edison to own 20% of the plant and we get 440 megawatts.
Because we're not the operator when we went through -- when they wanted to build the steam generator rebuild that.
We were very concerned about us taking risk on long term.
And our agreement that was approved by the Commission is that all of our O&amp;M is balanced for the plant so that if Edison asks to spend more than there is in their plant for O&amp;M SDG&amp;E recovers its actual O&amp;M expenditures for the plant.
We also have an account for the purchase power and the cost of the excess power that we're purchasing now goes into that account to be reviewed by the Commission but it is also a balancing account.
And our expectation would be that we would be able to recover that.
And our costs so far during the course of the outage had been about $25 million for that.
In terms of looking at the future operation of the plant -- I mean we can understand Edison's position and Edison's position is that they have an agreement with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission where they have to make a filing for restart.
And it's our understanding that they're moving towards making the filing for Unit 2 and then later Unit 3.
But Edison cannot determine how long it would take for the NRC to act on that once they make that filing for restart.
And so that -- the best that we can tell you is exactly what Edison says on their call and that they're hoping to get the unit started but that they cannot give a specific date of when the restart will occur because it's dependent upon the NRC approval.
We also have a claim to the warranties for our 20% share that Edison has with Mitsubishi the manufacturer.
And we are also an additional insured on the policy that Edison has.
And they indicated on their call that they were going to be filing a claim with new NEIL or putting -- the Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited group that ensures the plant on notice.
And so we're an additional insured on that policy.
So I think at a high level our position is different we do have the balancing account on O&amp;M.
We're not the operator.
So we pay a lot of attention to this because we get 440 megawatts of power from that plant and we would like to see it come back online because it ends up being very economical power for our customers.
So just to be clear is the plant -- is your 20% share in SDG&amp;E's rate base? Yes.
Our rate base for SONGS right now is $228 million right now it's our rate base right now.
As of 6/30 our rate base is $228 million and that does not include the CWIP and nuclear fuel and all of that it's just our 6/30 ending rate base for SONGS.
We -- again we're a little different than Edison because if you will remember during deregulation we had to take all these assets out of our rate base so we basically wrote them down to 0.
And so all we have is kind of rate base buildup in SONGS coming from 2001 forward contrary to any kind of historical rate base.
So that -- obviously then that rate base figure the $228 million would be your theoretical exposure if there were some kind of proceeding at the Commission that resulted in exclusion from rate base? Yes.
If -- there's a requirement that the Commission after the unit has been out for more than 9 months continuously for the Commission to do an assessment.
And they would certainly look at what the circumstances were around this.
I mean certainly the information we're getting is that the Commission is paying attention to this but they delayed today the OII that they're going to have.
And so we would anticipate that they're going to wait and see kind of what the outcome is on this.
And then they'll look at it and they'll look at the reasonableness of the actions of the parties in the case.
And again being not the operator not any at one engaged in design of the facility I think our position's slightly different than Edison's on this plant.
Very good okay.
One other area it sounded Debbie as -- you sounded pretty optimistic about DOE approval of the export license for Cameron.
Is that any different from your thinking at the Analyst Day? I mean what's new there as far as your read on DOE's action? Well we've heard from many parties in Washington that the administration is actually supportive of going forward with LNG export.
And that we've heard that they would anticipate having a decision -- or the report coming out on the impacts of LNG export coming out in the end of summer timeframe period.
And that after that report comes out which I've told many of you -- I mean we have 2 reports that pretty much say the same thing that they don't see a significant impact.
It would be hard to believe that this third report would be substantially different than that.
And I think after that report comes out the answer's -- the thought is that there would be the approval of going forward of projects.
I would also say that it's very interesting when you look at the actual DOE language the DOE language presumes approval and it's the burden of proof to show that there would be an adverse effect.
So the language is presumptive that export is good and that you're going to have an open market for gas and that they actually have to prove why it shouldn't be done.
And so I think what we're hearing would lead us to believe that this will be moving forward the issues will -- it'd be the end of this year or first part of next year.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Don Alley [ph] from Decade Capital.
Yes.
Just a clarification on Kit's question and one other.
When you said year-end did you mean formal DOE approval or just the DOE report? No.
We're expecting the non-FTA approval by the end of this year first of next year.
And then the -- their study on the impacts of exports when would you expect that? We would -- I mean whether -- everything we've heard is that the end of summer.
And a few weeks ago we were expecting it be coming out sooner but by the end of summer is kind of the official word we get.
Got it.
And then on Chilean JV how large would you expect that to grow and over what time period? I'll ask Mark to cover that.
As I mentioned we have the 2 projects that are in total $160 million.
We're bidding on 5 more.
I mean these are relatively small projects.
They're generally -- and the projects we bid on are generally $80 million to $100 million of projects.
So I don't see that getting gigantic.
But we do have some good opportunities we have a good partner to develop with.
Mark do you want to...
Everything you said is exactly right.
I -- the only thing I would add to that as Debbie said they're reasonably small and manageable-sized projects.
It will add to our growth down there but they will be completely funded by earnings that was generated down there and in the local debt market.
So there isn't any capital coming from Sempra in the U.S.
down to South America to fund these projects.
They'll be completely self-funded.
So it's the best of all kinds of growth in our foreign entities.
And that does conclude our time for question and answers today.
Ms.
Reed I'll turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us today.
And again if there's any follow-up questions that you have Rick Vaccari and our team are there to respond to any questions.
Please give them a call and thank you very much for being with us today.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy Third Quarter Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I'm Rick Vaccari Vice President of Investor Relations.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's third quarter 2012 financial results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and CFO; and Trevor Mihalik Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before starting I'd like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's reports filed with the SEC.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our third quarter 2012 earnings release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today November 6 2012 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that I will turn it over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
I know many of you on the East Coast are recovering from the effects of Hurricane Sandy and we appreciate you taking the time to be on this call.
SDG&amp;E has sent more than 40 employees and 20 pieces of heavy equipment to help Con Edison repair overhead power lines damaged by the storm and we will continue to do whatever we can to provide assistance.
Moving to our call today we'll review our third quarter financial results and provide updates on operational matters at all of our businesses on regulatory matters at our California utilities and on our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Let's begin with our financial results.
Earlier this morning we reported third quarter earnings of $268 million or $1.09 per share.
Excluding a $60 million after-tax non-cash charge related to our investment in the Rockies Express Pipeline or REX adjusted earnings for the third quarter of 2012 were $328 million or $1.33 per share.
In the third quarter of 2011 we reported earnings of $289 million or $1.20 per share.
This quarter we were able to grow our adjusted earnings despite the loss of the CDWR contract which you'll remember expired in September of 2011.
And I remain very pleased with our operating performance.
We continue to execute on our strategy through the sale of 50% of our Mesquite power plant our plans to build a new pipeline in Mexico and our continued progress on the liquefaction project at Cameron.
Now let me pass things over to Joe to take you through the details of the financial results beginning with Slide 4.
Thank you Debbie.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the third quarter were $174 million up from $113 million in the year-ago quarter.
The primary driver of the increase was a $38 million reduction in tax expense due to a change in IRS tax law regarding how repairs on electric transmission and distribution assets are treated.
$22 million of the benefit recorded in 2012 is related to the 2011 tax year while the remaining $16 million relates to the year-to-date tax benefit for the 2012 tax year.
Also benefiting the quarter were $12 million of increased transmission earnings including the impact of Sunrise Powerlink which is now in rate base.
I want take a moment and discuss recent developments in our Wildfire Expense Balancing Account or WEBA proceeding.
Last month the CPUC issued a proposed draft decision denying SDG&amp;E's request for approval to establish a mechanism to record claims paid out in excess of our insurance.
They instead suggested we use an alternative mechanism the Z-factor for recovery which is the same mechanism we use for excess wildfire insurance recovery.
The assigned commissioner in this case issued an alternative draft decision approving a rate recovery mechanism for fires occurring after July 2010.
Similar to the proposed decision this alternate decision indicated that SDG&amp;E can seek recovery for 2007 wildfire costs through the same Z-factor mechanism.
After reviewing these documents considering the statutory and regulatory precedents and communicating our concerns to the assigned commissioner through an ex parte meeting we continue to believe that it is probable that SDG&amp;E will be permitted to recover substantially all costs related to resolving wildfire claims in excess of our insurance through customer rates customer and from amounts recovered from other responsible parties.
As of September 30 2012 we have recorded regulatory assets arising from wildfire litigation costs pending regulatory approval of $326 million.
Of this amount $292 million is related to CPUC operations while the remainder is related to FERC operations.
In February of this year FERC approved a settlement allowing for the recovery of wildfire-related costs extended through March of 2011.
Each quarter we must determine the extent to which it is probable that we will recover costs and be able to reasonably estimate the recovery.
As we have disclosed previously any negative assessment of the probability of recovery would likely have a material adverse effect on SDG&amp;E's cash flows and results of operations.
If the commission fails to act or it acts in a manner which results in a negative assessment of the probability of recovery or in a manner that affects our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of the recovery we will record a charge against earnings at the time such conclusion is reached.
As of September 30 this would have resulted in an after-tax charge to earnings of approximately $175 million.
But to be very clear we will continue to pursue recovery of substantially all of these costs and given statutory and regulatory precedent believe it is probable we will be successful in those efforts.
Now moving on to Southern California Gas.
Third quarter 2012 earnings were $71 million compared to $81 million in the third quarter of 2011.
The decrease was primarily attributable to higher depreciation expense with no increase in authorized revenue due to the delay in our GRC decision.
Keep in mind that until we receive final decisions in the SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas general rate cases we will be recording revenues based upon 2011 authorized levels plus an adjustment for recovery of incremental wildfire insurance premiums at SDG&amp;E based on recent CPUC decisions for recovery of prior year's increased premiums.
Once the general rate cases are decided we'll record the cumulative impact of the decision from January 1 2012.
In the event that a final decision is not reached until next year the cumulative impact from the decision will be recorded in 2013 earnings not 2012.
Now please go to Slide 5.
At our South American Utilities earnings were $40 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $50 million in the year-ago period.
Last year's results included a $19 million nonoperating foreign currency gain related to cash held in Chile at that time.
Third quarter 2012 earnings for the Sempra Mexico segment were $54 million compared with $47 million in the same period last year.
The increase was primarily due to improved operating results across our businesses in Mexico.
Now please turn to Slide 6.
Moving on to Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power the natural gas segment lost $68 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Excluding the $60 million charge related to REX the segment lost $8 million.
The loss in the quarter was driven primarily by lower natural gas prices affecting our U.S.
LNG business.
The decrease from the third quarter of 2011 was mainly attributable to lower natural gas and power prices including the impact of the exploration of the CDWR contract which as Debbie mentioned expired on September 30 of the last year.
As you may recall Kinder Morgan a 50% owner of Rex has agreed to sell its interest in the pipeline to Tallgrass Energy Partners.
In the third quarter as part of this sales process additional market information became available that required us to reconsider the current value of our investment and as a result we recorded a $60 million after-tax noncash charge.
As I mentioned last quarter we continue to expect to effectively recover our original investment in REX on a cash basis through a combination of distributions and tax benefits prior to the end of the existing contract period.
When the sale closes which is expected to happen later this month we will receive a $41 million cash payment from Kinder Morgan related to a tax make-whole provision in the LLC agreement.
This will partially offset the impact of the charge on full year 2012 results by $25 million after-tax which we expect to be reflected in fourth quarter results assuming the deal closes.
The Renewables segment generated earnings of $13 million in the third quarter of 2012 up from $1 million in the same period last year.
The increase was driven by the addition of solar and wind assets.
I am also pleased to announce that we are finalizing agreements with the Salt River Project a utility in Arizona to sell a 625 megawatt block of our 1 250 megawatt Mesquite natural gas fired power plant.
We expect to receive a price of approximately $600 per kilowatt which is in excess of our book value.
The transaction is contingent on executing definitive agreements and receiving necessary regulatory approvals and the deal should close by the first quarter of next year.
And with that please turn to Slide 7 and I will hand the call back to Debbie.
Thanks Joe.
Last month Sempra Mexico announced plans to build a 510-mile pipeline project that will transport natural gas from the US-Mexico border south of Tucson Arizona to the Mexican state of Sonora to the northern part of the Mexican state of Sinaloa.
This project which should cost roughly $1 billion will support Mexico's initiative to convert more of its electric generating capacity to natural gas.
We expect to fund this project entirely through Sempra International's operating cash flows and Sempra Mexico’s ability to access external capital.
The pipeline will be supported by a 25-year take-or-pay contract with the Mexican state-owned electric utility CFE which will be denominated in U.S.
dollars.
We expect the project to come online in 2 phases.
The first phase should start operations in the second half of 2014 and we expect the second phase to be online in the second half of 2016.
This project represents a great growth opportunity for Sempra International and will add another asset with attractive returns to our portfolio of operations in Mexico.
Now let me provide you with an update on what we've been doing to move forward on our plans to develop a liquefaction facility at Cameron LNG.
Work on the front-end engineering and design of the project is ongoing and should be done by early December.
With that process complete we will be able to file our formal FERC application later that same month.
As you'll recall we made our pre-filing with FERC in April.
And that document which was well over 1 000 pages long and contained detailed project and environmental information paved the way for our formal FERC application.
We've always planned to complete a full environmental impact study or EIS as part of our application to ensure that FERC has comprehensive information upon which to approve our project.
The completion of the engineering work will also allow us to go out for EPC bids in early next year as planned and we expect to get the bids back in the second half of 2013.
In September of this year the Department of Energy announced that it was delaying the release of its study on U.S.
natural gas export until the end of 2012.
We continue to expect to receive a DOE non-FTA permit late this year or early next year and we don't anticipate that the delay in the report will have a material impact on the overall time line of the project.
We expect to finalize negotiations on both our tolling agreement and our JV participation agreement by mid-2013 and continue to believe that we will have received all necessary regulatory approvals by the end of next year at which point we will begin construction on the facility.
Now let's go to Slide 8.
I'd like to update you on some of the key regulatory proceedings at the California Utilities.
As we mentioned earlier we continue to await a final decision on our general rate cases and the current CPC calendar calls for a decision by year-end.
However as Joe mentioned if a decision is not received by year-end the retroactive impact of the decision back to January 1 2012 will be recorded in 2013.
Turning to our cost of capital filings at SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas evidentiary hearings concluded last month and all briefs have been filed.
A draft ALJ decision is expected by November 20 in time for us to receive a final decision as scheduled on December 20.
The new rates set in this proceeding will be effective January 1 2013.
As a reminder for SDG&amp;E this cost of capital filing only covers CPUC jurisdictional assets.
SDG&amp;E's electric transmission assets are regulated by the FERC which currently has an authorized return on equity of 11.35%.
The currently authorized FERC return on equity is effective until September 2013.
Our pipeline safety enhancement plan is proceeding on schedule.
We continue to expect the decision on our PSEP in the first half of next year and continue to receive public comments from commissioners that our filing and past performance are viewed positively.
Finally as Joe mentioned earlier we did receive both the proposed and alternate decision on our WEBA request and we continue to expect that we will be permitted to recover substantially all these costs either through rate settlements with third parties.
Let's move on to Slide 9.
At this point in the year we would typically have good visibility on our full year results but due to the delay in our general rate case proceedings at SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas we are not currently in that position.
However due to the strong performance across our businesses we currently believe that assuming we receive a final rate case decision in 2012 our full-year earnings will be at or slightly above the high end of our prior guidance range of $4 to $4.30 per share.
In the event that a decision on the GRC is delayed into 2013 we believe that full year 2012 earnings will be around the low end of that range.
This full year guidance excludes the $239 million year-to-date charges related to REX and a $47 million year-to-date tax benefit related to company-owned life insurance policies which we discussed on the second quarter call.
Now let's go to the final slide.
We are on track to execute on our strategy and meet the goals we laid out for you in March.
Through our sale of 1/2 of Mesquite we will further reduce our exposure to merchant generation and we will redeploy that capital to areas of the business that fits better with our long-term strategy.
Our operational results were solid again this quarter and our ability to more than offset the loss of the CDWR contract shows the strength of our businesses.
We are excited about our future prospects and I'm pleased that we continue to find excellent growth opportunities as we've done with our new Mexican pipeline project.
With that I'll stop and open up the call to take any of your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll now take our first question from Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just I had a couple of questions one on LNG and then one on the Mexico pipeline.
On the LNG liquefaction proposal there was recently some statements made by a DOE official stating that he didn't think that the DOE would be granting non-FTA export license until 2014.
And then he went on to say that there's really only 2 projects in the queue that are on track to meet all these requirements to get that approval by 2014.
Can you just -- can you talk about a little bit like how this differs from -- why this differs from kind of what you're saying and that you expect the DOE will be both be looking at your filing in 2013 and maybe even later this year? Then I have a follow-up on the Mexican pipeline.
Okay sure.
Well let me address your first question and then we'll go to your second.
In terms of some of the comments that have made on non-FTA permit and timing of that there've been a lot of comments that have made in different presentations that have been made from members of DOE.
I would say that one of the comments that was made was an error and actually there was withdrawal of that comment and I think it was related to the comment that you're referring to.
What we're hearing is that the report will be out later this year.
And that after the report is out that there would be a comment period of about 60 days.
And then after that comment period the decision would be made regarding non-FTA.
So we feel that we will be seeing that sometime in early 2013.
Mark I would ask if you have any additional comments you want to make on that.
Yes Faisel it was unfortunate but the comment that was attributed to a member of the DOE staff was actually not made by a DOE person.
And it was made by an outside consultant that was speaking at the same event.
And it wasn't really intended to be -- it was more of a reflection on market conditions not on regulatory permit restrictions.
And we really think it really has almost no bearing on our permit or any of the others that are being processed now through the DOE and the FERC.
We expect to go forward.
Yes as you know that there has been a delay in the issuance of the DOE report.
We don't expect that to affect our project.
We're moving forward.
We should have our full engineering study done by the end of the year and we expect to file our FERC permit sometime in late December so with the full engineering study.
So we're moving forward on this and we really haven't -- we really don't expect this to be a big deal.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That makes it clear.
My second question is on the pipeline development in Mexico.
In the past you've talked about dividend-ing out cash flows from your South American operations and taking a tax hit up here in the U.S.
through repatriation of that capital.
With the development of this pipeline does that change how you're allocating your cash flow from these international assets into this project or potentially the dividends you're receiving back from those assets in the U.S.? Well as you will recall that we were planning as you mentioned to repatriate dollars back over the 5-year plan period beginning in late 2013.
We're still planning to do that and the amounts that we were looking at over the 5-year period we believe are going to be consistent with what we showed you in the 5-year plan.
So we don't see any real change in that as a result of this pipeline.
And we'll now go to our next question from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to be clear on the earnings guidance.
So presuming you get a decision from the GRC this year which hopefully you will your guidance at or above the high end of the range excludes REX excludes the parent life insurance but includes the tax benefit that you spoke in the third quarter at the utility operating companies correct? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay I just wanted to make sure.
And we'll take our next question from Naaz Khumawala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I have a 5-part question on the wildfire case.
Sorry Steve made me say that.
So actually real questions that I have.
One is on the REX write-down.
Philips also took a write-down this quarter I know you guys know that.
Their write-down I think was a little bit bigger than yours was.
I don't quite understand how these determinations are made and if it’s the same pipe is it just based on your forward projections on how this is done? And what more could kind of trigger a write-down past this point? Sure.
Let me address it at a high level and then we'll have Trevor or Joe kind of fill in more detail.
What I would say is in going through the process of assessing this is our best estimate and we consider all factors involved.
There is a ROFR and at this quarter we had information on the ROFR.
We also had the opportunity to have discussions with Tallgrass and understand their kind of strategy long-term for the development of the pipeline and what they might do to change the operations the flows on that pipeline.
We did market modeling and had various models that we consider.
And we did a full assessment of all of the data that was available to us and put a significant amount of weight on the ROFR and made our determination of what we felt the value of the line was.
In terms of in the future that we have to assess as information becomes available to us if that changes any of our modeling if it changes our assumptions if there was a sale by one of the parties and we had information on the prices that pipeline share would sold at whether it's a fourth sale or if it's a really full open market sale.
All those are things that are considered in terms of the valuation.
And that's the process we went through and concluded that the level of $369 million for the value of the line was an appropriate level.
Naaz this is Trevor.
And just to kind of reiterate a little bit of what Debbie said here again we got the ROFR in the third quarter and so that was another market level input that we needed to consider in determining the equity value from an accounting perspective.
We weighted that that input at about 2/3 of the value and then we utilized the other inputs that we used in the second quarter as about 1/3 of the value and that's because the ROFR was more of a level 2 input from an accounting perspective and the other unobservable inputs were level 3.
And so in determining that we came out with a fair value of approximately $369 million for the quarter.
And so we disclosed that also fairly significantly in our Q.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the Mexico pipeline just had a couple of quick questions.
One is how much Bcf a day of capacity will flow on that? And then when we think about kind of returns on the pipe should we weight them more toward international returns or more toward the utility-like returns if you can give firm perspective on that? Yes let me just kind of go through the high-level of the pipeline and the returns.
In terms of the pipeline as I mentioned it was going to cost about $1 billion.
And it's a little over [ph] 500 miles.
We are expecting returns on that pipeline that are slightly higher than what the ROEs are that we have authorized by our California utility.
So that's the kind of returns that we would expect for this pipeline assets that are contracted with CFE for 25 years.
And in terms of the Bcf a day I'll have Mark talk about that.
The pipeline is in 2 phases.
The first phase is a little under 800 Bcf a day and the second phase is a little over 500 Bcf a day.
Research Division</strong> Okay so 1.3 Bcf in total? Well no.
I wouldn't add it together.
It's a little under 800 Bcf coming down to a certain point and then it gets sold [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Okay I see what you're saying.
And we'll take our next question from Kit Konolige with BGC.
So just to follow again on the Mexican pipeline can you give us an idea then.
Sounds like you will finance it at the project level.
And so what -- how should we view how much equity you would have in that business either parent level cash and net investment or even parent of level equity that would be attributable to that? And then if you could discuss a little bit what under the contract do you get dollars that can be repatriated immediately? Or is this generating more cash that's held overseas? Kit Let me just try to give you a very high level and then I'm going to have Joe go into our thinking on the financing.
At first I would say as you know that we have a lot of debt capacity still in Mexico.
And we've talked about that in prior meetings.
And so that we have -- are looking at all the options for the financing of this and what ends up being the best for us in terms of the goals that we have and lower rates and security and all.
So let me turn it to Joe and he will go through kind of where we are.
Let me just also say that we haven't made a decision.
I mean we just really got the notification that we received these and so we're going to look at all of our options there.
So Joe? We're very excited to have this new project be part of our growth profile and the sources of the capital that we're going to use to fund it will depend on minimizing our cost maintaining the strong credit quality we have and enhancing our financial flexibility and part of that will be looking at the dividend as you mentioned.
And as we begin to incur significant expenditures as we start to develop this project we'll work on finalizing that approach and let you know as we know more about how we're going to do that.
But it will produce dollars but those dollars will be part of the retained earnings and then depending on how we finance it we'll have to look at what we do to bring that money out.
It doesn't immediately just come out.
It obviously will be part of our whole Mexico franchise and we'll have to evaluate those dividends.
But as Debbie mentioned earlier to Faisel's question we will be continuing with the program of about $300 million a year into the near-term as we see that go on unless something happens here in the election and we see a different tax regime.
Okay.
And on a separate topic then your guidance for 2012 now assuming that you did get a decision in the GRC by the end of the year and therefore you’d then I gather be indicating you’d be at or slightly above the high end of the current range.
But that's with what I calculate as something like $0.15 of the tax special item or kind of onetime sort of item.
A is that an accurate way to look at it? B compared to at the Analyst Day earlier in the year which segments are stronger and which are weaker than you had thought at that time? Yes first let me say that the special tax item that I think you're referring to we had the -- we're taking out the COLI which was not a tax item.
We're taking out the REX and that's what our guidance includes.
And then we had the tax item at SDG&amp;E this quarter which is really not a special tax item.
It's an ongoing change in how taxes are calculated for SDG&amp;E.
And so we should see that impact continuing into next year some of it.
Part of it about $0.09 a share this year was retroactive to 2011 and the remainder of it was for 2012 and would continue subject to no other changes into 2013.
So I just want to clarify that it wasn't a onetime item or the majority of it was not a onetime item.
Very good.
Okay.
And so then segments compared to the Analyst Day which are doing better than you'd thought and which not as well? Yes if you've kind of looked at our segments SDG&amp;E has had a very very strong year.
And that -- when we get a rate case decision SoCalGas will have had a very strong year.
I mean we are booking based upon 2011 revenues with no attrition at those 2 utilities.
And so -- and we are booking based upon the depreciation and the interest expense and all that we had in 2011 and that that is much higher this year than it was actually in 2011 but we don't have any additional revenues we're booking for that until we get a rate case decision.
So those 2 segments are doing extremely well.
Our International segment is doing extremely well and our gas and power segment is pretty much on track with what we expected.
And we'll take our next question from Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just another question on Cameron.
Assuming you don't get non-FTA approval what then happens? Do you only do a train or do you do -- you just cancel a project? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes let me have Mark talk about that.
I don't think there's much of a change in our view from what we've talked about before but...
No I think what we've said publicly is that the projects would be smaller and that means this probably goes from 3 trains to 1 or 2 trains and we'd have to evaluate that at the time.
But let me stress that none of the feedback we've gotten from the FERC or the DOE and none of the -- and the way are rules are written and what we expect to go forward and the rumblings we've heard about the report at DOE we fully expect to get this thing permitted and moving it forward.
So we don't think that that's going to be a -- that we're going to have to deal with that.
But if we do we do think that there's enough of a market with our partners in the FDA-approved countries already that we would just -- we would continue to do a project but it would be smaller.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the remaining merchant power assets are you comfortable with the amount you have there now? Or are you still looking to monetize the remaining megawatts? Yes thanks for that question.
Just to clarify our desire is to exit the merchant power business.
We don't see that as part of our long-term strategy and we've been doing that and we've sold El Dorado.
It's a utility we sold half of the plant we co-loaned with Occidental earlier.
Now we've sold half of Mesquite to Salt River project and we have about 250 megawatts sold of the remaining block at Mesquite.
So we are on the path to exit the merchant generation business.
But as you can see from this transaction that we were able to transact at about $600 per kW.
So we're not in a big rush to sell that we will find buyers that we can work with effectively to get good value for our shareholders from the assets.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And can I ask one more? Yes.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the tax item at SDG&amp;E going forward is it just going to be a modestly lower tax rate than we've historically seen? Joe do you want to comment on that? Yes sure.
Essentially this change in the rule will allow us to continue this going forward but we'll have to actually do the calculations after we spend the funds and see what the repairs were.
And so it's a little bit harder to predict what it will be going forward but it will continue forward and if we continue to operate in the way we are you might consider it to be a similar kind of an amount.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just on the tax thing again what would be the regulatory -- first of all what was it exactly that happened? I guess if you could just flesh it out a little bit more in terms of what the IRS has now determined? And I mean was that unique to you? And also just what will be the regulatory treatment with respect to your current regulatory proceedings? I mean will this just be -- so that would go into -- somewhat would be incorporated into rates or how should we think of that? I'll have Joe respond.
Hey Paul.
So this has been an issue that's been going on for a long period of time.
I mean when I arrived here at the company in 2001 people were looking at this issue and the IRS was auditing a lot of companies the Big 4 were looking at a bunch of companies trying to do this thing and there was no guidance really.
And there was a big question about whether certain repairs that were made should be deducted or whether they actually should be capitalized for tax purposes.
And so some companies have early adopted this rule if you will without any guidance and they're under audit.
So each company will be a little bit different here.
They didn't all take exactly the same treatment at the same time.
We're following the Safe Harbor guidance that the IRS published late in 2011.
We had to do a lot of work to study because we had to go back to the sort of beginning of time of all of these assets and these repairs and roll forward the study.
And then we had to also make sure we have the systems to implement that and carry it forward.
And the -- when you change tax bases like this not through depreciation it is normally a flow-through item for rate-making purposes.
And that's why it's flowing to the bottom line here.
And so that's how it's treated for rate-making purposes.
And those kind of flow-through items we always have to forecast into future rate cases.
Okay.
So would it be captured in these rate cases that you're currently dealing with? No.
Okay.
And then just a few quick housekeeping items.
There's a U.S.
Treasury grant receivable of about $181 million I see.
And I was wondering does that impact earnings? And when would we see it impact earnings? Joe? Yes that receivable it doesn't impact earnings.
It is a reduction of the basis of the assets.
So when we get the receivable it just reduces the basis of the assets that you're putting into service.
And we're using that grant rather than the ITC.
It's more efficient for us.
And we expect to get that in the early part of the year.
So the solar -- I'm sorry some of the solar assets.
Okay I got you.
And then with the sundry assets I've noticed that they've been increasing over -- really actually since the beginning -- since the end of 2010 and I just was wondering the latest it seems to be $55 million.
How should we think about that in terms of does it have an earnings impact and just sort of what's driving that? Sundry assets the increase from the end of the year until now is a couple of different things but one of the things is we have a portfolio of assets that are used to cover our various executive plans and other things that's in a rabbi trust.
And those went up in value.
So those actually do go to earnings.
Some of the other changes where unamortized debt issuance cost and things like that but mostly the change was the rabbi trust going up in value.
Is that excluded -- is that part of the COLI thing or -- I mean was that in earnings [indiscernible].
Yes it actually -- some of those assets are in the COLI some of them aren't but it's to support our various deferred comp and other benefits.
So there's like a $55 million benefit in that is that how to think about it in this quarter? That one was not much.
I'll see if Trevor has the actual number for the rabbi trust.
In the quarter again there was about $15 million.
$17 million.
$17 million.
Okay and then just finally we have -- it's election day today and I was wondering -- a real question here perhaps not but any thoughts about how either whoever wins the presidential election might impact you guys at all if at all? I would just say that our history has been able to be able to work under any administration and that I don't think either administration -- or either candidate has been very very clear on their energy policies as part of the debate.
So whoever gets elected that's one thing we'll work on with them from the very beginning of them taking office or continuing.
But I think it's really not that big of an issue for us that both are very favorable on natural gas infrastructure and have made public comments to that degree.
And so I think that we feel that we can work under any administration and look forward to doing that.
And we'll take our next question from Ashar Khan with Visium.
Sorry I joined late.
Debbie any -- I mean anyway where you can handicap I guess you got another 2 weeks whether we get the rate cases here or no? Any kind of feedback or anything? It's very difficult for us to determine what's going to happen in the next.
Actually we could theoretically get it through the end of November a proposed decision and they could call a special meeting in December and vote it out.
They haven't typically done that so we're looking at November 20th as kind of being the date.
And if we don't see a proposed decision by November 20th we would anticipate it to be next year.
And it's unfortunate that the commission has just had a lot of issues on their plate a lot driven by San Bruno which has kind of caused their normal schedule to lapse a bit.
And it's really hard for us to predict what is going to be the outcome.
That's why we wanted to give you a heads up and let you know how it would be accounted for accounting purposes.
We would get our dollars retroactively but in one case it would come into 2012 earnings and in another case it will come into 2013 earnings which theoretically shouldn't really make much difference but...
Okay.
So just to kind of like...
And I would just add that just to be clear we did not have those earnings in our 2013 guidance so...
Yes that's what I was going to say is that if the case goes into 2013 right then the 2013 the variance on the guidance is about $0.30.
So that would mean 2013 earnings would be higher by $0.13 -- $0.30 from what you had projected at the Analyst Meeting am I thinking through that correctly? I would say we're not going to give any information on guidance.
I just wanted you to understand that we had assumed we will get the rate case in 2012 when we gave our guidance.
And I'm not going to tell you what's going to happen in 2013.
We will do that at the Analyst Meeting as we always do and typically we also on our fourth quarter call give you some indication.
So we'll do that at that time and then we'll have a better picture on what the actual rate case outcome is at that time.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a quick question on the pipeline projects in Mexico.
You've obviously hit a lot of the details on the current project that you've announced but you said it's more of kind of a $2 billion total opportunity and that there might be some more beyond the announced project.
And I was wondering are all bids in for that remaining? And kind of how do you feel about your prospects for the remaining maybe $1 billion or so of investment? Yes.
We've looked thoroughly.
There were different segments that were biddable 4 segments that were biddable and we elected to only bid on 2 of those and we got the 2 that we bid on.
So as far as we're concerned for this the full length of the pipeline we got the 2 segments that we had bid on.
We received the go ahead on those.
And that's $1 billion.
Just $1 billion.
And that's $1 billion yes.
Research Division</strong> So there are no other projects that could be announced later on from this? Not from this solicitation but obviously Mexico is doing so much to change from an oil-based economy to a natural gas-based economy so it's a great growth area for us.
But in this solicitation again there will be no more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one just minor thing.
I missed your comment on the mitigation payment from Kinder and maybe around some of the timing and maybe an earnings impact from that? As Joe mentioned that there was a $41 million payment that we would receive in fourth quarter most likely assuming that the deal closes.
And that would have an earnings impact that when we took out the REX amount and kind of looking at our guidance we take out both the impact of that and we take out the write-off for that.
So as we're giving you guidance of the $4 to $4.30 range and where we would be depending on the GRC we've taken into account the potential of that payment.
And not including it in the guidance estimates.
And we'll take our next question from Winfried Fruehauf with Winfried Fruehauf Consulting Ltd.
I have a question on the accounting treatment of repairs on the IFRS.
Does it make a difference if the repair not only restores the asset to the pre-repair value but results in a betterment; either in terms of life extension or higher quality higher capacity or not? I'm not sure that I understood your question clearly.
It was a little muddled here.
But I think it had to do with the IFRS and...
The IRS treatment of this.
And really under the Safe Harbor it just really gives guidance as to what amount of the line can actually be subject to capitalization or what amount of the line is subject to really expense based on the repair.
And so that's what really the IRS is giving guidance on is even though that the repairs may not add longevity to the line or increase the capacity of the line you're still allowed to capitalize a certain amount of the repairs and that's what this Safe Harbor ruling does it allows you to capitalize some of the amount that we historically would have expensed.
Winfried this is Joe.
I understand what you're saying and those betterments and all those rules are kind of the old way that the IRS looked at these sort of things.
What they've done with these rules is they've tried to define what a unit of property is so they're looking at a certain number of feet or miles of pipe or in this case a transmission line or distribution line.
And if you only repaired a certain amount of that and it's less than the whole unit then you get to expense that as a repair rather than capitalize it.
And so that's what this has to do with and it's kind of getting away from a little bit betterment language that you're referring to.
Okay that's helpful.
The other question I have is on the largess at natural gas resulting from lower natural gas prices which impacts your LNG business is there a metric that would allow one to determine the impact for say a $0.10 up or down change in natural gas prices the impact on LNG? Yes we generally use for the LNG business a rule of thumb of $13 million per dollar change in gas prices is what we traditionally use as a rule of thumb for that.
And that applies to the LNG business.
There's also some variability in some of other businesses but those businesses depend on what our hedge positions are.
I know they are not so easily done by a rule of thumb but for LNG about $13 million per dollar change.
And SoCal board of price was down $0.66 from what it was at the end of last year and that's what's causing this $8 billion or $9 million effect.
I'll remind you though that for our utility businesses we are not at risk for any of the commodity changes so gas price impacts are really in our U.S.
gas business and our International for the LNG so.
And this $13 million is it pretax or after-tax? Pre-tax.
After-tax.
After-tax.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go now to our next question from Vedula Marti with CDP Capital.
[Technical Difficulty] And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Reed I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I again want to thank you all for joining us this morning.
And if you have any further questions please feel free to contact Rick or Victor and have a great day.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy Fourth Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I'm Rick Vaccari Vice President of Investor Relations.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2012 Financial Results.
A live webcast to this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Trevor Mihalik Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's reports filed with the SEC.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our fourth quarter and year-end 2012 earnings release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today February 26 2013 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that I will turn it over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick.
On the call today we'll give you our guidance for 2013 review our fourth quarter and year-end financial results provide an update on regulatory matters at the California utilities and bring you up to speed on some of our key projects.
Let me begin with the announcement we made last Friday that our board approved an increase in our annualized dividend to $2.52 per share or an increase of 5%.
This increase highlights our commitment to growing the dividend while allowing the company to achieve top quartile earnings growth.
As we noted last year we are beginning a plan of distributing cash from our international operations back to the U.S.
which will result in our payout ratio being higher than our target of 45% to 50% for the next 5 years or so.
Now let me update you on our guidance for 2013.
We now expect to earn between $4.30 and $4.80 per share this year.
This guidance includes our estimate of the impact from a final decision in our general rate cases including a 2012 retroactive adjustment which will be recorded in 2013.
The guidance also includes roughly $0.20 per share related to the benefit from a gain on sale of 50% on the Mesquite gas plant offset by the roughly $0.30 per share of tax expense related to our repatriation strategy.
Lastly the guidance includes the dilutive impact of our proposed equity offering for Sempra Mexico and related costs.
As you may have read in the press release we issued yesterday we plan to sell between 15% to 20% of Sempra Mexico at a public offering in Mexico and a private offering in the United States and internationally.
This offering is expected to close by April of this year and is consistent with the strategy that we've discussed previously of having some local ownership of our international businesses.
As I mentioned this transaction is fully incorporated in our 2013 guidance.
However securities regulations prevent us from discussing this transaction until the offering is closed.
I don't like the idea of having an analyst conference where we cannot fully discuss issues.
So I have decided to move our conference until the second quarter after the offering is expected to close.
We can then openly talk about results from the transaction and should also have more to share regarding progress on our Cameron JV and our general rate cases.
Since our analyst conference will now occur in the second quarter we want to give you more data today on our outlook for 2013 and beyond and Joe will do so after he reviews our financial results for the last year.
So let me hand things over to Joe now.
Thanks Debbie.
I will begin on Slide 4.
Earlier this morning we reported fourth quarter earnings of $293 million or $1.18 per share.
Excluding the $25 million after tax receipt from Kinder Morgan related to the sale of its interest in the Rockies Express Pipeline or REX adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter of 2012 were $268 million or $1.08 per share.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we reported earnings of $285 million or $1.18 per share which included a $50 million benefit from the CPUC's approval for the recovery of wildfire insurance premiums at SDG&amp;E.
For the year we reported earnings of $859 million or $3.48 per share.
Excluding the $239 million impairment charge we recorded on REX during the year and the effect of the Kinder Morgan receipt I just mentioned our adjusted earnings for 2012 were $1 073 000 000 or $4.35 per share.
This compares to adjusted earnings in 2011 of $1 054 000 000 or $4.36 per share.
The performance of our business was exceptional for both the quarter and the full year considering it does not include any impact from the pending general rate cases.
Last quarter we told you that without a final decision in the 2 GRCs we expected 2012 adjusted EPS to come in around the low end of our guidance range of $4 to $4.30 per share.
However our adjusted earnings were closer to the midpoint of that range of $4.16 per share after excluding the $0.19 per share tax benefit for the change in life insurance holding periods that was recorded in the second quarter.
Now let's go through the results for each of our segments beginning with our 2 California utilities on Slide 5.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the fourth quarter were $110 million down from $158 million in the year-ago quarter.
The decrease is primarily due to the CPUC's approval for the recovery of 18 months of wildfire insurance premiums in the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the year SDG&amp;E earnings increased to $484 million from $431 million in 2011.
This increase was driven primarily by higher earnings from the Sunrise Powerlink and a reduction in tax expense as a result of the change in tax treatment for certain repair expenditures.
Moving now to Southern California Gas.
Fourth quarter 2012 earnings were $99 million compared to $79 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The increase was driven largely by a lower effective tax rate in 2012 due to a change in the way gas pipeline repair costs are handled for tax purposes.
Under IRS guidance certain repair expenditures that are capitalized for book accounting may be deducted from taxable income when incurred creating a tax benefit under regulatory accounting.
This is similar to the issue we discussed last quarter related to SDG&amp;E.
Full year 2012 SoCalGas earnings were $289 million up slightly from $287 million last year.
Please keep in mind that until we receive final decisions on our general rate cases we continue to record revenues based upon 2011 authorized levels plus an adjustment for recovery of incremental wildfire insurance premiums at SDG&amp;E based on CPUC's decisions for recovery of prior year's increased premiums.
In the quarter the general rate cases are decided we'll record the cumulative impact of the decision from January 1 2012.
Now please go to Slide 6.
At our South American Utilities earnings were $46 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $39 million in the year-ago period.
Earnings in the fourth quarter of 2011 were negatively impacted by a $6 million nonoperating foreign currency exchange loss related to U.S.
dollars that were held in Chile at the time.
Full year earnings for South American Utilities in 2012 were $164 million compared to adjusted earnings of $148 million in 2011.
The 2011 adjusted earnings excluded the $277 million remeasurement gain that was due to our acquisition of additional ownership in these companies.
The increase in adjusted full year earnings is primarily due to this increased ownership level.
Our South American Utilities continue to perform very well and grow at levels that exceed what you typically see for U.S.
utilities.
For the year our business in Chile and Peru grew their customer base by a combined 3% and electricity sales by a combined 6% and we expect those trends to continue.
Fourth quarter 2012 earnings for the Sempra Mexico segment were $35 million compared with $80 million in the same period last year.
Essentially all of the decrease was due to a pricing change in an intercompany agreement with Sempra Natural Gas which became effective in January of 2012.
The reduction in Sempra Mexico's quarterly earnings is offset by an improvement in Sempra Natural Gas's performance for the fourth quarter of 2012.
The new agreement is a market-based contract where Sempra Mexico records revenues for the sale of the power generated by the Mexicali power plant and pays fees to Sempra Natural Gas for energy management services and for the purchase of fuel.
Full year 2012 earnings at Sempra Mexico were $157 million down from $192 million last year.
The decrease was primarily a result of the intercompany agreement change that I just discussed.
Now please turn to Slide 7.
Moving on to Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power the Natural Gas segment earned $19 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Excluding the $25 million benefit of a receipt related to the REX sale the segment lost $6 million.
The cash received from Kinder Morgan reimbursed us for an economic loss that was resulting from the change in tax depreciation that was triggered by the sale of their 50% interest in the pipeline.
The $6 million loss in the fourth quarter compares to a loss of $36 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
The improvement in results is mainly due to the change in the intercompany agreement for the Mexicali plant that I discussed in our Sempra Mexico results offset in part by lower earnings from our U.S.
LNG marketing operations.
For the year Natural Gas lost $27 million in 2012 excluding the impact from REX.
This compares to earnings of $115 million in 2011.
The decrease is due primarily to the expiration of the CDWR contract in September 2011.
You will also recall that Cameron LNG is now part of this segment and lower gas prices coupled with the development costs for the liquefaction facility are affecting our U.S.
LNG business and therefore the Natural Gas segment.
The Renewables segment generated earnings of $14 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 up from a loss of $2 million in the same period last year.
The increase was driven by the addition of new solar and wind assets.
Earnings for the year in Renewables were $61 million compared to $7 million last year also driven by the addition of solar and wind assets.
Now let's move to Slide 8.
As Debbie mentioned at the outset we wanted to give you more color on our outlook for 2013 and beyond.
We're very confident in our long-term growth prospects.
In fact we believe that the long-term growth rate of 6% to 8% that we announced to you last year is very achievable with just the expected growth of our core businesses and the projects we recently just announced in Mexico.
In fact as we look at our plan through 2017 we see that about 90% of our projected earnings for that year are either regulated or contracted giving us excellent visibility into our future prospects.
Additionally we have many new development activities in each of our businesses.
These are highlighted in a blue box on that slide and these should allow us to exceed the 6% to 8% growth target over time.
We would expect to have a CAGR through 2017 of 8% to 10% assuming we are successful on just a few of these additional development opportunities.
And looking forward to 2019 which should be the first full year of operations for all 3 trains of liquefaction at Cameron we would expect our growth rate from today through 2019 to be closer to 9% to 11% annually assuming the same success rate on the development projects.
We're pleased with our great growth prospects supported by long-term contracts and regulated assets.
Now please go to Slide 9.
We also felt it's important provide you with our business unit guidance for 2013 which we have not traditionally done on this call.
The table on Slide 9 provides the buildup by business unit of our new guidance range of $4.30 to $4.80 per share.
The earnings ranges for our 2 California utilities include our estimate of the 2012 retroactive impact of our rate cases that will be booked in the quarter final decisions are reached.
Once we have the final decisions we will provide you with a more definitive view of the impact.
Our U.S.
Gas &amp; Power forecast includes the benefit from the gain on the sale of Mesquite.
It's important to note that we also accelerated the completion of 2 large solar projects in 2012 which resulted in somewhat downward effect on our 2013 guidance for this unit.
The international business unit range includes the dilutive impact of our reduced equity ownership in Sempra Mexico and the parent line includes the tax expense associated with our repatriation strategy which is supporting our higher dividend.
With that let me hand things back to Debbie.
Thanks Joe.
Now I'd like to provide you updates on our businesses beginning with the key regulatory proceedings at SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas.
In December of last year we received a final decision from the CPUC in the cost of capital proceeding.
That decision granted ROEs of 10.3% and 10.1% at SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas respectively.
Importantly the decision also granted increased equity ratios of 52% for both utilities.
Additionally a proposed decision was issued last week in the second phase of this proceeding which calls for a continuation of the current methodology of the triggering mechanism for a change in the cost of capital.
The PD also calls for SoCalGas to now use the same triggering mechanism as the other IOUs in California which is based upon a utility bond index.
A final decision on the second phase of the cost of capital proceeding should be issued in the first half of this year.
We are awaiting a proposed and final decision on our 2 general rate cases.
And based on recent communications with the assigned commissioner we understand there have been some resource constraints at the CPUC and we should expect the final decision in the first half of this year.
We continue to record revenues and manage our businesses based upon 2011 authorized levels plus an adjustment for recovery of incremental wildfire insurance premiums at SDG&amp;E.
And as Joe noted we will record the entire retroactive impact of the final decisions including the piece related to 2012 in the quarter in which a final decision is reached.
Moving to SONGS.
In the fourth quarter of last year Southern California Edison the majority owner and operator of the plant submitted a plan to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to restart and operate Unit 2 of the facility at a reduced power level for a period of 5 months and then shut it down for further inspection.
The NRC has not set out a detailed timeline yet and we have no assurance about the exact length of time it will take the NRC to review that plan.
The CPUC has also issued an order instituting investigation or OII that will determine whether some or all of the revenue requirements for the facility should be removed from rates.
This OII has been split into multiple phases and is likely to take several years to be completely resolved.
As of the end of last year SDG&amp;E's total investment in SONGS was $512 million which includes rate base of $275 million.
The remainder of the investment is made of CWIP and nuclear fuels.
Additionally SDG&amp;E recorded replacement power costs of $77 million in 2012.
On our wildfire costs recovery proceeding the CPUC issued a ruling late last year that essentially kicked the can down the road on this issue.
The commission allowed our utilities to maintain their memo account tracking fire-related costs.
So that we may file future applications requesting recovery subject to reasonableness review.
We continue to believe that it is probable that we will be permitted to recover a substantial portion of the costs related to wildfire claims through customer rates.
In regards to our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan or PSEP all briefs have been filed and we expect a final decision on our long-term plan this year.
As you will recall we received approval for a memorandum account last year to book costs related to PSEP pending the final approval of the plan.
Last week we filed our new transmission formula rate case with FERC.
This filing is substantially similar to our current formula rate and ensures that SDG&amp;E earns no more or no less than its actual cost of service including unauthorized ROE.
We have requested an ROE of 11.3% as compared to the current ROE of 11.35%.
The requested ROE consists of a base ROE of 10.3% based on the median of a western proxy group plus 50 basis points for our membership in the Cal-ISO plus an additional 50 basis points for business risks unique to SDG&amp;E.
The new rate should be effective on September 1 of this year.
Now please turn to Slide 11.
Moving now to U.S.
Gas &amp; Power.
In December of last year we announced that the cities of Los Angeles and Burbank had approved a 20-year agreement to purchase 250 megawatts of solar power from our proposed Copper Mountain Solar 3 project in Nevada.
Construction on this facility should be completed by late 2015.
On our pending sale of a 625-megawatt block of the Mesquite Power Plant we have received the necessary approvals and believe the transaction should close shortly.
As I mentioned last quarter the sales price was about $600 per kilowatt and should result in an after tax gain of about $50 million that will be reflected in our first quarter 2013 earnings.
We continue to make progress on contracting and -- the remaining capacity and are working diligently to find ways to maximize the value of that asset.
Before moving on let me give you an update on our liquefaction project at Cameron.
In December we filed our formal FERC application making us one of only 4 terminals to have done so.
The FERC permit process should take about 9 to 10 months from our submission date and I would expect that we will be granted our FERC permit later this year.
We also sent out bid packages to EPC contractors earlier this year and expect to get those bids back and select the contractor in the second half of 2013.
The DOE commissioned a study that was released last December and had a very positive outlook on the prospects for LNG export.
Both the comment and response periods for the study have expired and DOE should now be in a position to review applications and grant permits.
While we do not know specifically how DOE will handle the permit applications that have been filed we are confident that ours is strongly positioned to be among the first to be reviewed and granted.
As I mentioned last quarter the delay in issuing the results of this report should not have a significant impact on our timeline and we continue to expect to be ready to start construction on the facility early next year.
The facility is now being designed to a nameplate capacity of 13.5 million tonnes per annum providing an export potential of 12 million tonnes per annum.
This increased capacity has raised our incremental construction cost estimate to $6 billion to $7 billion.
The total costs of the facility including the cost of our original facility plus interest during construction financing costs and required reserves is estimated to be $9 billion to $10 billion.
We now also expect the earnings contribution from the project to be higher than our previous forecast.
Sempra's joint venture partners have begun to announce sales to customers of LNG from the Cameron facility and we now expect the terminal to begin operations in the second half of 2017 with all 3 trains completed by the end of 2018.
Now let's move to the final slide.
2012 was a very good year for our company but I'm really excited about our future potential to provide strong growth and earnings from very tangible projects.
We are confident that we have the right strategy to achieve long-term earnings per share growth of 6% to 8% with future opportunities that could enhance our growth profile even further.
We believe that this profile in combination with our growing dividend makes Sempra a very compelling investment opportunity now and into the future.
With that I'll stop and open up the call to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> A couple of -- 2 questions for me and I'll get back in the queue.
The first one if you could just repeat the numbers you had on the liquefaction facility.
I think your original -- if you go back to what your original estimates were and then what your new estimates were and what the increases are from the original estimate to where you are today and I understand the higher earnings contribution from the project now that it's a higher cost project.
Then I have a follow-up question for that.
Sure.
Let me just remind you that when we talked about the plant and the cost of that the plant previously we did not include any of the interest or the cost that's associated from putting our assets in.
So the cost that we were referring to previously was a $6 billion cost and that was really the incremental of the cost of the facility without the financing cost and -- or capitalized interest cost.
That cost now is estimated to be between $6 billion to $7 billion.
And the reason for that is that in order to give a steady supply of export at 12 mtpa our partners wanted the facility sized to 13.5 mtpa so that their actual export could be at that level of 12.
And so we upsized the facility on the nameplate basis.
The license still remains as a 12 mtpa export but that gives us the ability to have downtime and still be able to export that on an ongoing basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just -- I know you guys are limited on what you can say on the Mexican IPO.
But if I can ask in terms of the strategic rationale behind pursuing the IPO I think you mentioned was you wanted foreign ownership of these assets given where they sit.
Can you go into a little bit more granularity on that? I mean is it the country risk that is an issue or is it that you're growing the assets in that country and so you need to raise equity to fund the capital expansion in that particular area? Yes.
Faisel due to securities rules we are not able to talk about that.
What I will say is that we are very pleased with our Mexican businesses and the performance of our Mexican businesses.
But I cannot talk anything about the offering at all or the rationale behind it yes.
We'll take our next question from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to take a look at Slide 8 and make sure I understood the growth outlook and thanks very much for the clarity that you provided here.
It is very helpful.
As you think about the baseline upon which you're growing EPS as you noted in the remarks you're excluding the earnings benefit from the sort of 2012 adjustment that shows up in 2013.
Would that also exclude Mesquite? And I guess what I'm trying to better understand is what would that range be upon which you are projected to grow your EPS? Can you just provide a little bit further color on that? Yes.
The base that we're using the only exclusion for 2013 from that base would be the retroactive effect of the rate case and we're not going to quantify that amount.
But if you looked at our 2013 estimate the only exclusion that we're taking out of that for our growth projection would be the 2012 retro effect of the rate case.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
So the -- in the $430 million to $480 million it does have in it the retroactive impact and Mesquite as well or did I get that wrong on Mesquite? Yes that has -- it has -- excuse me I'm sorry.
It has both the retroactive impact of the rate case in Mesquite in the $430 million to $480 million.
And the range is wider than we normally would give because we have 2 years of rate case effects coming in to 2013 now because of the delay.
Joe I think you want to added a little a bit of color.
Yes.
Stephen you're right.
Mesquite is in there and that's sort of a onetime thing.
But we also have some onetime costs in there in the parent segment related to the transaction that we were talking about a moment ago with our reduction of our interest in Mexico.
So it helps offset that.
It's not that big but...
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just if I could on SONGS.
I imagine again here unfortunately you probably are limited as to what you're really able to say.
But I was just curious if you had any -- as you've looked at the procurement situation and the allegations regarding procurement that are being discussed if you had any further color on the risk inherent in some of these allegations that procurement was done improperly? Or anything further you could say on just the situation with Mitsubishi? Well we have had no access to any of the reports that have been published in the media.
So I -- we don't have any special insight as to what the allegations are at all.
What I can say is that when we look at the facility and we look at the going-forward process that there's Mitsubishi coverage liability coverage and Edison has filed disputing the fact that it should be capped.
And so that will be an issue as we go forward as to how much liability coverage Mitsubishi -- or warranty coverage Mitsubishi would have.
And then we've also made a filing at NEIL for insurance.
And NEIL has previously covered and it is part of the coverage with NEIL to cover replacement power cost under these kind of situations.
So I think this will be kind of a prolonged process of trying to get to the root issues.
Our focus is to ensure that when the facility is restarted when Unit 2 is restarted that it's done so safely.
And that is the most critical aspect to us is to ensure that our partner who is the operator Southern California Edison pays close attention to the safety of the restart of that facility.
And I think the rest of this will play out over a few years.
We'll hear next from Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on liquefaction.
In your slides now you're saying that it'll be online in the second half of '17.
Does that mean that we should I guess subtract out the small portion that you've included in the '16 guidance from the last Analyst Day? Yes.
When we looked at -- I think last year we had something like $20 million or $30 million in for liquefaction.
We have like one month's worth of liquefaction so it was a very small amount in 2016.
And now we're looking at it coming on -- it starting in the middle of 2017 and then all 3 trains being completed by the end of 2018.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And second question just on the parent expense.
It looks like in your '13 guidance it's up about $40 million from the midpoint versus the last Analyst Day.
What's changed on that? Yes.
I'll have Joe go through that with you.
So a couple of things are occurring.
As I just mentioned when I -- when Stephen was asking his question we do have some onetime costs in there related to the transaction with Mexico and then we have a bit higher interest expense.
We moved some things between a couple of the segments but it's mostly that first item.
So it'll be kind of a one -- mostly a onetime issue and then it won't be the same going forward.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then it'll come back to kind of what you've guided to in the last presentation? Yes.
We'll take our next question from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about capital spending levels or expectations at the utilities both of them SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas going forward 2013 and beyond just kind of what do you see directionally may have changed since your Analyst Day and just kind of how you're thinking about whether CapEx from here grows from 2012 levels kind of flatlines kind of declines just big picture? Yes if you look at the big picture of CapEx that -- what we gave you at last Analyst Meeting is looking pretty good for the 2 utilities that we spent about $1.2 billion at SDG&amp;E last year and we spent about $700 million or so at SoCalGas last year.
And our numbers for 2013 are at SoCalGas higher than that because we are now implementing the smart meter program and we expect to get a decision on the PSEP.
And so on the long term at SoCalGas we gave you numbers last year of $1 billion to $1.2 billion over the 5-year period those look like pretty good numbers over the 5-year period.
And at SDG&amp;E we gave you numbers last year of $1 billion to -- of about $1 billion to $1.1 billion which looks to be pretty good over the 5-year period at SDG&amp;E.
Yes.
This is Joe Michael.
Do you see on Slide 8? It says $14.6 billion capital program.
But not to upfront the conference because we want to have something to talk about there but roughly the same percentage is going to be spent in the California utilities as before.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And I want to make sure I just understand the accounting for how the rate case -- the delay in the rate case impacts 2013 and whether that has any impact beyond 2013.
Yes.
The -- let me just try to go through that and then I have Joe add anything to it.
But basically the only thing that was recorded in 2012 was an increase with the expected wildfire recovery at SDG&amp;E because we had been granted that numerous times by the commission.
And so that was recorded as estimated additional revenues in 2012.
Then in 2013 we would record the retro effect of the true-up of the revenue requirement for 2012 in the quarter which we get a decision in 2013 and then we would look at the 2013 amount of retro for the beginning of this year and then record that.
And then from that point on we would record the 2013 revenue requirement that we actually get and there would not be any other effect in that -- in 2014 and beyond other than we get attrition.
And whatever the attrition mechanism is in 2014 the revenue requirement would go up by that attrition mechanism.
And so we'd be back to more of a normal basis.
I don't know.
Joe is there any...
No.
No that's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then final item how are you thinking now about growth on the U.S.
Gas &amp; Power business meaning you've signed up some of the new contracts on the solar side? Just curious for your views on how much incremental solar growth how big you want that business to be and what your thinking is on both wind and gas-fired generation? Well we're very excited about the opportunity for that business especially integrated as the Cameron LNG comes on and some of the other assets that we have that we think will have some uplift with that.
So let me have Mark kind of go through that a little bit more detail.
Okay thanks.
Well look I think what -- obviously the big growth engine is going to be LNG.
That's the thing that's going to really grow the U.S.
Gas &amp; Power business.
But until that comes online I mean we do expect to -- we've set a goal of about 1 200 megawatts of renewables.
We're at about 842 now and we would expect to reach that goal.
We have a lot of projects under development.
I think they all look pretty good.
That business I think -- look it's definitely been hurt by lower gas prices and it's -- and lower power prices.
But I think we've taken the appropriate steps to mitigate those realities and I think you're going to see good growth in that business especially as  LNG comes on.
We'll take our next question from Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions I guess maybe be a follow on to Michael's question about U.S.
Gas &amp; Power.
I know with the PTC extension does that kind of increase your appetite for maybe some incremental development outside of what you've talked about explicitly or maybe some additional M&amp;A in that area? Well Mark it's -- I mean obviously it was -- it's a good thing.
We have to be careful because the projects have to start in 2013.
And unfortunately the industry as a whole wasn't anticipating the extension so we've got some catching up to do.
But I do think it might lend itself to another wind project or 2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess now -- like a quick question on the equity offerings not about the offering itself I guess but will the kind of -- the 15% to 20% will that change kind of your debt financing strategy significantly for this current round of infrastructure projects? We just really can't talk about anything that -- relating to any changes in the business as a result of this.
So I just want to be very religious in following the securities rules and I'm getting the signal from our attorneys that we can't answer the question so.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
I understand.
Well maybe you can -- this one might not cross any line.
Is there a potential to maybe replicate that elsewhere in South -- in your South American businesses.
Might that be something to consider given you mentioned some sort of larger projects down the line? Yes.
I mean we like -- we said previously in the Analyst Meeting we like the structure that we have in Peru where we have about 20% local ownership.
And we think it's good to have debt and equity capital in the countries where we're doing business.
We think that's a very good model.
And so we would look at that in Chile.
We would look at that anywhere we have foreign assets which we've already done really in Peru.
So Chile would be the next area where we would look at that potentially.
We'll hear next from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just a quick -- a few quick questions.
On the LNG marketing operations that negatively impacted the fourth quarter what was that and how much was that? I'll have Joe talk about it.
But a lot of this has to do with the timing of cargoes that are necessary to maintain Cameron in its cold state and how those get timed in.
So Joe do you want to? Sure.
Paul I think last year if you looked at last year's slides we said there had been some like $18 million of income we made from LNG marketing activities that wouldn't recur and there's various things as cargo.
But natural gas prices slightly impact it.
Some higher costs around the liquefaction development cost impact it.
But we don't give detail at the segment level even and particularly at the LNG and we said last year we weren't going to give more details at the LNG level.
But it's an operation that is in this transition where it's moving from an asset to one that's really going to drive the business.
And the size of the Natural Gas segment is going to be close to the size of our International business or SoCalGas.
So we're looking forward.
So it's kind of a timing issue and not something that we should be [indiscernible].
It's a timing -- yes.
It's really -- it was mostly a timing issue between years making more in one year and less in the other.
Okay.
And then in the balance sheet the sundry items.
I asked about this in the third quarter and again it seems like it's jumped a bit here in the fourth.
And I'm just wondering what was it that's making it grow by about $100-plus million.
And did that impact EPS whatever that item was or items were? Okay.
I'm going to have Trevor who is looking at that right now see if he can give you an answer right now.
If not we'll have someone follow up with you after the call.
He's looking.
While he's looking at that yes maybe it's the Rabbi Trust or something.
But while he was looking at that I just was wondering on the LNG just to clarify this you guys are spending more you expect to have higher earnings there's some change in the scheduling it sounds like but basically though the ROI we shouldn't think of being materially changed is that right? The return on investment with this increase in comps? Yes.
I said the ROI it should -- you should assume it's within the same type of range as we've talked before.
I mean we're looking -- just to give you kind of a general range we're looking at when all 3 trains are up and operational in the range of $300 million to $350 million depending -- annually of earnings depending on what the actual cost of the facility ends up being.
Paul this is Mark.
If you'll recall last year I -- at a very early preliminary stage we said that we would expect earnings of about $300 million.
That's now changed to $300 million to $350 million.
But I think the most important thing to realize is the additional cost for expansion of the facility is based on A number one better estimates of what it's going to cost.
But the expansion of the facility to be able to operate constantly at 12 million metric tonnes per annum that was really a decision of our partners.
And so they're asking for us to make these modifications in our original thinking and obviously we'll -- are paying for those decisions.
So this isn't something that we just kind of came up with on our own.
This is in collaboration with working with our customers and partners in the facility.
Okay.
And then just on the non-FTA Christopher Smith the Deputy DOE guy made some comments at NARUC that have been sort of -- that I guess have picked up some coverage and what have you in terms of more caution et cetera with respect to non-FTA countries apparently.
Any -- is that sort of figured into your estimates in terms of approvals and everything? I mean you guys went over that in your prepared remarks.
But I mean do you see any change in this or is this pretty much in line with what your thinking was? Yes.
I mean -- I think when you look at the DOE report that came out when you look at the fact that you've had major media all be in support of the non-FTA and then there was recently a meeting with the Prime Minister of Japan with the President who urged the President to move quickly to allow the export for the benefit of Japan I think everything -- that you're going to always hear some other side of that.
But I think the momentum is largely moving in the direction of approval.
And I'll ask Mark because he's actually been meeting with some of the elected officials in Louisiana who are very supportive of the project and I'll let Mark kind of fill you in on what he's hearing.
Look I think all of the news -- it's -- obviously there's always -- there's some detractors but I think most of them have been identified as having some very specific self-interest.
I think the vast majority of the reports that are coming out and the people that we talked to are supportive of the -- of exports.
But I think what's most important and direct to your question we expect to get the FTA approval this year.
We actually expect to hopefully to get it in the first half of the year but irrespective of when we get it this year it isn't changing our schedule at all.
We're moving forward on our plans.
We've -- we're -- it's really not affecting our timing any -- as long as we get it this year we'll be fine.
So I think that's the important thing is it's not affecting our timing and we very much expect to get it this year.
Okay.
And the sundry items did you guys come up with an answer yet or? Yes yes.
Yes Paul we have an answer.
I like your detail orientation.
For that $150 million increase only about $31 million of it is really P&amp;L related which is as you mentioned the Rabbi Trust that we talked about last time which is going up in value as the stock market increases.
We also contributed some funds to that which was about $40 million.
And then there was about $20 million of line to credit fees that got put in there and those get amortized over time.
And then we had sort of a gross up of some workers' comp activity where we put something into that account and also put a liability kind of grossing up the balance sheet.
But really the only thing that went through the P&amp;L is about $31 million of earnings from the Rabbi Trust.
Is that pretax? Is that after tax? That's a pretax number.
That's a pre-tax number.
We'll take our next question from Ashar Khan with Visium.
Debbie going back to your remarks pretty comprehensive in terms of questions.
Once we get the rate case decision can we expect then in the following quarter that you tighten the guidance for the year? Well the -- what we would plan to do is once we get that decision look at it and we would most likely tighten the guidance range at that time once we've had the chance to have a final decision and analyze it.
I think that yes that's where we're headed right now is to be able to do that.
We'll hear next from Michael Goldenberg with Luminus Management.
LLC</strong> Just to clarify on the LNG you're saying ROI will be the same.
And it's going to be $300 million to $350 million of earnings and that's kind of pro rata to what it would have been at 12 and then going to 13 7 so the math works.
I just want to confirm that all those numbers are correct.
Yes.
It's more related to the cost than it is to the size.
But yes you're on the right track.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then one question on utilities.
The benefit from putting 2012 rate case into 2013 how much is that? Yes.
We're not going to give that type of level of detail.
It's in our guidance and we've done our estimate in our guidance and we'll let you do your own estimate.
LLC</strong> Is there anyway to glean from in 2012 how much the fact that you didn't get the rate case impacted earnings? Is that maybe a question you can answer or? No.
I really can't go there.
I think you saw our 2012 results.
You saw what we had told you in 2012 originally.
And if you want to come up with an estimate I think you can -- you have the kind of the numbers that we have to come up with an estimate.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take a follow-up question from Faisel Khan from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a few more questions.
Do you guys have a CapEx number for 2013? It seems directionally looking at the projects that you guys built out last year and the year before it looks like that number is coming down this year.
But if you could give us some details on that that'd be great.
I have -- I don't know that I have that now to give.
We will definitely give you that at the Analyst Meeting when we do that later this year.
But it was pretty -- all I can say is it's pretty consistent...
It'll be very consistent with last year.
Yes with last year and last year's plan that we gave you.
So nothing that is a significant change to last year -- last year's plan.
Research Division</strong> So even with the powering up of Sunrise and I guess some of the reduction in capital in Renewables you still expect the CapEx to remain...
Yes let me just -- remember at SoCalGas is where we're really starting to spend some money now.
And then in Mexico we just received the $1 billion worth of the pipeline the 2 pipelines and then another project in the JV with Pemex.
And so the total CapEx is not occurring so much in the Renewables space but that's been now -- had a move to our utility at SoCalGas and then our business in Mexico.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then for U.S.
Gas &amp; Power what kind of assumptions are you guys using for the remaining component of your generation portfolio in terms of capacity factors and spark spreads? Well again we just use the forward curve on gas.
And I don't know that we've ever disclosed what the capacity factors are but it's a nominal effect on earnings.
And just remember not only do we have the 625-megawatt block that sold but then we've also sold another block starting in 2015.
That's 241 megawatts.
So we got down to where we own a very small portion...
Right.
Of that facility.
And then it hedged over the next couple of years close to that 241 megawatts that we sold-forward starting in 2015 for 25 years.
So there's not as much.
We've done what we told you we were going to do and we've reduced significantly any of our market exposure to the Mesquite Power Plant so.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just -- there's a project that it looks like it's trying to move forward to build an oil pipeline from the Permian Basin into Los Angeles and some of that traverses along a pipeline that you guys bought from Questar.
I was wondering if you guys had any interest or are you looking at participating in something along those lines or in a project like that? Well I think it's funny because we bought that project from Questar and converted it to a natural gas pipeline because we needed it to reinforce our system.
I mean we have not done anything actively on that.
We are aware of the project.
We'd have to look at the provisions of our rights of way and all of those issues to see if there was anything that we could do in partnership.
But it hasn't been something that we've been focused on greatly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me on the cash flow statement.
It looks like the last 2 years you had a working capital drain $225 million in '11 and $630 million in '12.
And I was wondering does that reverse or is there some sort of permanent reduction in working capital that's a drag on cash flows? Okay.
I'm going to turn that over to Joe and Trevor to see the reconciliation on the cash flows.
Trevor you want to answer that? Yes.
Faisel your question specifically relates to? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So in 2012 the negative working capital outflows of $630 million and then in '11 you also had a working capital outflow of $224 million.
So I'm just trying to match operating cash flow.
Right.
Primarily those -- there's -- those working capital outflows are the reg balancing accounts as well as the wildfire payments that we received in 2012.
That's almost $400 million that came in.
So there's an adjustment there.
Yes.
Very significant portion of it Faisel is regulatory balancing account changes coming in and out.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Debbie Reed for closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us today.
We -- if you have any follow-up questions whatsoever please feel free to call Rick or Victor.
And thank you very much and we will see you at an analyst conference soon to be scheduled.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Sempra Energy First Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I am pleased to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I'm Rick Vaccari Vice President of Investor Relations.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's First Quarter 2013 Financial Results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and CFO; and Trevor Mihalik Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual result to differ materially are discussed in the company's reports filed with the SEC.
It is important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today May 2 2013 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to Slide 3 and let me hand it over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
During the first quarter we completed 2 significant transactions that further our strategy.
First we closed the sale of 1 block of the Mesquite Power Plant for about $600 per kilowatt which further reduces our exposure to merchant generation consistent with our plan.
Second we completed an extremely successful initial public offering of equity in our Mexican subsidiary which was preceded by an issuance of over $400 million of local debt.
This is consistent with our strategy to create capital structures in our international businesses that allow them to grow with local debt and equity.
The success of our Mexican transactions recognizes the value that we are creating in our Mexican business.
In fact the increase in the IEnova stock price places our 81% stake at roughly equal to the total equity market cap based on the IPO price.
The stock performance since the offering clearly demonstrates the high value that investors place on this business and allows our investors to use this as a reference to determine what our Mexican segment is worth.
This quarter we also received a long-awaited proposed decision in the General Rate Case at our California utilities and a final decision on this case should be voted out soon.
And finally we continue to make progress during the quarter on our key projects including Cameron Liquefaction where we received a definitive schedule from FERC on their approval process.
We will now go through each of these items in more detail after we discuss the financials.
But before doing so I would like to turn to Slide 4.
There was a lot going on in our reported earnings this quarter and I want to share with you some of the issues that are included in earnings that caused us not -- to not meet your quarterly expectations.
Slide 4 lists a number of items from the first quarter all of which are either onetime in nature or will turn around before year-end.
This list includes: the gain on the sale of 1 block of the Mesquite Power Plant; a deferred tax charge related to the IEnova IPO; an impairment on our holdings in Argentina in anticipation of the sale by year-end; a reduction in our renewable grant receivable due to the federal budget sequestration; mark-to-market losses due to higher gas prices which should reverse by the end of the year; and adjustment to our consolidation tax expense which is expected to reverse by year-end; and natural gas transition integrity costs in excess of amounts currently recovered in way that will be balanced under the proposed decision in our GRC.
Of course one of the most significant issues impacting our performance is the continued delay in a final decision in our 2012 General Rate Case at SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas.
And as I mentioned we will discuss this in more detail a little later.
We hope this table helps you reconcile our reported earnings to your projections.
And now let me hand things over to Joe to further discuss our financial performance during the first quarter beginning with Slide 5.
Thanks Debbie.
Earlier this morning we reported first quarter earnings of $178 million or $0.72 per share.
This compares to earnings of $236 million or $0.97 per share in the same quarter last year.
As Debbie just mentioned this quarter's earnings were impacted by a number of issues including the continued delay in the final decision of our General Rate Case and a onetime $63 million deferred tax charge incurred as part of our initial public offering of our Mexican operations.
As a result of recording the tax related to the IEnova IPO in the first quarter we will be able to now quickly distribute to the U.S.
parent about $200 million due to the taxable income associated with the IEnova transaction.
Since we can bring this cash back earlier than originally forecasted in this year we have decided to defer any further repatriation until 2014 when we will continue with our planned repatriation of approximately $300 million per year.
While we did receive a proposed decision in our utility General Rate Case in the first quarter we will not update our guidance for 2013 until we receive a final decision.
The draft decision is on the CPUC's agenda for May 9 and assuming it is voted out on that day we intend to provide an update to our guidance at our Analyst Conference on May 23.
We would expect to see some changes in the PD based upon the process Commissioner Ferron has put into place and Debbie will discuss the key issues a little later on the call.
However if the current PD is adopted as written we would expect to be at the low end of our 2013 guidance range of $4.30 to $4.80 per share.
Now let's go through the results for each of our segments in detail beginning with our 2 California utilities on Slide 6.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the first quarter of 2013 were $91 million down from earnings of $105 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Southern California Gas first quarter 2013 earnings were $46 million compared to earnings of $66 million last year.
Earnings were lower at both California utilities primarily due to higher operating expenses including depreciation with no increase in authorized revenue due to the delay in our 2012 GRC decision.
We have now operated since 2011 with no increase in our revenue requirement as we await the final decision in the GRC.
The first quarter results at SoCalGas were adversely impacted by $4 million related to the after-tax effect of natural gas transmission pipeline system integrity program cost which exceed the amount currently being recovered in rates.
Once the GRC decision is final the excess cost for this program incurred since the beginning of 2012 will be balanced and all cost will be recovered in rates.
Additionally as a result of the cost to capital decision our revenue was reduced to reflect our actual embedded cost of long-term debt which is lower than what was previously being recovered in rates.
This true-up negatively impacted earnings by approximately $5 million at SDG&amp;E and $3 million at SoCalGas in the first quarter of 2013 and we expect a similar impact throughout the remainder of the year.
Finally SDG&amp;E's first quarter earnings were positively impacted by higher transmission earnings while SoCalGas earnings in the first quarter of last year included $4 million related to incentive awards associated with the Gas Cost Incentive Mechanism.
We anticipate a similar GCIM award to be recorded by SoCalGas later this year once it is approved by the CPUC.
I am cautiously optimistic that this is the last quarter I have to say this but please keep in mind that until we receive a final decision on our General Rate Case we continue to record revenues based upon 2011 authorized levels plus an adjustment for recovery of incremental wildfire insurance premiums at SDG&amp;E based on recent CPUC decisions for recovery of prior years' increased premiums.
In the quarter the General Rate Case is decided which we now expect will be the second quarter of this year we will record the cumulative impact of the decision from January 1 2012.
Now please move to Slide 7.
At our South American Utilities earnings were $37 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to earnings of $40 million in the same period of 2012.
We recorded higher earnings from operations at our businesses in Chile and Peru but this was more than offset by a $7 million impairment charge related to our investment in 2 Argentine natural gas utility holding companies.
We continue to actively pursue the sale of these investments and we expect to dispose of them by the end of the year.
First quarter 2013 earnings for the Sempra Mexico segment were $31 million versus earnings of $33 million in the first quarter of last year.
The small decrease is due primarily to a minority interest from the IEnova IPO.
Now please turn to Slide 8.
Moving on to Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power the Natural Gas segment earned $53 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to $1 million in the year ago period.
This quarter's earnings include the $44 million gain net of related expenses from the sale of 1 of the 2 blocks of our Mesquite Power Plant.
The increase in earnings for the quarter was also due to $9 million of higher earnings from our U.S.
LNG business due to the timing of cargo marketing operations.
These increases were offset by $10 million of higher mark-to-market losses related to movement in gas prices.
In the first quarter of 2013 mark-to-market losses were $12 million which we expect to reverse by the end of the year.
The Renewables segment generated earnings of $4 million in the first quarter of 2013 down from earnings of $10 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The decrease is primarily driven by 2 factors.
First due to the federal government sequestration there's been a reduction of 8.7% in the amount of cash grant awards to be paid by the U.S.
Treasury.
This resulted in a $23 million decrease in our cash grant receivable and a reduction in earnings of $5 million this quarter.
Second there were tax benefits related to the completion of solar assets placed in service in 2012.
The decrease in earnings was partially offset by higher levels of production tax credits from our wind assets many of which were placed into service in late 2012.
Now let me hand the call back to Debbie.
Thanks Joe.
We have talked about our intent to optimize our capital structure in our international business unit and I am pleased that we took a big step in that direction last quarter through extremely successful debt and equity offering at our Mexican subsidiary.
That subsidiary previously called Sempra Mexico now IEnova raised nearly $1 billion of external capital during the first quarter.
In February we had 2 successful debt issuances at IEnova that raised a total about $400 million at very attractive terms.
In addition to raising capital the debt offering helped educate investors about our Mexican operations.
And the strength of the balance sheet at IEnova allows for further leverage as we continue to grow.
Then in March IEnova sold almost 19% of its equity at a value of around 10x to 11x 2013 expected EBITDA under IFRS.
The demand for this offering was tremendous.
IEnova is the second-largest energy company in Mexico and the first energy company to be listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange.
The strong demand allowed us to create a shareholder base which is comprised of a broad group of Mexican and international investors with the majority coming from Mexico further bolstering IEnova's position in that market.
Please turn to Slide 10.
Even with pricing at the top of the published valuation range for the offering the market has shown continued enthusiasm for IEnova as the stock is up 22% since the IPO.
When we launched the IPO the implied valuation for IEnova was around $3 billion.
And today that is about $4 billion.
As you can see from the chart on the left our 81% holding in IEnova is worth nearly double today what our book value in those assets was at the end of 2012.
This is great for Sempra shareholders as it provides transparency into the value the market ascribes to our Mexican subsidiary and allows IEnova to continue growing without the need for additional Sempra capital.
Both the debt and equity transactions in Mexico represent an important step in optimizing our international capital structure.
And since all 3 of our international businesses have substantial ability to increase leverage to fund growth projects we will continue to look for future opportunities.
Let's go on to Slide 11.
In March we received a proposed decision in the General Rate Case for our 2 California utilities.
The proposed decision authorizes a revenue requirement for 2012 of $1 749 000 000 and $1 952 000 000 for SDG&amp;E  and SoCalGas respectively.
This represents respective growth of 8% and 6% over currently authorized levels.
The decision also establishes a 4-year GRC period through 2015 subsequent escalation of the adoptive revenue requirements for 2013 through 2015 using the Consumer Price Index and the continuation of the Z-factor mechanism for qualifying cost recovery.
While there were some positives in the proposed decision such as the capital requirement level that are generally in line with our request we filed a comment on the proposed decision last month requesting a few significant changes.
First these changes aim to address certain inconsistencies between our PD and prior CPUC General Rate Case decisions.
We strongly believe that all California utilities should be treated equally from a policy perspective on routine issues such as attrition mechanism and employee compensation.
The most significant inconsistency between the Edison decision that was voted out unanimously just 4 months ago and our proposed decision relates to the attrition mechanism which calls for the use of the CPI-Urban index.
This index does not reflect the true escalation in costs that a California utility faces and based on historical trends will provide SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas annual revenue increases that are about 1% lower than what the commission adopted in all recent rate case decisions.
Another major inconsistency relates to the proposed amount of ratepayer funding of our employee compensation plan.
Our PD calls for ratepayer funding of only 50% of our performance-based compensation while there have been recent CPUC decisions approving 90% of the same.
Given the CPUC's own employee compensation study affirm that our total compensation which includes performance-based compensation is at market level we don't believe it makes sense for our ratepayer funding to be reduced as the record in the rate case clearly support full funding.
We also recommended changes that help to ensure both SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E have sufficient funds to maintain safe and reliable operations and continue providing the level of service our customers expect and deserve.
The need for changes in the PD is most acute at SoCalGas where the proposed decision reduced funding for critical operations that are required for that company to do basic work such as leak detection and locate and mark services.
We think it is highly unusual given its focus on safety that the commission would choose to reduce funding in these core services.
We have made our concerns known and we expect that with a better understanding of the fact most if not all of this funding will be reinstated in the final decision.
Commissioner Ferron has acknowledged that some errors were made in the PD.
He has put in place a transparent process to allow parties to address their concerns for the proposed decision and we have made our case for improvements.
We expect him to do the right thing and make the appropriate changes.
We anticipate that a final decision will be reached on the GRC in the second quarter and as Joe noted earlier we hope to be able to provide an update to our financial guidance that reflects the outcome at our Analyst Conference on May 23.
Let's now go on to Slide 12.
Turning to our efforts to develop liquefaction at our Cameron facility last month FERC issued a notice of its schedule for the environmental review of the project.
Cameron is the first and only proposed LNG export application currently pending before FERC to have reached this milestone in the permitting process.
Based on the published schedule the final environmental impact statement will be released in November 2013 and the final application should be approved by early 2014.
The DOE non-FTA permit is of course the other major outstanding permit we require and we continue to expect to receive it in 2013.
FERC's decision to release the schedule shows the relative strength of our project and we continue to believe that Cameron is well positioned to be among the first applications that DOE reviews and approves.
With the timing of these regulatory approvals in mind the project remains on schedule to start construction next year and begin operations in the second half of 2017.
On the commercial front we are nearing completion of the tolling and JV agreements with Mitsubishi Mitsui and GDF SUEZ.
We expect that those agreements will be signed later this month and I expect we will have much more to say on this at our Analyst Conference.
Now please turn to Slide 13.
In summary we took a number of key steps forward during the first quarter in achieving our long-term goals.
We look forward to seeing many of you at our Analyst Conference on May 23 in New York where we will discuss our goals and overall strategy in significantly more detail.
With that I'll stop and open up the call to take any of your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Faisel from Citi.
On IEnova just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on what your plans are kind of going forward for your participation in the entity.
Meaning that you have roughly 80% right now and if the company raises more equity in the future to grow the business will you maintain your 80% stake or will you let that kind of float down? I would say first off we really like this business and the reason that we wanted to do the IPO was so that we could grow the business.
And so I think at this point we're very -- we like what we have in both Mexico now and Peru with an 80% ownership that we feel that that's a good share balance with having local ownership and local debt plus our 80% ownership.
And we haven't really thought of anything beyond keeping that kind of structure.
I'm going to Mark and Joe because they were part of the road tour on this to add any comment.
Yes Faisel this is Mark.
We don't have any current plans to reduce our ownership below where our current -- where it is.
And I think if you look at what we've done in Peru over the years it mimics the ownership structure that we have down there.
And I think we're pretty satisfied where it is.
We have a lot of great projects on the horizon for IEnova.
But the good news is is that we still have quite a bit of debt capacity.
So it is -- into the foreseeable future we don't really see it changing.
Faisel this is Joe.
I'll just add on to that and I know there are probably people on the call that participated in the road show and I know many of the names I saw.
What I said when I was asked this question many times is just as Debbie and Mark said that we don't have any plans to sell down.
We probably would never sell any of our shares.
And as Mark said we have plenty of debt capacity.
But the growth there is tremendous.
And if they continue to grow at this pace and they need to raise more equity I think we would let them though that.
We would have to determine at that time whether we want to participate or allow ourselves to be diluted a little bit.
But as Debbie said we really like the business and our stay in it.
On the other hand we've always said we like the size of our international business around 30% 1/3 of Sempra's overall structure.
So as we continue to grow our U.S.
business we get Cameron in we can have more international earnings.
But if IEnova can grow -- I mean somebody asked me on the road show can IEnova be bigger than Sempra? I said I hope so.
So we'll see.
I would say this.
I don't think that we would see -- we would expect that our earnings share from IEnova over the years will grow.
No matter what our ownership percentage is our share of earnings will grow.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It makes sense.
And then Debbie can you give us an update on the ROE case filed for the power -- electric transmission assets? Sure.
We made our filing at FERC and we'd used the FERC-prescribed methodology contrary to some of the other cases that had been in the news.
We used the FERC-prescribed methodology which takes the median of your peer group of electric utilities.
And we did that under 4 different methodologies that we filed at FERC.
That came out with a 10.3% as kind of your base ROE.
And then we added to that the allowance of 50 basis points for being part of an ISO and 50 basis points for our utility's specific risk.
And as you know in California we have things like the debt equivalency for the power contract and things like that that FERC has looked at as being -- had a utility-specific risk to consider.
So we made a filing off 11.3 the rate should go into effect on September 1.
And we'll wait and see what the outcome but we do feel we followed their methodology.
Research Division</strong> When do you expect an outcome from the FERC? September 1.
Research Division</strong> September 1.
Okay got you.
Yes last question from me.
Where are you right now on the FEED for the Cameron facility? Well we have the engineering work underway.
We actually are in the process of selecting between -- there's 2 parties 2 contracting groups that are bidding for the EPC.
And we that have a pretty well-developed FEED that they can bid on.
And then we'll do all the detailed engineering after that.
We would expect to select our contractor by the end of this year.
And would again expect to begin construction next year.
Mark you want to? No I think you hit all the points.
We have a well-developed FEED and it'll get enhanced.
But it's out for bid now.
So we'll have EPC contracts at the end of the year.
And next we'll hear from Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> I had a couple questions.
Just on that transmission issue.
I thought FERC recently or at least staff [ph] has been pushing single utilities to use a midpoint not a median and then if you're in an ISO or RPO you can get a median? No.
Well we are in an ISO and the FERC rules for an ISO is you use the median.
And where there have been some issues is when utilities have not followed what the rules are for what their structure.
We're an ISO.
We're supposed to use the median of the peer group.
And then we do 4 different studies using different economic modeling mechanisms of what the ROE comes up under those studies and that's what we submitted to FERC.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Switching gears to the -- just a clarification the tax expense on the IEnova transaction you're keeping that in -- that's part of your ongoing guidance for this year the $0.25? Yes.
LLC</strong> But then you're not going to be repatriating the other -- the annual money that was typically about $0.30 hit every year? Well we will repatriate starting next year.
But because we had the -- already paid taxes on this and we can bring the $200 million back in the very near future then we didn't see a need to bring back -- if you look at our cash balances our cash flow statement it's very very strong.
And so it just didn't seem to make a lot of sense for us to do additional repatriation this year.
And I'd just add on to that Steven.
She said we already paid tax.
Actually we're not going to pay the tax for 4 or 5 years because of the NOL but we incurred the expense on the books.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just at the year end when you reported you had that slide with the kind of growth rates off of the base et cetera.
I mean is all that slide all still relevant in terms of the different growth rates? Well -- yes.
I mean there's nothing in terms of our projects and the fact that we have all these projects that we have underway that the majority of them already contracted or part of the utility that would change in that slide.
What we will do is if we can get a final decision in the rate case and enough time to analyze before the Analyst Meeting then we will give you an update to that at that time.
And we'll give you new guidance numbers and new ranges.
Without having a final rate case decision we sure wish we were not in this situation either.
It's gone on a long time and we'd like to be able to give you more than that.
But hopefully by the time of the Analyst Meeting as I said that this is on the agenda for a vote of our final rate case on May 9 and so if it comes out then we should be able to give you all of that at the Analyst Meeting in a few weeks.
LLC</strong> Okay and just -- but in theory the -- to some degree the GRC just also just sets the base and then the growth rate? Yes.
And that's what -- the growth rate that we showed you I mean I don't see anything substantively different in the growth rates that we showed you.
But we want to give you better guidance on the range for this year that begins the growth rate and then what that ends up being at the end of the period of time.
And we're just not able to do that absent a rate case.
I wouldn't ignore all what we gave a before.
I just think we would like to further refine that for you at the Analyst Meeting.
LLC</strong> Okay and one more question different topic.
The DOE non-FTA approvals what's your sense on the order essentially the order of the queue at this point and when you think they'll rule on you on Cameron? Well a couple of things.
I'm not so sure that there's going to be a queue where 1 project is going to come right after another.
It may be very well that the decision is to take a group of projects that have -- are under the level that was in the study that was done last year.
And that that study I think went up to 10 Bcf of export and so we think that we are in good place in the queue.
We're the only facility that is in the FERC process and that usually tends to be -- that tends to be the critical path is getting that FERC approval.
And so we have some dates.
[indiscernible] went out with come forward [ph].
But I don't know that the queue is going to come out one by one.
If you did that I think we're #4 or #5 in that queue.
But we also think that there's a possibility that they may approve a number of projects all at one time.
I was just going to say I think when we talk about the queuing order let's just remind ourselves that that's the queuing order in which the applications were filed.
And while they've indicated that that will place some bearing on it it isn't necessarily so that that's going to be the order.
We don't know that.
But I do think that all of the feedback that we're getting out of Washington all of the things that we're hearing that we believe our project and the other brownfield projects are likely to be approved.
This year.
This year and we continue to believe that.
We haven't heard anything contrary to that.
And I will say that there is nothing on the record at the DOE that would indicate that they shouldn't approve these projects.
I think that's an important point to remember.
There's been no real record made of any reason not to approve them.
So I suspect that they will get approved.
And we're confident that it's going to happen.
Yes I would add to what Mark just said too.
Monis [ph] who is in the confirmation to head up the agency made very clear that as the Natural Gas Policy Act stands today you really have to make a case as to why they shouldn't be approved.
The burden of proof is on the other party.
So the relevance of what Mark is saying is that someone has to come in and make the case as to why these projects are not in the public good.
Everything that's come out has shown that these projects are in the public good and Monis [ph] commented on that during his confirmation period.
And now we'll take a question from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just thought I'd check in on the overall commercial arrangements.
You mentioned fairly soon you'll have tolling and JV agreements in place in Cameron.
And I just wanted to check to make -- to see if there's any evolution of your thinking on the commercial terms or the nature of the partnership that you're seeking to form in terms of capital commitment in terms of degree of risk you're willing to bear just in general without going into too much specifics.
Well I would say what we told you is the way that it's absolutely heading which is that we would be committing our existing facility as our equity contribution.
And that ourselves and our partners would then form a joint venture and that the joint venture would finance about 70% of the project.
And each of the partners would then put in additional equity.
And then depending on what the project costs there may be some additional requirements for equity but we would anticipate that to be funded largely via the income from the trains as they each come on.
So I mean that's the structure.
There's nothing that we're seeing that would change in that structure.
Mark you want to...
Yes the only thing I would say is the sort of the broad parameters that we laid out last year at our Analyst Conference those are all still roughly the same and we've marched along to that.
There isn't anything that's coming up in the JV structure the tolling structure that's significantly different than what we anticipated.
And then we'll give you an update at the Analyst Conference but I don't expect that anybody will be surprised by anything.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And so it sounds like there's nothing in relation to that that would prohibit you from for example pursuing an MLP structure down the road if that was something you wanted to do with this business? No that's a great question.
I'm glad you brought it up.
We specifically designed the JV agreements and the tolling arrangements to allow for an MLP structure if that's the best available capital at any given point in time.
And so that's -- it's definitely still in our plans.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a very quick small question on the Argentina business.
Should be thinking about in terms of any material proceeds or further accounting adjustments there going forward? Joe -- I'm going to have Joe discuss that.
Yes Stephen the value of the assets it's been reported in our previous SEC report it was written down to about $30 million previous to this quarter.
So there's no significant proceeds there.
But what's important is because of the impairment that we took many years ago we still have a large tax basis.
So we're expecting as soon as the sale takes place to file a quick carryback claim and get about $80 million of tax back on this.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that tax benefit help me understand how would that -- I sometimes get confused as to how that translates back up to the mothership as it were? Yes we'll get the cash here.
It's U.S.
tax.
It'll come to us and there won't be an earnings effect of it.
The earnings effect was booked long ago.
But we'll actually get the proceeds from the sale plus this $80 million of cash.
We'll take a question from Greg Gordon with the ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered and I think you pretty much answered the 1 remaining in your script but I just want to be clear.
Did you say that if the attrition mechanism was not put in consistent with precedent that that was worth about 1% to revenue annually.
Is that right? What I said is if you look at the difference between what was granted and our proposed decision which we would hope to get changed and the utility-specific index which has been used in virtually all General Rate Cases of recent that that is about a 1% difference on an annual basis in the attrition.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so I'm with you.
It does sound like they ought to be consistent in its application but if they decided to change that and stick with the proposed decision it would be sort of 1% less revenue in each of the years of the rate period? That would be the case but if that were the case we would obviously have to manage our business to that.
And that's what we've made clear is that in -- with the focus that is on the commission right now with their own consultant raising concerns about the order of priority that they place on safety in terms of things we would find it odd that they would look at doing this type of thing now for our companies when our performance has been so stellar over several years.
And so we think that this is something that should be adjusted in the final decision.
We've made our case very clear that the basket of bananas and eggs and things like that is not reflective of the cost of utility operation.
And so we gave them some pretty specific information on this.
There is a lot of support on the record in the case that would justify that this should be changed.
We'll move to a question from Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on Chile.
Now that you've sold down about 20% in Peru and Mexico on the last call you said you'd consider selling down some of the interest there.
What are your thoughts on that? Has anything changed in your thinking? Yes I mean we're looking at it.
The issue with Chile is that there's an incremental pact that occurs in Chile on -- that we would have to pay for repatriated dollars.
And so the benefit of that there and doing the equity issuances there and then looking at that as any kind of repatriation source doesn't -- is not as attractive to us as Peru and Mexico.
The other thing with Chile is that we have a lot of cash there for investments.
We have the ability to leverage.
We're under leveraged there and so we're looking at all of that in the context of what we want to do.
We like the model of the 80% ownership but we're only going to do that if it really makes sense and it would do that at a time when it would make sense.
We're trying to -- we the transmission projects we're doing in Chile right now.
We're bidding on some additional transmission projects there.
If we start looking at having all this growth that we hope to see there over the next few years that would probably be a better time for us to look at doing it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then second question now that we're seeing some liquefaction projects whether yours or others coming online in the Gulf Coast how is that affecting the value of your storage assets and maybe some of the actions you're taking with the midstream network like reversing the Cameron pipeline? Are you taking any incremental action now that we're getting a little bit closer with the midstream assets? Absolutely.
And this is something we're very excited about when we look at how the value -- what we think the value of the storage assets will be as all of those LNG facilities start coming on.
And you look at where they are and other than -- all the brownfield other than Dominion are located in that whole Gulf area.
So let me have Mark talk about some of the things we've been working on.
Yes I think that it actually is pretty exciting.
We are -- we've done our engineering on turning the flow around at Cameron.
We're looking at other -- we're looking at other pipeline developments in the region to allow us to more freely move gas around.
And our Louisiana storage which is the closest developable storage to our facility and to the Cheniere and Freeport facilities that storage will become increasingly more important as these plants start operating.
So we're actually pretty excited about some of the opportunities down there and the ability for us to really become sort of gas managers or being able to help people facilitate the operation of these facilities to make sure that they can run most efficiently which is continuously all the time and without interruption.
And so having readily available gas storage is going to be a real plus.
And we're very well positioned to do that.
And now we'll take a question from Leslie Rich with JPMorgan.
Inc.</strong> Just had a question on the solar grant and the delay due to budget sequestration.
Is that the kind of thing that you would expect to happen every quarter? Or I guess that depends on if congress can...
Yes.
No we would not expect that.
We -- the $5 million that we have for this quarter we would expect that would be it.
And then that there will be a little bit more on depreciation expense down the line but it's insignificant in future years very insignificant.
So this really takes care of the sequestration issue.
Inc.</strong> So if sequestration ends and the company [indiscernible] as usual would that reverse? Yes if we don't -- it's an interesting issue because if sequestration ends and then we haven't gotten the grant then the grant will not be sequestered.
And so it's a funny thing.
But so they -- I'll ask Joe to -- or Trevor to talk about the accounting of it.
Because right now we don't know what -- when we get our money back and that will depend on -- what happens will depend on what the timing of the money coming back.
Yes Leslie when we finished those projects at the of last year we booked a receivable for the grants that we were going to get and these are the only grants that we can get the grant programs over really.
So we booked those grants.
And then Treasury came out and said "These are going to be sequestered and if you get cash back from the government between March and the end of September you're going to have this cutback." So we had to book the cutback.
And that's why we took the $5 million earnings.
But as Debbie said if we actually don't get the money until October we'll get more money.
We think we will get it between this time but who knows.
We filed for the grants.
I think the important thing is we booked the -- it's onetime deal we booked a negative effect.
I mean there are some of us sitting around this table wondering how this can be how you could do this why this is legal? And -- but at the end of the day we may end up getting it back someday but right now the negative effects are all taken care of.
Next we'll hear from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to turn to U.S.
business the utilities can you just refresh us a little bit? What was the rate base I guess the last known or last authorized rate base going all the way back to 2011? What is kind of your recommended rate base for '12 versus kind of where the ALJ proposed decision came in? Yes I don't -- I have what our actual rate base is but I don't have the answer to your question for back to 2011.
What I can say is what we requested and what the decision granted.
And what we requested was about $4.3 billion at SDG&amp;E and the proposed decision granted $4.1 billion.
The key area of difference there is for some smart grid investment and what the proposed decision did is that it disallowed that in this case but set another case down the line where you could try to recover it.
I think that there are a lot of parties that would like to have us go ahead and move forward with some level of expenditure on smart grids so it's very possible that something can be reinstated there now.
And then on the SoCalGas gas side we requested $3.6 billion and received $3.5 billion.
Much of the rejection there was in gas operations.
And as I already said in my comments that I think that the focus on gas operation I would expect us to get reinstatement of a lot of the O&amp;M and the capital because these are basically core business functions.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if the proposed decision is largely upheld maybe not entirely but the -- some of the key components of it are upheld could this put your utilities in a very unusual situation one they probably haven't faced in 15 or 20 years which is being -- struggling to actually earn their authorized rate of return? We've managed to -- every kind of outcome we've gotten in rate cases and it -- first of all I would say I would not expect this to be the final decision.
I do believe that we will see changes made.
We've had all-party meeting that I would -- give Commissioner Ferron credit.
He had an open process to listen to comments on that.
There was an all-party meeting where we discussed our issues.
I think the people that were at that all-party meeting felt that we had pretty compelling reasons to see changes in here.
So we would expect to see some changes but we also -- I think we're going to live with what we get and I don't think that that's a good solution for our customers nor a good solution for our state after the clear focus that the CPUC needs to be placing on safety now to look at some of the kinds of reductions that have been here are really penny-wise and pound-foolish in our mind.
And so I think that we will see some changes.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last question cash balances at the end of the quarter large large number bill 4 bill 5.
Can you just talk to me about thoughts around the allocation of that capital? Yes I'm going to have Joe talk about that.
Yes that really comes from a couple of things which was we had the proceeds from the IPO coming in right before the end of the quarter of close to $600 million.
And we also did the bond offering in Mexico in February and a lot of that -- a lot of those funds actually repaid intercompany debt back up into one of the Sempra International holding companies.
We also received the proceeds from the sale of Mesquite and with that we mostly paid off commercial paper.
But now we have these funds close to $1 billion of that is from Mexico.
And a substantial part of the Mexican IPO funding will be used this year to fund the Sonora pipeline project and the remainder of those funds used next year together with probably some additional borrowings down there.
But that's what this is about.
The big increase was mostly things that happened right toward the end of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
In other words a large chunk of that cash almost $1 billion of that cash is not sitting at the holding company.
It's actually sitting down at the Mexico sub? That's absolutely right.
And now we'll hear from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I don't  want to like keep going over this but I just want to make sure I understand it.
This attrition mechanism and the compensation issue you guys mentioned in our press release that you'd be at the bottom end of guidance if this were to -- if the proposed decision wasn't changed.
And I guess what I'm wondering is I think of the attrition thing as being more of a -- and I guess compensation but certainly -- but I think the attrition thing and particularly of it being more the long-range kind of EPS impact and I'm just wondering if this were to change I mean would that -- you said that you'd work within the -- with what you get but would that not mean that there'd be an impact on long-term growth rate? Well I don't tie this to growth rate.
First of all we'll manage with what we get.
But the attrition mechanism would affect 2013 because as you know it's taken us 1.5 years to get a rate case decision.
So we are basically operating on 2011 revenue requirement.
We didn't get an increase in 2012 and then we should have gotten attrition increase to the 2012 level for 2013.
So we're basically 2 years behind in terms of having revenues to operate our company.
That -- we don't think that what is in the proposed decision is what should be voted out by the commission.
We made the case on that.
We made a very strong case on this attrition because it's not consistent with prior regulatory decisions.
They have just voted out 4 months ago the Edison decision and gave them what is an appropriate utility index attrition mechanism.
And so we do expect to get it changed.
If it is not changed then the mechanism here has historically been about 1% a year less in attrition increase than what the utility specific.
But if that's what we get we'll have to find a way to manage through it.
But it's not to the benefit of our customers to have that.
I know you guys aren't going to give guidance until we get until we get the final decision but should we be thinking about any potential change in long-term growth rate? No.
No I mean I think I -- at least I tried to articulate that the long-term growth rate would be consistent with what we had showed you before in February but that what we will do is that if we get a decision we will give you more definitive information on that and the numbers for 2013 and narrow the range as we talked to you that we would do and then give you more detail on that growth rate.
Yes.
Paul this is Joe.
When I showed you guys that chart I mean it's been our stated objective to be at 6% to 8% but as I said we're working on a lot of new areas of development new projects which is going to drive it above that.
So our expectation right now is that these growth rates will be the same.
And we'll talk more about it when we get to the conference assuming we get the PD -- or finalized.
That's excellent.
I think that's great.
And I guess what I wanted to just finally touch base with you on is there was this IRS ruling that came out or letter what have you on April 15 regarding the construction date for like ITC PTC.
And I was wondering you guys have probably had a chance to look of this and what have you.
Do you think that that provides some additional opportunity for some renewable stuff for you guys? Or I mean is that sort of -- just any thoughts you guys have on what they came up with the sort of the language that they use in terms of the construction date and stuff? Well we think it's constructive and we are pursuing some additional opportunities to see if we can get under construction by next year as required under those guidelines.
So we're moving forward to seek some additional opportunities in the wind space.
And now we'll hear from Maura Shaughnessy with MFS Investment Management.
Inc.</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I -- 2 quick ones.
First have you actually announced the sale of Argentina? Or are you just hoping that it's done by the end of the year? And the second point on the attrition issue and the compensation issue were these kind of totally out of the blue? I can't recall these mechanisms ever coming up in California before with the CPI linkage and sort of random employee compensation? Well I don't why I would say that but anyway yes those 2 questions please? Yes I'll have Mark hit the Argentina sale and where we are on that.
Hi.
With respect to Argentina no we do expect to close by year-end.
We're in active negotiations to sell our interest and we have been for some time and we're working out the details.
But it's -- we're not -- it's not like we're just starting the marketing now.
And then in terms of your other question on the mechanism let me just say that have a brand-new commissioner.
This is his first rate case that he's dealing with.
And that the -- you haven't heard about attrition mechanisms or compensation generally because usually in every rate case the utility-specific attrition mechanism's been adopted and the incentive comp if it's found is be at market by the commission's own compensation study is put in rate.
I mean that is really the requirement to allow the utility to recover reasonable costs.
And if your compensation is reasonable you should be able to get that.
And if the attrition is based upon utility-specific industry you should be able to get that.
This is our -- a new commissioner with a first rate case decision that he is writing and I give him credit.
He's listening to some of the other commissioners.
He had an all-party meeting where parties could make their thoughts known and I'm hoping that what we will see is changes in this based upon him listening to some of the experienced commissioners that have dealt with this issue historically.
We'll move to a question from Santiago Perez Teuffer with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wondered coming from you there is a lot of expectation on how is the Mexican energy industry shaping out.
I mean your IPO is a clear example of the expectations the market has and the value that's rising on it.
I wanted to ask if you could please share your expectations in Mexico going forward and any kind expectations you have in new bidding processes? I'm going to turn it to Mark.
Santiago we had a little bit of trouble hearing you but we think if your question was what is our expectations in Mexico and the growth going forward.
Is that your question? Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
I mean do you have any kind expectations on new bidding processes? Yes good.
Look we're really excited about what -- our opportunities in Mexico.
The ones the projects that we mentioned on the roadshow and the pipeline projects and also the wind project that we have ESJ both of those are slated to go here in the near term.
Long-term prospects obviously the Mexican infrastructure needs and Mexico's desire to wean itself at least for electrical production off of oil and on to natural gas is going to allow for a lot of infrastructure development projects in central Mexico and throughout those regions.
And so we're pretty excited about it.
We've got the right vehicle in place to assist Mexico in making those infrastructure developments.
And that's why we're so excited about this company and why we think its growth prospects are so good.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any time frames like when will new bids come up in your perspective? I mean about probably the second phase of Los Ramones or any other project do you believe it's interesting? Well we don't have any specific timing but we -- recognizing that some of these -- the ultimate plants and things and chemical treatment facilities that are going to use the natural gas is being transported or their products that were being transported back to market.
Obviously as those the other phases of these projects all have to come in fairly swift order otherwise they're kind of pipelines to nowhere.
And all of that's happening and so I think -- I don't think any of this is super long term.
I mean we're probably in the next 5 years we're going to see a lot of development in Mexico.
We'll take a question from Michael Goldenberg with Luminus Management.
LLC</strong> I wanted to understand something that Paul Patterson I think asked about the growth rate there that I want to get a better understanding.
So the guidance for 2013 changed a little based on some items.
Does that mean we should be taking the same growth rate off of a new number? Or should we be adjusting the growth rate per future numbers whatever we were extrapolating earlier? Well I'm not going to say how to do the calculation but I will tell you is that what we've said with our growth rate was what Joe showed in February.
If you take the 2013 earnings and then you subtract from that the retroactive piece of the rate case and then from that is where you would grow.
And that we were looking at a 6% to 8% growth rate and we're looking at that same range.
LLC</strong> So it doesn't change even though -- so even though the base number may have changed the growth thing doesn't? The growth rate is still the same yes.
We'll take a question from Vanessa Quiroga with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's actually regarding IEnova again and in the specifics about your leverage in that entity.
Right now it's very low but we would assumed that with more growth new projects you would be willing to increase your leverage.
But what is the maximum level that you would be comfortable with at the IEnova level? I'm going -- I would just say that this is exactly why we did this is in response to your question is so that we can lever up and that we can grow that business because we think it's a terrific business.
And so I'll have Joe talk about how much leverage we could put on that business.
Yes on the roadshow what we talked about was the fact that we would issue some more debt likely next year as we use the IPO proceeds for the construction of the Sonora pipelines.
And that when we got the AAA credit rating there we talked to the rating agencies and they said they'd be comfortable with that credit rating as long we stayed below 3x debt to EBITDA.
And what I spoke about was at the Sempra level we have roughly a 50-50 debt-equity ratio and I need to manage that across the whole portfolio.
So as we start to reach those levels then we'll have to consider where we are.
But no more than 3x debt to EBITDA or 50-50.
But as they continue to grow their EBITDA there's going to be a lot of capacity there.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
I agree.
I mean this 3x debt to EBITDA when you talk about the EBITDA you don't mean pro forma for -- or assuming when the new projects start generating EBITDA already right? You would be talking about the current year debt to EBITDA? I think if you focused sort of the 50-50 debt-to-equity ratio and the -- hold on one second.
I think at that rate and we're probably looking at the current run rate of EBITDA.
But as I said it's growing fast because these projects are coming on quickly.
We'll take a question from Ashar Khan with Visium.
Debbie if -- I don't want to go like too deep in it.
So how should we follow the proceeding next week if they do adhere to the schedule and -- on the rate case and they do come out with a decision? Will they discuss this in their meeting? Or will we have to wait for a final order to find out whether they made the changes to what we like or didn't make the changes? Can you just tell us how we can monitor it on our end? Yes the typical way this would go is that changes would be published before the meeting.
And then the commission would vote on the decision with those changes at the meeting.
So it's on the agenda for next week.
What would typically happen is those changes would come out later this week or early next week.
And then all of the commission officers would have the opportunity to review those changes and then the commissioners would then vote on it.
If the commissioner had a concern about what was in there after those changes were made the commissioner could hold it at that meeting and could make an election to write an alternate decision or go back the assigned commissioner to suggest further changes.
So that's kind of how the process unfolds.
Okay so that would show up.
So that any changes would show up in the docket of the case right? That's where I should be looking at? Yes that's what should happen.
And then of course we will provide as much information as we can once we get the final decisions out.
It does take a while to analyze these decisions and one of the reasons that we want to be sure when we give you new guidance is that we have the full time to analyze the decisions.
Because just looking at the revenue requirement does not necessarily yield what the outcome is going to be.
So it will take us a little while to analyze.
Okay.
And the second question is I don't it's a new company and all that and I know -- I apologize there were too many earnings today.
Is IEnova going to have an earnings call? Or can you give us any sense of what their earnings were exactly year-over-year? Yes we're not going to do subsegment information in our call that -- the plan is in the future IEnova will have its own earnings call and we'll provide that information to its investors.
And I don't know Mark or Joe do you want to add anything to that? I think that's right.
We'll -- they're going to do their own.
We will only comment on them to the extent that it affects Sempra and we'll give you that data on our call.
Yes.
I'll just add the one thing to remember is in Mexico they're reported under IFRS so the numbers are going to be slightly different.
And we don't give as Debbie said we don't give subsegment information.
So we give you guidance at the Sempra International level but I think you all could listen in to their calls and I think starting next quarter probably is when they'll get set up to start doing it.
And I just was reminded that their release is on our website too.
So you can go to our website and can see their release.
But I do believe next quarter they're going to start the call.
Okay so they do have their own release which is on your website? Right.
Yes.
We'll now hear from Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> One just follow-up question.
I'm sure you heard the commentary from Edison the other day on San Onofre.
Could you just -- any color to add there? And just in the event that the plant does need to be shut down what are your recourse actions to take? The thing I would say is that that I read the Edison transcript and what they say about kind of their decision point.
We are not -- we're a minority owner.
We own 20% of the plant.
We've never operated the plant.
We didn't decide on what kind of steam generators went in.
We didn't do any of that.
And so we have to kind of look at our own position in this case and that we are waiting for the NRC to act and we're going to see what they do.
And that we're hopeful that we will get something out by early summer from the NRC.
And then we're going to make our decisions on our options based upon what's best for our customers.
And that's what we'll be looking at.
And we may not be on the same time line as Edison is precisely.
But we will look at our options as what's best for our customers as a minority owner of that plant.
And I can't really add anything.
Edison went through on their call of the details about the 2 applications the license amendment and the confirmatory action letter and they're better to handle those kinds of questions because they're the ones that are dealing with the agencies and operating the facility.
Our final question will come from Vedula Murti with CDP Capital.
A couple of things.
One in your earlier remarks in answer to questions when the question of incremental renewable came up I think you indicated you were focusing -- you'd be focusing in wind arena.
And I think that was all based on production tax credit.
What's -- do you have a point of view as to one some prospects for the renewable and multi-legislation that's pending? And based on your analysis I'm wondering whether if that were to occur whether that's basically something for things prospectively or given stimulation [ph] of tax credits having been utilized in whatever in the past that historic existing assets would be unlikely to fit into such structure.
And I have a separate question after that.
Okay.
Well let me just say that the focus of my answer on wind was specific to that extension in the legislation but we are developing solar projects.
And we have a 250-megawatt project that's going into construction.
We have a project that we're working on to be in the queue on the solar side.
So I don't want to give any impression that our focus is just on wind because we are very actively pursuing other projects.
But we love your question about the MLP.
And actually when I have my meeting with the President earlier this year that was one of the things we talked about would be very beneficial to the industry is to have some type of a REIT or MLP structure for renewables.
But Mark was just involved in this about a week ago.
So let me turn it to Mark.
Yes look I think we are kind of excited about the prospect for renewables to be put in the MLPs and be given parity with other energy projects in the country.
So we think it's a good development.
I will tell you it's one of the very few things that has -- seems to have relatively broad bipartisan support.
I think the thing that's holding it up from being approved is that it's a -- well it has sort of bipartisan support.
It's not really big deal to the people on the hill.
And so at the end it will probably be attached to some other larger tax bill or something that goes through.
There is -- we have questions about how it's going to work for existing projects and I don't think that's been fully fleshed out.
There has to be some other -- besides just making MLP-able because the MLPs have these tax credits how that will do or if that will be a replacement for the tax credit.
Nobody really knows how those things will come to be but we do think it's exciting.
We think it's something that makes a lot of sense and we'd be well-positioned to put some of our assets and add it to our midstream MLP or create a separate one on its own whichever kind of investors sort of look to want to do.
So we think both of those things they are -- we thing they're exciting and it is something that does look like it has good support right now.
Okay.
And secondarily Debbie you mentioned your meeting with the President.
I was going to ask you based on all your commentary around your positive view from the news head of DOE and terms of nat gas exports and all the various export facilities did that come up in your conversation? And do you feel like that that's the view -- that view there is similar as to the view at DOE? Yes I mean I was asked specifically not to share what occurred in the meetings.
But I would say that the attendees of the meeting universally were quite favorable to the ability to export gas if there were appropriate provisions put in place to deal with all -- environmental issues associated with the frac-ing.
And so I think that's the direction it's heading.
I didn't sense anything at all that would run counter to that direction in the discussions I had.
Yes.
The one last thing in terms of the approve [ph] status of free trade versus non-free-trade export my recollection was that earlier this year there was talk about trying to perhaps give an exemption or something like that to Japan and maybe western Europe since they're kind of allies or whatever.
Is there anything going on on that side at all? It seems like that has kind of died down a bit.
And I think where the focus is now I mean we really do hear a number of things that at least -- and you never get definitive answers of when something is going to be approved.
But we have heard a number of comments that would lead us to believe that the approvals are forthcoming and the approvals are forthcoming sometime in the near future.
And that is not going to be that type of a structure with limited approval.
So and you start hearing more too I think with the situation in North Korea that you start hearing more the concerns about what do we do to help support generally our allies? What do we do to have the U.S.
be a contributor into the energy marketplace that would help deal with some of these political issues.
And so it seems the -- at least the dialogue has gone more in that direction recently which would say you're probably not going to just get a Japanese exemption or a Europe exemption.
I was just going to turn it back over to Ms.
Debbie Reed for closing remarks.
Okay.
I was going just take it.
So thank you all very much for joining us.
As always we have Rick and Victor and Diane there to answer any of your follow-up questions from the call.
And we look forward to seeing you in New York on May 23.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Sempra Energy Second Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's second quarter 2013 financial results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Trevor Mihalik Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's 10-K and most recent 10-Q which will be filed with the SEC later today.
Important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our second quarter 2013 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today August 6 2013 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to Slide 3 and let me hand it over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
The second quarter was an important one for Sempra as we received the final decision in our General Rate Case for SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas.
This decision provides us with a sufficient level of revenues to maintain a safe and reliable system for our customers and provides regulatory clarity for the company through our current rate case cycle which runs through 2015.
Additionally we continue to move forward on many infrastructure projects during the quarter and I will give updates on some of these projects a little later in the call.
Now let's move to Slide 4.
Our consolidated financial performance this quarter was strong and that performance coupled with our efforts to control costs within the revenue structure we were granted in our GRC allows us to remain on track to meet our full year EPS guidance.
This guidance of $4.30 to $4.60 per share is updated to exclude a $119 million loss of the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station or SONGS.
This guidance also includes the 2012 retroactive benefit from the GRC of $77 million.
We remain committed to achieving the 6% to 8% long-term compound annual growth projections we laid out at our analyst conference in May.
This growth rate is based off of our 2013 adjusted EPS guidance of $4 to $4.30 per share which excludes both the 2012 retroactive GRC benefit and the $119 million loss at SONGS.
Annual earnings from SONGS were between $15 million and $20 million but that has now ceased as of the date Edison decided to retire to facility.
Our guidance for the year reflects our view that we will overcome the loss of these earnings through better performance across our business.
Now let me hand things to Joe to discuss the financial results in more detail starting with Slide 5.
Joe? Thanks Debbie.
Earlier this morning we reported second quarter earnings of $245 million or $0.98 per share.
This compares to earnings of $62 million or $0.25 per share in the same quarter last year which included a $179 million impairment charge on our investment in the Rockies Express Pipeline.
This quarter we reported a loss of $119 million related to SoCal Edison's decision to permanently retire SONGS.
We estimated this loss using California utility regulatory precedent to determine the expected recovery of SONGS rate base assets replacement power cost and O&amp;M during the time of the outage.
The loss is slightly higher than the top of our previously disclosed range as additional analysis and the most current information was taken into account since the date we filed our 8-K on the topic.
After excluding the SONGS loss second quarter 2013 earnings for guidance comparison purposes were $364 million or $1.46 per share.
As Debbie indicated our year-to-date performance was strong and allows us to remain on track to meet our guidance of $4.30 to $4.60.
Additionally this quarter's results include $106 million for the retroactive benefits from our final General Rate Case decision.
$77 million of this benefit is associated with 2012 and $29 million is associated with the first quarter of 2013.
Without those benefits and the loss at SONGS adjusted earnings for the period were $258 million or $1.04 per share.
Keep in mind that our results for the first half of 2013 include the $63 million planned annual repatriation tax expense which we recorded in its entirety in the first quarter.
Additionally first half results include the dilutive effect of our highly successful IEnova IPO.
Now let's go through the results for each of our segments in detail beginning with San Diego Gas &amp; Electric on Slide 6.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the second quarter of 2013 were $65 million down from earnings of $95 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding the impact of the loss at SONGS and the GRC retroactive benefits for 2012 and Q1 '13 of $69 million SDG&amp;E's adjusted earnings grew to $115 million.
The increase was due to $15 million of higher CPUC and FERC margin and to an $11 million reduction in 2013 income taxes.
This reduction resulted primarily from the change we made last year in the tax treatment of certain transmission and distribution repair expenditures an increase spending on self-developed software.
These increases were partially offset by $4 million of lower revenue from our cost of capital decision and $2 million of lower earnings due to the loss of SONGS rate base margin as a result of the closure.
Now please turn to Slide 7.
Second quarter 2013 earnings at Southern California Gas were $118 million compared to earnings of $53 million last year.
Excluding the GRC retroactive benefits for 2012 and Q1 '13 of $37 million adjusted earnings at SoCalGas in Q2 '13 grew to $81 million.
The improvement in earnings was driven by $15 million of increased income tax benefits in 2013 primarily as a result of a change in repair expenditures for natural gas pipelines similar to the one I just described for SDG&amp;E and by $9 million of higher CPUC-based margin due to the final GRC decision.
This quarter's results also benefited from $4 million positive variance due to the full recovery of transmission integrity management program costs in 2013 which were not balanced in the 2012 revenues.
Now let's move to Sempra International on Slide 8.
At our South American Utilities earnings were $34 million in the second quarter of 2013 compared to earnings of $38 million in the same period of 2012.
The decrease was due to a loss related to the sale of our investment in 2 Argentine natural gas utility holding companies.
In June we completed our exit from Argentina through the sale of our investments in that country for $13 million.
As we discussed last quarter the completion of this sale will produce a tax refund of approximately $80 million which we expect to receive in the first half of 2014.
This tax benefit was previously recognized in earnings in prior years.
Second quarter 2013 earnings for the Sempra Mexico segment were $26 million versus earnings of $47 million in the second quarter of last year.
The decrease is due to $10 million of lower tax benefits in 2013 versus 2012.
These are largely related to currency and inflation adjustments; also $8 million from noncontrolling interest at IEnova related to our reduced ownership; and $4 million lower earnings from operations primarily related to the planned major maintenance that occurred at our gas-fired generation plant in Mexicali.
Now please turn to Slide 9.
Moving to Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power the Natural Gas segment earned $9 million in the second quarter of 2013 compared to a loss of $193 million in the year-ago period which includes last year's $179 million impairment charge on REX.
The increase came primarily from improved earnings from LNG and gas storage operations mainly due to changes in natural gas prices this year.
The Renewables segment generated earnings of $15 million in the second quarter of 2013 down from earnings of $24 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The decrease is largely driven by deferred tax benefits in 2012 from solar assets placed in service last year.
This decrease was partially offset by higher levels of production tax credits from our wind assets many of which were placed into service in late 2012.
Now let me hand the call back to Debbie.
Thanks Joe.
As you know in June Southern California Edison the majority owner and operator at SONGS made the decision to shut down the plant.
As a result of this decision SDG&amp;E established a new regulatory asset in the amount of $322 million which reflects management's assessment of the amount probable but not certain of recovery in rates for SDG&amp;E's investment in SONGS.
Additionally SDG&amp;E recorded a loss of $119 million after tax due to the plant closure.
Due to the outage of SONGS from January 1 2012 through June 6 2013 which is the date Edison announced the plant was to close SDG&amp;E has spent approximately $166 million on replacement power.
The CPUC has opened a multi-phased OII to determine the ultimate recovery of the investment in SONGS and the cost incurred since the start of the outage including the cost of purchasing replacement power.
I can assure you that as a minority owner of SONGS SDG&amp;E will do all it can to protect the interest of its customers and shareholders as these proceedings move forward.
Now please turn to Slide 11.
Last quarter FERC issued an order on SDG&amp;E's transmission rate case filing which conditionally accepted our filing including the methodology we used to calculate our requested ROE of 11.3% and approved the 50-basis-point adder for SDG&amp;E's membership in the California ISO.
Last week FERC issued an order making the 11.3% ROE effective September 1 2013 subject to refund pending an approved settlement or final decision.
Settlement discussions with the key parties have already begun.
Since many of you have asked me what happens in a rising interest rate environment I wanted to remind you that both our utilities have a trigger mechanism which allows our CPUC-authorized ROEs to be reset if the annual average Moody's A utility bond index rate move 100 basis points above or below the benchmark level which is currently 4.24%.
While interest rates have been rising in recent months the move has not been significant enough to raise the average rate to a level where a trigger would occur this year.
However if rates continue on a similar trajectory to what we've seen recently the potential does exist from an upward trigger to occur effective January 1 2015.
If an upward trigger did occur it would increase our equity return by 1/2 of the difference between the new monthly average rate and the benchmark rate.
Additionally the authorized cost of debt would be adjusted to reflect the actual cost of debt at that time.
We continue to await a final decision on our Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan or PSEP and expect that decision to come out later this year.
As you know we have received authorization to track in a memo account and are currently spending capital and O&amp;M in anticipation of a final decision.
Let's now go on to Slide 12.
Moving to our Cameron Liquefaction project I'm pleased with the progress we are making and we remain on track to begin operations in the second half of 2017.
We currently expect EPC bids back from the 2 consortium bidding on the project this quarter and we would anticipate selecting a final EPC contractor by the end of the year.
Our efforts to secure financing for the project continue to move ahead and interest in project financing Cameron remains very strong.
We expect firm commitments from lenders by the end of the year and anticipate putting 60% to 70% leverage on the project at attractive terms.
We remain confident that the DOE will approve our non-FTA permit in 2013.
This is based both on the positive recent comments made by Secretary Moniz concerning LNG export approval and on strong bipartisan support for our project.
Given the FERC schedule issued in April of this year we expect to receive our FERC permit in February of next year which will put us on schedule to begin construction in the first half of 2014.
Turning to South America.
As you recall last year a joint venture we formed with SAESA another Chilean electric utility was awarded 2 transmission line projects which are now under construction.
In June this JV was awarded 2 additional 220-kilovolt transmission lines that will extend roughly 70 miles.
The total project cost for these 2 new lines is expected to be about $80 million.
50% of which will be Sempra's share.
And we expect construction to be completed in 2018.
Let's now move on to Slide 13.
At IEnova we recently signed a contract with PEMEX for the first phase of the Los Ramones pipeline project and expect to begin construction in the fourth quarter of this year.
This 48-inch pipeline which is 70 miles in length and starts at the US-Mexico border is South Texas will be a part of our JV with PEMEX and the total project costs are expected to be between $450 million and $550 million.
This pipeline is expected to commence operations in the second half of next year.
The second phase of Los Ramones is a 450-mile pipeline project which is estimated to cost roughly $2 billion.
The pipeline will begin at the terminus of our Phase 1 project and extend into Central Mexico bringing gas supply to this region of Mexico for the first time.
Bids for the second phase of Los Ramones are due this quarter and IEnova will most likely submit a bid potentially with a partner.
We continue to make good progress on our $1 billion Sonora pipeline project and we have now signed both the construction and pipeline supply agreement.
We remain on schedule to begin construction on the pipeline this quarter and expect the first phase to be operational in the second half of next year.
I'm really pleased that our team at Sempra International has been able to execute on these opportunities.
We continue to see a number of very strong incremental opportunities in this business unit that will help us grow at or above the 6% to 8% range we laid out at our analyst conference.
So let's now go on Slide 14.
While it is unfortunate we had to take the loss at SONGS I am really pleased that we had such a strong quarter otherwise.
We continue to execute on our strategy and deliver solid performance for our shareholders.
We remain on track to meet our earnings guidance for the year and we continue to have very compelling long-term growth prospects.
And with that let me stop and take any questions that you might have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Faisel Khan Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
There's an recent sort of news about the potential to change the foreign tax rate for repatriation of overseas earnings.
Just wondering if you can just remind us if we're going to move to more of a quasi-territorial system as what might be outlined in some of these tax trade publications? What will be the earnings impact or benefit to you guys? And then I have a follow-up.
Let me first remind you of what we've committed to do under the current tax situation and then I'll have Joe kind of talk about what's happening in Washington right now and what the impacts might be with that.
What we committed to do under our -- under the current tax situation is that we're repatriating about $200 million this year and then about $300 million over the next 5 years back and that we're doing that by using the net operating losses that we have as a result of some of the bonus depreciation we had at the utilities.
And so that is the plan that we're working currently.
As you know under the tax laws they looked at changes that may change the overall corporate tax rate and with doing that then we would get a benefit.
And I think the number was something around $30 million.
But Joe let me ask you to go into more details.
Sure.
Yes.
It sort of depends on where they land here.
As Debbie mentioned if they were to drop the rate such -- to like 28% something that the President suggested the other day Debbie's right.
Instead of about $60 million a year of expense we'd have roughly $30 million.
But if they were to go to a more territorial system which we've been advocating perhaps they might do something that would have no tax although they might actually impose some kind of a onetime tax to bring back some of this money that's sitting offshore in many companies.
So they might impose sort of a 5% tax or something like they have done previously.
And in that case certainly it would lower the earnings impact that we have in our plan today.
So it would be very beneficial to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then just you guys ended the quarter with about $1 billion in cash on the books.
It looks like you had a number of asset sales including the IPO of IEnova.
What's the plan with the $1 billion in cash? Is it to pay down debt? Or is it -- is that how you're going to reinvest that cash or give it back to shareholders? Yes.
Faisel this is Joe.
Let me talk about that most of that cash that's sitting on the balance sheet right now is either in Mexico or in Chile.
As we've talked about before we are not repatriating any of the funds from Chile because we would have an incremental Chilean tax and we're looking for investment opportunities for that sum which is around $300 million.
The other $500 million about is sitting in Mexico and that's money that was raised in the IPO and is going to fund the Sonora pipeline project.
We'll take our next question from Naaz Khumawala with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Just had a couple of quick questions for you guys.
First of all if you exclude Argentina from South America can you discuss how Chile and Peru are doing year-over-year? Yes.
If you take Argentina out Chile and Peru are right on track to what we would be anticipating and kind of what we laid out for you at May at the Analyst Meeting.
We're having good performance from both of those companies.
The growth rates are very positive and the ranges that we've talked about before we're seeing customer growth of 2% to 3.5% and load growth of 5% to 6% in both of those utilities.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then for SONGS what's the ongoing impact to earnings from pulling SONGS at a rate base? The ongoing impact what -- well what I can say is what historically we've had is about $15 million to $20 million a year of net income from SONGS.
And as I mentioned in my comments certainly for this year through looking at cost efficiencies and in some of the improvements in our operations due to advancements of technology that we're deploying and all we feel that we can offset that for this year.
And so we were able to include that in our updated earnings guidance that we would still be in the $4.60 -- $4.30 to $4.60 range including covering off that loss of SONGS income for this year.
LLC</strong> Right.
Now I mean I appreciate that but just sort of thinking about next year and forever or are they cost efficiencies stuff that you guys can keep? Well we'll look at -- we'll update our guidance as we always do in February.
I mean what we will certainly look at continuing to look for ways that we can improve the operations of our business as we always do and look at some opportunities to offset that.
One of the things that hasn't been factored in and will be factoring in when we do our guidance is what is needed to replace SONGS and what that would mean in terms of additional investment.
And so all those things we'll be looking at the before we give updated 2014 guidance in February.
We'll take our next question from Mark Barnett with Morningstar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of just quick questions on some of the international projects.
The number I think on the Los Ramones looks roughly the same.
I was just wondering with the Chilean project that you won and the announcements that you highlighted are these projects all already fully included in your planned CapEx as of the Analyst Day? Yes.
The -- on the Analyst Day we had the Los Ramones Phase 1 that we talked about and then we had the Chilean first 2 transmission lines in Chile.
The second 2 that I mentioned today that we had just bid were not in the capital plan.
But as Joe mentioned we have plenty of cash in Chile to fund those projects.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And you had mentioned for one of the projects I believe Mexico the second phase you had mentioned a potential partner.
Would that be a domestic partner you'd be looking at or maybe another multinational? Well we're still looking at that right now.
The bid hasn't even come out.
We're looking at -- September time frame is what they've said for the bidding on that.
And so we're of course pursuing all possible options and looking at how we would want to handle it.
We haven't made any decisions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just last one I guess that as you said it's a little too early with the bid not out yet but is there kind of a would you say a greater interest in bidding on these projects maybe a little bit more competition circling the market? Or it's a little bit too early to comment? Mark why don't you just talk about that? Yes I would say that it -- there's certainly interest in Mexico.
I think there's -- the people recognize that there's good growth there and that these are good projects.
But I do think that the companies that have historically been successful in Mexico of which obviously we're one of the leaders in are the ones that are -- continue to be successful.
And I think it's just a knowledge of the market and knowing how to get things done there.
But it is attracting more international investment but I think the companies that have been doing business in Mexico for a long time still have some advantage.
We'll take our next question from Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Cameron.
In the event that the DOE doesn't issue the non-FTA approval until say next year how does that impact the overall timeline and construction of the project? Well first of all we expect that to come this year.
And that's -- every indication that we received and most recently a key person that works with Moniz his energy counselor Melanie Kenderdine commented that he had completed his review of the data.
He had completed his review of the analysis to ensure that the public interest analysis was done appropriately.
And he had affirmed that no further modeling was required.
And so we would anticipate having him now completed that we will start seeing these projects roll forward.
It's not on a critical path for us yet because the FERC permit comes after our expectations on the non-FTA.
And so as long as we have both of our permits in the first quarter of next year then we're pretty much on path.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And in terms of the incremental investment opportunities above the 6% to 8% growth that you laid out at the Analyst Day can you talk you about -- and you talked about Latin America and some of the opportunities there but where do you stand with the opportunities in California and under I guess the shale gas revolution? Yes we gave you the slide at the Analyst Meeting and we broke it down into utilities and midstream and renewables.
And just to give you a highlight of some of the things we're working on as I mentioned in the utilities for San Onofre and what needs to be put in place with San Onofre retiring there will most likely be some incremental transmission investments that would be necessary but also the gas system because to replace San Onofre is most likely a combination of renewables and natural gas will be necessary and that we will be looking at what type of investments will be necessary in the gas system.
And so that is underway.
In Latin America we talked about Los Ramones Phase 2.
We're looking at clearly moving forward with -- to the extent that we can on the Santa Teresa Hydro II project.
And then we talked about the additional transmission in Chile and then we'll continue to look at other things there.
And then in the U.S.
midstream area that we have made a filing to do some laterals on REX that's a public filing and that we're also looking at the assets adjacent to Cameron the LA Storage and then the Cameron pipeline and would expect to be developing those assets in the same kind of time frame as Cameron.
And then on the Renewables space we're certainly looking at any additional opportunities there including if there's some to get -- some potential to get some wind projects done before the clock ticks away and that we no longer have the opportunity for the production tax credit.
So those are all kind of underway right now in those areas.
We'll take our next question from Brandon Blossman with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess actually following on a little bit on the REX comment on the laterals and I understand there's some sensitivity around this likely.
But can you comment just generally REX's future as a bidirectional pipe and then also how that fits into a drop-down MLP strategy on a go-forward basis? Yes.
Let me just say that this is something that we told you before we were looking at because we saw the flows out of the Marcellus and Utica and needing to get to market.
And so this has been something that we've been quite interested in for a while now and now we're pursuing it with a new partner.
So let me have Mark kind of talk a little bit about that.
I think the future of REX it will over time start to look a giant header system for the Midcon.
And it'll take flows from both directions and probably feed into Chicago and other Midcon markets.
I think that'll take some time.
There are some tariff issues and you've probably seen the news on some of the issues with existing shippers.
All of that has to get worked out.
But I think over time that's where this asset will go.
We probably as far as the MLP-able it's obviously an MLP-able asset but until a lot of these issues are resolved there would be one that wouldn't drop into an MLP right away until we kind of had some long-term predictable cash flows out of it.
But we have -- the good news is we have plenty of other MLP-able assets that are very strong.
And obviously with the Cameron facility we'll have very good assets that we can look at developing that kind of infrastructure down the road.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow on again kind of midterm are there incremental ideas that may be percolating around REX today? Oh there are and we're pursuing them right now.
And I think there's likely to be some near-term kind of things coming out of REX that's showing additional revenue possibility.
We'll take our next question from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Figured I'd follow up with a few more questions.
On the LNG project the I think -- can you just clarify that you're expecting the construction permit in February of '14? What we're expecting in February 14 is the FERC permit which basically allows us -- without the FERC permit we cannot begin construction and so that's what we're expecting in the February time frame.
Research Division</strong> So after that you guys can start construction.
So starting February -- assuming you get the permit in February '14 you'd start construction right away.
There's no other permit that's required after that.
Well yes there's a few months between when you get the permit and when you can actually begin construction.
But assuming that we get the permit in February as we expect then we would be on our construction schedule that we've laid out to have the first train come on at the end of 2017.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And just on this project queue that everyone keeps looking out for the -- for all these -- for all the liquefaction projects it seems like the DOE is going in the project queue order.
I mean are there criteria that the DOE has to look at in order for a project to get the approval? Or is it simply having the application in place? I mean how do you guys -- what's your opinion on how you see the DOE looking at each application? Is it -- you guys have talked about having to have the FERC application the process and all those other things.
Can you just remind us what the key criteria are to kind of get that FTA? Sure.
The FTA criteria is really that in order not to approve the permit they have to show that the project is not in the public interest.
So there's a presumption that these projects should get approved and that's an important factor.
And there's been nothing that has come out in any of the public studies that have been done the EIA studies or any of the studies that have been done that have demonstrated that exporting is not in the public interest.
And so what we think has happened is after the Freeport project was approved Moniz stepped into his job.
He had made a commitment to go through the data and to go through the determination of public interest that had been published earlier in the NIRA report.
And as we understand he has completed that work now and has affirmed that that work is accurate and no further studies are necessary.
So what really should happen is that these projects should move forward then in the queue because that report showed that the projects are in the public interest and to export LNG.
And the projects actually -- the report actually showed that the more LNG you export the more on the public interest it is.
So we would anticipate seeing some projects start going through the queue now that he's completed his affirmation of the data.
Mark do you want to add to that? I [indiscernible]...
Research Division</strong> Sorry go ahead Mark.
No go ahead Faisel.
Research Division</strong> I was going to ask is it -- I mean does it really have to be in order? I mean is that -- is the DOE committed to reviewing each application in order? And so if they're going to do one application every few months is that kind of -- does that put you guys on track to get the permit when you want? Or are they going to -- do you think they'll issue permits in kind of batches? Let me try to answer that.
I mean we're all speculating on what we think the DOE is going to do and so there's a high degree that we'll be incorrect.
I think we all thought a lot of us and not just us at Sempra but other companies as well Dominion and others all thought that there may be some of this would come out in batches.
It seemed reasonable to think that that was going to happen.
In hasn't happened yet.
That doesn't mean that it won't happen.
It could.
But our belief is that even if we stay on the schedule that Moniz has laid out and he does do them one by one under some thoughtful process we still believe we'll get ours by the end of the year.
So I think we're -- we feel comfortable that we're on track to do this.
As Debbie said earlier it's not a -- it's an important permit obviously.
We have to get it to secure our financing and all the other things.
But as long as we get it this year or very early next year we're still on track and it doesn't really -- doesn't change our timing as long as it's within a reasonable time frame.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then I was also wondering if you guys had any opinion on the low carbon fuel standard and sort of the carbon prices we're kind of seeing in those forward markets now and if that has any sort of impact to you guys or if that's just a pass-through to the consumer? Yes I'll have Mark...
Well let me tell you from a business perspective that we're looking at.
I mean we have talked a little bit in the past.
We are looking at LNG and natural gas as a fuel and a lot of the low carbon standards especially in the shipping industry is things that we're looking at and we see opportunities there to provide infrastructure to that industry both shipping and the railroad industry to use natural gas.
And so we do -- we think that there's going to be some real benefits and growth opportunities in the future around those kinds of regulation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any sort of update on natural gas vehicles and transportation infrastructure for natural gas vehicles? I mean you guys put a lot of stuff on your website related to this sort of topic and just wondering if something is sort of moving forward at SoCalGas or maybe outside of SoCalGas.
Yes we've done a lot of work at SoCalGas on the fleet side and we have a lot of fleets operational now.
We also were able to put something in place at SoCalGas which is a Compression Services Tariff where we can actually serve compressed natural gas directly from our pipeline system.
So we're doing those kinds of things.
But I think probably the more interesting things are some of the things that we're doing in our U.S.
Gas &amp; Power and looking at the potential to develop some market opportunities there.
So Mark you want to? Yes.
No I just think just as I said I mean I think the opportunities that look to have the best potential to really be significant in the near term I think are on the commercial side both on the maritime and railroads and large haul trucking and those kinds of things as opposed to passenger vehicles.
We'll take our next question from Greg Gordon with ISI.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Jon Cohen calling in for Greg.
What is the earliest date that you could lock down financing for Cameron? And is there any way to hedge out your interest rate risk between now and when you close on your construction loans? Yes.
Let me have Joe talk about that because we were just talking about that this morning and we've done some analysis on the interest rate impact.
And also Joe do you want to? Sure.
What we're focused on is getting these commitments later in the year.
We want to make sure that we do them in the right time frame so that commitments don't expire before we actually draw down the money.
But it's progressing very well.
There are more meetings going on all the time.
And we're getting strong very strong indications of interest.
So the financing is going along well very well.
We will look to do hedging when we have the commitments in place and we're talking to our partners about that.
Interest rates have moved some but it's pretty modest.
The impact is really pretty modest based on the numbers we have in our plan.
So we will in fact do a significant amount of hedging.
The timing will be probably closer to the end of the year or beginning of next year depending on when we and the partners agree on the structure.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time for closing remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to Debbie Reed.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Well thank you all for joining us today.
And as always we have Rick Vaccari and his team available to answer any follow-up questions you have from our call today and thank you very much for being with us.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Sempra Energy Third Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's third quarter 2013 financial results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Martha Wyrsch Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Trevor Mihalik Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's 10-K and most recent 10-Q.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our third quarter 2013 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today November 5 2013 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to Slide 3 and let me hand the call over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
Let me begin with our 2013 earnings guidance.
We currently expect full year earnings to fall within our guidance range of $4.30 to $4.60 per share.
Last week however Mexican tax reform moved forward in Congress and we expect it to be enacted this year.
The deferred tax impact of this reform would negatively affect fourth quarter 2013 earnings by about $0.05 per share.
Prior to the reform we expected earnings for the year to be near the midpoint of our guidance range.
Joe will discuss this issue in more detail a little later on the call.
Moving to the quarter.
I'm pleased with our performance and most notably progress continued on our many infrastructure projects.
These projects which I will update you on shortly should drive our long-term growth outlook of 6% to 8%.
Based on the projects we have underway I am confident that our company is well positioned for the strong growth profile we outlined in our analyst presentation.
Before moving on to our financial results I want to make note of some key management changes that we announced during the quarter.
In early September Martha Wyrsch joined Sempra as Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Many of you know Martha from her time at Duke Energy Spectra Energy and Vestas.
In addition to prior experience as General Counsel she brings a wealth of industry knowledge and experience to our management team.
As you know we take great pride in the strength of our team and depth of our leadership bench.
We also moved people within our organization as part of our plans to develop future leaders.
In September we announced several changes to the management teams at our business units that will take effect next year.
Most of these individuals you already know.
At SDG&amp;E Jeff Martin will become CEO and Steve Davis will take over as President and Chief Operating Officer.
Jeff will replace Jessie Knight who will come back to Sempra as our Executive Vice President of External Affairs.
Steve will take over for Mike Niggli who is retiring after a 42-year career in the energy industry.
At SoCalGas Dennis Arriola will become CEO replacing Ann Smith who will retire after more than 3 decades with the company.
Bret Lane will replace Dennis as Chief Operating Officer at SoCalGas.
And finally Patti Wagner will replace Jeff as President and CEO of Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power.
This team brings the strong leadership financial operating and technical skills necessary to deliver on our long-term growth plans.
Now let me hand things to Joe to discuss the financial results in more detail starting with Slide 4.
Joe? Thank you Debbie.
Earlier this morning we reported third quarter earnings of $296 million or $1.19 per share.
This compares to earnings of $268 million or $1.09 per share in the same quarter last year which included a $60 million impairment charge on our investment in the Rockies Express Pipeline.
On an adjusted basis earnings for the third quarter of 2012 after excluding the impairment charge were $328 million.
You can see from the statement of operations that tax expense was very low last year.
The third quarter of 2012 included a $33 million tax benefit at SDG&amp;E related to the prior period effect of adopting a new method for deducting repairs.
Excluding this from 2012 would essentially result in relatively flat adjusted earnings between the third quarters of 2012 and 2013.
It is also important to note that in 2013 we overcame the effect of the dilution from the IEnova IPO as well as the $63 million tax impact recorded in the first quarter of this year related to our cash repatriation plan.
Excluding the impact of these 2 items and the low tax expense in 2012 that I just mentioned our core business has performed very well year-to-date.
Now let's go through the segment results in more detail beginning with SDG&amp;E on Slide 5.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the third quarter of 2013 were $129 million.
SDG&amp;E's earnings were lower due to a $46 million increase in income tax expense compared to 2012.
This was primarily driven by the impact of the tax treatment change I just mentioned and was also impacted by $7 million of higher tax expense from unfavorable adjustments for prior years' tax issues and the remainder from a higher effective tax rate in 2013 as compared to 2012.
This quarter SDG&amp;E earned $15 million from higher CPUC-based operating margin and electric transmission margin net of expenses.
These earnings were essentially offset by a $6 million effect of a lower rate of return from our cost-of-capital decision $5 million of lower earnings due to the loss of SONGS-based margin as a result of the plant closure and $3 million related to the redemption of SDG&amp;E's preferred stock.
Now please turn to Slide 6.
Third quarter 2013 earnings at Southern California Gas were $102 million compared to earnings of $71 million last year.
This quarter's increase is primarily the result of $12 million of higher CPUC-based operating margin as a result of the final GRC decision net of expenses and $10 million benefit from lower income tax rate mainly due to a change in repair expenditure deductions for natural gas pipelines that began in the fourth quarter of last year.
Now let's move to Sempra International on Slide 7.
At our South American Utilities earnings were $39 million in the third quarter of 2013 compared to earnings of $40 million in the same period of 2012.
Excluding the impact of the loss on the sale of our Argentine investment our business in South America is in line with expectations through the first 9 months of the year.
Third quarter 2013 earnings for the Sempra Mexico segment were $39 million versus earnings of $42 million in the third quarter of last year.
The decrease is due to $9 million from noncontrolling interest at IEnova related to our reduced ownership partially offset by a $7 million benefit primarily due to negative foreign currency effects which largely relate to the third quarter of 2012.
Please turn to Slide 8.
Moving to Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power the Natural Gas segment lost $7 million in the third quarter of 2013 compared to a loss of $8 million in the year ago period after excluding last year's $60 million impairment charge on REX.
The third quarter is typically a challenging one for the Natural Gas business due to the seasonal nature of gas storage and this quarter's performance is in line with our expectations.
Longer term lower natural gas and power prices continue to affect this segment.
But as you know we have clear actions underway to improve our performance.
These include selling and/or contracting the remainder of our generation plant in Arizona and developing the Cameron LNG export terminal and related facilities.
The Renewables segment recorded earnings of $37 million in the third quarter of 2013 up from earnings of $13 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The increase is largely driven by $24 million in gains from the contribution of our assets to the newly formed 50-50 solar joint ventures with Con Ed.
Please turn to Slide 9.
Turning to our guidance for 2013.
As Debbie mentioned at the outset we still expect earnings for the full year to fall within our range.
Based on events last week though it now appears that changes to the Mexican tax law are likely to occur this year.
The proposed legislation would keep future Mexican corporate tax rates at 30% as opposed to having them drop back to 28% as is the current law.
This legislation would negatively impact Sempra's fourth quarter earnings by about $0.05 per share as a result of adjusting the deferred tax balance to the higher rate.
The ongoing impact of this legislation should not be significant to earnings.
Additionally we are working to finalize the formation of a joint venture at our Energía Sierra Juárez project at IEnova.
We plan to partner with BP Wind on ESJ but their decision to exit the wind development business has caused us to find another partner somewhat prolonging the process.
Our guidance includes earnings of about $0.05 per share related to the formation which reflects an expected gain on the contribution of the assets to the JV and some recovery of development costs we have already incurred.
We are currently in advanced discussions with potential investors but completion of the deal as planned may not occur this year which would defer those earnings.
I'd like to reiterate the fundamentals of our business remain very strong and we continue to be very optimistic about our future growth prospects.
We will talk further about those prospects when we update our 2014 guidance on our next quarterly call.
Now let me hand the call back to Debbie.
Thanks Joe.
Turning to our utilities in California.
The SONGS dispute resolution process between Southern California Edison and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries has ended and will now move to binding arbitration.
Edison is taking to hold MHI liable for damages which are estimated to be in excess of $4 billion due to the defective steam generators that were installed at the plant.
SDG&amp;E has also filed a lawsuit against MHI to protect its legal rights in the matter.
The CPUC regulatory proceedings on SONGS continue and we expect to see a proposed decision on the first phase which deals with defining the cost related to the outage by the end of this year.
Subsequent phases of the investigation will likely be resolved over the next few years.
Parties have been encouraged by the commission to engage in settlement discussion to find a mutually agreeable and comprehensive solution.
Moving on to rate reform.
Last month Governor Brown signed Assembly Bill 327 into law.
This important piece of legislation will go into effect on January 1 2014 and gives the CPUC the flexibility to implement fair and reasonable reforms of the State's residential electric rates and net energy metering program.
Additionally the law grants to CPUC the authority to implement a monthly fixed charge of up to $10 per residential customer as of January 1 2015.
It also allows the CPUC to establish default time-of-use residential rate on or after January 1 2018.
Returning authority to the CPUC to address long-term rate structure issues in California is a very positive step to overall rate reform.
The CPUC is expected to issue a ruling on next step as part of its residential rate reform OIR but will likely address AB-327 implementation through various proceedings many of which are currently underway.
With respect to SDG&amp;E's rate case an administrative law judge was assigned and hearings have been set for May 2014 with any rate adjustment retroactive to September 1 of this year.
Even though we are on a hearing track FERC encourages informal settlement discussions and those discussions are currently taking place.
Based on recent decision and the fact that SDG&amp;E does not currently have any incentive adders in relation to existing projects the outcome of this proceeding may result in an ROE closer to 10% which is slightly lower than our range of anticipated outcome.
This quarter we received commission approval to construct SDG&amp;E's new South Bay substation.
The project should cost between $145 million and $175 million and should be in service in 2017.
Last week we received a proposed decision approving our $200 million Aliso Canyon Compressor station at SoCalGas and expect that project to come online in late 2016.
Both of these projects are part of our base growth plan are important infrastructure upgrades for our utility.
We are still awaiting a proposed decision on our pipeline safety enhancement plan or PSEP and expect that decision to come out this quarter.
As you know we have received authorization to track cost in a memo account and are currently sending capital and O&amp;M in anticipation of a final decision.
Please turn to Slide 11.
Moving to our Cameron Liquefaction project we received EPC bids last quarter from 2 groups and we expect to select our final contractor by the end of this year or early 2014.
Based on the significant front-end engineering work we did and our initial review of these bids we remain very comfortable that we will find a lump sum turnkey contract and that total project cost for the liquefaction facility will remain in the estimated range of $9 billion to $10 billion.
We are also progressing in our efforts to secure financing for the project and expect to receive credit approved proposals from lenders by year end.
There has been strong interest from both Japanese export credit agencies and commercial banks to participate in this financing and we believe that will allow us to close long-tenor borrowing at very attractive rate.
On the permitting front we are currently second in the queue to receive our non-FTA permit from DOE and we expect to receive that permit by year end.
The trend for non-FTA permits continues to point in a positive direction and we are pleased to see that prior to the government shut down DOE had quickened its pace between permit approvals.
The project remains on track to receive all other necessary regulatory approval sign an EPC contract finalize financing commitments and start construction by the first half of next year.
This will allow us to begin operations from the first train in the second half of 2017 with subsequent trains expected to come online 6 months after each prior one.
Let's now go on to Slide 12.
In September we acquired the rights to develop the Broken Bow 2 Wind Project in Nebraska.
The project has a total capacity of 75 megawatts and has a power purchase agreement with the Nebraska Public Power District.
We expect the project to come online late next year.
Consistent with our strategy for our renewables portfolio we anticipate project financing the facility and should have a 50% partner before operations commence.
Further exemplifying this strategy last quarter we completed the formation of 50-50 joint ventures for Mesquite Solar 1 and Copper Mountain Solar 2.
We received cash proceeds of $174 million for the 2 transactions and as Joe mentioned recorded a total after-tax gain of $24 million this quarter.
We have also launched the partnership process for our 250-megawatt Copper Mountain Solar 3 project.
That project will be fully operational in 2015 and has a 20-year agreement to sell the power to LADWP in the City of Burbank.
Let's now go on to Slide 13.
Last quarter the President of Mexico presented to Congress a proposal to reform the energy sector that will allow for a liberalization of the Mexican energy market.
The president appears to have broad support for the proposed reform and his administration has indicated they would like to see a bill passed by the end of this year.
Even without energy reform IEnova has very strong growth prospects and additional opportunities presented by reform should be incremental to projects we currently have in development.
Last month PEMEX announced that it intends to work with our joint venture to develop the 275-mile north segment of the Los Ramones II pipeline an important project for Mexico that will ensure reliable supply of natural gas to growing industrial centers.
We are working with PEMEX to define the terms of the project in the coming weeks.
But we expect IEnova's participation in the $1 billion project will be at least 25%.
PEMEX will execute a long-term take-or-pay contract for all of the pipeline capacity and the project will earn a rate of return approved by the Mexican regulator.
I'm also pleased to report that we have begun construction on the first phase of the Sonora pipeline project and this phase is on track to go into service in the second half of next year.
We also started construction on the ESJ wind project last month and that project should start delivering energy in 2015 to SDG&amp;E under a 20-year agreement.
Two significant projects in our JV with PEMEX the ethane pipeline and the Los Ramones I pipeline are also expected to go into service in the latter half of next year.
Construction on the ethane pipeline began last quarter and construction on Los Ramones I should begin late this year.
Lastly the joint venture LPG terminal in Guadalajara is scheduled to begin operations this month.
In summary we had another very solid quarter and I am pleased that our focused strategy continues to deliver results.
We are making progress as planned on our major infrastructure projects and have approximately $2.5 billion of projects scheduled to come online next year.
Additionally Sempra's future prospects are very strong with significant incremental growth opportunities across the company.
And I remain positive that the company is well positioned to continue to deliver exceptional performance.
And with that let me stop and take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys could talk a little bit about the potential investments you may be looking at in California to relieve some of the congestion and retirement issues with SONGS coming out of service and how large some of these investments could be.
And I just have a follow-up on the LNG side.
Sure I'd be happy to tell you what we're looking at right now.
In terms of quantification we're still working on that but I can kind of go through what the needs are Faisel.
In looking at SONGS replacement I would say that there are 2 areas of focus.
One is on the electric side but the other is on the natural gas side.
And both of those will require reinforcement.
On the electric side we will be improving the electric transmission system to provide voltage support and SDG&amp;E will be doing the construction of that.
That's already been allocated by the ISO to -- for SDG&amp;E to give an estimate for doing that.
We will also be looking at new electric transmission.
And that electric transmission for the state is something that the ISO is working on now and is likely to be competitively bid.
And so ourselves and others would have the opportunity to bid on that.
And that is expected to be several billion dollars’ worth of work.
And then on the natural gas infrastructure side we've been working with the ISO because with the gas needs from both the SONGS retirement and once through cooling that goes into place that there is going to be some need to reinforce the gas system to provide for more gas fire generation and basin.
And so both SoCalGas and then SDG&amp;E are also looking at that.
And we would anticipate laying out a plan with the ISO to the CPUC within the next year on the gas system enhancement.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just on the LNG project cost.
The $2 billion of financing cost can you just give us an idea what the underlying cost of capital is in that $2 billion number? It seems a little bit high but I'm just trying to figure out how to calculate it.
Yes.
You're taking the $6 billion to $7 billion and you're subtracting that from the $9 billion to $10 billion is that where you're coming up with the $2 billion? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean I think you guys talked about it in your Slide 2 $2 billion of financing cost.
Yes let me have Joe kind of go through where we -- first of all where we are on financing and then how that kind of plays out.
And some of it is reserves that we have to do.
Faisel it's Joe.
Yes what Debbie said is correct that we have required reserves and costs around the financing program.
But as she mentioned it's going very well.
We have a term sheet and Kate Collier the Treasurer and others on the team.
And our partners have been going around to visit with the large financial institutions in Japan and New York and are in -- trying to get the rating agencies to rate the project which should have a very strong credit rating.
But this money all really relates to sort of capitalized interest and the required reserves that the financing is going to require so that they can make their debt service payments.
Research Division</strong> So the required reserves is that -- you say it's half that $2 billion? I don't think we've said how much exactly it is.
We'll take our next question from Naaz Khumawala with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple questions.
One is on the FERC ROE when you guys said it's around 10%.
That's so -- I think Debbie you mentioned that there's no -- you currently have no incentives on there.
Are you going to ask for incentives or should I just assume it's 10% on the FERC rate base? Yes I mean what we're looking at is for new projects that we would have the ability to ask for incentives for new projects that we would do and we would look at requesting incentives for new projects.
For the existing projects when we put the formulaic rate in place that we've had for a number of years the condition was that we would not ask for incentives for any of the projects that were under that formulaic rate so that's how I think you might want to look at.
And how FERC deals with incentive requests for new projects we can't forecast how that will come out.
LLC</strong> Okay so it's going to go from the 10.3% to the 10% based on I guess what you are seeing right now? We're at -- our current is 11.3%.
LLC</strong> Sorry I thought it was 10.3% plus 100 but I guess I'm mistaken.
Yes we're currently at 11.3%.
LLC</strong> Okay 11.3% to 10%.
Great.
And then on like the Broken Bow project and Los Ramones II when you guys at the Analyst Day gave your 6% to 8% growth rate when you talked about potential other projects that would be in addition to the growth rate are these types of -- the wind and the new pipe is that in addition to or is that inclusive in the 6% to 8%? Let me kind of go through what are some of the projects that are -- were not identified in the 6% to 8%.
And as we said at the analyst conference that there were some -- based on the projects in the 6% to 8% they may be sized differently than they were.
They may have some time changes and all.
So it's not as clear as this is a 6% to 8% and then here's the 9% to 11%.
But I would say we've made significant progress on new projects since we saw you at the Analyst Day.
And let me just go through some of the things that we're looking at now.
Los Ramones II I talked about that.
We're looking at a minimum of 25% of that project.
So $250 million $300 million of investment there as the -- on the low side.
We have 2 Chilean transmission projects that we have agreements on that came after the Analyst Day and that we will own 50% of those projects and the total is $80 million.
So we'll have 50% of that.
And those are scheduled for completion in the 2017 2018 timeframe.
We also have the Broken Bow project that we talked about.
We have some SONGS replacement needs that Faisel just asked about in the last question and we're going through the process of trying to quantify some of those right now.
And then there are some other projects obviously we're working on that we will announce when we can confirm that we've received those projects.
And then finally the PUC came out with a ruling on battery storage and that was incremental to any of the plans.
But I believe that all of that is likely to be in the later years of the plan based upon what we're looking at right now.
And these projects will either -- PSEP as an example that could vary from what we had in our plan that we filed 2 years ago because we've identified some additional records that would reduce the mileage on that.
But at the same time the timeframe to get the work done and the cost estimates for doing that have likely gone up.
So we're likely to have to file an update on that.
And so these projects will either add to or supplement some of the 6% to 8% growth.
What I would say bottom line is with everything we have going I have great confidence that we can achieve that 6% to 8% growth and possibly more.
We'll take our next question from Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You pointed out that the pace of approvals by the DOE the non-FTA approvals have been improving.
I think it was down to about a month between the last 2 approvals.
But it's been almost 2 months now since the last one and you pointed out that we had the government shutdown during that time.
But is this latest delay causing any concern for you folks? And have you heard anything from your discussions with stakeholders or decision makers over the last couple of months that makes you more or less optimistic about getting the license this year? I think everything we're hearing is quite constructive and that if you kind of look at how long it took them to approve the prior project is something like 35 days and if you add the government shutdown time to the 35 days then hopefully we'll see something coming out within the next week or so on Freeport.
And then if they keep to that pace we do believe that we would be in the -- would be next up in the approval queue.
We would be #1 then after Freeport expansion and expect to get that by the end of this year if they kept up that type of schedule.
I would say that Secretary Moniz just traveled to Japan.
And I think the thing that is very clear is that the Japanese have made a strong case for the need of getting these projects moved forward quickly because of their need to have deliveries in the 2017 2018 period.
And that -- we had read and it's been reported to us that Moniz was quite constructive on keeping this kind of pace of 1 to 2 months approval on the project when he was in Japan.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just kind of following up on the last question.
When you think back to the Analyst Day and you gave us kind of the 2 long-term EPS growth scenarios 6% to 8% including projects in your base capital plan and an 8% to 10% with some opportunities not in the plan.
As you just pointed out there have been at least a couple if not more of those other development opportunities that now seem to be getting pulled into the plan.
So I guess can you just put -- help us put into context of the 2 different growth rates you described? And are we starting to get towards the upper end of the base range or the lower end of that high range or crossing over if you could just help us? And if -- put in context a little bit more.
I would just repeat the statement.
I think we have great confidence and visibility to the 6% to 8%.
And that when we give you our outlook at our analyst conference next year we'll lay out for the 5 years again.
But you can look at those charts we gave you and see that we have made progress.
So we'll go through all of that when we can update all of our numbers at our analyst conference.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Can you just remind us as a last question what the initial range of anticipated FERC rates you are thinking of was? Well we don't ever do a public forecast.
But I mean we kind of monitor and set our plans based upon kind of what is coming out from FERC.
So as I said we're looking to be slight -- in the low end of the kind of range that we had anticipated going in.
So we don't give any kinds of ranges.
They are factored in though when we give you the guidance ranges and that's why we give you by business unit guidance ranges so that there's some flexibility as to where some of these things might come out that we don't know the outcome of.
We'll take our next question from Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> The first question I had was just on where you stood on forming an MLP for Cameron and whether or not you think you have enough assets that would kind of get you started there until Cameron comes online and then I have a follow-up.
Somehow we anticipated this question.
So I'm going to have Mark talk about that.
Mark? Rajeev obviously as we get Cameron moving we are looking at this MLP opportunity.
We think it would be a great asset to anchor an MLP for us.
And I think really the question is as we look out at it is when will it start cash flowing and when would be the most opportune time to do that.
So I think as an anchored -- as sort of the anchored tenant of our MLP I think we're looking probably around as we approach the first cash flows from the business which should probably be 2016 or '17.
I would just add on this too is that when we look at -- just like what we did with IEnova when we look at forming an MLP when we look at doing an IPO we really feel that it's absolutely critical to have a growth strategy and to have clarity on how you grow beyond the initial dropdown of the assets.
And I would hope that with our highly successful IPO of IEnova that you see we're not hesitant to consider these types of financial structures but -- that we try to time that when they align with our business interest.
And with IEnova I think that was a great example.
We knew the Mexican reform was coming.
We had some projects we thought we could show some clear growth on.
We launched the IPO and the stock is up something like 51%.
So that's the type of transaction we like to do around here.
So I would hope you would have some confidence that we'll look at all of these kinds of structures in light of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up probably a question for Joe.
But in terms of your cash position at the end of the third quarter you had about $1 billion or so.
Can you just talk about the large number there and expectations of using it going forward? Sure Rajeev absolutely.
And I mentioned this a little bit on the last call.
A lot of that actually is cash from the IEnova IPO.
There's about $500 billion in Mexico that's being used as we talk building the Sonora pipeline.
We expect to use that over the course of the next several months and then possibly go back and raise some more debt to finish the pipeline off next year.
As we've mentioned before we have about $350 million in Chile in the holding company above the Chilean utility.
And we are looking and have some active projects going on right now that we haven't talked about and we will once we have a chance to firm it up and be able to talk about that.
So we're actively working to use that money.
And about $167 million of it was at SDG&amp;E because we did an offering a bond offering at SDG&amp;E.
And part of that was used to redeem the preferred stock in October.
So the cash is pretty well spoken for.
We'll go next to Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question is on Los Ramones II.
Could you kind of explain the progression from not bidding in to eventually getting a 25% or more stake in the project and what's changed and maybe how that affects your outlook for investment in Mexico going forward? Sure.
We'd be happy to.
I'm going to ask Mark to comment on that.
Okay.
Neel good question.
Well first on the reason that we didn't bid is I think the -- when the proposal was put out we looked at it and we really didn't feel like there was enough time being allowed for us to do an effective bid.
And while we did lobby to try to get extensions that didn't happen.
And PEMEX went forward with the bid.
And so we've decided that because we didn't feel like we had enough time to do a fulsome bid and really have a number that we felt very comfortable with we decided not to bid.
As a result I think partly because of the timing and other issues the bids that came in didn't meet their expectations nor did they conform with the bid instructions and so they were rejected.
Or the one bid they did get in was rejected then they went back and talked to the potential bidders and worked out a program to really get this pipeline done on time and meet their -- and help meet their expectations.
And they came back to us I think because we have a a long history with PEMEX of doing projects with them.
We have a joint venture in place that has been very very successful.
And I think they felt very comfortable in dealing with us and making sure that if we did commit to something that we can make sure that it would happen on time and within the kind of monetary restrictions that they were looking for.
And so as a result we've been able to -- we're negotiating with them to get this project done.
We'll have at least 25%.
And we expect that they have sort of a regulated rate of return.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And on the second question you mentioned once-through cooling as a reason as to why transmission might need to be built.
How committed do you think the state is with the existing schedule for shutdowns for gas plants that have that problem right now? And do you think maybe they'd push out that schedule in light of SONGS and some of the reliability issues that they didn't anticipate for that? I will just tell you on past history when it comes to environmental issues in California I have not seen them generally delayed.
So the ISO is very actively planning for the restrictions on once-through cooling and looking at the needs that come from SONGS and from some potential low growth over time.
So the way we look at it is that that is going to be happening.
And if it's like everything else in California on the environmental front it doesn't appear too likely to be delayed.
We'll take our next question from Mark Barnett with Morningstar Equity Research.
Research Division</strong> A couple of -- you answered a lot specifics earlier.
And I am wondering maybe on a more general level when you look at the potential for a reform bill based on what you've seen and what the government's really looking to incentivize what do you think the most kind of relevant items you expect to be addressed in the high -- kind of highest probability stuff that we'd see? Yes I'll take a first crack at that and then I'll ask Mark to add to it.
I mean we look at reform and a lot of the reform deals with the oil side of the business clearly.
And we do have some interest at Sempra and possibly going into the gathering and processing.
And one of the things that they're looking at under the reform is trying to get more participants in offshore and in some of the leasehold areas so that PEMEX can have their investments go in and more of the conventional plays and bring in some of the oil from the conventional plays to the market but I think there's good opportunities for us to expand out of natural gas.
We're doing that right now with PEMEX in the area of ethane.
We're building an ethane pipeline.
And so we see a lot of gas opportunities obviously with the reform.
They're trying to convert all of the power plants in the state from fuel oil to natural gas and so we see continued construction of pipelines occurring but I would not limit it to that as kind of how we look at the future for Sempra.
Mark do you want to? Yes I would just say too that I think one important thing to note is is that with or without reforms we're very well positioned in Mexico to continue to build out energy infrastructure.
And I think the reforms to the extent that they come will only enhance our ability to do -- to continue to do that because they'll bring on -- more fields will be brought on.
There'll be more need for pipelines.
There'll be more need for treatment facilities.
There'll be more needs for the kinds of things that are in our wheelhouse.
But as that's happening and as there's more and more emphasis in Mexico on the fact that they need to divert more monies into E&amp;P there's going to be those opportunities for us to continue to fund their infrastructure needs.
And so we -- no matter how this comes out we think even without reform we have a pretty bright future there.
And with perform it gets even better because there will just be more activity.
So we're pretty excited about it.
Research Division</strong> That's very interesting.
And I guess one last question on Mexico.
With the proposed tax reform that you are -- have already sort of addressed with the deferred tax issue but is this fairly firm at this point? Are there any incremental changes that might actually -- you mentioned on a look-forward basis it's not a serious issue given the small size of the change but is there anything that might be meaningful for energy assets in general? I'll have Joe address that.
I think just last week Congress moved it forward.
And we think that this is going to pass this year.
And that's why we wanted to give you the heads-up on this call.
But I'll have Joe address kind of the future view.
Sure.
When this -- when the energy reform was proposed and the economic and tax reform part and parcel they need to work together a little bit because the energy reform affects PEMEX cash flow and then they need a tax reform to drive more revenue.
So a lot of the tax reform was driven around individual tax reforms so they increased rates in the individual level.
And for corporations they just changed a few things.
We've taken a look at all of that.
The one thing they did -- the current tax rate in Mexico is 30% on corporation.
It was supposed to go down to 29% and then 28%.
And so our deferred taxes into the future were booked at those rates and we're just having to bring them back to the 30%.
But it's a small effect on future earnings.
We don't see any other major effects on us.
There were some other small wrinkles but we do expect it to go forward.
The Congress has essentially approved it and we expect it to go forward by year end.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Ashar Khan with Visium.
My questions have been answered.
And we'll take our next question from Vedula Murti with CTI(sic) [CDP] Capital.
Just to follow up on the MLP question.
I'm just curious given the timeline that you laid out for Cameron and everything like that given your other assets I'm curious how you right now -- clearly that's a long time in terms of changing around in terms of cost of capital.
How do you think about the differential cost of capital now with the possibility of like a transactional type of opportunity kind of like what you saw with CenterPoint deciding to try to accelerate their development of assets through merger with OGE's Enogex and what we also saw in the E&amp;P space with Devon Energy rather than doing an IPO of a fairly smallish MLP to do a merger as well or a transaction to accelerate scope and scale.
Well let me just say that we are very seriously looking at the whole MLP issue and what are the right options for structuring an MLP that would provide the kind of long-term growth that we want in our space.
There's nothing that we would preclude doing.
But we would also -- I mean we feel really good about the value of the assets that we would have to go into an MLP.
And then when you have something like Cameron that basically we take an existing plan and we put that in as our equity contribution and then we earn $300 million to $350 million a year off of that we want to be sure that anything that we do is in the long-term interest of our shareholders.
And so I don't feel any desperation to try to move it up.
If we found a good partner where we felt we could create greater long-term value and an MLP we would be very open to that.
At this time we have no further questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the conference back to Ms.
Debbie Reed for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all very much for joining us.
And as always if you have any follow-up questions you can please contact our IR team and they'd be happy to answer them for you.
And have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy Fourth Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
This morning we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Martha Wyrsch Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Trevor Mihalik Senior Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today February 27 2014 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to Slide 3 and I let me hand the call over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
2013 was another great year for our company and one filled with many accomplishments on our infrastructure projects partnership initiatives and regulatory effort.
We are extremely happy that our Cameron Liquefaction project received the Department of Energy's conditional permit to export to non-Free-Trade-Agreement countries on February 11.
And with a noteworthy progress we are making and securing our FERC permit.
We expect construction on this project to begin this year.
We will provide further details later on the call.
Turning to our financial results.
I continue to be pleased with our performance of sustained delivery of top tier shareholder return.
With the DOE non-FTA permit for Cameron now in hand we have given greater confidence in the earnings contribution Cameron will provide starting in 2018.
This puts us well on our way to meeting our goal of 9% to 11% compound annual earnings growth through 2019.
Additionally I'm confident that we will execute on some of the growth opportunities we've identified which are not yet in our plan.
This would allow us to get to the higher end of that range and I look forward to discussing these opportunities with you at our analyst conference next month.
Now let me hand things over to Joe to discuss the 2013 results in more detail starting with Slide 4.
Joe? Thanks Debbie and good afternoon or good morning to everybody.
Our results for the fourth quarter exceeded the expectations we've provided on our third quarter call and resulted in a strong finish to 2013.
This morning we reported fourth quarter earnings of $282 million or $1.13 per share.
This compares to adjusted earnings of $268 million or $1.08 per share in the same quarter last year.
Including both the impact of the $77 million 2012 retroactive benefit from our General Rate Case in California and the $119 million loss on the closure of SONGS we reported 2013 GAAP earnings of $1 001 000 000 or $4.01 per share.
For guidance purposes we reported 2013 earnings per share of $4.49 above the midpoint of our guidance range of $4.30 to $4.60 per share.
These earnings per share exclude the loss on SONGS but they include the retroactive GRC benefits.
Full year 2013 adjusted earnings which exclude both the SONGS loss and the retroactive GRC benefit totaled $1 043 000 000 or $4.18 per share.
There were 2 major factors to 2013 adjusted earnings that arose from our previously announced repatriation strategy and the IEnova IPO.
Both of these strategic decisions were designed to create and have in fact increased total shareholder value.
Just to recap those in more detail.
2013 was the first year of our plan to repatriate cash from international operations back to the United States.
While we pay little in cash taxes on this repatriation we do have to book an income tax expense when we bring the funds back to the U.S.
For 2013 this tax expense was $63 million or $0.25 per share.
The cash flow to the U.S.
from this plan supports our strategy to continue growing our dividend.
Second in March we completed the IPO of IEnova in Mexico which has been tremendously successful creating significant value for Sempra shareholders.
Since the IPO IEnova's stock is up over 70% and the value of Sampra's investment has increased by more than $1.5 billion.
This increased value has more than compensated our shareholders for the $26 million or $0.10 per share dilution we reported in 2013.
In addition to those factors as discussed on our third quarter call the Mexican government enacted tax reform that keeps the Mexican corporate tax rate at 30% after 2013 as opposed to a scheduled reduction to 28% under prior law.
This change will have only a minimal impact to ongoing earnings but did negatively affect 2013 results by $13 million due to the required adjustment to our deferred tax liabilities.
When taking these items into consideration I can see that the health of our underlying business remains strong and in line with our long-term growth aspirations.
Now let's go through the segment results in more detail beginning with SDG&amp;E on Slide 5.
At San Diego Gas &amp; Electric earnings for the fourth quarter of 2013 were $119 million compared to earnings of $110 million in the fourth quarter last year.
Fourth quarter earnings were higher primarily due to $28 million of higher CPUC base margin net of expenses partially offset by a $10 million impact of lower authorized CPUC and FERC returns and $4 million of lost SONGS earnings due to the plant closure.
For the year SDG&amp;E reported adjusted earnings of $471 million as compared to $484 million in 2012.
Earnings in 2012 included a $22 million higher income tax benefit resulting from the change in the treatment of repair expenditures that relates to the year 2011.
In 2013 we also partially offset impacts from the lower authorized rates of return and loss of SONGS earnings with higher CPUC base margin net of expenses as SDG&amp;E identified operating efficiencies to improve their performance.
Now please turn to Slide 6.
Fourth quarter 2013 earnings at Southern California Gas were consistent with the last year at $98 million.
This quarter's results were impacted by $30 million of lower tax benefits as earnings for the fourth quarter of last year included the full year's impact of the change in tax treatment for repair expenditures.
This tax impact was offset in the fourth quarter of 2013 by $19 million of higher CPUC base margin net of expenses and $12 million of reduced tax expense related to prior year's income tax issues.
SoCalGas increased annual adjusted earnings by $50 million to $339 million in 2013.
This increase largely reflects $36 million of higher CPUC base margin net of expenses in part due to operating efficiencies that SoCalGas identified to improve performance.
Higher 2013 earnings also includes $15 million in pipeline integrity expenses that are now being fully recovered in rates.
Now let's move to Sempra International on Slide 7.
At our South American Utilities fourth quarter 2013 earnings were $43 million compared to $46 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Full year 2013 earnings were $153 million.
Excluding the $11 million loss on the sale of our Argentine investments this segment was in line with our expectations.
Fourth quarter 2013 earnings for Sempra Mexico segment were $26 million versus earnings of $35 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Fourth quarter earnings reflect a $13 million increase in deferred income tax expense due to the change in tax law I discussed earlier and an $8 million decrease resulting from our noncontrolling interest at IEnova.
These effects were partially offset by $9 million of higher net earnings as a result of recording AFUDC earnings for pipeline construction.
For the full year 2013 Sempra Mexico's earnings were $122 million compared with $157 million in 2012.
Similar to the quarter the decrease in earnings resulted from the end of year change in Mexican tax law and a $26 million dilutive effect from the IEnova IPO.
Now please turn to Slide 8.
Moving to Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power the Natural Gas segment earned $9 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to a loss of $6 million in the year-ago period after excluding the $25 million payment received from Kinder Morgan for tax impacts related to the sale of their interest in REX.
Higher fourth quarter earnings were due primarily to a lower of cost or market adjustment that occurred in 2012 related to the purchase of an LNG cargo in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the change in intercompany marketing agreements that reduced cost in 2013.
For the full year Sempra Natural Gas reported 2013 earnings of $64 million.
Included in this amount is a $44 million gain on the sale of one block at the Mesquite Power Plant.
Fourth quarter 2013 earnings for the renewable segment was $6 million compared with earnings of $14 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Higher earnings in 2012 reflect $12 million of higher deferred income tax benefits as a result of assets placed into service in 2012.
For 2013 annual earnings of $62 million include $24 million of gains associated with our new solar joint ventures.
Let's please turn to Slide 9.
Turning now to our guidance for 2014.
We are reaffirming expected consolidated earnings for the year to fall within the range of $4.25 to $4.55 per share.
Overall our near-term and long-term prospects remain very strong and we are looking forward to giving you more detail on our outlook at next month's analyst conference.
In addition the Board voted in February to increase our annualized dividend by approximately 5% to $2.64 per share.
We recognize that returning capital to shareholders is important and we remain committed to providing a strong and growing dividend to the owners of Sempra.
Once Cameron is in construction we intend to recommend a higher dividend growth as an alternative to a larger one-time increase after Cameron is operational.
Now let me hand the call back to Debbie to discuss Slide 10.
Thanks Joe.
As I mentioned at the outset of this call we were pleased to receive our permit to export to non-FTA countries from the Department of Energy on February 11.
We are also the first on the list of proposed LNG projects to have received our Draft Environmental Impact Statement from FERC.
FERC schedule calls for issuance of the final EIS on or before April 30 2014.
This is the last major step in securing our FERC order authorizing the construction and operation of the project.
And we expect to receive that order this summer.
In addition to progress on permitting we are finalizing terms on the lump sum construction contract with our preferred EPC contractor.
The cost estimates for the project remains in line with the $6 billion to $7 billion of construction cost and $9 billion to $10 billion of total cost that we have consistently projected.
We have also made substantial progress in securing financing.
We are working with the Japanese export credit agencies to finalize their loan commitment.
And earlier this month we signed a commitment letter with commercial banks worldwide as part of our very successful commercial bank syndication.
Given this development we continue to have confidence we will be able to close long tenure borrowing at very attractive rates.
Subject to FERC's final approval the project remains on track to start construction in 2014 and we still expect all 3 trains to come online throughout 2018 with the first full year of 3-train production in 2019.
Concerning the progress of our Cameron LNG facility we want to take this opportunity to update you on our thinking around the potential MLP strategy.
We have a great asset in Cameron.
And we know that it could serve as a very strong and anchor for an MLP as it will provide natural drop-down given its significant cash flow underpinned by 20-year contract.
Since those cash flows don't start for several years we continue to explore ways to jumpstart an MLP using our own storage of pipeline assets or by developing or buying other assets.
After much analysis we've determined that currently our existing assets don't provide the certainty of cash flows to support the formation of an MLP that will generate the premium valuation our shareholders deserve.
We will continue to assess this.
In fact the assets like rocks [ph] are well positioned to secure contracts for transport of that out of the Marcellus and Utica and could help jumpstart an MLP.
As you saw with our IEnova IPO we are focused on structures that increase value for Sempra shareholders both today and into the future and we will time a possible MLP accordingly.
Using Cameron as a strong foundation for future MLP is bolstered by the many exciting prospects we have to grow in and around the LNG and gas infrastructure businesses.
Mark will provide you with more information on these emerging opportunities at next month's analyst conference.
At that time Joe will also go into more detail about our MLP thought process.
Let's now turn to Slide 11 for an update on regulatory proceedings for our California utility.
In January 2014 SDG&amp;E filed an uncontested multiparty settlement agreement with FERC on our Electric Transmission formula that establish an authorized return on equity of 10.05%.
The FERC order approving the settlement should be issued by the end of the third quarter in 2014.
But will be retroactive to September of last year and this settlement will be in effect through December 2018.
The settlement specifically allows SDG&amp;E the right to apply for incentive adders on future projects and determines the equity ratio based upon actual equity recorded on December 31 of each year.
Terms of the settlement are reflected in our fourth quarter 2013 earnings and in our 2014 guidance.
Second on SONGS.
The CPUC's proceedings remain ongoing and while the commission is encouraging parties to engage in settlement discussions we expect the final resolution of all proceedings to take some time.
We continue to believe that the amount of our remaining regulatory asset is reasonable and will be recovered.
Now please turn to Slide 12.
In Peru our Santa Teresa Hydro project remains on schedule and should be completed later this year.
The 100-megawatt project is our first generation project in Peru and I'm confident it will be the first of many additional projects we will execute there.
In fact Mark Joe and I recently visited South America and are enthusiastic about prospects for growth in Chile and Peru.
We will discuss more specifics at the conference next month but there are a number of possible projects in South America that fits very well with our strategy including gas pipelines and electric generation and transmission opportunity.
In Mexico we also continue to move ahead on our many infrastructure projects.
Construction of the first phase of our Sonora Pipeline project is on schedule and on budget and this 300-mile segment is expected to be completed in the second half of 2014.
The second segment of the pipeline is projected to start operations in the second half of 2016.
In January construction began on the Los Ramones I project as part of our joint venture with PEMEX.
And that pipeline is also expected to be completed in the second half of 2014.
We continue to work on finalizing the contract for our participation in the Northern Phase of Los Ramones II and I anticipate these negotiations will conclude very soon.
As you'll recall we expect to have a 25% share of this segment of the pipeline.
Finally in Mexico.
Last quarter we've started construction on the 156-megawatt ESJ Wind project which is supported by a 20-year contract with SDG&amp;E.
As we discussed last quarter formation of a 50-50 joint venture for this project was delayed due to our original prospective partner's decision to exit the wind development business.
However negotiations are progressing well with other interested parties and I'm confident we will finalize the JV very soon.
Finally in the first quarter of 2014 we made the decision to hold for sale the second block of the Mesquite Power Plant in Arizona.
It continues to be our goal to complete our exit of the merchant generation business and we are making good progress on the sale of this asset.
However since we do not yet have a contract for sale we are not including the transaction in the guidance that we reaffirmed today.
Now let's finish by turning to Slide 13.
In summary 2013 was another very good year for our company.
Demonstrating how well our business strategy performs in our changing market and regulatory condition.
We have already made significant progress on planned infrastructure projects and with over $2 billion of projects scheduled to come online before next year I'm equally optimistic about future earnings.
Sempra's diversified portfolio and focused strategy on long-term contracted cash flow positions us well for growth in the years ahead.
And with that let me stop and take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Greg Gordon of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Can we take the commentary around the time horizon for the sort of ability for you guys to flow the -- an MLP part and parcel with your willingness to be more aggressive on the dividend in the intermediate term and sort of the financial sort of balancing act you're making in order to try to drive the best shareholder value for your investors until the point where you get to a viable portfolio of MLP-eligible assets? Well as I said -- I mean I think just the Cameron asset alone has great potential for an MLP with the ability to drop down that in pieces over time and have clear visibility to that.
And I thought as the debt is paid off the earnings increase and that there's some good upside from that asset.
Right now as we look at the other assets we have we don't feel that it would be in our shareholder's interest to do a bridge strategy without those assets.
But I will say we're constantly looking at other assets that we could potentially acquire.
And if we found some good assets that would create a good bridge strategy we're not opposed to do that.
On the dividend issue we have a great deal of confidence now about Cameron coming online.
After getting the non-FTA permit and being where we are in the FERC process we're feeling very confident about this project going online with all 3 trains coming on in 2018.
And then full 3-year operations -- 3-train operations in 2019.
And so as we look at our dividend we've had a policy of 45% to 50% payout ratio.
We see the earnings coming in 2018 and 2019 and we really think that we can do that dividend and it not be inconsistent with any MLP strategy.
Joe? Yes.
Greg I'm just making another point.
I don't see them as a very linked at all.
I think that we have really strong earnings and growth in our other businesses besides just Cameron.
And so this dividend is in response to our continually growing earnings from that.
And as we look forward and study the MLP we'll have enough cash flow from LP and GP units to keep our dividend even post an MLP.
So I don't see that as any kind of a bridge it's from the strong earnings that we have.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up question.
Have you considered -- given so successful in the IEnova transaction have you considered as a -- instead of an IPO of your MLP-eligible assets doing a strategic transaction with another entity with an existing GP where you contributed your assets for a GP stake and thus helped to drive further growth for that other entity and therefore added value to the GP shares that you would be acquiring? I would say we look at all of those things Greg.
That -- the thing that we have got to be sure is that with the Cameron asset we want to be sure that our shareholders get the right kinds of splits have the right kind of long-term structure for our assets that we're going to put in.
And if we found something that would work with that we would definitely be open to considering that.
But we're not going to rush to get something out that devalues our assets in the long-term.
And we'll go next to Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up on the MLP question.
So you're not willing to use a bridge strategy with REX right now but with where mid-stream assets are going for in terms of valuation how do you expect to compete without having an MLP in place to buy some of these assets? Well what I said was that if we look at our existing assets right now putting them in MLP to do a bridge strategy we don't think that was the best thing.
What I also said though is that some things are changing with those -- the value of those assets that we might see in the future.
And as you know that after we basically have REX flow bidirectionally are moving forward and that that could offer some opportunities if we can have contracts that extend beyond the expiration of the existing contracts.
So -- and we just did a nonbinding open season and that had some -- it gave us some promise that there's some real upside with that asset potentially.
So we will continue to look at that.
And if we had to make an acquisition for a bridge strategy that made economic sense in the long term we would look at doing what made economic sense in the long term.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And secondly on the 9% to 11% growth rate.
Kind of bridge that with the previous 6% to 8% growth rate before -- I guess you guys included Cameron for 2018 and 2019.
So does the 9% to 11% include projects that are not in the development plan or not in the earnings plan right now? Do that exceed 11% or is it kind of -- you'd be the closer to 9% without those projects and towards the higher end of the range if you executed on some of the growth projects? Yes.
We'll go through this in detail at the analyst meeting.
But when we look at that range of 9% to 11% the 9% basically includes what we have in our base plan without incremental growth and Cameron at full operation in 2019.
We will go through the upsides that we have in our -- that are not in our plan but are upsides to that plan at the analyst meeting.
But there are a lot of things happening in that regard and a number of bids are coming out in 2014 even that could add to that and get us towards the high end of that range.
And that's what I commented on as if we pick up some of those projects we could definitely be towards the high end of that range by 2019.
And we'll go next to Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Apologies I just want to beat up once more on the MLP topic.
Assuming you don't make any major acquisitions and your existing assets don't change in such a way that you'll be even [ph] more MLP-able between now and when Cameron does start operating should we assume that it is your plan to form an MLP with Cameron as the anchor in 2018 or 2019? Or are you still not sure that you'd go that route when you get to that point? Well I mean these are discussions that obviously we will have our Board of Directors as we get closer.
But if everything stays as it does today and if there's opportunities to grow at that midstream business with cheaper equity and do that then that would be our intent.
But that's a while off so things could change tax laws could change interest rates could change.
But as we look at it today that's the direction we would be headed.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify on your comments around the dividend growth you're planning to propose accelerated dividend growth starting I guess next year assuming that Cameron enters construction as opposed to staying on the same trajectory you've been on recently and waiting all the way until 2018 for more of a step change.
Is that correct? That's generally correct.
Let me just have Joe talk about kind of how we're thinking about the dividend.
Yes.
As we said we right now today have a dividend payout ratio that is higher than the 45% to 50% that we've set with the board long term because of the repatriation plan.
And we just recommended and they approved an increase of almost 5% now for this year.
And what we said is once Cameron is in construction later this year then we go to next year's dividend we think we will suggest a slightly faster pace that will allow us to get to the 45% to 50% in 2019.
So you can kind of assume that we'll be suggesting something more of a straight line from 2015 to 2019 that you gets to that 45% 50%.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on the Cameron financing is that pretty much just waiting for FERC approval before that gets secured? Or are there other issues that you're still working through? Mark why don't you talk a little bit about where we stand on Cameron in general including the financing? Well I think in general we're in very good shape.
And I would point out that just to comment on in line with the dividend question just to remind you all that this whole project we're committing existing assets and we fully expect to finance and use the contributions from our partners to finance construction.
So that's not a drain on our cash so we certainly are able to raise the dividend without -- that there's no concerns there.
As far as financing goes and Joe can comment on this as well but we have a very very robust response to our financing efforts.
And we are highly confident of being able to completely finance this project without any problems.
Another comment on where we are with the EPC too.
We're in the final kind of final weeks of negotiating the EPC contract.
And what I will say is that we will have -- we will come out of with this with a contract that is a lump sum turnkey project contract that shifts the construction risk to the EPC contractor.
And I think there was always some concern whether that would happen but the market has been good around that and we have a very nice contract that we're very happy with with a very experienced builder.
And we'll go next to Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask about the underlying assets within the U.S.
Natural Gas business.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing with gas storage economics given the volatility we've just seen over the last couple of months and whether a change in the economics have started to appear in gas storage or whether the gas storage market appears somewhat depressed still? Sure Michael.
Let me just start generally and then I'm going to turn it over to Mark to add a few more detail.
We did talk about REX and what we see happening there.
And many of you have written about what's happening in Marcellus and Utica.
And you've talked about a lot of the pipelines reversing flow going into the Gulf area.
And what we see in the Gulf area is we see colder gas conversion and in the Southeast in that region.
And we also see all the LNG export occurring.
And that -- we think that is going to change some of the dynamics relative to storage certainly.
And what we're starting to see is an interest in contracting on longer-term basis for some of the storage assets because I think others are seeing the same thing and think that it will be good to get some long-term contracts.
Mark do you want to add a little bit to that? Yes.
A couple of things I would just say is that -- and I know you can appreciate the technical nature of some of my comments here.
But what we've seen in the past is we've had a very depressed storage market with really the only value being recognized is the summer winter spread that frankly has been relatively small and weak over the last few years.
We're certainly seeing that change now we're seeing a higher value for that.
But then I think even more importantly for the first time in probably 4 years or so we're seeing a real return to some extrinsic value.
So valuing that volatility around the gas market we're seeing a value put on that and we're getting that in our storage rates currently.
So I think that part of the business seems to be coming back a bit.
And in fact I think for the first time we've actually sold some storage to marketers which we haven't done in a long time.
So there is something going on there.
I'm a little bit reluctant to say that it's back to where it was 7 or 8 years ago.
But it's certainly a better market today than it was 6 months ago.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And when thinking about REX and kind of the reversal of REX back to or at least a part of REX back to Midwest how long do you and your partners think you could -- how long do you think it likely will take before you sign up a lot greater percentage or a greater portion of REX to move gas from either the Marcellus or Utica into the Midwest? Well we would hope to do that very soon.
That as I said we had a nonbinding open season.
And there seemed to be a lot of interest in that and so we would like to pursue that.
And then you've also seen all the announcements through the pipeline some of which actually connected to REX the reverse flows going from north to south.
And so we think this is going to happen relatively soon with the need for takeaway capacity out of the Marcellus and the Utica.
We also are working on the lateral that we talked to you about previously and that will be in service very shortly in 2014 probably by April.
So the whole dynamics of that are changing that area is going to change rapidly and we need to be able to respond rapidly and we will.
We'll go next to Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One can you just talk about what you're seeing as it relates to the market for buying existing midstream assets as it relates to pricing things like that? And second question specifically on Cameron with more clarity on financing costs et cetera do you still feel good about the numbers you laid out before in terms of the EPS contribution et cetera? Yes.
Let me start with the last question on Cameron.
And yes we feel very good about the numbers that we've talked about at Cameron.
With everything we've seen with the EPC contract the financing and all as I reaffirmed today those numbers look good.
I'll talk a little bit about at a high level the midstream.
And I don't want to go into details on assets.
But what I think you're starting to see now is a cycle that's kind of been interesting and it's repeated itself multiple times in the E&amp;P business where you're starting to see more of the E&amp;P companies look at selling off some of their midstream assets so that they can invest that stream.
So I think what we saw a few years ago is starting to change a little bit.
And so we will continue to look at opportunities as these changes occur.
Chevron has looked at some asset sales.
Chesapeake is looking at some asset sales.
And it's very typical when E&amp;P companies decide that they need to invest more upstream for them to look at the selling off some of those assets and so we'll be exploring that.
And in terms of asset pricing.
Obviously you're competing with MLPs and that are interested in getting those assets.
And so we will continue to look at every opportunity that is out there and whether it fits for us.
The good thing is that we have some opportunities in the LNG space that Mark will talk about more at the conference.
But I'll let him just maybe give a little bit on that right now.
Well I would say that if you think of LNG as being sort of a midstream asset that's certainly MLP-able we are starting to see opportunities in the LNG space.
And I'm going into some detail on some specifics at the conference.
But I think we are kind of starting construction on Cameron with a mindset that this isn't just a single-asset business.
It is a business that we believe we can grow and we can continue to add to it.
And we're very excited about the opportunity to really have an LNG business and not just an LNG asset.
So I think that's what's very exciting.
And I will say on the other midstream stuff it's a very competitive market.
And the stuff that we've seen that's been priced reasonably is stuff that we typically don't want.
And the stuff that we've looked at that we want is either not for sale or very very expensive.
And so we certainly are taking that into consideration.
And I think most of you have enough confidence in us that this is a management team that's pretty thoughtful about how we make investments in these kinds of things.
And we're looking to do -- we are certainly anxious to do something that builds shareholder value.
But we're also very willing to be patient.
I'd just add to that one thing too is we're a very strong company with a very strong balance sheet.
And where the 10-year debt is is very low.
And our after-tax cost of capital for borrowing money to buy something is pretty low.
But as Mark said we're going to be very disciplined about looking at things and make sure they were the right thing to do.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a quick follow-up.
So you talked about the asset side.
What about actually buying an existing company or sort of that idea? I'll ask Mark to add because I've already given some kind of my view.
So I'll ask Mark to add...
When you say buying an existing company you mean as far as -- in which state.
With a general partner or...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Or rather than buying -- doing a piecemeal and buying assets to put into an MLP maybe buy an actual company that has existing assets kind of existing MLP or something else? Well I get it.
Look I think exactly the same comment applies which is I mean the valuation metrics around assets and existing MLPs is pretty much the same which is the ones you really want are very very expensive and the ones that look like they're reasonably priced there's usually something wrong and something we don't want.
So I think the same -- all the same caveats apply.
But as Joe said we're more than willing to move on something if we find the right thing.
We just haven't found it yet.
And we'll go next to Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I'm not going to ask you any more about the MLP.
But just -- since a lot of my questions have been asked just a few quick ones.
Is there any interest -- you guys have previously been in merchant power you guys have really walked away from that et cetera.
Given where prices are and things coming up for sale do you guys have any interest at all in that? Or is that pretty much still off the table? No.
I mean really our model now and our strategy I think that works very well for us and that we have plenty of growth opportunities within this model is to do long-term contract and infrastructure.
And so merchant business and the volatility of the merchant business doesn't really work well with our other assets.
And so if we could do a long -- a 20-year contract or something and build a plant but I don't consider it merchant yes we would do something like that.
But to be in the market like what happened when our DWR contract expired is not where we want to be.
Okay makes sense.
Just some real quick cleanup things.
The Mexican taxing did I understand it correctly that's mostly nonrecurring that there really shouldn't be any impact going forward? This is Joe.
Going forward it's $3 million to $4 million a year.
It's 2% change in the tax rate on our pretax income if not greater.
And then sundry items the asset balance sort of increased again.
Was there any impact on earnings for the quarter? Yes.
This is Trevor Paul.
Very limited there.
On the sundry items the increases there were primarily associated with the PBOP assets and the greenhouse gas allowances that increased there.
So the PBOP assets and the pension assets increased by about $95 million and the greenhouse gas allowances were about $60 million and then we also had some workers' comp insurance increases there for about $40 million.
Then included in there is also the Rabbi Trust.
But year-over-year that was about the same.
So that was really the driver in the increase of the $263 million on sundry.
Okay.
But I mean for the quarter was there an EPS impact? No there was very minimal impact really associated with it.
And then just finally your stock has moved up a lot.
Any thoughts of the stock split? I know it's kind of a cosmetic question but just since I got you on the phone.
I mean people always ask us that question.
I think when Berkshire Hathaway trades as it does you kind of feel that most of the buyers can afford the stock as it is.
And so unless there's some other compelling reason it's not something that we spend a lot of time on most likely.
And we'll go next to Kit Konolige with BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of kind of cleaning-up questions.
So on the dividend growth going forward.
The comment was that we would potentially see a slightly faster rate of growth.
Did I write that down correctly? Well we had said before a 4% to 5% growth.
And if you look at a 4% to 5% growth and you look at what happens when Cameron comes online with the earnings you don't quite get to a 45% to 50% payout ratio.
So we're looking at rather than wait and doing a 4% to 5% and then waiting to have a step function increase when Cameron comes online to smooth that a bit.
So that should yield the dividend growth rate that would be slightly higher than we would have done otherwise.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Okay fair enough.
Okay.
And your discussion of SONGS it sounds as though your expectations are pretty low for any settlement.
Is that a fair assessment? No.
I wouldn't assess it that way.
But I really can't talk about any settlement discussions.
So I wouldn't conclude that it's not possible or that it is possible I just really can't talk about any kind of confidential settlement discussions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
How about in the absence of a settlement discussion how long -- can you be any more specific about how long it might take until we get a fully litigated result? Well I can tell you what the phases are.
And there's 4 phases in the case.
And we have a schedule for the first 2 phases and we just heard that the first phase is already being delayed.
It was supposed to come out in February.
It will be delayed now until the end of March.
And so we're thinking this will certainly take through this year and probably into next year if you just look at their schedule.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
More CPUC delays right? They never announce that it's coming sooner.
And then one other area that I just jotted down.
So on the impact of tax expense on the repatriation is that going to be a steady impact in years going forward now? In other words year-over-year will there be any change in that? Let me ask Joe to handle that.
The thing that I just would remind you all is this year we did the IPO so it was a little different this year and we repatriated about $200 million associated with that.
Our plan called for us to repatriate about $300 million a year henceforth.
Joe why don't you talk about the tax on that? Yes.
So I think what we said a year or more ago when we announced this plan was that it would go on for about 5 or 6 years and that we would have with earnings impact which would be roughly $0.25 or up to $0.30 a share.
It might move around a little bit just depending on some issues around the tax rules the way they work and with our other income.
But it should be in that neighborhood for about 5 or 6 years so pretty [indiscernible].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
Okay.
And one final area just to get my thinking straight on this.
The growth rate of 9% to 11%.
Can you give us a sense of kind of what are the building blocks there? In other words is that simply the kind of prior growth rate plus a CAGR that would get us to the addition of Cameron when it comes online? Or are there other things going on there? Yes.
Basically we'll go through this as an update at the analyst meeting.
But we showed you those charts last year that had kind of our growth rate through 2018 2017.
And then it showed if you added Cameron to that the 9% to 11%.
That's basically what we're talking about.
We basically take what our 2018 earnings would be on our base business you added a full year of Cameron and thats what gives you kind of the 9% range.
And then there's upside as we showed you last year in terms of additional opportunities that could get you towards that 11% range.
And we'll go through those in detail at our analyst meeting.
And we'll go next to Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I learned a new term today MLP-able.
Outside of the U.S.
you've been doing obviously some really good building business down obviously in Central America focused on Mexico.
But I guess maybe with that growing base of assets and maybe with a growing relationship particularly with a partner like GDF SUEZ do you see maybe some of these partnerships as a beginning of a larger platform for Latin America? And I guess second part of that question would be I know your positions are already fairly strong.
But is there any benefit to maybe a more formal agreement pursuing projects? Or is an ad hoc approach better suited? Yes.
I mean I will say that we're looking at some bids that will be coming up and we're looking at partners that would be good partners for us for those kinds of bids.
And that we -- as you can see with our Cameron facility and what we've done with our Renewables business we are not at all opposed to partnering.
And especially if you can create a bigger pie by partnering we really like that.
So I think there's every opportunity that we would look at partners in Mexico especially if we want to get into as we would like to some of the gathering and processing and areas like that in Mexico it would be ideal to have a partner to work with there.
And then the same thing South America and I would say the same thing in the United States.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe a further question on Mexico in particular.
I know it's still in progress and you mentioned the gathering and processing and obviously gas infrastructure is kind of appealing.
But do you think that there -- given some pretty I guess impressive growth fundamentals and investment needs does electric distribution have any interest in the longer term for Sempra? This is something that I would just say we are watching and that the thing that we're really watching is what happens with rate structures that really allows you to be competitive.
And we think the electric businesses is a good business.
They have a lot of capital requirements in that business in the long term.
We have aging infrastructure throughout the U.S.
so there's a lot of opportunity to invest in transmission as well.
So there are parts of that business that we like a lot.
And so I wouldn't rule it out.
We happen to own the largest gas distribution company and we love the gas business.
So with that a lot of our growth is really focused on the gas side as you see.
But that doesn't mean that electric is not of interest to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in particular for Mexico there's still I guess a lot of rate formalities as it were that have yet to be ironed out around electric distribution is my understanding? Yes.
That's correct.
And we'll go next to Joe Zhou [ph] with Avon Capital Advisors.
Actually it's Andy Levi.
And I apologize if the question was kind of asked because I see the headlines but I was at a different meeting so I kind of just got back.
But just on the MLP front would you guys consider purchasing? I know since you're on the headlines on Bloomberg that you'd purchase assets to create an MLP.
But would you actually consider buying a small MLP to kind of jumpstart that process? Yes.
We would consider that.
What our focus will be on though is creating the greatest long-term value.
And if we saw something like that that was reasonably priced we thought we could grow it with some other assets we have.
And we would be particularly interested in something where if you combine the assets that they have with the assets that we had 1 plus 1 would equal more than 2.
And if we could find something like that then yes we would be open to that.
Mark stated earlier that what's been shopped usually if it's priced reasonably it's not something we would have much interest in.
And that a lot of the other things just seem already having every potential growth priced in.
And so if it looks like it would be good for our long-term shareholder interest we are absolutely willing to consider that as an option.
And I assume you have obviously the currency to do that so...
Yes.
Yes.
I guess that gives you some options a better way to put it.
And we'll go next to Josh Golden with JPMorgan.
I'm so sorry for asking the question upfront.
This probably isn't the best place to ask you.
But can you talk a little bit more about the LNG Cameron LNG terminal? So from the producer side where exactly is this gas going to be coming from? Is this more Marcellus-Utica gas? Or is it more Eastern Texas-type of gas? And I guess I'm just sort of thinking in combination many years ago you guys made the acquisition of EnergySouth and the storage assets down there.
So I'm just trying to think about how all this works together.
And really curious where do you see the gas coming from for this terminal? Yes let me ask Mark to answer that.
But I just want to be clear on one thing.
We don't buy the gas through the terminal.
Our customers will be buying the gas through the terminal.
Basically our contract to the terminal is almost like a take-or-pay contract with the pipeline where when the facility goes in service whether they use it or not we get paid and that they buy the gas and they sell the gas.
So I just want to be sure that you understand kind of the structure before Mark answers your specific question.
Mark? Yes I sure do.
Okay yes.
Look I think well this answer is going to sound a little bit like the current administration.
It's kind of an all-of-the-above strategy.
Our customers are going to acquire gas both -- there will be Marcellus gas that we expect to flow south into the facility and we'll also -- obviously the Texas production will flow there as well.
And there could even be Midcon and other production basins that will flow into this facility.
And if you think about our facility and the other LNG facilities that are in that region even with and coupled out with the petrochemical businesses and the proposed petrochemical plants all in that Gulf region this is going to be a very very large area of consumption for natural gas and so supplies will come from all over.
All of the producing regions will end up supplying this region.
And we're seeing that now.
And it's actually -- that's what one of the things that's creating value for not only our storage assets as you mentioned but also some of our pipeline assets that you might not even think about.
REX is looking like becoming more of a header system for the whole north part of the country.
And that header system is going to feed both going north and south.
So we do think there'll be some interplay with our other assets.
So that's interesting.
Now just one follow-up.
So if you look at the basis spread differential it's really collapsed year-over-year and hence all the feedback storage et cetera.
What do you think will happen to basis spread differential between north south et cetera? I mean do you see those increasing again? Or how do you see that shaking out? I think because we have found gas in so many places across the country and some of those places are so close to the consuming regions basis spread has collapsed around the country.
And I think what you're going to really see is -- and like all infrastructure we do have a lot of pipeline infrastructure it's just some of it is not going in the right direction.
So as we make the incremental investments to be able to move gas in the direction that we need it to go you're going to see the basis kind of reduced down to the tariff on those lines.
And we will take a follow-up question from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Real quick.
I'd like to turn back to the original -- one of the original businesses the utilities in California.
Can you just talk a little bit about how the agreement with the FERC on FERC transmission impacts revenues for 2014? Sure.
Let me go through exactly what the settlement is and then talk about the impact.
So it's a multiparty settlement.
It's uncontested.
It sets an ROE at 10.05%.
And it's based upon the actual equity as recorded on 12/31 of each year.
It will go from September 1 2013 to December 31 2018.
So that's gives you kind of the duration of this.
And if you look at where we were at 11.3% ROE to a 10.05% ROE that's something like $20 million to $30 million a year of impact in that production of ROE based upon the FERC assets the FERC rate base that we have.
And that has been included in our guidance.
So the numbers that we gave you we started having this effect in 2013.
Once we knew a settlement was pending we were booking to the settlement amount.
And it's reflected in our 2014 guidance.
Research Division</strong> So when you say it was in the 2013 numbers meaning that full amount was so there's no incremental year-over-year delta? Or was part of that '13 and part '14? Yes.
Well the only incremental would be as the rate base increases.
But it was in '13 for the fourth quarter from September 1 forward when the prior rate expires.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on the O&amp;M side at both utilities I mean you guys over the years have been one of the best if not the best operator at the utility level.
Just curious what some of the operating efficiencies you've been able to find and how we should think about kind of directional trends from 2012 onwards for the next few years in terms of utility O&amp;M.
Well I mean I would say that we're always -- this is a constant improvement effort at our utilities as you well know.
And so last year some of the efficiencies of operations were able to offset some of these [indiscernible] reductions in ROE and SONGS to some extent.
And we would see us continuing to work at that level of efficiency and looking for other opportunities to improve.
What I will say is safety is our first priority and we will not do anything that would reduce the safety of our service.
And so that is the key focus for our people.
But new technologies come in all the time.
We have opportunities to change the way we dispatch workers change the way we time appointments change the way we use technology to answer customer calls route customer calls.
Those are the kinds of things we really focus on that can improve customer service improve safety and reduce cost.
And we'll go next to Winfried Fruehauf with W.
Fruehauf Consulting Ltd.
Regarding Energía Costa Azul what was the net income contribution in 2012 and '13 and also the fourth quarters of each year? Yes.
We don't break it down.
We share data at segment levels Winfried so we would not break it down to that kind of a level.
You can kind of look at the Mexico segment and see.
We've decided it's relatively stable because it's under a long-term contract so there's very little difference between '12 and '13.
So it's the same but we don't give that kind of detail.
Okay.
And another question if I may.
What was the total foreign exchange impact in 2012 and '13 and also the fourth quarters of each year? Across all businesses it was fairly small.
I don't have the number right off the top of my head.
But in the fourth quarters it was approximately $5 million to $6 million in the fourth quarter of '14.
But I need to pull the number to get that specifically for you and not much different from that for the full year.
Okay.
And that was negative? That's right.
The dollar would strengthen.
Yes okay.
Well if you could maybe get back to me please with the numbers that would be appreciated.
And we'll take a follow-up question from Kit Konolige with BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of items.
On the 9% to 11% growth rate to get back to that what's the base EPS that you're using there? Is it the 2013 actual now? No.
We'll go through that at the analyst meeting.
I don't have all of that in front of me right now.
We'll update all of that for 2014 through 2018 and then the show you 2019 at the analyst meeting.
And I'd rather do it that way versus giving you pieces of information because I don't want to create confusion around that.
And we'll have slides on all of that at the meeting.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
One other item I noted that the Energen according to reports is selling Alagasco.
You guys have been in that part of the world for a while.
Do you have any interest in gas distribution in Alabama? We can't really comment on any kind of transactions like that.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Ms.
Reed at this time I will turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us today and thank you for all of your questions.
We look forward to answering more questions at our analyst meeting coming up at the end of March and going through a lot more detail with you at that time.
In the meantime if you have any questions that you need follow-up on please contact Rick Vaccari or any of the people in our Investor Relations group to help you in the meantime.
And we will see you at the end of March.
Thanks.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy First Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we’ll be discussing Sempra Energy’s First Quarter 2014 Financial Results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Martha Wyrsch Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Trevor Mihalik Senior Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company’s most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.
It’s important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our first quarter 2014 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I’d also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today May 2 2014 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to slide 3 and I let me hand the call over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
Before I get started off I’d like to thank those of you who attended our March Analyst Conference in San Diego and those of you who also participated in the webcast.
It was a great opportunity for us to discuss our strategy for achieving a 9% to 11% growth rate and the numerous additional projects in development that could provide upside to our plan.
On today’s call we will discuss our first quarter financial results and provide you with several operational and regulatory updates.
Earlier this morning we reported first quarter adjusted earnings of $256 million or $1.03 per share.
Our first quarter earnings were in line with our growth expectations and consistent with our full year of 2014 guidance.
On our Cameron liquefaction project we are happy to announce that FERC completed its environmental review process and published the final environmental impact statement on April 30th.
We are now awaiting the final FERC permit which we should receive this summer.
This is an important milestone and we expect to be the second U.S.
LNG Export Project to begin construction.
Consistent with our 50-50 partnership model for renewables we successfully completed the sale of a 50% interest in our Copper Mountain Solar 3 facility during the quarter.
Additionally on April 21st we announced a partnership agreement for our ESJ wind-generation project in Mexico.
On the California regulatory front SDG&amp;E and Southern California Edison reached an important settlement agreement with key parties that was approved by the CPUC to resolve all outstanding cost issues on the SONGS plant closure.
We have also received the proposed decision on our pipeline safety enhancement program.
We will provide further details on all of these developments later in the call.
Now let me hand things to Joe to discuss the first quarter results in more detail starting with slide four.
Joe? Thank you Debbie.
As you mentioned the first quarter financial performance was strong and in line with our growth expectations.
We reported first quarter consolidated earnings of $247 million or $0.99 per share.
Excluding a $9 million revision to the loss on the SONGS plant closure we reported adjusted earnings of $256 million or $1.03 per share.
This compares to earnings of $178 million or $0.72 per share in the same quarter last year.
In comparing first quarter performance year-over-year remember that first quarter earnings in 2013 did not include $29 million of earnings from our California utilities as a result of the general rate case delay.
In Feb these earnings were recorded in the second quarter of 2013 after SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas received their rates case decisions.
2013 first quarter earnings were also impacted by several other items including a $44 million gain on the sale of a portion of the Mesquite Power plant.
In addition we recorded a $63 million deferred tax expense in the first quarter last year related to the IEnova IPO restructuring.
In the first quarter of 2014 we recorded $12 million of estimated deferred tax expense to reflect only a portion of the planned repatriation for the year.
However our estimated annual tax rate includes an expectation that we will record additional deferred tax throughout the year to reflect our plant repatriation for 2014.
Now let me turn to our earnings guidance.
First I would note that the impact of the SONGS settlement was not in our original guidance.
Still we are reaffirming our 2014 guidance per share at $4.25 to $4.55 including the $9 million or $0.04 per share of SONGS impact.
Also last month the President of Chile presented a tax reform proposal to the Congress that would increase the corporate tax rate from 20% to 25% and apply a 10% additional shareholder tax when profits are earned rather than distributed.
The higher proposed taxes are likely to be enacted this year although the final rules have not yet been determined.
We expect the proposal would phase in the higher corporate tax rate over a four year period beginning in 2014 and change the shareholder level tax starting in 2017.
In the quarter the [innate] tax changes enacted we will record changes to deferred tax liabilities impacted by the change.
None of these potential impacts to the proposed Chilean tax reform is in our guidance as additional details were pending and the timing of enactment is uncertain.
Now please turn to slide five for details on SDG&amp;E.
First quarter adjusted earnings for SDG&amp;E were equal to $108 million and excludes a $9 million revision to the loss on the SONGS plant closure that resulted from the settlement agreement.
In a year-over-year comparison first quarter 2013 earnings were $17 million lower due to the general rate case delay.
In the first quarter of 2014 $4 million in higher CPUC based margin and improved operational performance largely offset $6 million of lower earnings from both the reduced FERC authorized return on equity and the loss to SONGS rate base earnings.
Now please move to SoCalGas on slide six.
The SoCalGas first quarter earnings were equal to $78 million.
As with SDG&amp;E first quarter 2013 earnings for SoCalGas were $12 million lower due to the rate case delay.
First quarter earnings last year were also reduced by $3 million of gas pipeline integrity expenses that were not recovered in rates in the first quarter.
Instead those expenses were recovered in the second quarter of 2013 under the rate case decision and all ongoing costs are now fully balanced.
In the first quarter of 2014 SoCalGas had $11 million in higher CPUC base margin and improved operational results.
Now let’s move to Sempra International on slide seven.
At our South American utilities first quarter earnings were $35 million.
In 2013 first quarter earnings were $37 million and included a $7 million impairment charge on our Argentine investments.
South America’s first quarter earnings are lower this year primarily due to $5 million of foreign exchange impacts resulting from the movement of currencies quarter-over-quarter.
In addition Chile incurred $2 million of higher interest expense this quarter due to an inflationary impact on the local bond interest rate.
As we discussed at our analyst conference tariffs for South American utilities do adjust for foreign currency and inflation effects overtime.
However there is some lag effect.
Moving to Sempra Mexico first quarter earnings were $42 million versus $31 million in the first quarter of last year.
Sempra Mexico’s first quarter earnings increased by $11 million due to a $10 million reduction in income tax expense including effects from foreign currency in 2013.
First quarter earnings this year also include $9 million of AFUDC equity earnings from construction of the Sonora gas pipeline offset by $9 million of higher dilution resulting from the reduced ownership following the IEnova IPO that occurred in late March of last year.
Looking forward to the second half of 2014 Sempra International expects to have several large projects coming online that will bolster earnings.
These projects include the Sonora and Los Ramones pipelines in Mexico and the Santa Teresa Hydro project in Peru.
Now please turn to slide eight.
Moving onto Sempra U.S.
gas and power the natural gas segment earned $9 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared with $53 million in the same period last year.
The difference in earnings is primarily due to $44 million gain after tax on the sale of a portion of our Mesquite Power Plant in the first quarter of 2013.
First quarter earnings for the renewable segment were $28 million and included $16 million gain associated with the sale of 50% of our Copper Mountain Solar 3 facility to our joint venture partner ConEd.
First quarter earnings also include higher deferred income tax benefits primarily due to a $5 million reduction in tax grant benefits in the same period last year as a result of the federal budget sequestration.
With that let me hand the call back to Debbie to discuss slide nine.
Thanks Joe.
Now we will provide you with an update on some of our major projects.
As I mentioned at the outset of this call on April 30th of this year we received the final FERC environmental impact statement on our Cameron LNG project.
This is an important milestone and the FERC final order is expected this summer.
In March of this year we also signed a lump-sum turnkey construction contract.
Along with the progress we are making on financing we are on track to begin construction later this year.
Turning to Sempra Mexico this week the Mexican Government released its five years national infrastructure plan.
The plan calls for investments totaling an estimated $13 billion in natural gas pipeline $7 billion in power transmission projects and $14 billion in power generation projects including renewable.
In the near term PEMEX plans to develop three pipelines to transfer liquids from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific Ocean.
PEMEX estimates that the total for these pipelines and needed storage and port infrastructure at over $2 billion.
They deem guidelines to be published in the second quarter of this year.
At a recent analyst conference we also discussed a number of natural gas pipelines to be awarded in the near term by Mexico’s Electricity Commission.
On April 21st the Commission announced five pipelines for which bid offers will be reviewed this summer.
The total estimated investment is over $2 billion and three of these pipelines are in or have segments within U.S.
territory.
Each of the pipelines is expected to be contracted by the Mexican Government under a take-or-pay long term structure.
We will watch for further details on the bid process but the segments in Mexico will likely be attractive opportunities for IEnova.
We also view the US segments to be attractive opportunities for our U.S.
gas and power business particularly as they will be long term contracted assets that could blend well with Cameron in an MLP.
IEnova also announced on April 21 an agreement to InerGen 50% of our 155 megawatt ESJ wind generation project.
InerGen is a global power generation firm with 11 power plants in operation in Europe Mexico and Australia.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is consistent with our renewable strategy to deconsolidate and reinvest proceeds in near term growth opportunities.
For U.S.
gas and power we recently completed the sale of 50% of our Copper Mountain Solar 3 facility to ConEd recording a $16 million after tax gain.
The 250 megawatts facility is currently under construction and half of the facility expected to be completed by the end of this year and the remainder expected to be completed by 2015.
Additionally U.S.
Gas &amp; Power agreed to invest in a 50% ownership of ConEd’s California solar portfolio.
This 110 megawatt portfolio is comprised of four operating projects that provide power our under long term contracts.
Finally we have some really good news with regards to our REX pipeline.
This week REX launched a binding open season for 1.2 BCS per day of East to West capacity.
REX has already secured binding financial commitments for this capacity at rates of $0.50 per dekatherm for 20 years.
If REX receives higher bids in the open season the shippers who have already provided commitments will have the opportunity to match the higher bid.
Also during the first quarter REX concluded a successful binding open season on its Seneca lateral and we have filed with FERC to expand the associated capacity from 200 000 dekatherms per day to 600 000 dekatherms per day.
The first portion of this capacity is expected to be in service in the second quarter of this year.
Let’s now turn to the slide 10 for an update on the regulatory proceeding at our California utilities.
On the regulatory front our California utilities have seen important progress on two major issues.
First we announced at our analyst conference in March that SDG&amp;E and Southern California Edison had reached a settlement agreement with key parties on the SONGS plant closure.
The settlement agreement is subject to CPSC approval and was filed with the commission on April 3rd.
If approved the agreement resolves all outstanding cost issues on the plant closure and allows for recovery of replacement power cost operating and maintenance expenses and our non-steam generator investments among other things.
The resulting financial impact for SDG&amp;E is not materially different from the impairment we recorded in 2013 and we recorded an incremental $9 million after tax loss in the first quarter of this year.
Additionally the agreement outlines a sharing mechanism between rate payers and shareholders for any third party recovery.
On April 15th we also received a proposed decision for our natural gas pipeline safety enhancement program or PSEP.
The proposed decision finds that SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E presented a reasonable conceptual plan to enhance safety and adopt the basic structure of the plan.
In its current form the proposed decision approved a process for cost recovery and balancing account treatment subject to a reasonableness review.
The proposed decision also includes criteria for determining recovery of costs associated with records review and testing of pipeline installed after 1955.
Our California utilities are seeking additional clarification on a number of key areas within the proposed decision and plan to file comment to the CPC by the deadline of May 5th.
Now let’s finish by turning to slide 11.
In summary I am very pleased with our first quarter results.
We are on pace to meet our 2014 earnings guidance and we have several large projects in Mexico and Peru coming online in the second half of the year in addition to the numerous growth opportunities.
At our California utilities we are making headway on significant regulatory matters like farms and PSEP our Cameron liquefaction project remains on track to begin construction this year and our U.S.
Gas &amp; Power business has made important progress on both the REX pipeline and renewable project.
So with that let me stop and take any questions you may have.
(Operator Instructions).
And at this time our first question will come from Matt Tucker from KeyBanc Capital Market.
Hi good morning and congrats on a nice quarter.
Thanks Matt.
First question on Cameron and now you’ve got the FERC final EIS out there? Any sense as to whether they will take on the full I think it’s a 90 day window to issue decision? Or are you thinking that it could come sooner than that and I guess is there any role for you all to play at this point in the FERC process or is it just in their hands now? Well I’ll give you kind of a high level view but then I’m going to have Mark kind of walk you through the schedule as we see it.
The next step as you mentioned is not a precise period of time and generally to get to the next step where FERC issues the order is a 30 to 90 day period.
Obviously with all of the issues with the Ukraine and all of the attention on that we would it certainly hope that FERC would look at keeping that period as short as possible and we thought it was a really good sign that there were no delays whatsoever in their issuing the final environmental impact statement.
And so that was a positive sign.
I would also say that Secretary Moniz have commented that once FERC acts on it than DOE intends to act very quickly and giving their final approval for the export as well.
So I think with all the attention on this we’re hopeful that we’ll be starting to see but there is not a required standard that will see some shorter time period.
I’ll have Mark kind of walk you through what we see is the way that it would unfold? Yeah I think Debbie pretty much highlight exactly how it’s going to work but we do as we’ve said we have the final EIS and they could take up to 90 days usually a little shorter than that but it could be that long.
We’ll get a FERC and then that has the mandatory 30 day comment period before it really becomes final.
But during that period they could issue our initial authorization to construct which would allow us to do some work and get moving on the project.
But I think as it stands right now and as we’ve looked at the other projects the other project that have received the FERC [inaudible] project.
We still expect that we begin construction sort of later this year and that will time well with our financing and also meet the expectations that we laid out to you at the analyst conference.
Thanks a lot that’s helpful.
And then on the PSEP program you mentioned that the commission kind of endorsed your I guess your model or structure for the program.
Has your estimate for kind of the amounts of spending changed at all or was that part of the commission’s proposed decision? That’s not really part of the commission’s proposed decision.
We are going through it and we are looking now what happened in their proposed decision is that they actually laid out the approval for all phases of PSEP not just the first phase of PSEP.
And so what that means in terms of how we do the work and how much work occurs over the 5 10 15 year period time we are going through and assessing that right now.
What I would say as we look at the plan that we showed you in March for SoCalGas.
We feel that we can certainly be consistent with the plan that we showed you in March of this year.
Great and then just one last one for Joe.
I am sorry I missed when you were discussing what had – was in the original versus what’s in guidance now if you could just go back over those items that you called out please? Sure.
What I said was that the SONGS settlement there revision of $9 million because of the SONGS settlement that was not in our original guidance.
We are reaffirming guidance as the numbers we have that now includes that so that’s the difference.
And then we also said that in guidance was nothing for the Chilean tax reform which has been recently proposed.
Thanks a lot.
Yes.
Thank you.
And our next question comes will come from Steve Fleishman from Wolfe Research.
Yeah hi.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning morning Debbie.
So just to first on the REX news could you maybe I think if I recall this project was not in your plan.
Could you give us some sense on maybe how meaningful that would be to plan even if we stayed at the $0.50 and but also did the Seneca expansion as well? Yeah let me just clarify what is in the plan and what would be upside potentially to the plan.
So there is really three pieces of REX that we are talking about.
We are talking about the first phase of the Seneca lateral which is about 200 a day and then we are talking about the second phase of the Seneca lateral which is an additional 400 a day and they were talking about the east to west flows.
And those east-to-west flows have been contracted at 1.2 Bcf a day at a $0.50 per dekatherm rate for 20 days.
And that part of the open season the binding open season if other parties wanted to pay more than that or look at different volumes and that’s the purpose of the open season.
But we really have firm contracts for the 1.2 Bcf a day at the $0.50 a dekatherm.
We can’t go through kind of what the investment levels are in each of these phases but I would say that they are not substantial.
And so what I would – you could and we cannot disclose what the rates are on the Seneca lateral pieces of that.
The first phase of the Seneca lateral was in our plan of 200 a day.
The second incremented for an additional 400 was not in our plan nor was the REX east to west flow.
So you can kind of do your best to calculate the numbers with what I have given you there and assume not huge levels of capital.
And when would you think you will get a rough timeline for an answer on the binding open season? I think it’s May that we are supposed to get that completed.
Initial day was May 7th I think and then they said something about if they may have to make some extension but sometime in May we would expect.
Okay great.
And then on the Chilean tax impact issue Joe could you just explain kind of what the process is and whether this is actually going to happen and is it more even would it be meaningful more from impacting your deferred tax balance or more from kind of an ongoing tax or I guess both? Yeah Steve.
That will be helpful.
I can elaborate on that.
So as I mentioned in the prepared remarks the President presented the tax reform proposal to Congress.
She mentioned that she would be looking at doing something like this when she was running and so we expect that probably this or some form of this will get enacted but she wants to raise the current rate from 20% to 25% and we believe that will occur over a four year period.
So 1% or 2% a year for a few years.
This would increase our tax in Chile a few million a year in the early years not so much because it’s not a big change.
But the other change that she wants to make has to do with the way that taxes under current law would be paid in addition so that they distribution tax or withholding tax if you will a second level tax that brings the rate up to 35% under current law.
She wants to maintain the 35% rate but she wants those taxes paid currently even though the funds aren’t distributed out of the country and she wants back beginning around 2017.
We haven’t tried to estimate what the impact on the deferred taxes are yet because it’s a little bit unclear on the second part exactly it’s going to work and when it be enacted but we will tell you on our future call when we know more information about that.
But just to be clear she keeping the total rate of 35% she is changing the structure so it will have some impact on current taxes in the next couple of years and then it could have a little higher impact if this 10% of additional tax gets imposed currently.
Okay get it.
And then last question is just on the Mexico bids when are those expected to be I guess decided? Sure I am glad you asked that because there is a lot really exciting things happening at Mexico and the Mexican government actually put out their five year plan that outlines the hundreds of billions of dollars of projects that they plan on several hundreds of billions of dollar just in the energy sector alone.
And this year they have identified a number of projects I think there is about ten or so pipelines that would be bid out this year.
What we seen already the announcement from CFP of the five projects that I mentioned.
And we expect those to be the bid packages to be out within the next couple of months on those.
Three of these projects are in U.S.
two them are in Mexico and then we have also seen an announcement of bid packages coming out for our three projects from PEMEX over the rest few next couple of months.
And one of those projects is a gas pipeline one is a naphtha pipeline and one is a liquids pipeline or propane pipeline.
And so we are seeing a lot of momentum right now in terms of the bids coming out and they have identified more bids another five or so projects later this year that’s on their schedule that they have identified as being bid out this year.
So we think it’s a great opportunities we are analyzing those right down looking at what is available on the project.
So they said they don’t have the bid packages out so it’s very difficult for us to assess which ones we would bid on.
We are certainly into both of those in Mexico and the U.S.
project.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Julien.
So first kind of the big picture strategic question as you think about the various monetizations that you have talked in the past can you talk about where you are in the gas side of the world.
You have obviously had a couple of [emerging] plans out there.
And then also on the renewable side how do you think about the future of that business kind of given the [yield co] phenomenon out there et cetera and how that’s procured? Yeah in terms of the power business I think your real – your question seems to be about the power part of our business which has the renewable and the generation.
And on the generation side in the U.S.
we don’t see that as a business that we want to be in and that we are exiting business.
We have Mesquite held for sale we have already sold our other power plants in the U.S.
and that’s largely because that doesn’t fit our business model because that business when it was long-term contracted as it was when we had DWR contract then that made a lot of sense but for those assets today you are not get 10-20 year contracts on them.
And that we – although we do have on a block at Mesquite a long-term contract but it’s very very competitive.
It’s not a focus area for us.
So you are going to see us trying to exit that business this year in the U.S.
I would say in Mexico we still own the TDM plant and as I mentioned is billions of dollars that are planned in Mexico for electric generation.
So we see an opportunity for that plant to meet some of those needs in Mexico and we’ll hold that plant to enable that either at a long-term contracted arrangement or selling the plant down the line.
In terms of the renewable business that we think it’s a great business.
The issue that we certainly always look at is the deferral of our ability to use the tax benefits from that business and it may be a great business.
Our question is is it a great business for us to continue to deploy capital in.
We certainly are very focused on building out our solar facilities and if we see good projects on the wind side we are doing those but we are really focused largely on continuing to develop our solar side of the business until the issue on the taxes and what’s going to happen with tax incentive gets a little firmer.
I don’t know Mark you want to...? The only thing I would add to that is that again those renewable projects do fit our contraction our contracting mode though which is the long term 20 years contract.
They are all contracted for a long period of time.
On the wind side we are kind of I guess the whole industry is a little bit up in the air.
We don’t know where we are going to be with CPUC extensions or not.
I think from our perspective since we are not using all the tax credits some phase out of CPUCs or something would be probably be helpful for us.
But I think what we will be doing is deploying capital primarily in our solar projects that are adjacent to some of our existing facilities.
We have a fairly competitive pricing point there because we have a lot of infrastructure in place and I think we can win bids and be successful and get the kind of returns that we expect.
So I think we are going to stay in that business but again it’s going to be the long term contracted kind of profile that you come to expect from us.
I would just also add the analyst meeting we talked about our capital allocation and the things that’s been great for Sempra is we have a lot of growth areas.
We have a lot of places we can deploy our capital.
And so we always look at these businesses in terms of the risk adjusted returns and how it fits for us in comparison to other alternatives that we have and we will continue to do that.
I would also just add Debbie we talked about on a few other calls but we’re always interested in way to increase the value and we try to look at whether the stock’s being priced fairly and one of the things we talked about is our contracted energy infrastructure business is effectively a yield co.
I was talking to myself this morning and I was thinking maybe we should just change the name to simply yield growth [inaudible].
That’s true.
Well perhaps just a second strategic question and maybe this is a change in tack for your prior statements.
But how are you thinking about the complementary asset here to backup Cameron you kind of alluded to it little bit earlier.
What exactly could those include just guiding from your comments and the remarks earlier as well as how are you thinking about timeline to get something off on the ground today? Well I mean there is a lot of assets that are adjacent to Cameron that we own like the LA storage it’s – that is something that we are looking at now the potential of development of that.
We have the Cameron pipeline we are going to be – we have our other storage facilities that we think with all of the change that we’re starting to see and we are seeing now the picking up the pace hold the gas conversions occurring and then we are starting to see the LNG facilities coming on line over the next coming years.
So we think all of those assets integrate well we think other pipeline assets integrate well and that we think other LNG facilities we have the Port Arthur property that we think is a very viable facility to develop and then we have train four and five at Cameron that we think are also viable to develop.
So our focus is kind of around that cluster of assets that really kind of support each other and support the change and what’s happening in the gas market.
So just to follow up to be specific is REX now eligible to be included now that you have some of the contract comfort and then secondarily if it is to be included do you still think you need other assets to look outside the complement starting or kick starting in? Yeah we’ve been spending a lot of time on this question so I will let Mark and Joe answer this and I might summarize at the end.
Yes.
Well let me – I’ll just kick in.
Clearly we are pleased with the upside potential at REX that we just six months to year ago we didn’t know whether – where we were going to be with that asset.
So obviously given the interest on the east to west shipping and some of the lateral opportunities there clearly is a strong asset there now that looks like it’s going to have good cash flows for a long time to come.
I think and Joe can comment on this but unfortunately we only own 25% of it and therefore there is some regulatory reasons why it is a standalone asset can’t be an MLP but it can be in MLP with other types of assets that we own and we certainly have plenty to do that.
I do think we are continuing to look in our MLP-able assets that make sense.
And one of the most exciting thing is this pipeline announcements that came out of Mexico there is several of those pipelines three of them that are going to be in the U.S.
and they are sizeable investment and if we win one or two or so of those they would also be very good assets for the MLP.
So we see some real opportunities where we actually have some I think advantages because of our history with the Mexican government and our ability and the fact that we’ve been doing business in the Mexico for a long time.
I think we would be looked at as somebody that would have not only the wherewithal to do that but also the experience and I think somebody that will be a trusted partner for PEMEX and for the PFE on those pipelines.
I would just add that in terms of the timing of when the government is expecting in this case PFE expecting this pipeline to go into service one of them is expected to go into service in 2016 the other is in 2017.
So they have nice timing relative to our Cameron assets.
Excellent.
Thank you for all the details.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question will come from Gabe Moreen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Not to stick with everyone’s favorite acronym but related to the answer around the IEnova projects in the U.S portion of those projects.
I guess two fold one is it possible to [recap] how much of that $2 billion is actually piped within the U.S.
And then the second part of that is in terms of structuring it is that something that CapEx will be undertaken at IEnova even for the U.S.
portions and then MLP would acquire it later or does U.S.
Gas and Power just build that section and it eventually goes to an MLP? Yeah.
Let me tell you about the three U.S.
pieces of the project and I’ll have Mark or Joe talk about some of the options for structuring with IEnova.
The three pieces the government has estimated as part of the $2 billion that those three pieces end up being it looks like about $1.2 million of the total.
So they are quite large.
There is one that $250 million and then the largest of the three is $550 million in the government’s estimate.
Now the government’s estimate kind of seemed low to us from what was published but those are the Mexican government’s estimate for those pipelines So you can see that there is sizable pipeline and then Joe do you want to….? Yeah.
And so then we wouldn’t have IEnova build the U.S.
side of lines we would actually do that in U.S Gas and Power.
As Mark mentioned a little bit earlier talking to Julien because we only own 25% of REX to form an MLP we would need some other assets that are slightly larger than the value of REX because there of the [inaudible] investment company rule and so we need some other assets.
I am very excited about REX.
I said that at the conference and this new announcement is great because it really enables us to look hard at that and I mentioned that we have some other assets related to our LNG plant in Mexico that creates some U.S.
income.
Looking at that and then looking to ability to put these pipelines from the CFE bids that are in the U.S and whether we funded from U.S gas and power or whether we use – of the IPO to fund it we can look into that further but first we have to win those bids but this is a very exciting momentum for us with REX.
Great.
Thanks.
And then thinking I guess on the topic of REX it’s a two part question.
One clarifying which is to stay the matching ability on bids does that mean $0.50 goes higher for all shippers if indeed incremental shippers come in at higher than $0.50 or does that just mean existing shippers have the chance to match on capacity? And then second on the Analyst Day I think there was implied there was a decent amount of hydraulic flexibility around the size of a REX reversal.
So I am just curious around the 1.2 I guess given other producer and midstream commentary on the need to get gas out of the Utica and the Marcellus I think imply that the REX reversal may not even be enough the flexibility to go to an even higher capacity if you get more interest? Yeah we had talked about and I’ll have Mark go through the detail of how the open season works.
But what we had talked about at the Analyst Conference is that there have been like 5.5Bs of interest in the REX reversal and so there is a high level of interest.
What we have in place is 1.2B’s of signed contracts at the $0.50 that they come to base point for the open season.
Mark? Yeah to answer your question specifically we went out and obviously canvassed potential parties and got commitments for 1.2Bs at $0.50 if somebody comes in and wants additional capacity than the existing holders have the right to match that price so the $0.50 effectively becomes kind of a floor but at the end of the day we kind of expect that to be the price.
So there could be a little bit of an uptick but I think for our modeling and stuff we are using $0.50.
And then to the other question yes we can expand the East-West capacity of REX beyond the 1.2.
The question is as you start to expand it further you get into certain additional compression but also you get this pretty quickly to where you have to start doing some looping which gets very expensive and so the question is are we still the most cost effective solution and we’re looking at it and so everyone will certainly study it but I would expect we’re not putting anything in our plans right now for that and we’re just really focused on getting this 1.2 signed up and moving forward on that.
And then we’ll look to see if we’re cost effective for the shippers on doing any further expansion could be that we are but we’re just starting to study that now.
Great thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys congrats on a good quarter.
Debbie I wanted to ask I went through the filing the proposed decision in California and there was some language in there honestly I almost felt like I was reading another utilities language in some of the other PSEP related proceedings going on because but there was language about potential cost that will be borne by the shareholder not the rate payer and pipe record that haven’t been tapped and pipelines that you can’t really prove they’ve been inspected or not is and to be honest I’m not sure I understood a whole lot of it when it came to the Sempra side effect of it.
So could you kind of walk us through your interpretation of what some of those components of the PD means and what the cost implications in kind of the rate payer versus the shareholder implications are? Sure I’ll try to do the best I can on that if you read the decision then you’ll also see that is very hard to interpret and there’s some contradictory elements and we’re going to filing comments on May 5th and trying to get some of that cleaned up.
What the decision basically does is it goes back to 1956 and it says that any pipeline that they set they feel that should have been tested from 1956 and beyond where you haven’t tested or you don’t have complete records of testing that a shareholder should be responsible for the test and the test component of that.
And we think we have some really good evidence that that was even inconsistent with the policy at that time.
In fact we have CPUC policy statements on the record dating back to 1950 where they said that utilities were not required to meet voluntary standards and that they were not going to be funded.
So these are things that I think are in contention right now in the decision.
If we look at the decision in entirety and you look at the fact that we can expedite some of the other phases that even if we look at the decision as it stands today we think we can be consistent with the plan that we showed you in March.
But we do feel like we have a really strong case for getting some of these things modified.
And you will see that I hope you read our comments on May 6th when we file them and you see that’s the case that we have that shows that really this first time there were standards put in place was in 1961 and SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E had a very very few miles of pipe that were installed post 1961 that we don’t have complete records on.
So I think that’s hopefully that’s where we end up on this.
But you’ll see some very strong comments from us.
Great thank you on that one real quick Joe on Chile and the tax implications just curious if all of it got implemented tomorrow morning I know it’s not I know it’s going to be a long-term multi-year process but how would you think about what the net income or EPS impact would be if all components of the tax change happens in the 2014 timeframe I’m just trying to quantify what the net income or EPS at risk is here? Yeah we haven’t tried to quantify because there are so many unknowns about how that tax is going to work and what we might be able to do structurally around it.
And so we’re kind of just focused on the next year or two is going to have a 1% or 2% increase in the next few years and that’s only a few million.
If this additional tax does get enacted we just need to know more about the rule really to try to figure that out.
You can make some assumptions with math but we haven’t tried to do that for you.
Okay and then finally the REX reversal contract when would that actually go into place? It would go well it would become effective the contract’s effective but the actual line would go into place in June 2015 is the timeframe.
Meaning the reversal and therefore the revenue flow back to REX equity? Yeah.
Got it thank you Debbie much appreciated.
Thanks Michael.
Thank you and our next question will come from Faisel Khan from Citi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Faisel.
Hey guys on REX just wondering would the binding opportunity you guys had was there – did you have the solicit any sort of term back capacity so did reverse shippers – would the existing shippers sort of allowed to turned back to capacity in order to make room to the reversal or do these sort of contracts still stick until they run out at the end of decade? Yeah I’m going to turn it to Mark.
We had a FERC hearing on those issues and we were successful and FERC agreed that in that zone the shippers don’t have any right to those revenues or the ability to do that.
Okay got it.
And then just on guidance was the Copper Mountain sort of gain on sales is that included in your guidance before and is the sale of the wind assets in Mexico the 50% interest is that also is that gain also been baked into your guidance? Yeah on any of the gains or costs like that we would incur entering into these partnerships on renewables are in our guidance to the extent that we can expect them and as you remember last December we talked to you about ESJ that we thought we would be towards the low end of our ranges of that time because ESJ was delayed because it was in our plan for last year.
And so ESJ and Copper Mountain 3 were both in our plans for this year.
It’s part of our business model where we sell 50% down a lot of that is recouping the development cost that we already expensed during the course of the time for these projects.
So it’s always in our guidance if we know that we’re intending to sell an asset like that.
Okay got it.
In the renewable – and I would say in the renewable space.
Like Mesquite is not in our guidance because that is not something that’s a typical business model for us but the turn of these renewable projects is selling off 50% we always put that in our guidance.
Okay understood on SoCalGas the transportation volumes seems to be down pretty in a very large amount of way over last year is there anything associated with that except for just weather or…? I would say it’s probably the weather.
We’ve had an endless summer in California it’s like 90 degrees here today.
So there’s nothing fundamentally different in the business as we see it I think it’s mainly weather.
Yeah.
Residential volumes were down and so Edison’s electric volumes were probably down and the power points were not used as much.
Yeah.
I don’t think anyone had their heater on in California at least in southern California there has been high C’s and it’s been so warm yeah.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
On Mexico – on the Los Ramones and the Sonora pipelines as those sort of ramp up at the end of this year what’s going to be the – I mean how are they going to ramp up like what’s the – how much gas are they going to pull from the U.S.
as those facilities ramp up? Is it – is it sort of they are going to hit capacity right away or is it going to be the slow sort of movement in volumes as they get connected to some of these pipelines.
Well.
I think the actual volume of gas flowing probably will ramp up because not all of the infrastructure is in place.
But we will get paid.
We’ve got a firm capacity arrangement essentially so we will get paid as if it was running full.
Oh sure I understand.
I was just trying to figure out kind of the magnitude of the flow across the border? It will be slower at first I don’t – I can probably get you those numbers if you are interested and get back to you on it.
But I just – I don’t know off the top of my head exactly what the ramp up will be.
Okay.
Yeah that would be great if we get a chance to do that.
And then just on in Mexico too on the ethane pipeline the LPG terminal in Guadalajara what’s the sort of plan for that I mean is there a is there opportunity to expand that pipeline is that part of the whole infrastructure de-bottlenecking and expansion plans for Mexico? Yeah.
It’s not listed as some expansion project in the list that we’ve gotten but there is obviously if we get more petrochemical plants down there and things – there is an opportunity there.
But I think right now it’s – we’re not counting on it.
Okay got it.
I appreciate.
Thanks for the time guys.
Thank you Faisel.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Kit Konolige from BGC Financials.
Good morning.
Hi Kit.
Just a very brief question.
On SONGS what are you guys anticipating as far as timing on – hearing from NEIL and on the arbitration with MHI and what would the economics and accounting look like if there is some recovery from one or both of those? Okay well the timing on – we are supposed to hear something back at least what NEIL has indicated this summer about their response to the claims that have been made.
And then the MHI arbitration is likely to take a couple of years.
We won’t even probably be appearing before the arbitrator for a year or something.
So that will take some period of time.
Under the settlement provision there is a sharing mechanism for third-party recoveries where based upon the amount recovered that the – get a certain amount and the shareholders get a certain amount.
And none of that has been recorded at all.
Anything that we would get in that would be upside.
We don’t have anything in our plan about any recoveries about that would be all upside.
Yeah.
The first thing that happens is we recover the legal fees that we had paid out so that would go like earnings because we are already recording those expenses.
And then as Debbie said it would be upside it would go to reduce the losses that we took earlier.
So we would just have income for the amount that came to us.
Okay.
That’s great.
And just to kind of clarify in a few sentences maybe just to go back through how we should view the potential for an MLP if I can characterize it obviously Cameron would be I guess the key asset.
It sounds as though – well let me ask you it this way if you were to win one or more of the U.S.
pipes in the Mexican bidding would you be able to put the potential asset if you will into an MLP and start an MLP say in 2015 if that – along with REX say if that were to be when the bids were held? There is a lot of what ifs there.
But REX is a great asset.
As we’ve said that it is not an asset that could stand alone in an MLP.
The pipelines we’re going to service in 2016 or 2017 according to the schedule that’s been published by the government.
And so when those start if we were to get one or more of those and they were cash flowing in that period of time then that would be something we would definitely look at as a potential bridge strategy consistent with what we told you at the Analyst Meeting because those assets have the same type of characteristics as Cameron.
They will be long-term contracted.
And one of the things we don’t want to do is to form an MLP with assets that don’t have the same kinds of value enhancing characteristics like Cameron that would trade at low yield.
So if all of those things happen we would certainly look at it and we would time it based upon how to create the greatest long-term value for our shareholders.
And so is it fair to say that the Mexican bidding would be key to forming an MLP or could there be a bridge strategy with only the Mexico LNG and REX? I mean we will look at – I would not say Mexico the Mexican pipelines in the U.S are one way to form a bridge strategy.
There are other ways to form bridge strategies and we have a team looking at all MLP-able assets and what it does to the long-term value if we were to acquire build or buy any of these assets or companies what it would do in terms of creating long-term value and comparison to standalone MLP with Cameron and that’s the way we’ll look at it.
And we will figure out the combination and the timing that gives us the greatest long-term value.
Yeah.
We usually do see the economics are better when we build green field things and buy something.
But I think what Debbie just said all the above we’re looking at all the above.
Okay.
Good luck with it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Mark Barnett from Morningstar Equity Research.
Hey good morning everyone.
Can you hear me over there? Yes yeah.
We can hear you.
Okay.
Can you hear us? Yes I can thanks.
You talked a lot about what’s going this year in Mexico and lot of it is very exciting.
Just one more quick question I guess following-up on that discussion.
Outside of the bidding rules for the next slate of projects this year you had mentioned in some past calls that there are some outstanding uncertainties around maybe rule making and some additional reforms that you are still looking forward to.
Could you maybe highlight what some of those might be? Sure.
One of the – I mentioned earlier that we don’t have anything in our plans in Mexico to do additional electric generation or transmission right now.
Those are areas that are opening up and the government has published a list of potential projects to bid on – those are right in our sweet spot absolutely those are areas of interest to us that we have not put into any of our plans today.
And those are projects that we’re interested in – they are on the list that the government has published as well to be bid out.
The other area I would say and we’re doing some work now is in the gathering and processing.
We have done different types of pipelines in Mexico.
We’ve built an ethane pipeline as an example.
And so we think that this is a great opportunity area for us is to get into the gathering and processing area in Mexico.
And so we’re exploring those opportunities.
All of the markets are opening up in those areas.
So it’s not just gas pipelines for us it’s electric transmission electric generation gathering and processing all of those are great opportunity areas.
And I think in the energy sector that there was something like $600 billion of projects identified over the next five years in Mexico.
I would see us going after a very large share of that and aggressively going after a very larger share of that.
All right thanks for that.
Thank you.
At this time we have one question remaining in the queue.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll take our next question from Vedula Murti from CDP Capital.
Good morning out there good afternoon here how are you? Hi.
I will say hi that’s easy.
Yeah that’s fine.
To follow up a little bit on your conversation with [Ticon] or whatever.
What’s your how you evaluate it when you look at everything all different permutations that would impact? What’s your opinion about how [inaudible] OGE kind of put their structure together what Davin did with cross tax in term of trying to accelerate things and that type of thing.
Is that something that based on what you’ve seen and how the value realization has kind of read through so far something that you grew positively or do you feel like it’s something that can slow is paramount or how should we think about how are you thinking about those specifics? Well I will tell you how we are thinking generally I am not going to comment on any other companies or their transactions.
But the way that we think about it is we have an exceptional asset with Cameron when that goes online that has natural drop down we think would trade at a very low yield and would be an amazing MLP.
That if we do a bridge strategy we would not wanted to diminish the value of that long term asset or an MLP.
But there is a possibility that how something might be structured could increase the value in a bridge strategy.
And if we found assets that we thought would trade as comparable kinds of yield and that they would allow us to have higher splits by doing it earlier we are absolutely not adverse to doing that.
But we are not going to just go out and buy something that is going to trade very differently than Cameron would likely trade and diminish the value of a high value asset in the long term and that’s the way we would generally look at it.
Okay and just to follow up then on that which I completely agree with given your probably quickly well along into this evaluation can you characterize how you think the probability is that a bridge strategy that meets your criterion can materialize at least or do you feel like there is something that you see that has a chance to actually meet these criterion which I completely agree with and wouldn’t want to dilute anything.
So I am just are you optimistic about that? Or how are you thinking about those? I am always optimistic.
And I think that there is a lot of infrastructure that’s needed in the U.S.
and so there are opportunities for us to look at but I wouldn’t want to handicap it.
And the good thing is we have an incredible fall-back position with Cameron and the assets around Cameron.
And so I wouldn’t want to handicap that but I think there is a lot of opportunities happening in the United States right now in terms of infrastructure.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Reed I would like turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us today on the call.
As always our incredible investor relations staff will be there to answer any of the follow-up calls that you have after.
So call Rich or Kendall or Amanda with any follow-up questions and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
That concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's second quarter 2014 financial results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Martha Wyrsch Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Trevor Mihalik Senior Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our second quarter 2014 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today August 7 2014 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to Slide 3 and let me hand the call over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thanks to all of you for joining us today.
On this call we will discuss our second quarter financial results and provide you with key operating and regulatory updates.
This morning we reported second quarter earnings of $269 million or $1.08 per share.
Together with the outlook for the second half of the year we expect to be at or above the midpoint of our 2014 guidance.
Given our strong operating performance and success in delivering planned projects on schedule combined with the progress we're making on capturing some of those additional development opportunities we are on track to achieve our 9% to 11% growth rate through 2019.
Notably our Cameron Liquefaction project has achieved several key milestones and we expect to begin construction this year as planned.
On June 19 we received our FERC order and yesterday we executed the financing documents and made the final investment decision with our partners.
In Mexico IEnova is on schedule to place and service the first phases of the Sonora and Los Ramones pipelines by year-end.
We are extremely proud that since January 2013 IEnova is the best performing IPO in the Americas and the second best-performing IPO worldwide.
In Peru commissioning of the Santa Teresa Hydro project will begin this month.
In the U.S.
REX East-to-West loads of 1.8 Bcf per day are now fully contracted.
Also this past week we signed a power purchase agreement with Edison for a 94-megawatt expansion at our Copper Mountain Solar facility.
On the regulatory front our California utilities received a positive final PSEP decision in June.
We are also continuing to work on the development projects that could provide additional upside to our 5-year plan and sustain our superior growth rate.
Examples include LNG natural gas pipelines renewables and hydro in Peru and we will talk about these projects later in the call.
Now let me hand things to Joe to discuss the second quarter results in more detail starting with Slide 4.
Joe? Thanks Debbie.
Sempra's second quarter consolidated earnings were $269 million or $1.08 per share.
This compares to adjusted earnings of $258 million or $1.04 per share in the same quarter last year.
Moving to guidance.
As Debbie just mentioned we now expect to be at or above the midpoint of our 2014 guidance of $4.25 per share to $4.55 per share.
Let me elaborate a bit on what this guidance range includes.
Consistent with our development and partnership model for renewables we include the promote we recorded on the CMS 3 project in the first quarter and the promote we will record on ESJ next quarter for the formation of these joint ventures.
We also now include the $9 million additional charge we recorded in the first quarter related to the SONGS settlement agreement.
However we do not include any possible gain on the sale of the remaining block of our Mesquite combined cycle power plant nor do we include anything for the tax reform proposals being discussed in Chile.
Before proceeding to earnings for each of the business units I would like to also mention one timing-related factor I discussed on last quarter's call.
Remember that in the first quarter of 2013 we recorded a $63 million deferred tax expense related to the IEnova IPO restructuring.
In the first quarter of 2014 we recorded $12 million of estimated deferred tax expense to reflect a portion of the planned repatriation for this year.
We recorded another $12 million of deferred tax expense in the second quarter of 2014.
Our estimated annual tax rate reflects the recording of deferred tax expense each quarter in accordance with the full year as planned repatriation.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 for details on SDG&amp;E.
At SDG&amp;E earnings for the second quarter were $123 million up from adjusted earnings of $115 million in the second quarter of 2013.
We are really very pleased with this result as the increase was due primarily to higher CPUC-based margin and improved operating performance.
Please turn to Slide 6.
For SoCalGas second quarter earnings were $80 million.
Compared with the second quarter of 2013 SoCalGas had $9 million in higher CPUC-based margin and improved operating results.
Offsetting items included a higher tax benefit in the second quarter of last year and certain cost to our Pipeline and Safety Enhancement Plan or PSEP.
Specifically we incurred $6 million of PSEP costs in prior periods that were denied recovery in the final PSEP decision.
Now let's move to Sempra International on Slide 7.
At our South American utilities second quarter earnings were $42 million up from earnings of $34 million in the second quarter of 2013.
The increase was due in part to higher operating earnings from growth in customers and energy sales combined with reduced costs.
In addition we had a $4 million loss in the second quarter of last year from the sale of our investments in Argentina.
For Sempra Mexico second quarter earnings were $34 million versus earnings of $26 million in the same period last year.
$11 million of AFUDC equity earnings in the second quarter largely accounts for this increase.
As you will recall we began recording AFUDC equity on the Sonora pipeline since it is an asset that has a regulated rate of return and qualifies for regulatory accounting treatment under U.S.
GAAP.
Partially offsetting the AFUDC earnings was the effect of foreign currency translation on deferred tax balances in the second quarter of 2013.
Now please turn to Slide 8.
At Sempra U.S.
Gas &amp; Power the Natural Gas segment earned $4 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Second quarter earnings are lower this year compared with last year due primarily to mark-to-market gains on our gas storage positions in the second quarter of 2013.
Second quarter earnings for the Renewable segment were $18 million versus $15 million in the same period last year.
The increase is largely attributable to higher operating performance and deferred tax benefits for assets currently being placed in service.
With that let me hand the call back to Debbie to discuss Slide 9.
Thanks Joe.
Now we will give you an update on our major businesses starting with LNG.
As I mentioned earlier on June 19 we received the FERC order authorizing construction and operation of our Cameron Liquefaction project.
In July FERC provided Cameron with a notice to proceed on site separation activities.
Now that all FERC hurdles have been cleared the only remaining significant regulatory step is receipt of the final DOE non-FTA permit and we expect to receive this permit and begin construction later this year as planned.
Yesterday with our partners we also executed the financing documents and completed all requirements for making the final investment decision commonly referred to as FID.
Financing commitments for the project totaled $7.4 billion and will be provided by JBIC and a group of 29 international commercial banks some of whom are insured by NEXI.
Cameron received 16-year financing and highly competitive pricing due to the quality of its lenders sponsors and customers.
The transaction represents one of the largest project financings in U.S.
history.
Now please turn to Slide 10.
At our Analyst Conference in March we discussed our interest in growing our LNG business.
We are continuing efforts in this area with an initial focus on expanding existing assets.
For our Cameron facility now that we have reached FID we will begin working with our partners to complete the development plans and initiate the FERC process for trains 4 and 5.
We believe the Cameron expansion will be one of the lower cost alternatives especially when compared to greenfield development.
Our ECA LNG plant in Mexico is also well situated from a market perspective as the only brownfield facility on the West Coast.
We are focused on determining the critical path items that would influence the feasibility and size of a potential export facility at ECA.
These include issues around gas supply and delivery customer interest existing contracts and regulatory requirements.
A positive development is that Mexican energy reform legislation now includes a basic framework for private sector LNG export.
In addition to ECA we are assessing design options and feasibility for our potential Port Arthur facility in Texas.
We will provide updates on our progress periodically and are optimistic about our ability to grow our LNG business with Sempra's existing assets and capabilities.
Now please turn to Slide 11.
Our U.S.
Gas &amp; Power business has 2 other projects update.
On the REX pipeline the 1.8 Bcf per day of existing East-to-West capacity is now fully contracted.
REX put a portion of this capacity in service in June and the full capacity will be in service by next summer.
All of this capacity except 0.2 Bcf per day represents the capture of development opportunities additional to our 5-year plan.
On July 31 U.S.
Gas &amp; Power also executed a power purchase agreement with Edison for a 94-megawatt expansion of our Copper Mountain Solar complex.
For this project we would expect to achieve commercial operation by the end of 2016 and have a 50% ownership share.
Under the agreement Edison would purchase power beginning in 2020.
Now please turn to Slide 12.
Moving to Sempra Mexico.
The initial phases of the Sonora and Los Ramones pipelines are both on budget and on schedule to be in service by year-end.
Each represents an investment of around $500 million.
IEnova secured financing in June for the 155-megawatt ESJ wind project and in July they finalized the sale of 50% of the project to Energen.
Regarding development projects under Mexico's 5-year infrastructure plan official bid documents for the first 2 natural gas pipelines have been published.
The first project is about 155 miles and will eventually connect with one of the proposed pipelines to be constructed in the United States.
The second project is about 260 miles in northern Mexico.
Tenders for these projects are due in October and IEnova is preparing to participate in both bids.
The 2 projects together would likely represent investments of over $1 billion.
In addition to these 2 projects 3 pipelines in the U.S.
and 5 more pipelines in Mexico are planned to be tendered in 2014.
Opportunities in other sectors will also be bolstered by the energy reform efforts that just passed.
As one of the largest energy companies in Mexico we are looking forward to the opportunities that energy reform will bring in sectors such as liquids transportation gathering and processing and power transmission.
Now turning to Peru.
We expect to begin commissioning of the 100-megawatt Santa Teresa Hydro project this month.
Building upon our success with this project we are exploring several additional hydro opportunities in the country.
Luz del Sur has been granted a temporary concession on the hydropower project Santa Teresa II with a potential design capacity between 250 and 300 megawatts.
We are progressing on environmental and feasibility studies and have begun conducting local outreach.
Additionally in southern Peru we are assessing feasibility and design of 2 hydropower projects that can provide a combined capacity of around 350 megawatts.
All 3 hydro projects are potentially large technically sound investments and we intend to make a decision on moving forward on these by early next year.
Now please turn to Slide 13 for an update on our California utilities.
SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas have both been making important headway on several regulatory issues.
On June 12 we received the final PSEP decision.
The decision is favorable in that it adopts our overall implementation framework and approves a process for cost recovery and balancing account treatment subject to a reasonableness review.
This decision covers expenditures in populated areas and consistent with what we reported at our analyst conference capital expenditures are estimated to be about $1.5 billion through 2018.
On July 25 we submitted a notice of intent to file the 2016 General Rate Cases for both SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas.
After CPUC staff reviews these submissions the utilities expect to file an official application in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The CPUC's final decision is scheduled for late 2015.
Now let's finish by turning to Slide 14.
In summary we are on track for another strong year.
We expect to be at the midpoint or higher of our 2014 earnings guidance.
Our core businesses are performing well.
We received a positive PSEP decision at our California utilities and are on schedule with our major projects like Cameron LNG and our Mexican pipelines.
We are also making great headway on some of our development opportunities.
REX has additional contracted volumes and we are seeing many opportunities for growth emerging in both Mexico and Peru.
With that let me stop and take any questions that you may have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first can we discuss REX here for a second in the context of what's in the 5-year plan versus outside? Could you give us a little bit of a sense what does 25% mean just if you could define that? And then also regarding the non-binding open season where is that shaking out as far as you've received interest if you could comment a little bit more if you wouldn't mind? Okay.
I'll start and we did put a slide in the package because we do understand the REX issues are kind of confusing.
So if I could refer you to the slide and the slide number is 17.
I think that would help you understand what's in and what's not in the plan.
So let me kind of walk you through that.
If you look at the Seneca lateral piece of that that's 0.6 Bcf and about 0.25 Bcf of that went into service in June of this year.
That piece was in our plan.
We expected that to happen.
That was in our 5-year plan.
But what has now been contracted is an additional $1.6 billion in addition to that and that comes in over phases.
The next phase of that is another $400 million or so that will come in at the end of this year and provide some upside to our plan in next year and beyond.
And then the remaining 1.2 Bcf comes into service in the middle of next year.
And that is again incremental to what we had in our 5-year plan.
So this is a really positive thing for us just with what we have under contract.
In addition to that there was a non-binding open season that was conducted in May and that we're in negotiations with parties on the results of that.
And we will announce the results of that when we've concluded those negotiations which are underway right now.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Is there a timeline on the negotiations? I would say within the next couple of months we would anticipate something coming out.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then...
And again I would just say none of that was in the plan.
So whatever that is that was not in the plan either.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And then moving back to the LNG side of the equation.
Could you comment a little bit on where you stand on incremental contracts for both of the projects 4 5 and ECA? And perhaps specifically kind of where you sit in the decision FTA versus non-FTA? Yes what I'm going to do is I'll just give you a high level and then I'm going to turn it to Mark to go through kind of project-by-project and what we're looking at there.
I would say the great thing that we have is that when we look at our Cameron facility it is a very commercially-viable facility.
It's -- we think it's really well positioned in the marketplace and we also believe our ECA facility would be very well positioned in the marketplace.
So a lot of effort is underway to look at kind of the next steps at those facilities and then we have this wonderful location with Port Arthur and what might we be able to do with that.
So we are very focused on kind of the next steps and let me turn it to Mark to talk a little bit about that.
Okay.
Well with respect to Cameron I think as Debbie says a great facility.
I think the thing I would add to that too is the partners in this -- in the facility are world-class trading partners with extensive LNG businesses.
So while we have not signed contracts yet for trains 4 and 5 we're really just beginning just starting to think about that as we have completed FID and move forward with the constructions of trains 1 through 3.
So I think that the next step for us is to talk with our partners decide how much capacity everybody would like and then to see if we're going to market any of it out to other parties.
And that hasn't really begun yet but I think that is something that will be in the works now that we're moving forward with FID.
And I would just say with that facility too is there are -- the big point here is that that facility along with our ECA facility being brownfield sites obviously have a cost advantage and a construction advantage over any of the greenfield sites.
So it's our expectation that the market will look to brownfield sites ours included but also including others and expansion of those existing facilities first before they really look at a lot of greenfield opportunities.
With respect to ECA we are undergoing studies right now to determine the amount of gas that's available for the facility and the cost of delivering that gas into the facility.
And then once we kind of determine that which we think will take us towards the end of this year once we determine that we'll lay out some plans for the size of the facility and start marketing to customers.
We have a lot of customer interest and we don't think that acquiring customers will be a big issue but we haven't started that marketing yet because we haven't sized the facility but we're in the process of looking at the parameters to do that.
And then with respect to Port Arthur another -- it's a great site it is a greenfield site.
We think the advantage of Port Arthur is that it's such a large site and has such good water access that the possibility of doing things beyond just LNG are there.
We can -- there's other -- it's actually been proposed in the past as a crude terminal and other types of activities and we think those activities could coexist with LNG making it in the long run one of the more cost-effective greenfield sites in the country.
So those are all kind of positives and where we're going and then did you Debbie you want to comment on the process? Yes.
You asked the question Julien about the DOE non-conditional FTA.
And going through the conditional FTA was really where the review the extensive review occurred with DOE.
So we would anticipate in the next few months to see the DOE non-conditional FTA.
We've seen recently other companies get their conditional FTAs.
We haven't seen any change in criteria so we would expect that to be coming out in the next couple of months.
And then that would allow us to begin really full construction on the site.
But we are doing some site preparation activities.
We've gotten the authority from FERC to be able to do that.
And so we're actually working on the site right now.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fleishman of Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> A couple questions.
First just with the final financing terms and the like are all the numbers you've given for Cameron 1 through 3 still kind of right in line with what you've said before? Yes.
We did -- and I think a couple of things Steve.
We've given you the range of $9 billion to $10 billion.
We're still in that range.
And we looked at the financing the financing came in very competitively as I mentioned in my comments.
What we're looking at now is at the $10 billion range being somewhere towards the middle of the range that we've given you for the first few years of operation.
And then as the loan starts to be amortized we would anticipate that over time the annual earnings would be $400 million or so.
So $300 million to $350 million is still a range we would see being closer to the midpoints of that range in the first few years of operation and then we would see being in excess of $400 million after the loan starts to amortize.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just -- what's the -- just to set expectation what's a reasonable timeframe to think about potential contracting of trains 4 and 5? I can't really answer that question.
I will tell you that it's something that is a big focus for us and that we're going to put a lot of energy into it just like we did getting Cameron done.
But that -- you got to get -- you got to do the same things we went through Cameron.
And the good thing is we've been through the FERC process on that site so it's not a new site to go through the FERC process.
So kind of telling you a timeframe on that I can't tell you.
I'm hoping it would be expedited because we've already been through the FERC process on that site but I really can't give you a timeframe at this point.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question on the -- you've given your 3 kind of scenario options on MLP back at the Analyst Day.
Any new thinking on those 3 options or is it pretty consistent with what you said then? Yes let me have Joe talk about that because we continue to do work in this area.
And clearly with the situation with REX being as positive as it is we constantly are looking at that.
So let me ask Joe to hit that.
Thanks Debbie and Steve thanks for the question.
As she said it's some subject that we spend a fair amount of time on because it's very important to us and to the shareholders.
And we're looking at the MLP space and the YieldCo space actually and the ones that have the highest visible growth particularly with large drop-down portfolios those have the lowest yields and the potential for the highest value.
And so let me tell you a little bit more about that we really are doing.
We're continuing to evaluate the value proposition and we're studying the legal and financial aspects of both the MLP and the YieldCo space.
And as we've noted before having the clear growth strategy for the business is a critical element.
So we're very excited about our growth at Sempra and focused on executing as Debbie said on all these projects that we're doing.
At the same time we're focused on getting the best market value for the shareholders on this growth and that current MLP YieldCo structure offer good opportunity for that.
So we haven't made a decision at this time which of the structures is exactly the right one but we are very focused on it and looking at it and continuing to evaluate all of these opportunities.
I would just add to that.
We'll look at that in conjunction also with the timing and as I've said before part of the analysis is looking at with an asset as valuable as Cameron how does the timing set with splits and things like that? So all of that kind of analytical work is part of our assessment.
We'll take our next question from Greg Gordon of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> The first couple of questions checked a lot off my list so I'll try to be brief.
I'll probably fail but I'll try to be brief.
So thinking about when the revenues are rolling in on the stuff that's not in your plan.
You've been very clear that 2015 2016 there's 1 point more Bcf a day of revenue opportunity off of the REX backhaul that wasn't in the plan.
Should we assume that -- should the Clarington West open season become a commercially viable opportunity that that would hit in the second half of '15? Or is it hitting the first half of '16 in terms of incremental revenue? What's the timing assumed on the current path to bringing that into the revenue line? The timing on the current path is sometime in the middle of 2015 as that is -- it's expected to go in service.
And I think just go through the increments again to be sure the numbers that you have are consistent.
We have $200 million to $250 million in service now and that was in the plan.
We add incrementally $350 million to $400 million at the end of this year and that's additive to the plan.
And then we would add the remainder to get to the $1.8 billion which is another $1.2 billion in the middle of next year some time.
And I think you might have been asking [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] on the Clarington West? And then on the Clarington West the timeframe on that is not certain because with that -- a lot of that has to do with how you design it and what the volumes are and how you design it.
So we don't know what the timeframe of that would be.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And Clarington West if it's successful would require more capital investment than the Seneca lateral and the $1.2 billion that you've already signed up correct? Yes.
There would be compression for one piece of it and then there would be looping for the other piece of that.
And for what we've done so far the capital is really not very large at all I think it was like $70-some-odd million $80 million.
Research Division</strong> And the maximum size of Clarington West was another $2.4 billion? Is that -- or am I overstating it? No that's right.
That was the maximum size if you do compression and looping.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I have one question back on the utility.
You gave guidance for a range of earnings for SoCalGas of $360 million to $390 million in 2015 at your Analyst Day.
I'm wondering as you now are analyzing the rate decisions you've gotten for instance the PSEP decision where you think you would come out inside that range? Well the ranges that we gave you in March of this year we would anticipate being in those ranges for SoCalGas.
We'll take our next question from Rajeev Lalwani of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First is just a clarification.
Joe when you said earlier you're looking at different options for structures were you saying that you're considering doing a YieldCo and having Cameron be a part of that? I was saying that we're open -- we're looking at all of that.
We're trying to determine what vehicle might exactly be the best and we are keeping our options open as to what the right vehicle is.
So at this point it's open.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then hypothetically if you did go sort of down the YieldCo-type route what other assets in your portfolio do you think would fit well? Obviously you've got the renewables but do any other assets come to mind? That would be probably the primary asset other than the ones that we've spoken about before that would go into an MLP.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What about some of the like the Latin American assets you have.
There have been a couple of YieldCos with those type of assets.
We've spoken about it a little we haven't really done much analysis on it.
It's a lot more complicated obviously.
And inside the utility it probably wouldn't fit that well but it's certainly something that we are keeping an open mind about.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of -- there was a pipeline that was bid I think in Peru a couple of months back and I think you were disqualified or there were some sort of issues.
I was hoping you can provide an update there and just some color on what happened? Yes.
I'm going to have Mark talk about what happened with that.
Okay.
Well what happened was we were in a competitive bidding situation and we were in a consortium with other bidders -- I mean with other participants in our consortium.
And one of our members at the last -- kind of at the last moment decided to change ownership percentages and that caused us to have a technical disqualification.
And so our bid was rejected although we did open it publicly and announced it and it was the best bid it was the low bid so I think would have won.
And it was just unfortunate that we had this sort of technical problem that caused our bid to be disqualified.
But I think it gave us a lot of encouragement in the sense that having gone through this process on this pipeline and there's other projects coming up that we were obviously very competitive.
We came up with the lowest price.
We think we had a better route and a better approach to the project.
And so I think we're sort of emboldened to think that we're going to be very -- quite competitive in the future.
It's unfortunate we have this little setback.
But I think moving forward we look upon this our group as positively as one that we can win projects down there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question if I can.
In terms of thinking about the potential economics for an ECA or -- under Cameron 4 and 5 how similar or dissimilar would it be to Cameron 1 through 3 both in terms of the equity investment as well as the return potential? Well I'll take that.
This is Mark.
Obviously the expansion is less expensive per ton of production than even the brownfield conversion to a certain extent.
As you get bigger and bigger then you start -- then it becomes less effective because you might have to add tankage and stuff.
But with what we're considering I think we would be very cost competitive.
So the cost wouldn't be -- would be less than what we're currently contemplating and I think that's what going to make it very attractive.
We would expect similar kinds of returns as we would get.
So I think that we would probably share those efficiencies with the market to make sure that we can sell the capacity.
So I think those are all positives.
And then with respect to ECA a little different facility there a little different footprint.
But I think roughly speaking the economics are somewhat the same but ECA would likely be a smaller facility or will be a smaller facility.
Before I take another question I just wanted to comment on something back on the REX sheet to be sure everyone was clear.
On the sheet that we have at 17 it says 25% of the volumes.
I just want to remind everyone that we own 25% of REX.
So when we're talking about 1.8 Bcf and 2.4 Bcf not all of that flows to Sempra.
I think you all know that but I just don’t want to mislead anyone.
Okay.
We're ready for the next question.
We'll take our next question from Matt Tucker of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to ask about Mexico first and how you feel about your chances on these 2 CFE pipeline bids and if you could comment on how the competitive environment for these bids compares to other pipeline opportunities that you've gone after there recently? Well I'll just start by saying that we are really excited about the opportunities in Mexico and the good thing that we have is we have the infrastructure there we have the team there we have the ability to get pipes to the job we have all of that because we've done projects.
So I think that that -- why competition is probably going to be higher than we saw in the past.
I think also being on the ground with the projects that we already have there provides us a great competitive advantage in terms of our ability to show that we can deliver on these projects.
And then we have the 2 projects coming in this year that are on schedule on budget and there are not very many companies that have that kind of proven track record.
So I think we're in really good position to compete and there's a lot of projects that are going to come out and we're going to be as we have in the past selective of which ones we bid on the ones that we feel we can be most competitive.
Research Division</strong> Great thanks.
And then just circling back to Cameron.
You mentioned you expect the final DOE approval within the next couple of months.
I guess what's kind of holding that up and what issues are they still considering? I kind of felt that like would be somewhat automatic.
So maybe you could comment on that.
Well like I said within the next couple of months.
I mean we're not sure.
It could happen soon it could happen -- as DOE is looking at it I think that one of the considerations was what kind of comments would come in on the FERC issue.
And since that appears to have been that there were no comments that were filed timely that that may change how DOE focuses on it.
Certainly Senator Landrieu has already sent a letter that was made public asking DOE to act quickly on this.
And as I said it's not stopping us from getting on site right now and doing some of that pre-work.
But the sooner we can get it the better.
So we're very anxious to have DOE act quickly and hope they will.
Research Division</strong> And then with respect to the possible expansion.
I guess I just wanted to ask about the construction side of that.
If hypothetically you were able to secure commitments and were able to get the permitting process would you be able to start construction on trains 4 and 5 before trains 1 through 3 are completed or would you have to wait until really 2019 to even start construction? No.
I'm going to have Mark talk about how that might unfold.
No I mean it really -- they have to be kind of done sequentially.
And it's not just the construction issue but also the terms of the financing require us to finish the projects that are being financed first.
So unless we redid some of the financing we -- it's -- they have to be done sequentially.
Research Division</strong> So we'd be talking about something like a 2020-type timeframe the earliest 2021 maybe for those to come online? Yes it could be a little shorter than that.
I mean one of the things we are doing we are constantly looking at the construction schedule and the construction that we're doing and we kind of call it a no-regrets construction policy which is we're anticipating further expansion as we build.
So there are certain things that we can kind of pre-build into the process so that we don't have to go back and redo it.
So I think we can save some time there.
So it may not be quite as long a timeframe as trains 1 through 3 but it would probably be sequential.
Research Division</strong> And then just looking at the 3 LNG expansion opportunities.
You discussed Cameron ECA and Port Arthur.
Would you be able to kind of rank those in terms of both the probability and the kind of timeline between those 3 projects? Well I think the reality is the expansion of Cameron is probably up there.
It's probably first but very close behind is ECA and that's probably almost a push as to which one could go first.
Probably -- actually ECA could start earlier than the expansion.
So I think both of those are kind of at least equal.
And then Port Arthur because it's a greenfield facility obviously would take longer to develop and it could be quite a big facility.
So that's further down the road.
I'd kind of -- but I'd keep ECA and Cameron kind of neck and neck.
We'll take our next question from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask about the good old-fashioned utilities.
When you think about -- right like nobody's asking and you have really really really strong utilities.
When you're thinking about the rate cases how material? Meaning how big of a number are we talking about in terms of either requested revenue change or a percentage rate change if you're the -- I don’t know if you're the intervenor looking at it from the other side? Yes actually I think that's the real positive that we have.
If you look at SDG&amp;E as example our filed notice of intent to file the rate case set forth a number of $168 million increase.
And on a combined electric and gas build that's about 1.4%.
And then on SoCalGas we're looking at a $290 million increase and that's about 5.5% increase in a bill.
But I will remind you that in both cases the bills are already much lower than the national average.
So I think that we have operated our utilities efficiently over time.
I think there's a benefit in that and going in to these rate cases and asking for what we really need to operate those businesses very efficiently and have it not be huge increases in customer rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one question on Clarington West kind of the part that you're still trying to figure out you and your co-owners are just still trying to figure out what to do with.
What's the timeline for the open seasons there? And I want to make sure I understood this what would be the potential kind of range of capital requirements from your perspective? Okay Mike I'll answer the first and then I'll ask Mark to talk about the capital requirements under the different phases if that's public and -- when I'm not sure I guess that's not public information.
So I won't answer that part of your question.
But I will answer the first part of your question.
The non-binding open season went out in May and now we're in negotiations with participants in that non-binding open season relative to contractual commitments.
So however long it takes to secure those is the kind of timeframe that we're looking at.
And that's why I said I think we would anticipate something in the next couple of months most likely.
We'll take our next question from Christopher Turnure of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Did you guys give more color on the timing of the rest of the 2014 RFPs for the Mexico pipelines? There's a lot left in there besides just the 2 that are out there already and it looks like each one individually will take a couple months at least from start to finish.
Yes there's 2 that are outstanding right now and then there's 5 more that they've announced to come out of this year and that's what's been indicated and that's in the pipeline side.
But I would also focus you on -- there's other areas of opportunity like transmission.
And so Mark why don't you hit kind of what we see over the next few months? Okay.
I think well like Debbie said there's 2 out right now and we're actively working on those bids.
And then the next 5 that are coming out of those 2 big ones are in the United States that are for CFE.
Those will be probably hotly contested just because they are the MLPs and everybody can compete with those.
So we expect that to be -- have more bidders than the ones in Mexico.
But we do believe that we have some unique things properties that we can bring to the bid to our bid and then -- and I think that we can try to -- we can be competitive and we should have a good chance to do that.
And we've had a long history obviously working with the CFE so I think that should bode well in our favor.
But then there's -- and then beyond that there is a whole list of pipeline opportunities that are scheduled to come in -- to come out in the first half of '15.
And obviously we're even beginning to look at some of those and be prepared for those.
But there is certainly a long list of opportunities on the natural gas pipeline side.
But then we also have -- there are electric transmission projects and power generation projects also product lines for PEMEX.
So I mean I think the story here is that energy reform in Mexico is going to produce billions and billions of dollars of capital opportunities for companies that have a history of operating in Mexico and our positioning with our IEnova subsidiary makes us probably the premier energy company to bid on these competitive projects.
We're the second largest energy company in Mexico behind PEMEX and we're really the hometown incumbent there.
So I think we feel very good about our chances of being successful and participating in this reform and we certainly look forward to continuing to grow our business down there.
And just to kind of add a flavor of the big numbers we're talking about over time.
As part of the infrastructure program that the Mexican government has announced they've announced 15 generation projects worth $13.6 billion 17 gas pipelines for $13.1 billion and 7 electric transmission lines for $1.7 billion.
So you're talking about tens of billions of dollars of investment in Mexico.
And they're moving forward on it.
So we think this is going to be a great opportunity area for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on cash repatriation.
You guys have I guess some potential incremental opportunities in Peru after the failure of that initial RFP for the pipeline there and then certainly all of the opportunities in Mexico.
Will there be any pause that you contemplate with brining cash back here as a result of those and how should we think about that and kind of what's contemplated in guidance through I guess 2018 now with the repatriation? Yes what we've had in our plan and what we continue to have in our plan is repatriating $300 million a year.
And that -- we look at that based upon the needs of capital in those countries.
As we've told you before we have a lot of debt capacity left and so that's what we would go to first.
And then we have the ability to issue equity in those 2 countries.
We would look at that as well.
So right now what we're planning on is still the $300 million a year repatriation.
We'll take our next question from Kit Konolige of BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the possibility of the MLP/YieldCo that obviously has been a hot topic that you've talked about and we have asked you about.
Any further thinking on any kind of bridge assets that could be put into a hypothetical MLP let's say before Cameron was up and running? If I understood you correctly in the past REX alone as it was envisioned -- you wouldn't really have considered sufficient to be the kind of the lead-off batter for the MLP for that length of time.
I'll have Joe talk about this.
Joe? Kit while we haven't made any decisions at this point about the exact timing or asset composition I will remind you what we talked about on the first quarter the things that are going on at REX that we talked about today and last quarter are really exciting because it does give us additional cash flow starting in the middle of next year that we can use in this regard.
However I did note that because we have a 25% interest in REX it can't be the only asset that goes in there because of some 40 Act issues so we need other assets.
So what we've talked about is using some of the cash flow from REX using -- as we get further along obviously the cash flows from Cameron and now that we have FID that puts us in great stead for that.
But we have some additional cash flows from our LNG facility in Mexico that actually are in the U.S.
and we would use those.
We have some other a little bit of midstream asset revenues not including the storage that we would put in there.
And then if we did something broader we could also include renewable revenues.
But I think given what's happened with REX given that we now have FID I think we have a mix of assets that we can use as you call sort of a bridge to do something between now and 2018 2019.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So what should we assume is the earliest that you could do something given the mix that you see in front of you there? Is it some time in '15 or '16? As I started out to say we haven't made any decisions at this point about the exact timing so more to come.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay we'll stay tuned there.
I'll say one other thing.
Obviously we talked about the CFE pipelines in the U.S Mark spoke about that and we think we have a good opportunity to capture some of that.
That would be an additional help that would get us there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And speaking of assets that are being bid out in Mexico.
Are -- is it your idea that IEnova would be the owner as those assets are billed or let's say for ECA would there be a different company? Now everything that's located physically in Mexico would be an IEnova position.
As Joe said there are some contracts that relate to gas that are not -- that are tied to ECA but are U.S.
assets.
Those would remain in the U.S.
But to the degree that we developed ECA to the degree that we're doing pipelines in Mexico those would be Mexican assets under IEnova.
To the degree that some of these Mexican bid pipelines occur in the U.S.
those would not be part of IEnova.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
One last question on tax rate.
You had some discussion earlier about how the tax rate varies quarter-to-quarter depending on what's repatriated and obviously other factors going on several moving parts.
How should we think about the tax rate say an annual tax rate over the next few years? Is it going to be pretty steady for estimation purposes? Yes over the next several years.
This year it will be just a little under 30 and over the next several years in the low-30s.
Pretty stable.
We'll take our next question from Mark Barnett of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to jump back into the LNG.
You've been talking about it a lot today.
I really appreciate all of your comments on it.
Just wondering it seems the agreement or the nature of the agreement for Cameron is a pretty successful one.
If you are going to be moving forward with ECA or with the new Port Arthur facility are you going to be looking for kind of a similar ownership structure? That is yet to be determined.
And we'll look at the option that makes sense for each of those facilities.
We have great respect and have worked really well with the partners that we have at Cameron but that model doesn't have to continue on and we would be looking at what model would make sense for us at each of the facilities.
Research Division</strong> Meaning it's possible by the time you're ready to make that decision you might feel comfortable taking on a project like that on your own? It depends on what kind of contracts we had.
And all of that -- all I can say is it really depends.
I would not preclude it but it would have to also fit within our Sempra risk profile and that's what we would look at.
Yes I would say the thing that we would be focused on is that it would be fully contracted.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just one smaller thing.
At the Analyst Day you also mentioned the opportunity for some re-gas maybe in Hawaii.
Obviously not maybe as large an opportunity as some of the stuff you mentioned this quarter but just wondering if that's something you have an idea about maybe the capacity that that market might demand eventually? And that's probably I would guess a lower priority than any of the projects that you've spent so much time discussing already today? Yes.
I would say I'm going to have Mark talk about it.
But I would say one potential customer probably for ECA would be Hawaii so...
Yes look I think the reason we mentioned it is because there is obviously a real need there and this is one of those interesting situations where bringing LNG into the island would do -- would have 2 beneficial effects.
One it would be a much cleaner burning fuel source for electricity because they're using fuel oil now.
And two it would actually lower their costs because they would go from a crude-based pricing to a natural gas-based pricing.
So it's really got a double benefit and a clear need and we think the desire on the part of the Hawaiian -- of the state government and the local utilities there to move with this direction.
So we think there's going to be an opportunity there and ECA is the natural logical supply source.
So that's why it was mentioned.
We don't have an agreement.
We don't have -- well we've been talking to them.
We think that there's a possibility someday of working something out but we don't have anything.
We don't have anything firm.
We'll take our final question from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
A lot of my questions have been answered but just -- I wanted to clarify something on the DOE process.
The Chris Smith proposal to sort of accelerate the -- to streamline the process and have them deal with the approvals at the end of -- other regulatory agency approvals.
I'm sorry if I missed this what is your expectation in terms of how that's going to proceed? Well we think that's moving forward and we're very positive on that.
I mean what we've seen in the queue is that we spent a lot of money going through the FERC process and that it doesn't cost that much to go through the DOE process for our company but they can block you in terms of timing for the queue.
And that we really like the idea of the FERC process kind of becoming the driver because that's what requires all the engineering all the environmental work all the things to really make the business decision on the facility.
And we think that this change in process will actually help us in terms of the development of additional size for trains because we've gone through that process.
And there -- I will tell you it is a stringent process and you can see now that are not very many companies that have made it through the whole FERC process.
In fact we're the first one that made it through the whole EIS process.
So we think it's an advantage to us as a developer having had the experience with that for them to make those modifications.
Because the reason why bring it up is that as I'm sure you're aware API and others made comments that seems to be critical of that path.
And I guess you guys just have a different perspective on it.
I'm just wondering if there's a simple -- I don’t want you to go into anything elaborate but I'm just wondering is there a simple reason for that or...? Well [indiscernible] your level of seriousness on these projects is tied to the FERC process.
And so that your expenditures and your level of seriousness -- and with the process that DOE was using with every few months one coming out you could have projects that may not get developed may not get the financing may not have the customers and have not even begun the FERC process move ahead in the queue because they filed something that didn't cost them anything really to file.
And so we think the FERC process really drives your true commitment because when you file at FERC you have invested a lot to get there.
And so we're supportive of what DOE is looking at.
Okay I think I understand the difference.
And then on the -- just in general we've seen some real changes in the global LNG and gas market et cetera.
And I'm just wondering where things stand now.
And obviously you guys have a competitive advantage with the respect to recent brownfield and stuff.
Just in general what's your thought about ultimately how much LNG is actually exported from the country? Or is that -- I'm saying in terms of just any market dynamic outlook did that change at all from previously when we've talked about this? Or I'm just sort of wondering when we look at this -- like you said it seems like everybody's brother's is announcing something and of course a lot of it isn't probably going to happen.
I'm just wondering if you could maybe give a little bit of flavor as to how you see the recent changes in the gas markets globally? Yes I'll ask Mark to talk more about this.
But what I would say is that all depends on what the relative cost in the market is.
And I mean some of the projects that we're doing now which are brownfield projects are very cost competitive.
One of the advantages that you have in the U.S.
or that you would have in Mexico is that you have an infrastructure and then a lot of these other places where they're having to build their LNG facility they're having to build the pipeline infrastructure they're having to access the resources to the supply.
There's different hurdles that go with it.
So we think that our country is really well positioned on this.
And it's hard to say how much of that global market we get.
I do think that we can be very competitive in that global market because of some of those issues.
Mark? Yes I would say in the near term say between now and 2020 to 2022 you'll see the development of probably the brownfield facilities because those will be the most cost-effective and that could be somewhere in the neighborhood of 7 Bcf to -- just call it 8 to 10 Bcf a day.
And I think that's what is probably likely to happen and then given the size -- and then I think it'll probably depend a lot on how much the world market is going to grow.
I mean right now we're talking about -- there's some estimates out there that the market for LNG could double over the next 10 or 15 years in the world market and that obviously would create additional opportunities for gas-producing countries.
But we've said all along that we don't -- we think other gas-producing countries especially ones like Qatar and others that have low-cost reserves are going to be competitive in this market and they're not just going to seed market share to the U.S.
or Canada or the North American market in general on a whim.
So at the end of the day I think there will be a demand for diversity of supply which will include North America and we're going to see other projects get developed and get built.
We believe some of those will be ours.
But at the end -- but it isn't an unlimited market and clearly I think we're not approaching it and I think responsible developers are not going to approach this with the idea that it's never-ending.
And so you'll see a lot of proposed facilities but at the end of the day we think the actual ones that come online are the ones that will have sold their capacity.
And that capacity market is going to be -- it's going to be looking for diversity it's going to be looking for certainty of supply and that bodes well for the North American market and so I think it'll continue to grow.
But it's going to be 2022 kind of 10 Bcf a day sort of market and kind of grow from there.
I also would say that there's just a lot of things that have been happening in some of the international gas markets that are affecting us.
Clearly what's happening in Russia has a big effect.
China just announced that their development of their shale is not progressing as they had anticipated and it's going much slower and much lower production rates and more expensive.
And so I think those factors will play out over the next 3 to 5 years where you have greater visibility in those areas which have a lot of impact on what happens to the LNG market as well.
Thank you all very much.
As always we have a top-notch Investor Relations team and that they are there to answer any follow-up questions that you have following our call today.
So if you have any additional questions please contact our Investor Relations group.
And thank you so much for joining us today on the call.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy Third Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's third quarter 2014 financial results and business update.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the investor section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team.
Debbie Reed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mark Snell President Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Martha Wyrsch Executive Vice President and General Counsel and Trevor Mihalik Senior Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we will be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our third quarter 2014 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I would also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today November 4th 2014 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to slide 3 and let me hand the call over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thanks to all of you who are joining us today.
Our third quarter earnings were very strong and I am confident that our 2014 earnings will be near the upper end of our guidance range.
We are also well-positioned to execute on our five year growth plan.
As we begin today I'd like to start off a little differently by giving you an overview of the progress we are making on key business initiatives and strategies.
This will give you a good sense of how we expect to achieve our growth rate of 9% to 11% through 2019.
Over the past few months I've been on the road meeting with many of you.
Since I most often asked about our long-term growth prospects I thought it would be helpful to start with a progress update.
So today I will begin with a review of some of the projects in our five-year plan and the status of additional development opportunities that could add to our long-term growth.
After providing you with this broader context I'll hand the call over to Joe to discuss the quarterly earnings and then we will take your questions.
Please turn to slide 4 for several years we have chartered a path to exit merchant generation as it no longer fits with our long term contracted infrastructure strategy.
On October 29th we signed a definitive agreement to sell the last block of Mesquite power plant.
The book value of the plant is approximately $300 million and the sale is at a premium to book value.
We expect to close this transaction around year-end subject to regulatory approval and transfer of the existing contract.
Any gains in the sale is not included in our 2014 guidance.
Shifting to our U.S.
midstream business we now have 20 year contracts for the full 1.8 Bcf per day at East to West capacity on the REX pipeline.
Due to significant additional demand for capacity out of the Marcellus and Utica we conducted a nonbinding open season for expansion.
The REX joint venture is finalizing precedent agreements with interested shippers and we should be able to report results within a few months.
Other market developments that could enhance REX's long-term value include the build out of additional laterals such as the proposed Prairie State Pipeline.
Growth in our REX distributions from these recent developments is an important factor as we consider the structure and timing for a potential MLP or YieldCo which we will discuss later on the call.
In addition to REX our U.S.
Gas and Power business is preparing bids for two natural gas pipeline lines in Texas that are being tendered by Mexico's Electricity Commission the CFE.
We expect to hear the results of those bids early next year.
Now let's turn to slide 5.
A significant component of U.S.
Gas and Power's natural gas strategy is to leverage our core competencies and asset positions to build a broader LNG business.
The progress we have made getting Cameron Liquefaction into construction positions us well to expand our LNG footprint.
In October the joint venture for Cameron became effective.
We contributed our asset to the JV and our partners made their initial capital contributions and reimbursed us for their share of development costs.
We began drying up on our financing and issued the full notice to proceed to our EPC contractors for construction.
The combination of forming the joint venture and moving from the development phase to the construction phase where we have a fixed price turnkey EPC contract is another huge step that gives us confidence the project will be successful and profitable for Sempra.
We remain on track to complete all three trains in 2018.
Moving to the next steps and growing our LNG business our U.S.
development efforts are progressing on two fronts.
We are assessing opportunities to develop Cameron trains four and five and a liquefaction plant at Port Arthur and we continue to receive strong customer interest for both.
As we advance our analysis we will gain more clarity on the prospects and timing for development of these two projects.
With regard to Cameron trains four and five the JV is progressing with a permitting work and we expect to initiate our FERC filing in the first half of 2015.
At this time we would expect to complete the permitting process within about two years after filing.
Since trains four and five will likely replicate the current design at Cameron we may be able to accelerate the environmental review process and shorten approval time frames.
Sempra has the contractual rights to 50% of the equity and capacity in the expansion.
Unit costs should be comparable to the current project and therefore quite competitive.
Our goal is to have the contracts in place and approvals necessary to allow for continuous construction following completion of trains one through three.
For those of you who are less familiar with Port Arthur we have a 2900 acre land position with three miles of waterfront connecting directly to the Gulf of Mexico.
The location is on a deep water channel that could accommodate LNG carriers of all sizes.
Port Arthur has been permitted in the past for both LNG and crude import facilities.
We are assessing the site for the possible combined use of LNG and/or liquids export and are discussing its development with several potential customers.
Initial studies suggest the site could reasonably accommodate four trains similar in size to those at Cameron as well as other uses.
Our goal is to complete our site plan negotiate contracts with customers and initiate our FERC filing next year.
Now please turn to slide 6 for developments in our international businesses.
In Mexico we are making progress on our gas studies to determine the size structure and economics of an LNG export facility at ECA.
We should have a better sense of these factors and potential timing in the first half of next year.
We continue to see strong interest from potential off-takers but since this facility is fully contracted as an import facility through 2028 we must consider the impact on contracts with existing customers and the resulting project economics before proceeding.
Another infrastructure IEnova is continuing to meet key construction milestones on its major projects.
The first phase of the Sonora pipeline was completed in October and Los Ramones 1 pipeline should be completed in December.
Together they represent about $1 billion in capital expenditure.
IEnova is also in the final stages of construction on the ethane pipeline and ESJ wind generation project.
Near term development opportunities include the 17 natural gas pipelines outlined in the government's five-year infrastructure plan.
Although the process is running a few months behind initial scheduling the CFE is moving forward and making progress on the tenders.
IEnova has submitted a bid for the contracted pipeline and is preparing a bid for the second.
As I mentioned our U.S.
Gas and Power business is preparing bids for the third and fourth pipeline.
You can refer to the appendix for additional details on all 17.
Turning to energy reform we see a long runway of opportunities resulting from the country's energy transformation.
In addition to the $13 billion of investment expected in natural gas pipelines the government identified $14 billion of power generation projects $2 billion of electric transmission projects and over $250 billion of energy investments in other sectors.
We are working to build upon our past success and become a first mover in several of these new areas of opportunity.
While we expect to have increased competition for projects we’ve worked over many years to develop our competitive advantage in Mexico.
For example IEnova has the largest in country presence among competitors with over 560 local employees.
Based on our large and ongoing construction program we’ve a deep and experienced team who has demonstrated the ability to deliver projects on time and on budget.
We also have a long history of being able to work success successfully with local communities.
This is essential for secure sing rights of way.
Moving to Peru our electric distribution company has received regulatory approval for a transmission plan that entails building several substations and transmission lines in Lima.
The plan will require about $150 million of incremental investment from 2015 to 2017.
Capital expenditures will earn the regulated 12% rate of return.
Let's go now to slide 7.
At our California utilities both our basic operations and projects are performing well and we continue to pursue additional growth opportunities.
At SoCalGas we received regulatory approval of our framework and are currently ramping up on 17 pipeline construction projects and a valve enhancement initiative all part of our $1.5 billion PSEP program.
The advanced metering program at SoCalGas is also ahead of schedule and we expect to have about 2.9 million meters installed by year end.
As you are aware SoCalGas has made a filing at the CPUC for an $800 million to $850 million Southern gas system reliability project designed to reinforce the gas transmission system and provide stronger access to supply points and gas storage.
This is very important for both gas and electric system reliability.
As expected several alternate proposals have been filed but we continue to believe our plan is superior.
We expect the CPUC to rule late next year.
At SDG&amp;E we are on track with our $1.1 billion capital plan for 2014 and received notice from the ISO that we were awarded an additional $60 million electric transmission project in our service territory.
On the regulatory front we have two important matters at the Commission and both are moving forward.
We reached an amended settlement agreement with key parties on the Son's [ph] plant closure and expect CPUC approval this year.
The revisions made to the settlement address all issues raised by the assigned commissioner and these revisions did not result in a material impact to Sempra's 2014 financial results.
We submitted our notice of intent to file our 2016 general rate case at both utilities.
The Office of Ratepayer Advocates recommended acceptance and we expect to file our official applications by year end.
Let's turn to slide 8 for an update on our ongoing assessment of MLPs.
We’re focused on finalizing our analysis of the pros and cons of different structures.
We continue to look at the traditional MLP structure as well as a variety of YieldCo like structures that are designed for growth and distributions.
To simplify terminology we refer to the latter as total return vehicles or TRVs.
The key issues for us include alignment with our strategies and growth initiatives value creation for Sempra shareholders flexibility and the potential asset mix liquidity and size of the potential investor base and volatility and trading history of existing entities.
We are on path to conclude our analysis by the end of the first quarter 2015 and hope to provide you more detail around our strategy at that time.
With that let me hand the call over to Joe to provide additional context on this topic and to walk you through the quarterly earnings.
Joe? Thanks Debbie.
Turning to slide 9 we discuss certain factors we’re analyzing to inform our decision regarding a potential MLP or TRV.
First and foremost as Debbie just mentioned the structure must be aligned with our strategy and enhance long-term value for Sempra shareholders.
The earnings per share dividend per share and cash flow impact for Sempra are a focus of our analysis.
If an MLP or a TRV is pursued we will work with the rating agencies to maintain our solid investment grade credit ratings.
In our decision process we will follow the same discipline we used in launching the highly successful IEnova IPO.
One important factor is the asset base.
In our portfolio we have assets with long-term cash flows that are currently available for formation of a vehicle.
In the case of an MLP we could include our share of REX distributions and potentially the U.S.
based contracted revenues from the ECA re-gas terminal.
In the case of a TRV we could include these assets as well as certain of our wind and solar assets.
We also have a variety of assets we expect to be available for future growth.
In either an MLP or a TRV Cameron Liquefaction could be the asset providing the largest cash distribution growth after all three trains are online.
We could also have available LNG development projects our Cameron pipeline other qualifying midstream and storage assets if market conditions improve.
Additional renewables in operation or in development as well as other non-qualifying infrastructure could also be available for future growth in a TRV.
Let's go to slide 10.
On this slide we break down the key attributes often used for comparison between an MLP and a TRV.
As you know the traditional MLP relies on qualifying assets while a TRV could include any asset with certainty in its long-term cash distribution profile.
You are likely familiar with differences in the investor base between an MLP and a TRV.
Governance and tax impacts however are becoming more common between the two.
While we were initially focused on an MLP structure we understand that the tax shield for a TRV is essentially equivalent to the tax shield that MLP unit holders enjoy.
For a TRV a tax loss can be carried forward to offset potential future taxable income.
Analysis suggests that similar to an MLP a TRV's tax yield can be maintained over time through growth.
With regard to potential sponsor implications asset quality and incentive distribution rights are important for valuation in either structure.
As Debbie mentioned earlier we’re considering these issues and are on a path to conclude our analysis by the end of the first quarter 2015.
Let's now turn to slide 11 and I will conclude with a discussion of our third quarter earnings.
Sempra's third quarter consolidated earnings were $348 million or $1.39 per share.
This compares to consolidated earnings of $296 million or $1.19 per share in the same quarter last year.
As we normally do we’re providing individual financial results for each of our business units in the section of our presentation entitled business unit earnings.
For this call however I'm going to focus only on the key drivers of our consolidated third quarter earnings beginning on slide 12.
Increased quarterly earnings relative to 2013 are due largely to five items.
The California utilities had a combined $13 million of increased earnings due to higher CPUC based margin and improved operating performance.
In 2014 the California utilities had a combined $10 million favorable impact for prior year's income tax issues compared to a $2 million unfavorable impact in 2013.
IEnova finalized the sale of a 50% equity interest in.
As a result of the transaction we recorded a $14 million after-tax gain of which of half or $7 million is attributable to the re-measurement of our retained interest to fair value.
In Mexico we recorded $14 million of AFUDC equity earnings associated with construction of the say another ray pipeline.
U.S.
Gas and Power recorded a $25 million benefit related to the release of a Louisiana income tax valuation allowance.
In past years we incurred losses for operations located in Louisiana.
We recorded a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax benefit at that time due to the lack of offsetting income.
With advancement of Cameron Liquefaction and prospects for future earnings in Louisiana we were able to release the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.
Partially offsetting these five drivers were two items.
One item was the $24 million gain recorded in 2013 from the sale of a 50% interest in two solar projects.
The second item relates to $8 million in higher income tax expense for South America in 2014 primarily related to Chilean tax reform.
As I mentioned on our first quarter call Chile was considering a tax reform proposal that would increase the corporate tax rate.
The President of Chile signed the tax reform bill into law on September 29th and the $6 million impact reflects the re-measurement of our deferred tax balances.
Now let's go to slide 13.
To conclude our businesses are performing well and we are on track to execute on our five-year growth plan.
Cameron is in construction and new contracts on REX are also in place.
IEnova's construction on major projects is progressing on time and year-to-date earnings for Sempra Mexico operations are higher than last year despite $16 million of higher non-controlling interest in 2014.
In South America earnings reflect a couple of items worth mentioning.
Year-to-date earnings primarily for Chile continue to be impacted by a weaker peso to dollar exchange rate.
As we have discussed previously tariffs in our South American utilities are generally adjusted for foreign currency changes over time.
Chilean tax reform also impacted earnings this quarter.
Despite these considerations our South American utilities remain fundamentally sound and show continued growth in customers and sales.
Finally our California utilities have their major capital programs in place and earnings continue to reflect a higher CPUC base margin and improved operating results.
As Debbie noted earlier based on third quarter earnings and our year-to-date financial performance we expect to be near the upper end of our 2014 earnings guidance range of $4.25 per share to $4.55 per share.
With that we will conclude our prepared comments and stop to take any questions that you may have.
I've got one question on the quarter and one question on some of the drivers.
I guess I'll start with the quarter.
As I look at the summary on page 13 it looks like the – I'm sorry not the summary on page 13 the summary on page 12 with all the items impacting the quarter.
The income tax swing the ESJ wind gain and the release of the allowance I understand that you had – there are offsetting things that happened in the prior year like the gain you had on Copper Mountain but as we look forward into 2015 and we look at your – the guidance range you gave for us for 2015 is that already – should we assume they contemplate such gains or losses in there? Greg let me just say for 2015 we're going to update our guidance as we always do in February.
What I would just say is that when we do our guidance we contemplate what we know at that point in time.
So to the extent when we gave you the guidance back at the analyst meeting in March we knew things were going to occur in 2015.
We would have put those in our guidance at that time.
But we will update that guidance because there's been things that have happened since that time and we'll update that guidance in February as we always do.
Okay.
So that switches to my next question.
As I look at page 4 of your – the guidance section from the Analyst Day you did a pretty good job outlining what was in your aspiration and what wasn't and based on the update you've given us today looks like on the California utilities you've got a small transmission project that wasn't contemplated.
You've got a fairly large potential gas infrastructure project that wasn't contemplated.
You've got the SFE pipelines in Latin America and Peru transmission that wasn't contemplated.
And then refresh my memory.
I just want to be clear the 1.8 Bcf of day of REX backhaul was not – was also not contemplated in that guidance.
Is that correct? Yes.
Let me just go through to summarize those so that everyone kind of hears the same thing.
When we look at what we showed you back in March and we look at some of the things that were in the additional opportunities that have already been secured that we have the 1.6 Bcf from REX for the east to west flows and that's incremental to what we had in our plan of the 0.2 B's.
We also have the second piece of REX which is the Clarington West Flow [ph] that we haven't announced contracts on yet.
And as I mentioned that should be coming out in the next couple of months.
Renewables we have the 92-megawatt contract with Edison for CMS-4.
And on electric transmission this quarter we got $60 million of incremental investment.
We also have some other projects that were incremental to our plan at SDG&amp;E and then we also had the $150 million of electric transmission in Peru that I mentioned on the call.
So those are things that where we basically have either been assigned them by the ISO or by the regulators in Peru or we have contracts with REX or with renewables.
Then we have a lot of bids for additional development and we're bidding two CFE pipelines in Mexico two CFE pipelines in the U.S.
some additional renewables where we are offers out and we mentioned trains four and five in Cameron.
Those are things we're actively working on as well.
You've also got this $800 million to $850 million gas infrastructure proposal where you'll find out late next year if that's approved right? Yes.
And part of that was in the later years of our plan because that – we would expect to get the decision towards the end of next year but construction doesn't ramp up on that until some of the mid to later years of the plan.
And when would you roll out explicit 2016 earnings guidance range? We'll roll those out 2016; we usually do at the analyst conference.
And so we do 2015 on the call in February generally and then we give you both of those and then our long-term outlook at the analyst conference.
And that would be – the one thing I want to be sure to mention is that when I went through all of these growth opportunities that – and using the Southern reliability system as an example not all of these projects are going to affect 2015 earnings.
Some of the projects like REX comes in part of it in 2015 some of the additional contracts would not come into place until 2016 when we look at the Peruvian transmission it's 2015 to 2017 and so a lot of these things are going to not affect just the 2015.
The other thing that I want to mention is that with the additional bids that we have under development we are going to also be incurring development costs during 2015.
And we are planning on getting trains four and five with the permits filed and same thing for Port Arthur and for projects like that plus all these CFE bids that we expect there to be development costs.
So all of that kind of information will be updated when we give you our guidance in February.
I do have one more question.
So there's been a lot of oil price volatility over the last couple months and the people's – it seems that investor's expectations for the probability of incremental LNG export kind of ebbs and flows with the oil price a as it balances between where it is today and the prices we saw earlier in the year.
Is there a – can you give us some sense of whether the appetite from your counter counterparties who are discussing with you the potential for these incremental trains at what oil price they're no longer interested in ex ordering gas from the U.S.? Let me just mention one thing and that is that all of the joint venture parties agree for us to move forward with some of the initial work and preparation of our FERC filing for trains four and five.
So I mean that in itself is a good indication.
But Mark has done a lot of work in this area and we expected that there would be questions on oil prices so I'm going to turn it to Mark to kind of say why we think our facilities are very well positioned in terms of the global markets.
Greg I think you know that this LNG business is a long-term business and what we're seeing from our partners is an interest in securing long-term supply of LNG from the United States with all the stability and the continuity that that can provide.
And we really haven't seen that interest abate even as we've seen oil prices fall in the last few days here.
If you look at the underlying numbers and I'm not going to get into all the details now but generally speaking we still have – the U.S.
gas and U.S.
LNG especially from the Gulf has a pretty good cost advantage over just about everything else that there is in the world today.
And that continues down to gas or oil prices as they drop even down to the $70 range.
One thing I think it's worth noting is a lot of these foreign contracts oil linked contracts for LNG have S-curves in them with sets a floor and a ceiling on prices as oil prices fluctuate.
And so it's not a point where even if oil were to drop to levels that we haven't seen in 15 or 20 years LNG wouldn't necessarily on a worldwide basis fall to those levels except other than on the spot market.
There's some built in price levels there.
And I think we're competitive with those given where price is.
And I think the other thing that's really really important and that these folks focus on is diversity of supply.
And that includes geographic diversity.
Obviously the United States being a real favorite these days of trying to get some supply out of the U.S.
also diversity of facilities and geographic locations within the U.S.
So I think at the end of the day we feel very confident that our partners are interesting – interested in moving forward on trains four and five.
We see other outside interest for Port Arthur.
We are having discussions on on maybe conversions there.
So we're kind of looking at all of these opportunities and we think we can be online with some of these as early as 2020.
And we're going to kind of prioritize which ones that we think need to come online first and we'll just kind of move through the list.
But we're pretty excited about what's the level of interest and the opportunity for us to continue to grow our LNG business.
Couple questions first on the Cameron four and five filing at FERC next year would you anticipate you would have contracts in place by the time that you file at FERC? I'm going to have Mark go ahead and go through that and kind of go through the schedule a bit with you as to what we're envisioning.
It's a good question.
I don't know that we would have firm contracts in place.
Usually the contracts aren't firm until we take FID the firm investment decision and we wouldn't expect to do that until sometime after we get the permit 16 or 17.
We're working with our partners and we obviously have customers that we have put in the queue that are looking at this opportunity but it's sort of a chicken and egg thing.
They want to make sure that we're going to do it and we have the facility and getting the permits will cement that in their minds that this facility is moving forward and I think they'd be much more comfortable than to commit to that supply.
So as we look at this I think we would expect sometime after that we would probably firm up contracts.
That doesn't mean we won't have MOUs and other kinds of indications of interest and I think that's very likely that we will.
A firm contract really doesn't exist until you take FID.
I would say it would be very parallel to what we did on trains one through three where we had with partners we had commitments that if the facility was built at a certain pricing point that they would move forward with it.
But that's very different than getting to FID where the partners now have to you put their money on the table and all.
So I think it would be constructed very much the same in terms of contracts.
Okay.
Maybe my terminology might have been too specific there.
I guess it seems that there's a little bit more of an interest in approving projects that have more likelihood of getting done which having some kind of initial commitment helps along that way.
So do you expect by the time you file there would be some kind of initial commitment for the LNG? Yes I think that we'll have initial interest.
And also too I just want to remind you that now that FERC or that DOE has changed the way that they look at this and let FERC is taking the lead you're not really going to move forward with a lot of this activity because it is as Debbie mentioned there's fairly expensive development costs in moving this through the permitting process.
And so we're not going to do that without some indication of interest and that we're going to be able to move this to completion.
So I think the change in the process that was recently announced a few months ago is also leading to people being much more secure about what's going on as they move forward.
Okay.
Second question this might be a little silly but just do you guys have something against the term YieldCo or what's the thought or is there a message underneath kind of recalling it a TRV instead of YieldCo? I'm going to ask Joe to answer that because he and his team came up with that term as we were looking at it.
I think it is pretty descriptive and kind of what the option we're looking at but Joe? Look I think Steve really it's us thinking pout thinking about what this is and I think the YieldCo term is a little bit funny you think a YieldCo is something that's at a high yield.
What we really see is this is going to be very highly valued because of growth and yield and so we just didn't really like the term and didn't really fit us and it didn't fit our strategy and we think that it's really a total return vehicle and that's why we are talking about that.
One of the problems we had internally is we're looking at a couple different types.
Everything we're looking at is MLP like in structure but it might be the tax is a little bit different depending on what we do so we needed a term to talk about these things that weren't traditional MLPs and this is what we came onto.
Okay.
One last question with respect to just the decision on MLP YieldCo.
The other companies that are moved forward with MLPs YieldCos the stocks generally have done well into it.
Once they've actually executed there hasn't been a lot of follow-through.
Do you have any kind of thoughts they the way you're looking at it where you might either do it differently or communicate differently to benefit to Sempra holders if you go forward? I think the key is that whatever we do has to bring greater value to Sempra shareholders in our minds and that we'll be able to articulate why we think that that would occur.
I would say the one thing that we feel very good about is if we do something if we don't do something whatever we do we have a really great set of assets.
I think how a company fundamentally has long-term value is the growth the potential on assets that they have the ability to grow their business the ability to really have steady cash flows that are growing and I think we're in good position regardless of the structure that we have to do that.
So that's kind of how we're looking at it.
And I would just turn it to Joe to talk about a little bit of what we're looking at on the shareholder value side and the work that's under way.
Steve this is part of the reason we put a lot of content into this call because later once we make a decision we'll be filing some stuff and then we won't with able to talk about it.
So we wanted to be able to explain how we're thinking about this that we really are focused on the long-term value for Sempra and we wanted you to all understand what the things we're looking at.
And so we've described on page 9 and page 10 how we're thinking about it the kind of assets we're looking at how we expect these things to work.
And I don't want to talk about really the other company's stock values and what's happened to them but we believe that the strength of our underlying business and the execution that we have on our growth plan is going to be reflected in how our shares perform and if we choose to create one of these vehicles then as it's been with other large high quality sponsors they're kind of small at the outset but I think that's one of the things you see is these things are pretty small for some of these large players.
And so I don't think it's moving the stock much around.
And it might do the same with us it's hard to tell.
Once those IDRs become significant and that value is very transparent I think you'll see that in our stock very clearly.
I would just add to that and highlight IEnova and kind of what was done there and we were the first energy company to trade on the exchange and we took a lot of time to determine what was the best approach what was the best timing is this something that's going to bring value to the Sempra shareholders.
Is it going to give more transparency to the value of those underlying assets.
And we would make the same kind of considerations as we decide whether we're going to do a vehicle and if so what type of vehicle we would do.
I think you'll l see that same kind of disciplined behavior for us as we analyze this.
Could you give us a little bit more color on.
You certainly talked about contracting conditions in general for LNG.
You mentioned that the kind of interest remains strong.
So did IEnova when they talked about it.
Could you mention kind of if anything has changed for that project specifically over the past couple months? I would say that Chris there's nothing really that's changed.
We've been doing the gas study and we're completing some of the work on the gas study to look at gas availability.
The issue there that's been there and we've always talked about it is that we have contracts through 2028 as an import facility.
So the economics of taking a facility that I don't know it's about $150 million or so cash flow from that facility and making it into an export facility we need to look at what the benefits of that would be and that there has to be a compelling story for that.
And so looking at gas looking at the sizing of the facility looking at the customers looking at the existing customers are all the things that we've always talked about with that facility and they're still present for us.
We're working it and we're definitely working trains four and five and definitely working Port Arthur.
We're working all three of them.
Okay.
And then could you give us a little bit more color if you could on timing with ECA.
I know it's hard to do at this point but you've definitely been more specific with four and five I think and even Port Arthur at this point than you've been down there.
Well I mentioned in my talking points that what we were looking at is having all the gas analysis done and then really looking at what kind of a facility could be there and having some conversations with our customers in the first half of next year.
That's the kind of timing for that.
There is a regulatory process.
I guess the rules just came out in Mexico with some of the details on what is required in order to get regulatory approval.
But it's a different process than in the U.S.
So I mean I think that within the first half of the year just as with the other projects we should have a good sense as to what we think about sizing what we think about timing and what we think about the economics of the project.
And then my follow-up question is just on year-to-date earnings and the third quarter specifically.
There's kind of an unusually large number of one-time mostly tax related items.
Do you have a sense of what a normalized number would be if you moved all of that stuff? I'm going to have Joe or Trevor go through that.
And I would remind you that if you kind of look year to year last year we had a gain on CMS-2 that came in the quarter and it was almost the same size as this LA tax valuation.
So if you kind of take those things out you still see a growth of double-digit growth rate year-over-year which I think is along a path that we're intending to head.
I think just what she said.
You can pick and choose things that tend to be one-time items if you want to call them that.
I would say in our renewable business we tend to have gains on sales fairly often.
Last year we had $24 million in the third quarter this year we had $13 million in the third quarter.
This year we had the Chilean tax reform hit us for 6 and we had $8 million of repatriation tax.
Where last year this quarter we didn't have any because it all got booked in the first quarter.
So if you try to pull some of those out and you pull out the valuation allowance which was in our plan but if you pulled that out and say that's the onetime item we have nearly 19% growth over last year and if you take out the tax items at the utilities we have those all the time they happen all the time but if you take those out they're 14% earnings growth.
We have very solid growth in this quarter and year-to-date the numbers are very similar.
You can pick and choose.
But we have very very solid growth.
It's actually Julien.
I have a quick detail here on Mesquite.
Do you have a sales price that you could disclose? All we're saying that is our book value's about 300 and we sold it for above book.
And we'll remind you all that the gain on that sale is not part of the guidance so -- Turning to Mexico if you will how much does the U.S./Mexican project drive a decision between MLP versus whatever else you you've contemplated? Call it YieldCo total return vehicle etcetera.
I don't think that that would drive anything in terms of our decision making.
We're looking at kind of long-term and so it would be a nice factor for if you were looking at either of those.
It would be a nice factor but it's not a driver.
So you feel like you have sufficient critical mass to get the MLP off the ground irrespective of near term project awards right just to be clear? We're not going to comment on that.
As I mentioned we're doing the assessment of that and we're looking at those assets.
We're looking at where our growth is and we're doing that all of that work and I'm just not going to comment on specific assets.
And then going back to the notion of a total return vehicle you talk about other infrastructure assets.
Broadly speaking what else would be contemplated within a TRV if you will? It's midstream clearly it's renewables clearly.
What else within the context of your current portfolio or within the context of your organic growth plans would be included potentially? I would refer you back to Joe's comments but Joe do you want to kind of articulate that again some of the comments.
Sure.
Really what we looked at is the strategy for Sempra and it's been consistent for many many many years now long-term contracted infrastructure and we've built and contracted many different kind of assets.
And while we're exiting merchant generation now we certainly had assets like that that could have been put in there.
We might look at petrochemical kind of assets other things that are natural gas related kind of assets.
There could be things that just don't fit in the qualifying asset characterization.
And so we could – I mentioned before while we're not currently contemplating it we could put some of these non-U.S.
assets in there.
We certainly probably won't do that with Mexico but there's others assets that we could put in.
It's just a broader group that fits nicely with our strategy.
And a last little detail here congrats on Mesquite first.
But secondly TDM in Mexico is there a thought process or time line around re-contracting that asset? We have a goal to do something with TDM on a long-term basis.
And as I mentioned in my comments with the energy reform going forward that generation will be kind of one of the next areas that they will be looking at.
And we think with TDM interconnected to Mexico it could be one of the best and most economic assets to meet some of those needs.
So that's our plan is to work that with the sale into Mexico.
Under long term offtake presumably? A sale of the asset or sale or long-term offtake PPA agreement whatever structure seems to work best.
Just wanted to follow up and make sure I understand about the offtake agreements on Cameron trains four and five.
So you've indicated that you expect to start the FERC filing process the first half of next year and I believe you said that you would expect to have some offtake agreements in hand before you go to FERC.
So is the implication that you expect to be able to announce some form of offtake agreements in the first half of next year? Yes let me have Mark go through that again to be sure that it's very clear what we're talking about.
And also kind of the schedule at FERC because you make a pre-filing and then you make the complete FERC filing.
And so let's kind of walk you through what we're thinking.
Yeah I think where we're going to be is we will start the filing process at FERC with our application.
And we would not expect at that moment in the first half of or the first quarter of 2015 to have agreements in hand.
As I said before actually firm agreements would not be done until we actually reached FID which is a year or so down the road.
But we might have indications of interest and I think you can – by the very nature of this project the fact that Mitsubishi and GDF are our partners and they have agreed to move these process forward they obviously have an interest in that capacity.
So I think just by the nature of the players involved you can see that there's interest in moving the project forward.
But no one's has made a commitment yet to sign on and pay for the – to pay for these facilities to be built in a firm way.
But we're going to move forward with the permitting process.
We're going to get that started.
We've authorized monies to be spent on development and we think the project looks very favorable compared to others that could be considered.
So we're very optimistic that this project will move forward.
It's certainly one of the lowest cost projects that you could possibly do in the region because it's an add-on to an existing project.
So I think I understand.
It's a point at which you get – when you get to the point where you'd be making the full FERC filing at that point if you don't have some kind of nonbinding let's call it offtake agreements you'd put the brakes on the project at that point? Yes there's certainly a point if we thought that the interest in the facility was waning or that we couldn't reach a full FID decision obviously we'd stop spending money on it.
We're not in that position right now.
We feel like it's got a lot of interest and we're willing to spend some development dollars on furthering that and bringing that – bringing the project to fruition.
This is very very similar to what we did on Cameron's one through three.
It's really the same process.
You announced the offtake agreements for trains one through three before the FID.
So I guess I'm just trying to understand if we should expect a similar announcement of those agreements.
Yes before FID you'll have agreements that require FID as a condition precedent for those agreements going forward.
But that's a very typical way that this would be done.
If you look back at Cameron one through three what we had is kind of an MOU with the parties on the joint venture agreement and then the tolling agreement in that case.
And then we went forward with some of the more costly developments to allow the FERC filing after we had that to make the full filing at FERC that is necessary for your permitting.
It's the same type of process that we would be looking at here whether it's offtake agreements for LNG or it's a tolling arrangement we would look at having some type of MOU in place with interested parties before we started spending a lot of money.
The only thing here is that we're a little further ahead because things like the tolling arrangements and all those agreements have already really been drafted once.
They just need to be amended for the additional capacity.
And then shifting gears to the MLP versus TRV debate.
As you walk through the criteria it really sounded to me like the TRV was the superior option on most of the criteria that you walked us through and largely because of the flexibility it provides.
Is it fair to say that's the way you're leaning? We're not leaning anywhere.
I just made real clear because I could give you some reasons why the MLP would be interesting too.
So what we're trying to do is really look at this without getting hooked on anything and really do kind of the step away look at this from a Sempra shareholder perspective as what is the best decision and to take our time to do that and to have that completed by the end of the first quarter.
So there's no leaning one way or the other.
We're looking – all options are open for us right now and we're watching how things trade.
We're watching how our growth goes and what kinds of assets that we think would be available for each vehicle if we decided to do a vehicle.
All of that work is under way and we'll have that concluded by the first quarter.
At the Analyst Day in the Spring I believe you said that your plan was to do an MLP and it was just kind of a matter of timing and that was before you start talking about the TRV option.
Should we still be thinking of this decision in the first quarter as just which vehicle you're going to do or what's the likelihood that you decide to do nothing? I'm not going to comment because we haven't decided.
Like I said there's really options on the table all of those options are open right now and I don't ever recall saying that we were committed to doing one thing.
We had looked at it.
There had been a lot of interest in us doing it.
We saw that we had assets that we thought would be very good assets for that type of structure and we still feel we have really good assets for either of these kinds of structures.
So we'll make those decisions and inform you when we made the decisions after the first quarter.
And didn't mean to put words in your mouth just one final follow-up to that.
You kind of alluded to a pipeline of renewables projects that could contribute to growth if you go the TRV route.
Could you just talk to us a little about what's in your renewables pipeline right now and if the pipeline what is included in your current long-term guidance? Yes.
If you look at our renewables business the areas where we still have a lot of opportunities for development are with our Copper Mountain facility and we can keep adding there.
We also have rose month which we have actually are participating in some RFPs to develop that site right now.
There are opportunities to expand some of the wind sites that we're in and we're looking at some of the additional phases on those wind sites.
And so – and then we're always out in the market looking at other opportunities for exciting new renewables.
So we have projects that we keep working on.
I think where we actually have some land positions we're in really great position to develop renewable projects in those sites.
The only one you didn't mention was Mesquite create a large facility at Mesquite that we could expand.
Just two quick ones on REX did you note the potential for some additional opportunities outside of the Clarington west part of it? I think you noted some laterals there.
What I talked about is the Prairie State Pipeline that Telegraph [ph] and AGL have proposed that links in to REX.
And if they're doing a nonbinding open season on that pipeline that ties into REX and takes gas into kind of the hub of Chicago.
And obviously if they get a lot of interest on that pipeline they're going to need upstream supply.
And so we have – in the 2.4 Bcf of potential expansions for REX there's two pieces.
There's the piece of about 700 to 800 a day that's from additional compression and then the remainder of it would come from looping the line.
And so to the degree that there's more downstream market for the gas then we think that that gives us additional upstream opportunities on REX.
And then just switching over to Cameron four and five as it relates to the FERC process what drives the time line for approval and what's the potential for accelerating it given that you've got Cameron one through three already approved? So if your question is on the regulatory side how does the process work I think the answer to that is that it – the FERC process will drive it and the DOE export process kind of will play off of the FERC process.
Under this new regime the DOE will consider only projects that have gone through a certain amount of the FERC process.
One of the things that we talked about was that we may be able to accelerate the FERC process because we have trains one through three.
We may be able to do what they call an environmental assessment as opposed to a full environmental impact report.
And that could shorten the process by several months really.
And it would be a little bit cheaper too.
We don't know that we're going to be able to do that.
We're looking at it.
We're talking with our consultants on it.
But that is one way that we could shorten the process a little bit.
Does that answer your question?  It does Mark.
Thank you.
Just going back to this MLP versus YieldCo.
Is there any reason why you don't do both? The reason why I'm asking is you don't know if you look down over the next four five years if you're going to grow your midstream and natural gas and refined product exports whatever you guys want to do if you want to grow that asset base that's where the MLP works if you're going to grow some of the stuff outside the U.S.
and the renewable stuff then certainly YieldCo works.
I'm just trying to figure out it seems like we're talking about one versus the other but I'm just trying to understand if you couldn't do both.
We think that either can work.
I don't see us and we said this for several years I don't see us doing a separate YieldCo for our renewable business.
Our renewable business is a nice business but it's not a big part of the business and I think that the YieldCo would be too small.
It just wouldn't be sufficient of a vehicle and so I don't see us going down that path.
But I think that the TRV vehicle or the MLP can work for us and that's why we're looking at both of them very hard.
Just on REX and Clarington West I just want to make sure that was I thought contemplated to be a 2.4 Bcf a day expansion I noticed in your slides it says TBD.
Is that because it could be bigger or could be smaller? It's largely because there's two pieces of it and we did the nonbinding open season and as I mentioned that we're in the final negotiations with the shippers that participated in that nonbinding open season.
We'll announce that later.
But if there's additional market pull in Chicago that that may get all the way to the 2.4 and there's options always options to expand beyond the 2.4 if you get to that.
So how close we get to the 2.4 I think will be more visible to us over the next year.
And then just on the LNG strategy you said that you guys are going to get reimbursed for the development cost for one and three.
Did I hear that right on the call? Is that – how does that cash come back to you? We did.
When we went through the FID and through the lets call effective date which is when all the asset goes in and the financing is arranged and everything then we did get reimbursed from our partners for our share of – or their share of the development cost.
And then we also got their first contributions to their equity going in to match our equity which was our basically billion dollar asset that we put into the JV.
So now we're starting – that's our equity contribution.
They'll continue to make equity contributions until they get up to the levels to match our equity value.
And then we’ve the sharing arrangement for all of the costs as we go forward.
And then for the marketing of volume for trains four and five how competitive is the environment today the contracting environment? There's still other facilities out there some of them Brownfield some of them greenfield that are still being developed and just want to understand sort of what you guys commercial inertia is right now in terms of finding customers? I would say that the one thing that we found is that there is a lot of parties in the market.
There have not been very many parties that have gotten through the process and into construction.
And so the fact that you have a facility that is already being built that can be expanded or that you've demonstrated your ability to get through all of those processes and get a facility in place I think provides us a strong competitive advantage in the marketplace.
There are a lot of players out trying to market that buyers really want certainty because if they are contracting for long-term supplies on a certain date to be delivered then they're counting on that gas to get there that LNG to get there and they're not delighted with some of the projects that may never get done.
So I think we're in a good position.
I think yes there is a lot of people out there marketing but I think we're in a very good position.
And then just in terms of what happens if one of your JV partners wanted to opt out of the expansions at four and five? Sure.
There is provisions within our agreement that would allow the other partners to take over their position if we so choose to.
Okay.
On a pro rata basis or just whoever wants is or – ? Yes it's effectively pro rata.
Understood.
And then last question from me just with the stronger U.S.
dollar just trying to figure out if there's any sort of longer term impacts to your earnings from overseas? Joe do you want to discuss that? We have been seeing FX effects and that is something that we commented on and it's clearly impacted our South American businesses this year.
What I would say is that if you look at those businesses the growth and some of – we're able to offset some of the impact of FX by the growth in those businesses.
But it has been an impact.
We're really pleased with the continued growth we have in the customers and the energy sales in both countries as Debbie just mentioned and the utilities are performing as we expected them to and continue to grow.
But this quarter the currency movement wasn't very significant but for the year in Chile a lot of that currency movement is offset the growth but not in Peru.
In Peru the currency is more stable and we have really solid growth there.
So overall between Chile Peru and Mexico it hasn't been very material this year.
Just wanted to make sure I didn't miss this.
You mentioned the two Texas pipelines.
Had you talked about the size of those and what that would be volumetric I would say? Yes actually what I would refer you to because it's a little bit confusing with all these pipelines that are being bid if you go to slide 22 and 23 in your package it lists all of those pipelines.
And the two in Texas three and four on page 22 and it shows that both the mileage and the CapEx that was estimated by CFE that's not our CapEx number that's the CFE estimate of CapEx so that will help you look at all of those pipelines.
And then the ones listed below five through 17 are the ones that they've announced that they're going to be bidding in the near term.
And you can see all of those are supposed to go in service by 2018 so they will need to bid them in the near term.
On those CapEx numbers actually with the estimates that are coming out from the government are those coming I guess in practice on the ground as these first round of pipes are being constructed how accurate are those figures? Yes I think it's not in our competitive interest to comment on their pricing estimates.
So I would just say sometimes they're good sometimes they're not so on track.
And I'm not going to say anything more about it.
Well being that there are no further questions thanks again for joining us today on Sempra's third quarter 2014 earnings call.
If you have any follow-up questions please feel free to contact our great IR team and have a wonderful day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to the Sempra Energy fourth quarter earnings results conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Financial and Operational Results.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investor section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Martha Wyrsch Executive Vice President and General Counsel; and Trevor Mihalik Senior Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.
We also have the heads of our 2 California utilities Dennis Arriola Chief Executive of Southern California Gas; and Jeff Martin Chief Executive Officer of San Diego Gas &amp; Electric.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we'll be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today February 26 2015 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to Slide 3 and let me hand the call over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick and thanks to all of you who are joining us.
2014 lays a strong foundation for our future growth.
We have solid financial performance achieved double-digit annual EPS growth and posted earnings exceeding our guidance.
We also achieved important milestones on development projects and delivered strong operating results across all of our businesses.
With the great progress made over the year we are on track to be at the upper end of our expected 9% to 11% earnings per share growth rate for 2014 to 2019.
As a reminder we have our upcoming Analyst Conference on March 26 and we hope to see all of you in New York.
At that time we will update our 5-year earnings projections and discuss our plans to continue to deliver strong returns for our shareholders.
For today's call I am going to focus on a summary of our 2014 financial results and recent operational accomplishments that will help us to achieve our long-term growth plan.
I will then hand the call over to Joe to explain the fourth quarter earnings our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance range and our 2015 dividend increase.
Please turn to Slide 4.
This morning we reported 2014 earnings of $4.63 per share.
On an adjusted basis 2014 earnings were $4.71 per share representing 13% annual growth over 2013.
We had strong operating performance across the company that contributed to this result.
Several fourth quarter factors also drove earnings above our expectation from the last call where we stated that we expected to be near the upper end of our 2014 guidance range.
The major factor was tax reform in Peru that was implemented on December 31.
Peru lowered its corporate income tax rate which reduced our deferred income tax liability and resulted in an $18 million benefit recorded in the fourth quarter.
Additionally the CPUC approved our energy efficiency awards for both utilities earlier than we had anticipated.
Looking to 2015 we expect Sempra's adjusted earnings to be within the range of $4.60 per share to $5 per share excluding 2 items Joe will discuss later.
We also received Sempra Board approval to increase our annualized dividend to $2.80 per share a 6% increase.
If you look back over the last few years our dividend has increased nearly 80% since 2010 and we continue to be committed to returning capital to our shareholders.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 for an overview of key accomplishments at SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E.
Our California utilities are spending capital consistent with approved programs.
The utilities have also received important regulatory decisions in 2014 that established the framework to guide investments in programs like the Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan or PSEP.
In November the CPUC approved the SONGS multiparty settlement agreement that resolves the cost recovery issues on the plant closure.
Also both SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas filed their 2016 General Rate Case applications with a proposed decision expected by the end of this year.
In December the CPUC approved a 1 year extension of the utilities cost of capital rates.
The extension keeps the authorized returns on equity of 10.1% for SoCalGas and 10.3% for SDG&amp;E intact through 2016.
It also keeps in place an automatic adjustment mechanism should interest rates move beyond a predetermined band.
Operationally SoCalGas installed nearly 1.8 million advanced meters last year and is ahead of schedule on their program to install nearly 6 million advanced meters by the end of 2017.
Both utilities are ahead of schedule in implementing their pipeline safety enhancement plans as well having already tested or replaced over 30 miles of pipeline last year.
Now let's move to U.S.
Gas &amp; Power on Slide 6.
Key milestones reached last year on the Cameron Liquefaction project include reaching the final investment decision or FID; forming the joint venture; and getting the project fully into construction.
With permits financing and the lump sum turnkey contract in place we remain on track to complete all 3 trains in 2018.
In December the JV also filed with the Department of Energy for FTA authorization to export an additional 2.95 million tons of LNG per annum on trains 1 through 3.
We expect to file for the non-FTA export permit this quarter.
These higher volumes match the maximum design capacity of the plant approved by FERC and permits would allow us to export additional LNG during periods when production levels exceed the 12 million tons per annum already approved.
However just to be clear while this can provide upside we do not expect the plant to produce at the maximum capacity on a routine basis and additional production is unlikely during startup and the first few years of operation.
If higher volumes can be produced that Cameron's customers use for export we could see earnings upside in the future of approximately $30 million for each 1 million tons produced.
Work on our 3 major LNG development projects also continues to move forward.
This week the JV partner submitted the FERC prefiling and DOE FTA export application for Cameron trains 4 and 5.
The filing would add a combined LNG capacity of approximately 9 million to 10 million tons per annum.
We expect to submit the full FERC filing later this year which will initiate the detailed environmental review process that should take approximately 12 to 18 months to complete.
At Port Arthur and ECA design regulatory and commercial activities are ongoing.
For Port Arthur we are working to prepare our FERC prefiling.
For ECA we announced the signing of an MOU with PEMEX last week.
The agreement signifies our intention to cooperate on the development of the export project and explore the possibility for PEMEX to participate as a customer supplier and/or investor.
For all 3 development projects we have been meeting with a large number of potential customers and continue to see demand for LNG supplies in the 2020 to 2023 timeframe.
We have also been on the road speaking with many of you about our competitive advantages in providing low-cost reliable LNG to the market.
Our U.S.
and Mexican LNG projects are very compelling even in today's lower oil price environment.
And Sempra is one of the few developers who have successfully contracted permitted and financed a liquefaction facility in North America.
We plan to provide an in-depth discussion on our development projects at our March Analyst Conference and we'll have the President of our LNG business Octávio Simões there to answer your questions.
Let's now go to Slide 7.
For our Natural Gas segment converting REX into a bidirectional pipeline was a positive long-term development last year.
As you know 1.8 Bcf per day of east-to-west capacity on REX is now under long-term contract.
1/3 of this capacity is in service and the remaining capacity should be online mid-2015.
In addition the REX joint venture has made progress on finalizing precedent agreements with interested shippers for expansion of east to west capacity.
The expansion would likely occur through additional compression and would be subject to regulatory approval.
We are expecting any day to receive our FERC approval of the 1.2 Bcf per day of east-to-west capacity that is already contracted.
Once that approval is received we hope to provide additional details on the expansion project.
Shifting to our renewables business.
In the fourth quarter we added our 75-megawatt Broken Bow 2 Wind Project to a joint venture with ConEd.
With this transaction we have successfully partnered with ConEd on over 700 megawatts of renewable power projects including 7 different solar plants and the Broken Bow 2 Wind Farm.
Please turn to Slide 8.
In Mexico IEnova has progressed on construction and is now generating earnings on sections of both the Sonora and Los Ramones pipelines placed in service in 2014.
Together these 2 pipelines will provide nearly 3 Bcf per day of import capacity to Mexico.
IEnova was also awarded the first natural gas pipeline tendered by CFE as part of Mexico's 5-year national infrastructure plan.
The associated CapEx is $300 million and the pipeline should be in service in the first half of 2017 under a 25-year dollar-denominated take-or-pay contract.
Since our last call the CFE has put out tenders for an additional 4 pipelines in Mexico representing an estimated $1.8 billion in investment.
One of the bids is due next month and the other 3 bids are due in May.
For your reference we provide updated information on CFE bids in the appendix to this presentation.
With that let's move to a discussion of the quarterly earnings in more detail.
Before I hand the call over to Joe however I want to comment on the status of our total return vehicle or TRV analysis.
We have indicated that we expect to complete our analysis on a preferred TRV structure by the end of first quarter.
We are continuing several different work streams in this respect.
As you know nearly all of our midstream and renewable assets are owned in partnerships and there are numerous accounting and legal aspects we must deal with for those assets.
We will provide you with more information on our TRV preferred structure at the analyst conference.
Joe? Thanks Debbie.
Turning to Slide 9 our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results were very strong.
This morning we reported fourth quarter earnings of $297 million or $1.18 per share.
We recorded an additional $12 million after-tax loss in the fourth quarter for the early closure of SONGS making the total SONGS-related loss in 2014 equal to $21 million.
Excluding this loss fourth quarter adjusted earnings were $309 million or $1.23 per share.
Full year 2014 earnings totaled $1 161 000 000 or $4.63 per share.
This compares to 2013 earnings of $1 001 000 000 or $4.01 per share.
On an adjusted basis 2014 earnings per share were $4.71.
Year-over-year adjusted earnings per share grew 13%.
Similar to last quarter's call we provide individual financial results for each of our businesses in the section of our presentation entitled Business Unit Earnings.
Today I'm going to focus on the key drivers of our consolidated fourth quarter earnings beginning on Slide 10.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings increased over the same period last year due in part to $33 million of benefits in 2014 coming largely from 3 items.
First in December the Peruvian Congress approved gradually lowering the corporate income tax rate from 30% in 2014 to 26% in 2019 and that was signed by the President on December 31.
We recorded an $18 million income tax benefit in the fourth quarter as a result of the remeasurement of our deferred tax liabilities.
Second U.S.
Gas &amp; Power recorded an $8 million after-tax gain from the sale of a 50% equity interest in the Broken Bow 2 Wind Project.
Third SDG&amp;E had $7 million of increased earnings from higher CPUC-based margin and FERC regulatory operations.
Partially offsetting these items were $7 million of net benefits in 2013.
SoCalGas had $20 million of lower income tax expense in 2013 primarily related to resolution of prior year's income tax items and higher flow-through deductions recorded in that year.
Netted against this amount is $13 million of deferred income tax expense for Sempra Mexico in the fourth quarter of 2013 that related to Mexican tax reform.
With regard to foreign currency-related effects we did see a $16 million reduction in South American earnings over the course of 2014 due to the depreciation of local currencies against the dollar.
However this impact was almost entirely offset by foreign currency-related effects and inflation in Mexico where depreciation of the local currency decreased our deferred tax-related balances and increased our earnings.
Now please go to Slide 11.
Turning to our guidance for 2015 we are setting our adjusted earnings guidance range at $4.60 per share to $5 per share.
This range reflects a number of factors including higher utility earnings new revenue on the REX pipeline a year end forecast for South American currencies and the fall of natural gas futures prices that may reduce our gas storage and marketing revenues.
Our adjusted guidance range excludes 2 items.
First as we indicated last quarter we are not including the expected gain on the sale of the second block of our Mesquite Power Plant.
The estimated earnings impact for this sale ranges from $0.12 per diluted share to $0.15 per diluted share.
Second we expect to incur some development costs related to our 3 LNG projects Cameron trains 4 and 5 ECA and Port Arthur.
Advancing development projects to the full FERC filing could cost up to $25 million per project.
However at this point we do not know the timing or the amount we will spend the total cost we will share with our partners or the breakdown between the amount we may capitalize and the amount we may expense.
We believe that excluding the development costs for these 3 projects gives better clarity into the ongoing results of our business since earnings from these efforts will likely only be realized in 2020 and beyond.
We will be disciplined in our approach regarding development spending and we'll periodically update you on our progress.
Amounts expensed will be reflected in our GAAP numbers.
We expect to have more updates on LNG projects at our Analyst Conference in New York on March 26.
At that time we will also provide updated 2015 guidance on a business unit level as well as our long-term projected growth rate.
With regard to the dividend the Sempra board voted to increase our annualized dividend by 6% to $2.80 per share.
Given our target payout ratio of 45% to 50% this increase allows for a smoother path towards payout in 2019 when a full year of Cameron Liquefaction earnings is expected to begin.
The increase in the dividend reflects the confidence we have in our long-term growth and it's consistent with our commitment to grow the dividend.
To reiterate Debbie's message at the beginning of this call our underlying businesses are performing well.
We are executing on our development projects and we are on track to achieve results in the upper end of our expected 9% to 11% earnings per share growth rate for the period 2014 to 2019.
With that we will conclude our prepared remarks and stop to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take the first question today from Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First one is when you look at the impact of FX for fiscal year '15 versus fiscal year '14 using the assumptions that you're making year-over-year how much of a headwind is that? I'm going to have Joe address the FX issue.
As you know we have FX going one way in South America and FX going the opposite way in Mexico because the Mexico FX is related to Mexican tax code.
And since we have dollar-denominated contracts in Mexico but we pay the tax in the peso it kind of creates a natural hedge.
But I'll have Joe talk about the 2014 to 2015.
Greg thanks.
It creates some modest reduction in our South America utility earnings because we're using the year-end forward curve for the year and that creates some downward pressure.
But we've seen in the last several years that the Mexican tax pretty much offsets it.
But we don't -- we're not providing any details at that level.
[indiscernible] it's 1 million -- it was $1 million this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So all things equal you're not building in a big headwind from FX net-net? No.
No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just wanted to be sure.
And let me just be clear that when we do that we look at the forward curves and we look at what is -- what the market curves are and that's what we put in our plan.
So we don't do numbers that are not consistent with what the market curves are.
And the natural hedge from this as I said before works really well when all 3 currencies kind of move in tandem at the same time and that doesn't always happen but that's what we've witnessed the last several years.
We'll now go to Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Just a question with regard to the growth rate and going to kind of the upper end of the 9% to 11%.
Is that on the basis that you gave at the Analyst Day last year where you're only including Cameron for 2019? Or is that on kind of a more normal basis where you're including all the businesses for 2019? Okay.
When we gave you the 9% to 11% last year it was looking at the composite growth rate for Sempra as a whole and it includes Cameron trains 1 through 3.
And we're going to go through this in detail with an update at the Analyst Meeting.
But as I said in my prepared remarks with where we are now and some of the additional project opportunities we've already contracted like pipelines in Mexico the REX uplift and all we feel that in the 2014 through 2019 period we would be towards the upper end of that range.
And we will go through how we get there.
And I think you'll see at the Analyst Meeting that we have quite high visibility to the achievability of the upper end of that range.
And then we also have quite high visibility of some additional upside that could either make that range higher or could extend that beyond 2019.
And we'll talk about all of that in detail at the Analyst Meeting.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then my other question is just I'm sure at the Analyst Day you'll talk more about the LNG export environment for new contracts but maybe if you can give us a little sense of the likelihood that -- when should we expect that you might have some kind of commitment to MOU for additional LNG export growth for Cameron 4 and 5 or others? Well I think you should maybe use the process of 1 through 3 as an example of how it's most likely to roll out for 4 and 5.
And you have to basically come up with a conceptual design of the facility to be able to kind of price out the facility.
That's kind of what where we are right now with our FERC prefiling that we just made on trains 4 and 5 at Cameron and our DOE FTA filing.
And then that's when you can really start your commercial activity because you have a project you can talk about that has some conceptual framework around it.
So the active marketing really begins right around now and we have had numerous contacts with customers.
And on -- about all 3 of our projects there remains a lot of interest as I said in my remarks.
And we'll talk about the groups of customers and their interest in each of the projects and what drives their interest in each of the projects in more detail at the Analyst Conference.
Mark did you want to add anything to that? Yes the only thing I would say is that we are talking actively with customers but we need to do some of this preliminary work and engineering so that we can get a better ballpark on what the pricing and cost will be.
It's very hard for them obviously to commit to something if they don't know what it's going to cost.
We're highly confident that especially with trains 4 and 5 that we'll be a low-cost provider and we think that will position us well for additional volumes.
And then with -- at ECA too as well we believe we can be a relatively low-cost provider given both the existing facility and the transportation advantages that being on the West Coast has.
So I think we're coming into the market with 2 projects at least that are -- that should be at the low-end of the cost scale of what people are looking at.
And then we have a big opportunity at Port Arthur to build a kind of a big facility and it could even be a multiuse facility.
So I think we're pretty excited about the opportunities that we have in front of us and we think as we progress during this year with the studies and the engineering work the things that we need to do to get permitted that we'll be in a good position to sign up people.
We'll now go to Chris Turnure with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the last question.
If we look back to the 2012 process for trains 1 through 3 could you just walk us through kind of the ultimate offtake agreements there? I know there were just commercial development agreements at that time but my understanding was the 3 counterparties were each signed up for 1/3 of the ultimate capacity and that they did not at that time know what they would do to sell that gas in any kind of firm way.
So does that differ at all from this time around and where you are in the process now No.
I think the process would be quite similar.
I mean we filed our FERC prefiling and our FTA at DOE and then that helped define the project.
And then a few months after that we had the MOU I think it was actually about 6 months after that 5 months after that we had the MOU with those parties.
And we had the structure that's framed up for Cameron's trains 4 and 5 because it's very much like the structure of Cameron's trains 1 through 3.
So Mark do you want to just go in more detail? Yes to give a little -- to shed a little more light on that.
So when we did the first 3 trains we've started the FERC process and went through this and we had agreements with partners that subject to certain conditions they would sign up for firm capacity.
And so we're moving -- as we move through that process and as we got various permits including our non-FTA we got our fixed price construction contract and we got a handle on ultimate delivery those we met some of the conditions precedent and then those commitments to take that capacity became legally binding at a point in time.
It'll be similar to that here.
The difference here is that we already have all of the operating agreements in place.
We know how the facility is going to operate.
We know how we're going to share costs.
We have all of those kinds of agreements done.
So a lot of the heavy lifting has been done and it's really a matter of our partners marketing the extra capacity that they -- the extra LNG that they would produce and ourselves because on the expansion we have the right to take 50% of the capacity subject to the same operating and arrangements that are in trains 1 through 3.
And so our plan is to do that and for us to sell that capacity or LNG in the market and we're working to commercialize that option.
So it will -- it's very similar to the first one but it is slightly different.
The other thing that I would say different this time is the first one it was Sempra doing this and now it's the joint venture that is doing this.
And so the decision that was just made to make these filings was the joint venture partners in addition to Sempra making the decision to move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And then just to be clear that point of kind of legal no return for the counterparties to commit after the different kind of domestic logistical hurdles were reached was the MOU not the commercial development agreement? Yes.
Actually the point of no return is typically the -- what we call FID the Firm Investment Decision.
So when we sign a contract to extend the construction to trains 4 and 5 when we commit the contracting dollars at that time we'll be making a firm investment decision and we'll have all those commitments in place.
That's usually quickly after that MOU kind of opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to transition back to the expansion of trains 1 through 3 I guess you mentioned that with the FERC process you had known how potentially big it could be in terms of capacity.
But then when you filed the DOE applications you did not know that or you filed for a smaller amount.
Was there kind of a political ramification to that where you wanted to be more conservative and not raise a red flag? Or did something change on the kind of engineering and design or end market side that made you want to expand it? No.
This something that you're seeing with most of LNG facilities.
When most of us filed at DOE we filed based upon what you thought the actual average annual production was going to be.
So at that point we filed at 12 Mtpa.
And then at FERC they really wanted the nameplate capacity of the facility which for us for those 3 trains was 14.95.
And so we got the approval at FERC for the 14.95.
We went back and now are reconciling the DOE permit to that.
And you've seen that from several other of the parties that have already gotten their permit.
In fact I think Freeport just got there the other day for a reconciliation of the 2.
So it's fully expected.
Others have gotten it.
It's not anything other than how the numbers were calculated.
Michael Weinstein with UBS is next.
Research Division</strong> Given the recent outcome in the CFE awards and considering that along with the growing solar portfolio just wondering how those 2 things impact your decision on TRV versus MLP? And how it might be coloring the decision one way or another? We're going to talk about our structural decision at our Analyst Conference and we're going to go into all of those details at that time.
I would just say that we're very much aware of our assets.
We're very much aware of how those assets might fit into the structure.
And what we're looking for as we're looking at structures and the possibility of whether we go forward with this or not is to -- what adds the greatest value to the Sempra shareholder and what structures would align best with our strategy? And so we'll go through that at the analyst meeting so that you can have an understanding of how we're thinking about it and I'd prefer not to say anything further today.
And we'll now go to Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the expansion in the capacity of Cameron trains 1 to 3 just wanted to clarify that you had not included that capacity in the earnings guidance you've given previously? And then secondly how does that capacity work with respect to your existing contracts? Would that be -- does that fall under those contracts? Or would these be like spot cargoes? If you could just comment on that.
Yes.
First let me say that as I mentioned in my remarks that these trains 1 through 3 the incremental capacity from those trains happens after the facility is up and operational and producing where you don't have as much shutdown you don't have as much opportunity I mean for maintenance and things like that and that you have greater production.
And that would go beyond the 5 years in our plan.
And so the numbers that we've given you where we gave you $300 million to $350 million a year on average that's what we would still anticipating in the early years of our plan.
And then over time we would be able to have some uplift potential providing that we can manufacture from the plant more than the 12 Mtpa and that our customers are willing to take that and export that.
And the terms of that have all been part of our original contract how that gets calculated.
And as I said that we just gave you a rough number of if you added 1 Mtpa per year of export that that would be about $30 million upside to us when it would occur.
It's not in our planned numbers it's not part of the $300 million to $350 million it's upside to that but it would not be in our 5 year-plan period.
So that's why I try to make it clear because we made these filings they're public.
We wanted to be fully transparent and ensure you understood exactly what we were doing.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then could you comment on how your discussions with potential customers for your LNG expansion plans as well as your confidence in the viability of these projects has changed in light of this recent drop in oil prices versus the discussions you were having when oil was in the 90s.
Yes.
The thing that I would say is first off the buyers of these facilities are looking at 20- to 25-year contracts.
So spot oil prices are not a determining factor for them in terms of looking at a long-term investment in these facilities.
If that was the case gas prices have gone down a lot too.
But how our customers look at this is they look at having a portfolio of LNG assets to meet some of their needs.
The world demand in LNG is expected to increase considerably over the next 10 years.
And they're looking at having LNG that can provide that need that gives them some optionality.
And the things that have been really good about the U.S.
projects are that they allow freedom of destination for export which has not been true with some of the other contracts.
And probably even more importantly than that they have a liquid hub with upstream development that's already been there with a robust pipeline infrastructure with -- E&amp;P work that someone else is paying for.
And then they have a Henry Hub tradable point.
So from the standpoint of our customers they're very interested in having the opportunity to acquire LNG that has that kind of flexibility to it and that's what we hear back.
And then what we also hear back is that some of the customers like Port Arthur because they could take equity there and that they could do a multipurpose facility.
Some of the customers like Cameron trains 4 and 5 because they feel that it would be -- it's one of the lowest-cost projects that's been done and that for Cameron trains 1 through 3 4 and 5 should be somewhere similar and that they see this optionality that I talk about.
And some of them like ECA because they like the idea of a West Coast facility that could be built and access markets without going through the Panama Canal.
So you have customers with different interests and different needs for the facility.
And there's been a great deal of customer interest in the facilities.
And LNG and oil are not fungible fully so that Tokyo Gas is going to need gas.
They can't use oil.
So it doesn't really matter what the cost of oil is in that regard.
And so I think there's too much connection to that because of the way pricing was done.
The other thing I would say is that many facilities if you looked at the price of oil today and you looked at tariffing on that basis they could never get built because their just cost to build that facility would not be justified on an oil-linked price today.
So if anything we think it improves the competitiveness of some of the projects that are in the U.S.
Mark do you want to add anything to that? I would just summarize by just saying on the -- you've got 2 parts to this the consumption side and on the consumption side natural gas once you've made the commitment to natural gas as a fuel for generation or industrial usage you're not switching back and forth between oil and natural gas.
So the price of oil other than the old crude-linked formulas is really the only connection.
It doesn't have that.
And then on the supply side there is a big advantage to the U.S.
LNG because the biggest advantages -- the commitment that you need to make to buy LNG from the U.S.
is less than it is than in most other places because all of the upstream development's already in place and you don't have to commit to pay for that over 20 years it's already there.
So you're really only committing to the facility and that's a big advantage for customers on the supply side.
So I think if you just think of it that way you'll see that the U.S.
LNG will remain competitive for a long time.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask one more on the Mexico pipeline opportunities.
You talked about the roughly $1.8 billion in CapEx on these upcoming 4 bids this year.
I know you've said in the past you're not baking any of that into your long-term earnings guidance.
So from that perspective anything you get would be upside.
But I suspect you'd be fairly disappointed if you don't win anything.
And if that's fair what would you be happy with? What -- how can we kind of gauge success on those bids? What I would be happy with is to get them all for the kind of returns that we would like to have.
So I mean that's -- it's not how many we get it's how profitable they are.
And we run our business to provide shareholder value.
And when we lose a bid we look at it and we say would we have wanted to have it for that? And most times I will tell you we say no that's not something we would have done because we have other ways we can invest our capital that will give us higher return.
And so for us it's about the discipline and the biddings and about -- we would be obviously disappointed if we don't get some of these.
But as you've correctly stated we don't have these in our plan so it would be upside.
And we'll now go to Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the -- just a couple of questions on the operating results and then some broader questions.
First question on SoCal SoCalGas I understand the sort of movements around taxes there and the tax benefits last year versus this year.
But if I go above the line to sort of operating income or EBIT or even for that matter operating margin it looks like year-over-year in the quarter it looks like basically operating profit was flat year-over-year.
So I mean I'm just trying to see how the growth is coming through at SoCal with all the capital you guys are spending in the business? Yes.
I'm going to have Joe talk about that.
But I will say that 2014 was kind of a transition year.
We were waiting for the PSEP decision to come out and starting up on a lot of the CapEx that you're going to start seeing flowing through the plan.
So let me have Joe talk in particular about the year-over-year.
And then Dennis is here and he can talk about kind of what he's looking at and some of the changes in 2015 over 2014.
Faisel yes when you look at the tables -- I guess that's what you were looking at is the tables.
Research Division</strong> Yes the supplementary tables.
And one thing that these tables -- yes one thing that they don't show is that last year we had still some of the retro income from the rate case delay and so these throw you off.
When you look at that it looks like $124 million $124 million.
But last year there was income in the numbers from the retroactive piece.
And so they actually do have nice growth from year-to-year and the taxes -- between the 2 utilities we had like $20 million of tax benefits last year and $21 million this year.
It just happen to be between the 2 utilities.
If you look at the 2 utilities in total there's nice growth.
But I'll let Dennis respond if there's anything else in there.
But you had at least $25 million in revenue impact last year from the retro and some depreciation impact.
So actually their numbers look better than they do on the sheet.
Dennis? Faisel what I'd say is with the capital that we're spending and as Debbie mentioned in '14 we're really well-positioned for the growth that we're going to see in '15.
With PSEP now fully charging forward you're going to see a full year of earnings related to that.
And with the acceleration in advanced meter that's continuing to go well.
The other thing is by accelerating the Advanced Metering program in 2014 we did incur some additional operating expenses there that we won't necessarily have in years -- in 2015 as well.
So when we look at those 2 programs plus the continuing growth in AFUDC related to projects like our Aliso storage replacement we're really confident that the range that we gave out in 2015 [ph] at the analyst conference we're on track for that for earnings.
Faisel this is Joe.
It just occurred -- dawned on me.
I was actually really thinking about the annual numbers because the retro piece was in the first quarter.
It wasn't in the fourth.
But I think the points that Dennis just made addressed the fourth quarter.
If you look at the annual piece I still think if you back out the retro it looks okay it looks good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay got you.
And then if I look at the EPS guidance you guys laid out today for '15 what's the assumed sort of tax rate in that number? I think you may have mentioned it and I may have missed it in your prepared remarks.
This is Joe.
The tax rate for 2015 is about 29%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back to the Debbie your comments on the extra 2.9 million tons of potential LNG capacity at the plant.
So the 12 million tons is what you have contracted.
So I just want to make sure I understood this so you'd have to actually contract for the extra 3 million tons to your existing customers is that what you were saying in your remarks? I'll have Mark go through kind of how that works.
Okay.
So if we're talking -- you're talking about the extra tonnage because of the sort of the de-bottlenecking the extra nameplate capacity? Okay.
Yes we actually -- that extra tonnage was contemplated when we did the agreement.
So we get paid for making that available.
If we make it available and it's used we get paid a specific fee for that.
And that's the calculation that we gave you that said it's about $30 million per ton per annum.
And so we won't get that all the time.
It will be intermittent.
It -- because you do have to maintain these facilities so there will be some times we'll be taking the facility down and it will earn less in its nameplate capacity but we will have opportunities to really exceed it.
And when we do that we have a formula for getting paid.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
And then last question for me just as you guys are thinking about sort of the performance in the stock which has been great over the last 12 to 18 months and sort of the -- everything you guys have lined up for the next several years how are you guys thinking about acquisitions at this point? I mean you've seen some volatility at least in the midstream sector.
I mean what's your philosophy right now on acquisitions? Is the table sort of set and you don't need to -- you're not interested in anything? Or does it make sense to go out and look for things? Well we always look for things.
And I think that with the markets having a little bit of instability right now and watching what's happening with some companies who really need to raise capital and are looking at getting rid of certain assets that this is a good time for us to be shopping if there are some good assets on the market and we look all the time.
But what we look at is assets that will add value to the shareholder or give us a strategic advantage where 1 plus 1 equals more than 2 and that we really are very particular.
As you said we have a great growth rate that is just based from the organic growth that we have in our business.
We are in a wonderful position where we don't have to make acquisitions in order to grow.
So the way we look at it is is this going to be a benefit to our shareholders? Is it going to add to our portfolio? Is it going to give us greater long-term growth? Or is it going to give us the opportunity to extend our growth beyond our 5-year period significantly above our peers? And that's the way we look at acquisitions.
So if we find some things we're always interested if they fit that.
Research Division</strong> I guess the one reason why I'm asking is that a lot of the growth that you have -- you've got set up right now for the company over the next few years or several years for that matter is -- are sort of acquisitions or sort of investments you made sort of many years ago that are sort of driving a lot of that growth.
So like how do you guys think about trying to set up for the next decade with the portfolio you have? That's a great question and we actually have a team that's working on beyond 5 and what are the things that we should be doing to create the foundations for future growth.
And that is part of our strategic review process that we're going through.
I mean not -- I guess not too many companies are fortunate enough to have the visibility 5 years out to the growth [ph].
And what we want to do is set it up so that we have visibility not just 5 years but 10 and 15 years out and we are already working on that.
It's a great question.
And we'll go to Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> So you've talked a lot about the Cameron project.
I did want to flip it a little bit back to some of your comments about the opportunity in Mexico.
You've kind of addressed this a little bit but when you're looking at the bid process you've obviously been successful you have a recent success and you're looking back on some of the bids you didn't want and why you didn't get them talking about the returns process.
But just wondering if how does it -- how final does this bidding process feel to you at this point? Feedback from the CFE improvements that you'd like to see.
Is there anything I guess in the process itself that would make it I don't know would make it easier for you to evaluate these projects? I'm going to ask Mark to answer that.
We've gone through the full analysis of the bids and I would say that the -- that the bidding process is a pretty solid process from what we see.
And it's pretty clear.
And I would say the U.S.
pipeline bids were not as clear at the beginning but they became clearer towards the end.
The one thing that I think and it was said on our IEnova call today that we're all having to look at a little differently is that when they bid these pipelines they bid them to a certain capacity.
And what many of the bidders are doing is looking at beyond that capacity that's going to be contracted and what is the market potential to add compression or to broaden the opportunities on the pipeline.
And so I think that's one thing that we're seeing from bidders now is that they're looking not just at the first contract but what could you do to grow that.
Mark do you want to...
Yes I'll just elaborate a little bit on that.
I would say one of the things that we're seeing from the bid process as a whole it's actually quite good.
It seems to be relatively -- it seems to be fair.
They're looking at the right things and they kind of break it into 2 parts.
There's a capital part and then the net present value over the future payments that the customer would take whether that's CFE or PEMEX.
So they've done this in I think a logical way.
But to Debbie's point one of the things that I think that will necessitate winning bidders to do in the future is to anticipate some additional revenue and capacity that would be used by the market because all of these will be open access pipelines.
They will eventually attract other customers and you got to kind of figure that into your net present value of your cash flow stream.
And so I think that it's going to keep a competitive process for Mexico.
I guess the thing that I would add to that -- so I think we're looking at that and I think we can make adjustments for that.
But I do think the thing that's most important is we've got these other group of bids that are coming out here shortly but we have a whole list of other projects that are going to come out during the year.
And the most encouraging thing we've seen is in spite and maybe because of the drop in oil prices the need for outside investment in Mexican infrastructure continues to grow.
There seems to be no reluctance on the part of CFE or PEMEX to get moving on some of these projects because they're critically needed to deliver gas into the bowels [ph] of Mexico and we really want to make sure that those projects that they're developing down there that are going to use this gas are all moving forward and they are.
And so I think all of this speaks very well for the additional investment.
And we are even though that we watch our returns and we want to make sure that we get a good return on our investment we're still in one of the best competitive advantage -- in one of the best competitive places to be from having an advantage of just being the incumbent and the largest incumbent.
Our relationship with the contractors and the pipe producers and the things that we've been using in Mexico really I think we can be very quite competitive and I think we'll do well.
So one other thing that we didn't mention is that in addition to the 4 pipelines they're also putting a bid out for gas supply at Baja Sur.
And in that they're allowing you to construct how you would get the gas there whether it's by pipeline or it's by LNG.
And I think we're starting to see a little more breadth in the type of bids that are coming out and that pays to our sweet spot -- plays to our sweet spot where we can be creative in how we use the assets that we already have in Mexico and we take those and work them together in a way that puts a really attractive package on the table.
So I think we feel very good about this but we also are going to be very disciplined.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Now that's some really nice commentary.
I appreciate that.
And maybe to kind of pick up where you mentioned on the competitive advantage side and given how successful you've already been and seem to be so far I mean does that kind of change the appetite for maybe partnering with other large multinationals in pursuing some of the larger projects? Is that still an option that you are considering when you look at particular -- the larger bids perhaps? Yes I mean we always look at partners.
But what we want to be sure is both partners bring something to the table.
In terms of just bringing capital to the table we feel that we have great opportunities in Mexico to raise capital for this.
But if there's something strategic that they bring to the table that combined with us would make us more competitive we'd certainly look at that.
And we'll go to Winfried Fruehauf with W.
Fruehauf Consulting.
Assuming the market price for LNG produced at Cameron is petroleum-based or petroleum-related and assuming current petroleum prices would remain at or below current levels for 5 years would this in your opinion affect the ability and willingness of the offtakers to proceed under the terms of the contract? If you're talking about the trains 1 through 3 no.
I would not expect that.
I mean we have a very tight contract.
The other thing and the way we structure trains 1 through 3 is our customers are our partners.
And so we had envisioned that if there was upturns or downturns in the LNG market the fact that they're paying theirselves is an advantage under this.
And so what you have with this is you have some as you're pointing out some credit risk.
I certainly think GDF Mitsui and Mitsubishi are very strong credits and that they look at this as a long-term investment for them.
So I wouldn't see that Winfried.
We'll now go to Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just on the -- almost all my questions have been answered and I apologize if I missed this but the non-capitalized development costs for the additional LNG projects what was the amount that you guys are seeing that you guys are expecting for that in 2015? And how should we think about what that might look like going forward in the future? Okay.
I'll ask Joe to answer that one.
Paul the reason that we are excluding it from guidance as Debbie mentioned are severalfold.
But we actually are not able to estimate it right now and that's why we didn't give a number and we didn't put a range for it because we expect to be spending this money but as Debbie said we're going to be disciplined.
We also have partners in these projects and so we are not sure at this point in time how much we're going to spend versus how much we're going to collect from partners.
And then as we work through getting customers signed up for MOUs at some point we'll be able to capitalize the costs.
So we just -- we cannot right now estimate the amount that we may ultimately spend.
Mark I don't know if you have anything to add that you'd like to.
No.
I think that's right.
We really just can't estimate it now and because of the difference in capitalization or expense we just thought it would be best to exclude it.
Okay.
So you're just calling it out...
One thing also I just think from a transparency standpoint that you'll be able to see this because we'll be reporting earnings and you'll be able to see as we're reporting how much we're spending.
And then -- so it makes it more transparent to you and I think that's a positive way to handle it.
When you can't really estimate something and it's something that's really leading up to your FERC filing and then you guys will be able to see.
Okay.
I understand that I don't want to make too much of it.
I just was sort of wondering though how long do you think this will be a separate issue that you guys will be calling out just the...
No.
I mean what we're looking at is we're looking at getting the filings done this year on all of these.
So this is the expenditures that would occur before the filing and a lot depends on as was said when you get partners when you get MOUs and what the capitalization policy is versus the expense policy.
And the fact that we have 3 going at one time this year is quite unusual.
So I wouldn't see this as being an ongoing thing and it's really expenditures for projects that really will be beyond our 5-year plan so.
Paul one thing is if we develop these projects beyond this year likely all these costs will continue to get capitalized.
And next is Ashar Khan with Visium.
Debbie one thing as you go out -- and we look forward to the Analyst Day but we had one in the beginning of the year for the company.
But I hope one thing which would come out is you're doing your strategy is on this Total Return Vehicle me being a Sempra holder is how does this enhance my valuation when you select whatever that is? And I'm hoping it is through a better growth rate in earnings or something like that which you can quantify that this vehicle would provide valuation uplift to the parent company which has been somewhat missing in what we saw earlier this year.
I hope that comes out very clearly as you pursue this path that we as Sempra shareholders what are we going to get by having this TRV vehicle? Well if we decide to do a TRV then how we explain that -- we have heard this from a number of our investors and it is one of the most important things on our mind in consideration about this.
And if you go forward on it is where is the value creation for the Sempra shareholders? Where does that come from? Obviously that -- there are all sorts of rules regarding communication and what you can do and what you can do when.
And if we decide to go forward with this we have to comply with those rules.
But we hear you.
And that if we decide to go forward that I hear what you're saying and that we will make every effort to address it.
And Michael Weinstein with UBS has a follow-up question.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
I think you were alluding before to a possible decoupling of LNG pricing from oil pricing given the drop in oil on the spot market.
I'm just wondering if that is indeed what you're trying to say and what you're seeing out there that we might be seeing a natural decoupling? Yes to some degree.
I'll have Mark talk.
Yes it's -- look there are numerous LNG contracts around the world that are linked to oil prices and they call it the crude cocktail price or you've heard those terms.
But the change that's coming that's happening is really not one of a decoupling but it's diversification which is going to -- that's entering another mix into this and that is a Henry Hub-based LNG price.
So most of -- in fact all of the LNG so far I think that's been sold out of the United States has had some kind of index back to Henry Hub.
So it's giving the purchasers a mix in their portfolio of a different pricing and that was very popular obviously when crude was very very high.
But the popularity hasn't diminished because crude has gone down in price.
I think there is a big desire by the -- especially the Japanese and the Koreans to diversify their pricing mix and to have some different points -- different pricing points.
So I think that's purely what it is.
And it's a very small percentage now of their overall mix.
It's growing.
But we're not anywhere near where they are full up with Henry Hub-based price.
I think there's still a lot of room to go.
And that will conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
I'd like to turn it back to Debbie Reed for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thanks again for joining us today.
I hope to see you all at our Analyst Conference in New York on March 26.
As you heard today we have a lot of interesting things to be covering at that conference.
And in the meantime please feel free to contact our IR team and have a great day.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
I'd like to thank everyone for your participation and have a great day.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy First Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll be discussing Sempra Energy's first quarter 2015 financial results.
A live webcast for this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Chief Financial Officer; Martha Wyrsch General Counsel; Trevor Mihalik Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; Dennis Arriola Chief Executive Officer of Southern California Gas Company; and Jeff Martin Chief Executive Officer of San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Company.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we'll be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our first quarter 2015 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today May 5 2015 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to slide four and let me hand the call over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick.
I'd like to start this morning by thanking all of you who were able to join us for our March Analyst Conference in New York City.
I appreciate all of the useful feedback we received.
At that meeting we outlined our five-year plan and how we think about our growth and opportunities looking forward.
The key themes of the conference were: we have a five-year base plan that is built on conservative assumptions and provides a high degree of visibility to our earnings projections.
Our base plan is expected to yield approximately 11% compound annual earnings growth from 2015 to 2019 and we have already identified $7 billion to $8 billion worth of growth opportunities that could provide upside to our base plan.
In addition to those opportunities we are working to advance our three potential LNG development projects that could provide earnings post-2019.
For those unable to attend the event you can find all of this information in the Analyst Conference Presentation on our website.
And for today you will see that we are already making progress executing on our strategy.
Moving to our financial performance.
Earlier this morning we reported first quarter adjusted earnings of $428 million or $1.71 per share.
When comparing earnings on a quarterly basis please keep in mind the impact from applying seasonality to SoCalGas earnings beginning in 2015.
Dennis discussed this item at the Analyst Conference and showed that substantially all of SoCalGas' annual earnings will now be reported in the first and fourth quarters of the year.
Though seasonality will not affect full-year 2015 earnings it resulted in $113 million of increased earnings in the first quarter relative to the same period last year.
Absent this impact we still had a very strong start to the year.
And our financial results kept us on track to achieve our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance.
Our California Utilities provided outstanding operating performance and across the company we have made progress on our base plan projects and development opportunities.
For today's call I will begin with a brief regulatory and operational update before I hand the call over to Joe to discuss our first quarter earnings in more detail.
Joe will also take a moment to clarify elements of the TRV discussion we had at the Analyst Conference.
Hopefully this will help further address some of your questions.
Please turn to slide five.
A key priority for our California Utilities this year is to achieve a successful regulatory outcome for the general rate case.
Since our last earnings call the GRC was reassigned to President Picker and the schedule for public hearings was established.
The schedule calls for the issuance of a draft decision by year-end.
On April 2 the Office of Ratepayer Advocates ORA submitted their report on our GRC requests.
ORA recommended that our requested 2016 revenue requirement be reduced by approximately 9% for SDG&amp;E and 7.5% for SoCalGas.
ORA also recommended that both utilities receive inflation increases for 2017 and 2018 of at least 3.5%.
As we explained at our Analyst Conference our GRC requests were pretty modest and take into account good cost management.
ORA's report is focused on issues they have raised in the past and their suggested reductions are not as large as prior recommendations for California investor-owned utilities likely due to the prudent requests we made.
After evaluating ORA's report we will file rebuttal testimony and commence settlement discussions.
Now please turn to slide six.
In April we also received a proposed decision or PD on long-term rate reform.
The PD entails comprehensive reforms to residential rates intended to make them more fair transparent and reflective of actual cost-of-service.
The PD includes a reduction in the number of tiers from four to three this year and down to two tiers next year.
Rate differentials between the tiers would gradually be reduced from 2015 through 2019.
To ensure all customers contribute some amount to cover utility fixed infrastructure costs the PD includes a $10 monthly minimum bill provision.
It also allows for consideration of a customer fixed charge as part of a 2018 utility filing on proposed time-of-use rates.
The PD calls for implementation to begin in July of this year with more significant changes beginning in 2016.
While we see the direction of the PD as favorable we will file comments encouraging the CPUC to go further faster.
Let's now go to slide seven for a business update.
Regarding our base plan activities I am pleased to announce that the binding open season for expansion on the REX pipeline has concluded and we now have a 0.7 Bcf per day of capacity contracted for 15 years.
The expansion will be achieved primarily through compression with an estimated total cost of about $530 million at the partnership level.
We expect the project to be in service by year-end 2016 and to provide us with about $10 million of annual earnings that are already included in our base plan.
Shifting to our Renewables business Copper Mountain Solar 2 and 3 are now both fully in service bringing our total renewable operating portfolio to about 970 megawatts.
Regarding development opportunities not in our base plan we recently acquired the 78-megawatt Black Oak Getty wind project in Minnesota.
The wind farm has a 20-year power purchase agreement with the Minnesota Municipal Power Agency and we expect the project to be in operation by year-end 2016.
In Mexico we will participate in the next round of CFE pipeline bids.
Currently the CFE has three pipelines with bids due in May through July that represent total estimated CapEx of around $1.3 billion.
The CFE has announced two other projects with bids expected this year that represent another $1 billion of investment.
We discussed at the Analyst Conference our continued interest in these opportunities our competitive advantages and the potential for adding capacity commitments from industrial buyers.
For your reference we provide updated information on CFE bids in the appendix to this presentation.
As a final note I am pleased to announce that we completed the sale of the remaining block of the Mesquite Power Plant in April.
In the second quarter we will record an approximate $34 million after-tax gain on the sale subject to working capital adjustments.
As we have discussed previously this gain was not included in our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance.
Sempra will receive approximately $350 million in proceeds which we will use to pay down short-term debt.
With that please turn to slide eight for a discussion of the quarterly earnings.
Joe? Thanks Debbie.
Earlier this morning we reported first quarter earnings of $437 million or $1.74 per share.
First quarter adjusted earnings were $428 million or $1.71 per share.
Adjusted earnings exclude two items.
First we recorded a benefit of $13 million after-tax from a reduction to the loss on the SONGS plant closure.
The reduction reflects the CPUC's approval in March 2015 of SDG&amp;E's revenue requirement associated with the SONGS settlement.
Second as we have previously noted we will be adjusting earnings for expenses related to the development of our three proposed LNG liquefaction projects.
In the first quarter of 2015 we recorded $4 million of after-tax expense.
Debbie mentioned at the start of this call that compared with 2014 first quarter earnings now reflect the impact of seasonality in SoCalGas' revenues.
This change alone increased earnings by $113 million relative to the first quarter of last year.
The application of seasonality in revenues for SoCalGas will result in substantially all of their earnings being recorded in the first and fourth quarters.
But it will not affect the full-year earnings result.
We discussed this change at the Analyst Conference and provide an updated illustration in the appendix that shows how seasonality would have impacted quarterly earnings in 2014 using our effective tax rate.
Excluding this impact operating earnings at SoCalGas still increased relative to the first quarter of last year.
Combined with strong operating performance at SDG&amp;E and solid results in our other businesses we had a very strong first quarter and they're on track to achieve our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance.
Please turn to slide nine.
Individual financial results for each of our businesses can be found in the section of our presentation entitled Business Unit Earnings.
I'll address here the key drivers for our consolidated earnings this quarter.
In addition to the seasonality impact first quarter adjusted earnings increased over the same period last year due in large part to $30 million of higher earnings at the California Utilities that reflect higher CPUC and FERC margins net of operating expenses.
In addition Sempra International recorded $11 million of higher earnings primarily from growth in sales in Peru and earnings from the Los Ramones I pipeline and a section of the Sonora pipeline that were placed into service in Mexico.
In the first quarter of 2014 our Renewables business included $16 million of earnings from the sale of a 50% equity interest in the Copper Mountain Solar 3 project.
Now before we go to questions I would like to take a moment to revisit the preferred structure for a possible TRV that we discussed at our Analyst Conference.
A couple of questions were raised after the conference and I want to ensure there is clarity regarding the structure we discussed.
For your reference we list these points in the appendix.
Our preferred TRV structure would be a publicly-traded partnership with a corporate subsidiary.
The partnership would directly house assets with MLP qualifying income while the corporate subsidiary would house assets with non-MLP qualifying income and pay dividends to the partnership.
Dividends are qualifying income for the partnership under the tax rules.
This structure has been used by other MLPs and provides a tax shield for both the MLP qualifying and non-qualifying income due to the step-up in tax basis.
Creating a long-term tax yield at the corporate subsidiary would likely not require use of any renewable tax credits.
And if we were to establish a TRV Sempra's share of any partnership income would be taxed at Sempra's marginal tax rate.
The partnership could be eligible for inclusion in an MLP index and investors would receive a K-1 versus a 1099.
In the event that we decide to proceed we anticipate issuing a press release that would generally disclose the assets we intend to put into the TRV the purpose and timing of the offering and the basic terms of the securities.
As you have seen with other entities that have issued a similar press release SEC rules would prohibit us from speaking further about the matter beyond what would be in that press release.
Now let's conclude with slide 10.
Overall our financial and operating results for the quarter were very strong and support our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance of $4.60 per share to $5 per share.
Excluding the impact of seasonality and SoCalGas' revenues our first quarter adjusted earnings increased significantly compared to the same period last year driven largely by increased operating earnings at the California Utilities.
Across the company we made progress in executing on projects within our base plan and furthered efforts to capture additional development opportunities.
With that we'll conclude our prepared comments and stop to take any questions that you may have.
Thank you.
We'll take our first question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Julien.
Hey.
So quick clarifying question on the TRV if you will.
And we're probably in store for a few more after this.
But at the publicly-traded level this isn't an MLP and it is more of a comp in the context of a YieldCo than it is an MLP correct? And vis-à-vis the taxation – the tax benefit is more in the step-up akin to a YieldCo than it is an MLP if I could be very clear about that.
Okay.
I'm going to ask Joe to kind of walk through this to the extent we can and how we've done some modeling of how this might all work so.
Hey Julien.
How are you doing? Thanks for the question.
Actually this is more akin to an MLP than it is to a YieldCo.
So in the appendix I've republished the slide that we had at the Analyst Conference and on that slide 23 in the new deck that publicly-traded partnership in the medium blue color that is akin to an MLP.
So we would be the GP and have LP units and the public partners would be like MLP partners in a publicly-traded partnership.
That publicly-traded partnership would hold our midstream assets our LNG assets other assets that would qualify under those rules.
And then it would also own this corporate subsidiary and the corporate subsidiary would hold assets such as our renewable assets.
And then those would be shielded by tax benefits and would produce dividends that would be qualifying for the MLP.
So the characterization of the tax benefits will be more akin to an MLP and the public partners each time they buy in would get a step-up to their price.
Julien is that clear? Yes.
Well if I can follow-up just for a quick second.
Sure.
The parent here the actually publicly-traded element that would be more of a – it would be more of an MLP but it wouldn't benefit from the MLP tax benefits coming up from the qualifying income? No.
Yes it would.
It absolutely...
It would.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
It will be essentially an MLP Julien.
Okay.
And is there any limitations then on the qualifying dividends from the corporate subsidiary? Just to be clear.
No.
Okay.
No.
Those dividends are qualifying dividends and then the MLP qualifying income the LNG income or other midstream income is just like any other MLP.
Great.
Moving on just in terms of California and looking at the SONGS situation your peers to the north discussed or released several e-mails of late et cetera do you have any intentions or plans to file anything comparable related to the settlement process on your side or any other comment you might want to add vis-à-vis the latest development? Julien no.
And we have not had any data requests.
We've had no subpoenas nothing of that nature that we've looked at all the documents that our fellow utilities to the north have filed and we don't see anything in those documents that concern us at all.
So as far as we're concerned that issue is not relevant to SDG&amp;E at this time.
Great.
Thanks for being so clear.
We'll go next to Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
Hi.
Thanks.
Looking at the first quarter numbers if we were to just try to adjust for the seasonality issue would it be fair to sort of if we took the $113 million out of the quarter assuming that you were earning it over the course of the rest of the year and just looked at that earnings number that would be a good – would that be a reasonable comp to last year? Because it looks you would have been sort of $1.41 without the seasonality which was still sort of a few pennies above the consensus.
Is that a fair way to look at it or not? That's a fair way to look at it.
And if you look at it year-over-year doing it that way and then adjusting for SONGS and LNG which we say we take out of our adjusted earnings target and adjusting for those in both years certainly SONGS in both years.
You end with a more than 17% year-over-year growth rate in earnings.
So we feel it looks like a really strong quarter and it was driven by outstanding performance by our two California Utilities and our international operations.
And so we just felt – if I look at our history in fact I had them pulled the numbers today it was the strongest first quarter we've ever had.
And one of the strongest quarters Sempra has ever had in its entire history.
So we just are feeling really good about the results that came out first quarter.
Great.
Follow-up question.
Is there anything you can tell us with regard to commercial milestones that we can look for and then in the coming months the several different LNG export projects that you're working on whether it's Costa Azul the Greenfield at Port Arthur or the incremental two trains at Cameron.
Sure.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to ask Mark to answer this.
But I would tell you that Mark and I've even been at meetings with potential partners or counterparties on this.
So there is a lot of activity going on and there is a lot of interest in the marketplace still.
And so Mark why don't you talk about it and especially in light of our competitive position.
Look.
I think there is a lot of little milestones that you're going to see regulatory filings and the like that are going to be proceeding as we go forward but I think the most important things to take away are – is that in the environment that we're operating in now I think people lose sight of the fact that we still have an increasing demand for LNG worldwide and we have continued interest in these facilities.
And I think the biggest the most important thing is is that especially the facilities in the Gulf both our Cameron facility and the potential Port Arthur facility are as we showed you at the Analyst Conference should be the lowest cost providers of LNG around the world.
And so I think there is still strong interest in that.
We've met with several interested counterparties and potential customers and we're working on those.
We're working on agreements to move these projects forward and we don't have anything to announce yet but we feel pretty good about our prospects.
I would like to add to that...
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
I would just add to that.
As a reminder none of that is in our five-year base plan.
So all of that would be any of the expansions at Cameron or the Port Arthur opportunities or ECA opportunities have not been factored into the base plan we showed you at the Analyst Meeting and would give us upside beyond that timeframe of the plant.
Got you.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Andy Levi with Avon Capital Advisors.
Hi.
Good afternoon or good morning to you guys.
Just two very quick questions.
Just on the – on Greg's question just when he was going over the quarter and how that was kind of comparing to your plan and then using the $1.41 as you state.
Would it be fair to say just kind of looking at what we have for the second third and fourth quarters that you're at this point because of the stronger first quarter again I understand it's early in the year but trending towards the high end of your guidance range? Well we never give guidance within our ranges.
So I would say that clearly the first quarter was very strong and that it was driven by operating performance.
So it was not driven by a lot of one-time issues.
There were a few one-time things but it was really just very strong operating performance by our businesses.
So I'll let you determine where you think we would be within the range.
We're keeping our range constant for now.
We'll look at it at the end of second quarter.
And if we decide to make adjustments that would be kind of the timeframe when we would typically do that.
Great.
Thank you.
And then just again on the TRV I don't know if this is a question you could ask but when we kind of look at what that marginal rate could potentially be is there any type of a range you can give on that whether it's a 35% statutory rate or whether it could end up being different by the time you get out and get this transaction done.
Andy I'm going to have Joe respond to that the best we can.
Thanks Debbie.
Hi Andy.
So let me talk to that in two ways because I think there has been some question about what that meant.
And what I wrote on the slide was that our share of partnership income would be taxed at the marginal rate.
And income I don't want it to be confused with distributions because often sometimes investors think of the distributions and they compare a tax rate to what other MLPs existing MLPs might be paying on their distribution so please divorce those two.
Whatever our share of cash flow is from the business is different from what our taxable income is.
Just like today in our Renewable business for example we have a lots of great cash flow from those businesses but not much taxable income so we don't pay much tax because it's shielded by depreciation.
So all of these assets will have depreciation.
I can't obviously forecast it at this point because we don't have all that information out there yet.
And so you'll have information at the right time if we move forward and give you a prospectus so – but I want you to be sure that you're clear that distributions are different from income.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Thank you Andy.
We'll go next to Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
How are you doing? Just wanted to ask...
Hi.
We're good.
Inc.</span></strong> It's only been about five weeks since the Analyst Conference but you talked about having to work through a lot of complications with different partnerships on assets that you could potentially contribute to the TRV.
So curious if you can provide an update on how that work is going and if you're any more or less optimistic that those things can be worked through? Yeah.
I'm going to have Joe talk about that.
I would say one of the key issues we talked about at the Analyst Conference that we are still waiting for is the IRS Private Letter Ruling.
And we have had discussions with IRS and it looks like it will be forthcoming at some time in the reasonable future.
And that was one of the issues that we talked about at the conference.
But I'm going to have Joe talk about how we're working through all of the other issues we presented.
Thanks.
Hi Matt.
Yeah we laid out for you all the assets that we had the ones we wholly-owned: the Cameron the Renewables.
And we laid out very clearly for you what we were working on.
And as Debbie just mentioned on the U.S.
LNG marketing we're awaiting for the Private Letter Ruling.
We've been talking with the IRS.
I would say at this point it's a little bit of wordsmithing going on and I still feel very confident about that.
We've actually finished doing our structuring around the ECO liquefaction opportunity there.
And we've made really good progress with some of our counterparties on the Renewables.
So we're just in the process of papering some of that stuff up.
So we are actually making good progress on these things as we said we would and we're working hard on it every day.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And then kind of in the same vein I think I wanted to ask about this wind project acquisition and I know you haven't baked any more acquisitions like this into your plan.
But should we expect you are continuing to look for more opportunities like this? And if so are you seeing many attractive opportunities or is this just kind of a one-off? We are seeing a lot of opportunities and that was the reason we tried to present this to you in the Analyst Meeting with what's in the base plan so you kind of watch us and see us as we capture some of these.
And then we're trying to do our slides in a way so that you can really see when we capture some of the upside that could affect during the five-year period and then when we capture upside that could go beyond the five-year period.
And so this is the first; a month after the conference we had one to announce.
We're working on a number of other things right now that can add growth to the plan.
And we talked about at the Analyst Conference we'd already identified over $7 billion to $8 billion of opportunities that could occur during the five years of the plan that we're working.
And every day we're working on those so I think over time you will continue to see some positive announcements.
We just had a leadership meeting and I will tell you our team is committed to continuing to do development work and to get some projects concluded.
And we have a lot of things in the pipe.
I was on a pharma company board for a while and they always talked about the pipeline as being critical to the long-term success of that business.
And I will tell you we have a really really strong pipeline.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And just one last one on the upcoming bid in Mexico at the CFC.
Looks like the timing maybe moved out a month or two on some of those is that just kind of a typical delays you see or is there anything else there that we should be aware of? Yeah.
It's a typical delay that we've seen that in pretty much all of the bids that they've come out with.
And usually when they get to the point that they are now where they've actually posted the date then they generally hold pretty close to that.
But some of the early projections that we gave when they listed all of the almost 20 pipelines on and told us when the bids were going to come out some of those have slipped a few months.
And that's just been typical.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Mark Barnett with Morningstar Equity Research.
Hey.
Good morning for you over there.
Hi.
How are you? Hi.
Not badly.
I just wanted to ask a quick question.
Thanks for all the detail on the TRV.
That's very very helpful.
I did want to ask another question though on the Mexican bids here.
Obviously it's a lot of capital here.
I'm wondering how you've won some bids on your own.
If you have still any interests in partnering with other larger multinationals or how you see that kind of dynamics in the market for bids here or whether you prefer to go it alone as with just Sempra? Yeah.
Generally we've looked at what we need to be competitive and we feel like we just have some natural competitive advantages ourselves.
We always look at could a partner bring us more competitive advantages and so we're open to that.
But for us to be able to do these and we look at where we are now in Mexico and the ability that we have to increase our leverage there and to really do a lot more big projects we haven't felt the need to partner with anyone.
And we feel that if you look at all the pipelines in Mexico and the percentage of them that we own and the work that we've done there we've really felt like we do have some strong competitive advantages in getting rights of way having the supplier base that we worked with time and time again and then having the employees that about 600 employees in Mexico that work on these things all the time.
So unless we saw someone bringing something to the table that we thought can make us more competitive we think we're really well positioned.
Thanks for that.
That's all I have today.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon.
Most of my questions were answered but I wanted to ask a little bit more about this incentive award you won at SoCalGas and in particular if there is any other incentive revenues that you're eligible for and how that would work? Sure.
That was from the gas cost incentive mechanism which we've had in place for 30 years or something.
But I'm going to have Dennis talk about at SoCalGas the incentive mechanisms we have.
And there's really two categories the energy efficiency and the gas cost incentive mechanism.
And then have Jeff give you the same information for SDG&amp;E which is really focused on the energy efficiency incentive.
Dennis? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director Southern California Gas Co.</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks Debbie.
Yeah.
Neel the way that it works is as Debbie mentioned there are two main categories.
The gas cost incentive mechanism is set up to basically encourage us to try to buy gas on behalf of our core customers as inexpensively as we can.
And if we can do better than a certain benchmark then shareholders get to reap part of the benefits there.
And in the prior year which we just recorded here in the first quarter of 2015 it was a good year given the volatility in the gas markets and as a result we were able to get approved $8 million of GCIM.
The other award that we're waiting for that that we've already applied for is energy efficiency.
And ordinarily that comes in the fourth quarter and that's probably going to be somewhere in the $2 million range on an after-tax basis.
But those are the two main incentive categories that we have at SoCalGas.
Jeff for SDG&amp;E please.
San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> Thank you for the question Neel.
You'll recall that in 2014 SDG&amp;E picked up roughly $7.5 million from energy efficiency awards.
And a lot of this has to do with the timing of which calendar years get pulled through.
But to Dennis' point these are usually fourth quarter awards.
And for SDG&amp;E in 2015 there'll be roughly – our expectation is roughly in the $3 million.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And my second question I just wanted to clarify.
Last year the gains from some of your asset sales were included in operational earnings.
This year the Mesquite sale and the gain associated with that in Q2 that won't be part of operations.
Is that correct? That's correct.
In the first quarter of last year we had a gain on CMS 4 of $16 million after-tax in Q1 of 2014.
And in Q2 we will report a gain of roughly $34 million from Mesquite but that is not included in our guidance numbers.
Yes.
I was just going to add on to that.
Historically for the last four years five years six years we have included in our guidance as part of our ongoing Renewable business gains from the renewable portfolio as we put them into partnerships because that is part of our business.
We develop these projects and then we've had a strategy of putting them into partnerships.
And so that's been kind of part of the ongoing business.
Whereas the sale of the Mesquite gas-fired plant is same as what we did when we sold the first half of it and we also excluded that I think in that year.
So it's a different thing.
It's kind of a one-time sale versus ongoing part of our business.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Good morning.
Hey Paul.
Just want to touch base with you on the LNG marketing.
On the slide it says there is $5 million decrease from that.
And I was just wondering if you could just elaborate a little bit more what was going on there and what the outlook is.
Mark? Yeah.
This on the LNG development costs? No.
On the LNG marketing.
The decline yeah.
That's almost entirely – it's entirely related to gas price declines.
Okay.
And...
And the gas price went down to $3 versus $5 a year ago.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so going forward how do we think about that moving around? Is it going to be sort of the same range? It will – yeah Paul it will move around a little bit with gas prices.
But if gas prices go up then we should recover some of that.
Okay.
And then the Sundry items it looked like there was an increase in the quarter by about $120 million.
And I was wondering what was driving that? And also if it had any EPS impact? Okay.
I'm going to turn it to Joe and Trevor to...
Yeah.
Paul a large portion of that increase was greenhouse gas allowances.
And there is an offset in other liabilities things that SDG&amp;E and SoCal collect through customers and owe it.
And so it was mostly that.
It wasn't the thing you were thinking about which sometimes we have these gains in the Rabbi trust and that drives it up.
And there was a little bit of – about there $9 million I think.
SVP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Yeah.
We've separately broken out the Rabbi trust on the line above.
So we've got that above it now.
So Sundry doesn't have the Rabbi trust in it.
This is just solely those items associated with really fixed price contracts and other derivatives in greenhouse gas allowances and in some other items but the biggest driver was a $91 million movement in greenhouse gas allowances.
So it wasn't an income item.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
We'll go next to Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Good morning Faisel.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Good afternoon.
On SoCalGas just so I understand the seasonality here.
Is the way to think about this is that the operating costs and D&amp;A is going to be roughly straight-lined across the year but that revenue and cost to goods is going to be sort of variable with the amount of gas being sold into the utility system? Yeah.
I'm going to have Dennis kind of walk you through this again.
And I think it would be helpful if you kind of looked at what really happens with the seasonality adjustment.
The important thing is that at the end of the year everything should even out from historical years.
It's just in between the periods of time and how this follows our cash flow and how it follows our balancing accounts and all of that.
So I'll have Dennis kind of walk you through that to help everyone understand it a bit.
Dennis? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director Southern California Gas Co.</span></strong> Yeah.
Faisel I think the two key takeaways as Debbie mentioned are: at the end of the year there is no impact to earnings; and at the end of the year there is no impact to cash flow.
But if you look at based on your question what's happening is we are now starting from a GAAP perspective recording the core margin revenues so that they reflect more the actual activity in our business.
What's happened is historically if you looked at we've flatlined it 1/12 (40:09) every month across the – every month on an annual basis.
Now we're – you can see that for the first quarter about 56% of our overall earnings are in the first quarter.
And you'll see the vast majority of the earnings in the fourth quarter.
What does end up happening is relative to GAAP whatever expenses we have every quarter will continue to be recorded in those quarters.
So you're not going to see a huge change in our expenses on a quarter-to-quarter basis versus what we've had historically.
But what you will see is the higher earnings in the first and fourth quarters which obviously – on the core margin which will lead to higher revenues.
From a balancing account perspective you will see some changes there but again no changes to full-year earnings and no changes to cash flow.
And our expenses are recorded at actual for the quarter just to be clear.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director Southern California Gas Co.</span></strong> That's right.
We've always recorded our expenses at actual for the quarter so those were never normalized.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director Southern California Gas Co.</span></strong> That's Right.
What was normalized was the revenue side of it.
So this changes the revenue to really reflect how we're collecting it from customers.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director Southern California Gas Co.</span></strong> And it's consistent with what we've been doing for our non-core earnings and how we've actually been recording for SDG&amp;E all along.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got you.
Did that answer your question Faisel? I just want to be sure because I...
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
(41:31).
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah totally.
Yeah yeah.
Absolutely.
Thanks.
And then next question on SDG&amp;E just with the introduction of the sort of battery technology or battery products from Tesla yeah how does this impact sort of the SDG&amp;E utility? I mean do you expect this to result to sort of more people wanting to get off the grid or just to kind of a broader sort of view on how you're looking at this technology and the impact to the utility? Yeah.
Let me have Jeff address that because we have done so much work in this area.
And in fact SDG&amp;E is kind of the leader in terms of having the most electric vehicles and all in the country.
So I think it would be helpful to have Jeff address this.
San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> Good morning Faisel.
Certainly some of the announcements you've been seeing around batteries and most recently in this last week is there are interesting announcements.
I think the key thing that I always like people to remember is that a little bit over a year ago the state approved a procurement process for the California Utilities where we would procure just over 1.3 gigawatts of energy storage.
You have to recall that's all targeted for grid level storage.
That's in between the point of central station production through the transmission grid down to the substation in your respective service territories.
That opportunity for SDG&amp;E is about 165 megawatts.
And when you think about energy storage we think it will follow a similar path to other technologies like solar.
So you think about all of the purchases of solar in Europe at the central station level as manufacturing capacity expanded around the world you saw more of that start making a migration toward the residential side.
So I think you'll see central applications will be the first mover for batteries.
But with respect to the residential obviously there is a lot of hype around this but I mean our perspective is a little bit different and it's because of the rate mechanism and how billing occurs in California.
So if you are a rooftop solar customer in SDG&amp;E's territory as you produce electricity it goes to offset your bundled rate in the month that it occurs.
And if you have excess production in that month it rolls forward to the next month.
So in essence the way the rate mechanism worked in California you're getting free battery service every month.
You're not paying for it right? So at all times whatever you produce is offsetting the bundled rate.
And that's really the goal of any type of residential application is to ensure that you can always use it for your bundled service rather than selling it back at some type of marginal costs.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> So we think it's an exciting area.
We think you'll see more on the residential side.
But right now the PUC's goal is to get to 1.3 gigawatts online by 2024.
That gives you some timeline about how people are thinking about the central station side of it.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Understood.
And then just on the Renewable side the – I think I missed this the Black Oak Getty wind project.
How much did you guys pay for that asset? We don't generally talk about how much we pay for assets but it was de minimis because it's an early development project.
We will have about when it's fully built approximately $145 million $150 million of capital in it when it's fully built.
But it's just in the early stage development.
So we will be doing all the build-out and all.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And last question from me.
Do you guys have any outlook on the storage environment gas storage environment? Are you seeing any sort of recovery in the business? Are we still looking at sort of $0.02 a month in sort of storage pricing? Yeah.
I'll have Mark talk about that because there are some things that are looking up in that area.
And so Mark do you want to -? Yeah.
I would say that it's – I think we're seeing things that are slightly better than what you're talking about on a spot basis and then on a term basis we're seeing much better rates.
So that's all pretty positive.
It's still a very low-priced environment for storage compared to what it was a few years ago but I would say it's definitely kind of improving albeit that it's been slow and a little bit sporadic.
But it does definitely seem to be on an uptrend.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Michael Dandurand with Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
Congrats on a great quarter and thanks for the question.
Most of them have actually been answered but one I just wanted to follow-up on the gas storage actually and more related to LNG opportunities.
So Mark if you could just touch on what you're thinking about there as kind of the ramp-up in LNG facilities coming online in the Gulf Coast.
That's a great question.
Obviously we believe and others now are starting to see the opportunity for storage in the Gulf but that is directly tied to LNG facilities.
And the difference between this type of storage and say others would be that these storage facilities that will service these facilities will have a lot more compression so that their injection rates are a lot higher than a typical storage facility.
And we are currently working with a couple customers right now on our Louisiana storage facility and we hope to be able to talk about that more in the near-term.
But it looks exciting; it looks like we may have something there to talk about later.
Okay.
Great.
So that near-term being within the next year or something like that? Before year-end.
Yeah sometime in the fourth quarter.
Got it.
Okay.
That's all I have.
Congrats again.
Thank you.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Hi.
Just to clarify on the tax rate on the TRV so we still don't know exactly what the tax rate would be on distributions to Sempra.
But in theory it should be less than the marginal tax rate because it's got some kind of shield depreciation – shield? Yes sir.
Okay.
So the short answer is yes.
Great.
And then secondly Debbie you mentioned after at some point soon you'll commence settlement discussions in your rate case.
Does that – any indication of just you may be feeling better about chances of settling this case and maybe the last one or is it just more normal process? Well I think a couple of things as we've talked before our filings were pretty vanilla.
And they really focused on safety issues and reliability issues and dollars needed for that at our utilities.
And it wasn't about a lot of new programs or activities.
So I think and then looking at the ORA report that came out the issues that they raised on their report are issues – I've been here 37 years now I've seen those issues for 37 years.
So it's like nothing unusual in their report and so I think that that is a fertile ground for settlement when you have that type of – at least you're not talking about being having a lack of common interest.
Clearly the parties are interested in safety and investing in safety as a system.
So we're hopeful that we could try to reach some settlement with some of the parties.
We have not yet seen the other intervener testimony.
That will be coming in sometime the middle of May.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Winfried Fruehauf with W.
Fruehauf Consulting Limited (49:35).
Yeah.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Other than the $113 million of seasonality adjustment were there any other income items that relates to different periods but were recorded in the first quarter of this year? Well the $113 million is the seasonality.
I wasn't clear if you said $113 million but it's $113 million.
And then the SONGS issue which we took out in adjusted earnings was really kind of a reconciliation of all of the settlement that was reached on SONGS and what the tax treatments and all ended up being on that.
So that when we took out it in our adjusted earnings that we gave you.
And I would ask Trevor or Joe if there is anything else that they would see in there.
SVP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Yeah.
The only other thing would be the item that Dennis had mentioned was the GCIM which was related to the prior year but awarded in the current year.
Yeah.
And that's a...
That's a rolling...
SVP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Yeah.
And that's a rolling thing.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director Southern California Gas Co.</span></strong> We ordinarily get a GCIM award.
Last year we got it in the third quarter and this year we got in the first.
But it's...
SVP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Right.
So we get it every year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director Southern California Gas Co.</span></strong> Yeah.
So it's not a...
It's not a one-time.
It's not a prior period.
And I did want to be clear on the $113 million.
That is all this year's revenue.
It has nothing to do with any other year.
It just all happens to be coming in the first quarters and fourth quarters for the most part.
Yeah.
Thanks.
I understand.
I have one other little question.
What was for the quarter the foreign exchange impact given the strength of the U.S.
dollar in that quarter versus foreign currencies? Joe? Yes.
Thanks.
Almost nothing.
We had some impact in Chile and Peru but it was essentially just reducing the growth in the earnings in the two businesses.
And maybe it was around $4 million but it was completely offset by FX gains in Mexico about $5 million.
So the net impact of the whole business is negligible.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Ashar Khan with Visium (51:46).
My questions have been answered.
Debbie just on what you said that you expect the PLR in a reasonable period I'm expecting it's – that would imply sometime during the summer.
I'm sorry.
I couldn't hear your question.
The PLR.
Would we get it in the summer? It's – I'm sorry the? The Private Letter Ruling.
Okay.
The Private Letter Ruling.
Yeah.
It's all – can I tell you when IRS is going to do something that's really hard.
I would tell you that what I hear from our people is that there doesn't seem to be issues and that it's not a matter that there is a problem.
It's just the matter of them getting their work done and issuing the ruling and so that's the best I can tell you.
Yeah.
We think it's in final stages.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go to our final question from Andy Levi with Avon Capital Advisors.
Hi.
Just a quick follow-up.
So just once you get the PLR and you get the other housekeeping issues done whether it's with your JV partners or whatever else may it be at that point whenever that may be that I guess sort of we'll hear from you.
It doesn't need to be on a quarterly basis I guess.
It's kind of when you're ready to go...
Yeah.
Let me just...
...we'll hear from you.
Yeah.
Let me just – I mean we will have to make a decision about moving forward when all of this work is done.
And then when our board makes a decision as to whether we move forward then the next step would be filing a press release.
And then after the press release there would be a period of time and then the S-1 filing would be made.
And so that's what I think you can look for.
It doesn't have to be an announcement on a quarter.
It just needs to be when our board has made a decision as to whether or not we would move forward.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
At this time we have no further questions in our queue so I'll turn the call back over to Debbie Reed for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us today.
Actually you had a lot of great questions.
And if you have more which I'm sure you will please don't hesitate to call our Investor Relations team and thank you for joining us today.
That does conclude our conference today.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy Second Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to Sempra Energy's second quarter 2015 financial presentation.
A live webcast to this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
With us today are several members of our management team: Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Chief Financial Officer; Martha Wyrsch General Counsel; Trevor Mihalik Chief Accounting Officer; Dennis Arriola Chief Executive Officer of SoCalGas; Steve Davis President of SDG&amp;E; and Octávio Simões President of Sempra LNG.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we'll be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K and 10-Q.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our second quarter 2015 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today August 4 2015 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to slide four and let me hand the call over to Mark.
Thanks Rick.
To start off I want to mention that Debbie is not joining us today.
She had a medical issue with her left eye that required attention and treatment this morning.
She apologizes for not being able to make the call but we all realized health issues come first.
I'll be filling in for her today.
And so now we'll get on with the call.
Our financial performance for the second quarter was very strong.
Earlier this morning we reported second quarter adjusted earnings of $260 million or $1.03 per share.
As you may recall these figures include the impact from applying seasonality to the SoCalGas revenues in 2015.
While this change does not affect full-year earnings for SoCalGas that results in almost all of their earnings being reported in the first quarter and fourth quarter of the year.
Specifically the impact from seasonality was $48 million of lower earnings this quarter and $65 million of higher earnings year-to-date.
Given our solid financial results in both the first quarter and second quarter we are on track to achieve our 2015 adjusted earning guidance.
Today I'd also like to emphasize that just six months into the first year of our current five-year plan we have already secured by new projects that are additional to the base plan we presented at the March Analyst Conference.
At U.S.
gas and power we have added two new solar projects at our Mesquite facility in Arizona this adds to the Black Oak Getty wind project we announced last quarter.
In Mexico IEnova was awarded another CFE pipeline project in July.
And last week IEnova agreed to purchase PEMEX's 50% equity interest in IEnova-PEMEX joint venture.
In addition we're working on the steps needed to advance our potential LNG projects which could extend growth beyond 2019.
And our California utilities have made headway on the GRC and rate reform initiatives.
We are all really pleased with our progress and will discuss our development projects in more detail as we proceed.
First let me begin with a regulatory and operational update including a discussion of our progress in achieving our base plan.
Please turn to slide five.
Our California utilities are making steady progress on their general rate case applications.
Since our last call we have completed evidentiary hearings and are well situated to receive a timely decision.
Briefs are due in August and September with the draft decision scheduled for year end.
After participating in the hearing process we believe our recommendations make a compelling case in support of the state’s priorities around safety and reliability.
Please turn to slide six.
Turning to one of FDG&amp;Es highest priorities the CPUC approved a final decision on rate reform in July.
The decision implements electric rates that are more fair and sustainable.
We provide a summary in the appendix but key outcomes of the decision include a reduction in the number of tiers from four down to two and annual reduction and rate differentials between the lowest and highest tiers minimum monthly bills and a process to study and implement time of use rates.
The decision directs all the state’s electric utilities to implement initial changes no later than November 1 2015.
Yesterday net energy metering tariff proposals were also filed by all parties.
Once approved the tariffs will determine how customers with new distributed energy resources will pay for utility services they received.
FDG&amp;E's suggested tariffs would apply to all new net energy metering customers by 2017.
Though we expect a final decision by year-end it could extend into the next year.
Let's now go to slide seven for an update on base plant projects and our other businesses.
We're really executing well on our five-year plan.
Since our last earnings call two more projects are in service.
In Mexico the 155 megawatt ESJ wind project reached commercial operations in June and in the U.S.
1.2 Bcf per day of east-to-west capacity on the REX pipeline was placed into service over this last weekend.
In addition we closed the sale of the remaining block of the Mesquite power plant in the second quarter.
We received $347 million in net cash proceeds and recorded a $36 million after tax gain on the sale.
As discussed last quarter this gain is not included in our 2015 adjusted earning guidance.
Please turn to slide eight for update on our development opportunities.
We're pleased to announce that we have secured several development opportunities this quarter that are additional to our base plan.
In Mexico IEnova was awarded a new CFE pipeline project in July.
The project represents an investment of about $110 million and is expected to be in operations in the first half of 2017.
CFE has announced two more pipelines will be awarded in August and September one of which interconnects with the pipeline we just won.
Five more pipelines are scheduled to be awarded later this year.
You can refer to the table in the appendix for details.
In addition on Friday we announced the IEnova has agreed to purchase PEMEX's 50% equity interest in their shared joint venture.
The transaction is expected to close later this year.
As noted in our recent press release IEnova agreed to purchase the business for approximately $1.3 billion subject to certain terms and conditions.
IEnova and PEMEX will also maintain a 50/50 JV for the continued joint development of the Los Ramones Norte pipeline and other future infrastructure projects.
As a result of the transaction IEnova will own 100% of six purchased assets five of which are currently in operation.
The assets are covered by long-term dollar-based contracts.
The acquisition is expected to be about $0.05 accretive to Sempra Energy's earnings in 2016 growing to about $0.10 per share by 2019.
IEnova expects to finance the purchase with a combination of equity and debt.
The acquisition provides several important benefits and ongoing relationship with PEMEX for future development projects opportunities for asset optimization and expansion into areas such as the transportation and storage of refined products and a larger platform of presence in Mexico to participate in the energy sector reform.
Moving to U.S.
Gas &amp; Power.
We are pleased to announce contracts on two new renewable projects that are Mesquite Solar facility in Arizona.
Mesquite Solar 2 will be a 100-megawatt project secured by a 20-year PPA.
Mesquite Solar 3 will be a 150-megawatt project secured by a 25-year PPA both PPAs are with creditworthy counterparties and we expect the projects to be in service by the end of 2016.
And finally I will note that we are working diligently to prepare our S-1 filing for Sempra Partners.
Securities laws however prohibit us from discussing the matter further.
Let's now go to slide nine for a discussion of our LNG development process.
LNG development continues to be a terrific long-term growth opportunity with very large potential for upside for Sempra.
While the development process takes time and can vary between projects we are making solid progress on all three of our liquefaction initiatives.
Since LNG development continues to be a hot topic for investors we provided this slide to illustrate the process needed to advance the project to FID or final investment decision.
Cameron Expansion is the project that is furthest along so we use that project as an example.
But before walking you through the slide I want to reiterate a couple of key themes.
First while projections for global LNG demand are lower than a few years ago industry forecast continue to show large un-contracted demand post 2019.
These forecasts already include competing sources of supply such as the restart of some of Japan's nuclear fleet more coal and renewable development in Asia growing pipeline imports into customer markets and indigenous shale gas sales.
Second U.S.
Gulf LNG projects are regarded as the most competitive source of global supply both in cost and in flexibility.
And third we are receiving strong interest in our projects from large buyers of LNG for delivery in the 2019 and beyond timeframes.
Now moving to the graphic on this slide we have illustrated key work streams related to project cost and design permitting marketing and financing.
You'll notice that each category is interrelated.
EPC project cost estimates and lenders' consents are needed in order to finalize customer contracts agreements with customers on tariffs and service dates and quantities are needed to finalize financing commitments.
In financing terms the regulatory approvals are needed to make the final investment decision.
Completion of each of these work streams is what enables us to take a project to achieve FID.
For Cameron expansion we're targeting FID in late 2016.
Our Cameron joint venture is currently permitting trains four and five but the project could begin with one or two trains depending on total market interest.
Cameron expansion is well positioned as one of the lowest cost sources of global LNG supply.
This is due to the economies of scale and adding more trains to an existing facility the opportunity to benefit from continuous construction at the site a simpler permitting process an access to low-cost of capital and of course in expense of North American Gas.
Moving to other LNG development projects we continue to actively develop the Port Arthur project and have submitted the initial filings at both DOE and FERC.
Market interest in this project remains strong as it offers different off take and ownership opportunities from those available at Cameron.
In June we also announced an MOU with Woodside Petroleum to work on the feasibility of developing the project together.
For ECA we are working with the Mexican government in the development of all the regulations and conditions needed to support liquefaction and export of LNG from Mexico.
We have completed a large - we have completed a number of studies on technical feasibility and market interest for this sole west coast Brownfield site.
Together with PEMEX we continue to advance the development work and are now sharing costs.
Now with that let's turn to slide 10 for a discussion of the quarterly earnings.
Joe? Thank you Mark.
Earlier this morning we reported second quarter earnings of $295 million or $1.17 per share.
On an adjusted basis we reported second quarter earnings of $260 million or $1.03 per share.
Second quarter earnings in 2014 were $269 million or $1.08 per share.
Adjusted earnings this quarter exclude two items first we recorded a $36 million after-tax gain on the sale of the remaining block of the Mesquite Power Plant.
Second as I noted last quarter we are adjusting earnings for expenses relating to the development of our pre-proposed LNG liquefaction projects.
While our cash expenditures have been consistent with cost for the LNG development activities we've undertaken thus far we have recorded $1 million of after-tax expense in the second quarter of 2015.
This number reflects the fact that certain costs are being capitalized and certain other costs are being shared with our Cameron joint venture partners and PEMEX.
I also wanted to note that compared with the same period of last year second quarter earnings now reflect the impact of seasonality in SoCalGas revenues.
As Mark mentioned earlier this impact resulted in $48 million of lower earnings this quarter and $65 million of higher earnings year-to-date.
Looking to the third quarter please be aware that we could report a loss for SoCalGas due to seasonality.
You can refer to the appendix for additional detail where we illustrate 2014 SoCalGas earnings at seasonality and revenues been applied.
As the appendix shows third quarter 2014 earnings would have reflected a loss in the third quarter.
So there was no impact on a full year basis.
Overall we are on track to achieving our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance given the strong financial performance we've had year-to-date.
Finally before proceeding I want to mention that we expect to report a one-time non-cash gain next quarter we will step up our investment to fair value related to IEnova's purchase of PEMEX's interest in their joint venture.
The size of the gain has not yet been determined and is not included in our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance.
Please turn to slide 11.
Individual financial results for each of our businesses could be found in this section of our presentation entitled business unit earnings.
I'll address here the key drivers for our consolidated earnings this quarter.
Sempra International recorded $19 million of higher earnings primarily from the Los Ramones I pipeline and a section of the Sonora pipeline in Mexico that are now in service.
SoCalGas recorded a $13 million retroactive benefit for 2012 to the first quarter of 2015 from higher rate base.
Approval of this benefit by the PUC was contingent upon receiving a favorable Private Letter Ruling from the IRS which we received in April.
SoCalGas also had $10 million of higher operational earnings from higher CPUC margins net of operating expenses and higher AFUDC equity earnings.
Offsetting these positive factors were two items the $48 million seasonality impact that lowered SoCalGas's 2015 earnings and $11 million of lower net investment earnings at the parent on assets in support of our retirement obligations.
Now let's conclude with slide 12.
Overall our financial and operating results for the second quarter continued to be very strong and consistent with our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance of $4.60 per share to $5 per share.
Excluding the impact of seasonality in SoCalGas's revenues our second quarter adjusted earnings increased significantly compared to the same period last year driven largely by increased operating results at both Sempra International and SoCalGas.
Across the company we have made excellent progress on our base plan and continue to capture additional development opportunities.
As we look forward to the remainder of the year we are working diligently to capture more development opportunities that can provide upside to our base plan in the near term.
In addition we'll continue to work toward advancing our LNG projects that could extend this growth beyond 2019.
With that we'll conclude our prepared comments and stop to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Hey good afternoon.
Hi Mike.
It's Julien here.
Hey Julien how are you? Hey not too bad.
Thank you.
I suppose first question here out of the gates obviously the IEnova is a pleasant development but curious you're providing a bridge loan but ultimately how are you thinking about your ownership stake in IEnova pro forma for the latest deal but probably more strategically how are you thinking about that down the line as you think about the 80%-ish you're on today? Well I'm going to let Joe handle that question in detail but let me just say off the bat that we are expecting to finance this at the IEnova level and even if we don't participate in this thing and I'll let Joe explain what we're thinking there but even if we didn't it would still be accretive to us but Joe why don't you give some more details on that.
Yeah.
Thanks Mark and hi Julien.
Yeah this is very important and we're studying the issue.
We really like this deal and so we would like to participate in the deal.
We are looking at what the market is going to be like over the next couple of months.
We've got a lot of confidence from the banks we've worked with on this transaction.
And I think our current view is we will participate in the equity offering.
We know that a number of our IEnova investors want to have more liquidity.
So we've said all along that if we have a large project this would enable us to go back out to the equity markets.
And so we're going to have an equity offering I believe we will participate.
What I'm currently thinking is we have a dividend coming later this week from IEnova.
It will come to our Mexican Holding company.
And I think we'll use that cash plus some other cash to participate in the offering.
We haven't decided the firm amount yet we want to see how the shares are doing and how the market is but we definitely will participate and as Mark said this is going to be accretive either way.
Great.
Excellent.
Turning to the LNG story.
Curious you mentioned on the slides here for instance one trains or two trains at Cameron.
I suppose as it relates to the project what's your confidence level as it relates to one trains or two trains? And then secondly in terms of conversations are you still expecting that you passively acknowledge to the Street one way or another perhaps by 4Q or 1Q next year a decision.
I mean I know you indicate FID by second half of 2016 but just wanted to be very clear about your communication intentions? Well with respect to trains four and trains five we have this partnership that owns a facility we own 50% and our partners own the other 50%.
Currently through trains one trains two trains three our partners have all of the capacity.
With respect to trains four and trains five we have a right Sempra has the right to 50% of that capacity we're highly confident that we're going to be able to market that capacity and we're actively doing that now.
And therefore we know that at least one of the trains will go whether our partners decide to market that extra capacity or not is entirely up to them and we don't control that but - Octávio if you would like to comment on any of that that maybe fill in.
Sure.
I think Mark covered the big topics and that is that the ownership has decided to go forward with the expansion.
We have 50% of that expansion capacity roughly 4 million tons the remaining partners have 4 million tons as well.
What they're doing with their capacity it depends whether they want to put it in the market if it fits in their portfolio or not we are actively pursuing it we're encouraged by all the things we are finding in our current negotiations.
And so at the end of the day I think the slide reflects that we'll go back and say okay Sempra is taking on the 4 million tons that we are allotted to if our partners say no that means that probably then one just one train will be built since there was agreement by everybody if they market their capacity then we would have the two trains.
We are permitting both trains from both the FERC and DOE.
I'd add on Mark.
Just to be clear so everybody is clear on the call.
The fourth train would be owned by the joint venture so it'd be 50-50 ownership.
But Octávio was right we would have the capacity.
That's right Joe.
Okay.
And just to be extra clear about this I apologize.
So this would be - you would obviously still need to go and remarket your respective ownership but I supposed at this point in time you're indicating that you intend at least move forward on train 4 is that an incremental? Yeah what we would - I mean obviously we would not move forward if we haven't sold the capacity forward but we're in the process of that marketing effort right now and we're pretty confident that we'll get that done.
Okay.
Thank you.
I'll let it be.
And we will take our next question from Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Neel.
A question on the PEMEX acquisition.
Now that you have a larger stake in Mexico especially with the pipes are you seeing additional synergies or lateral opportunities from owning a larger stake in Mexico? Yes I mean in fact we're seeing two things.
One on the cost side with us acquiring a 100% of the pipes that we're in the JV.
We believe we can integrate those with the other pipes that we own and we'll definitely get some synergies out of that that would be in addition to the earnings accretion that we've so far forecasted.
So we think if there is additional upside just in the operational synergies that we can achieve.
But then secondly all of the pipeline infrastructure that we're building now we've to this point only marketed it to the original customer that ask for it to be built mainly CFE or PEMEX.
But these are open access pipes and we are announced - into market extra capacity to other users and we've just actually started working on that and we're seeing some success and getting that.
So we do think there is additional upside to come from marketing additional capacity either that exist currently or that we can create through compression and we are pretty excited about that.
We think that there is a growth opportunity there.
And what would be the timeline for recognizing some of the possible lateral projects? When can we first hear about it? Well I guess you'll first hear about it when they are announced but for the most part I think we're working on some of these right now and some will be probably completed before year-end.
Okay.
Great.
And Joe you had two good quarters.
Can you say where you are within the guidance range at this point? Are you at the high end or are you in the middle? Can you comment on that? We are not going to narrow the range or talk about where we are in the guidance.
You can see the year-to-date results are really strong you can't double those because SoCalGas is $65 million ahead on the seasonality.
So that will come back and then we have a few items that are in the earnings year-to-date that won't repeat.
So we feel really good about where we are but we're not going to narrow it at this point.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Yeah hi.
I've got a few questions.
First on the two new solar projects.
Can you give us any sense of the earnings benefit to those? We are not disclosing the benefits precisely but they're 100 megawatts and 150 megawatts projects and there are consistent returns with what we've had in the past.
Okay.
And then secondly just on the MLP which I know you can't talk about.
Can you just remind when we did - when you did your base plan my recollection is that you did not kind of assume the MLP in your financing plan.
That's correct.
At your Analyst Day.
That's correct.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Yeah.
Okay.
And just is there any way to give any color on kind of how to think about that strategy just given current market conditions? The thing is we just cannot comment on the MLP at all.
I just - I apologize but that just the way the rules are and so we really can't talk about it.
We'll talk about that when we do the marketing for the MLP.
Okay.
And I get that.
And then finally just back that you know of the $0.05 to $0.10 of accretion on the different years that's whether you take stock or not are related to this deal that range is still pretty good either way sort of the equation.
Yes.
I'll let Joe.
Yes.
It's pretty close.
I mean we've evaluated this as we've been working on this deal for a few months and actually whether we borrow money or whether we issue equity it hardly has any impact and so the only thing that moves jut slightly is whether we participate but again it's going to be accretive either way but I think we will - you will see us participate to some degree.
Okay.
And then one question on Cameron 4 and Cameron 5.
So you can control of 4 million tons of one train.
You're only going to go forward with yours if you sign long-term contracts I assume.
Correct.
Okay.
The partners have this other 4 million tons can you - is there any way that if you kind of see the market that you could kind of take that over as well if you wanted to or is it really in their hands what to do with that? It's really in their hands.
I mean I suppose something could be worked out but we have other projects too that we're developing and are part of our portfolio.
So we have to evaluate it in relation to those just as they will.
Okay.
But it sounds like your conviction on moving forward what you control seems quite high.
I think you could say that it is very high yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
Hey guys.
Steve just asked my question so I'm good.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Greg.
Thanks Greg.
And we will go next to Michael Dandurand with Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
Good afternoon.
Hi Michael.
Hi.
Just to - and first of all thank -appreciate the additional color on LNG and with particular to Cameron.
I just have a follow-up there as it relates to the Port Arthur.
Can you just talk a little bit about what we should be looking forward there and how things are going with Woodside now involved? Well I'll start and then I'll let Octávio comment on this as well but we have an MOU with Woodside to look at the feasibility of the project.
We're progressing on it.
We've had lots of meetings.
We're starting some of the technical analysis and starting some of the marketing of the trains.
It's an excellent site.
It looks like it's very promising as moving forward and I would say their commitment to it is very strong.
And Octávio do you want to give any other color on that? I think you've covered the process.
I would just add part of the attractiveness of Port Arthur is that it appeals to customers that may want to have equity as part of their supply strategy.
It allows us and Woodside to look at options to really make Port Arthur a very low cost supplier in the LNG market which for us is key for the success of any project out of the U.S.
exports of LNG.
So it's - plus this is going extremely well.
There is a lot of similar objectives between us Woodside and you're likely to see some announcements as that relationship grows and as the project continues to go forward.
Yeah.
And I would just add to that.
I think it's important just to keep in mind that our projects both in the Gulf and ECO as well we are positioning them as at the very low end of the cost curve for LNG worldwide.
And so we think they will be very competitive but that doesn't - we have other Gulf Coast facilities that obviously compete with that.
But in general our facilities and the others in the Gulf region in particular are some of the lowest cost providers of LNG that out there.
And therefore they're very likely to get lifted over time.
Mike if I may just add.
One of the key elements for any buyer of LNG in the world is the reliability and the creditability of the developer.
And so we think Sempra is very well positioned with our track record clearly Woodside is very well positioned given their track record.
And so that in itself is an advantage because we'll be offering technology that's conventional that the buyers are used that's reliable and with all kinds of the guarantees that they expect from a project of this size.
Got it.
It's very helpful.
So in less of an emphasis on the spot market if I'm hearing that correctly? Yes.
Got it.
And then just as far as we've seen a bit of a deterioration in the midstream arena and I appreciate that you can't discuss the MLP directly.
But just as far as the broader landscape for midstream assets out there.
Are you seeing anything more attractive just from an M&amp;A standpoint.
Well obviously we do see some attractive M&amp;A opportunities.
We just executed on one last week.
So we think that - we think that we did a very good deal last weekend and we're really happy with it.
So obviously with the way the landscape has been it could be that M&amp;A opportunities become more viable.
But it's still - there still a pretty good cost advantage to developing your own projects as opposed to train to buy them in the marketplace.
We see that both - we see that both in the midstream area and also in the renewables area as well to the extent that we continue to develop our own backlog of projects that's a much more profitable avenue for us and we're fortunate to have a pretty good backlog of projects to work on.
So I think we're very well positioned for growth and growth at the lower end of the cost curve as opposed to somebody that's trying to it through acquisition.
Got it.
Very helpful.
I mean the only other one I have is just on Mexico with the recent project win there.
Does that help your upcoming bid with the project in August here I'm going to put you this name the Samalayuca.
Yeah it does.
We believe the project that we just won is kind of a large header system which will benefit us and being able to control the costs on the next project bid that's coming up.
And so I don't want to go into all the details of why that is.
But we do think it gives us a little bit of an advantage and we're hoping to see some success there.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks for the time.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Congrats on nice quarter and on the IEnova transaction.
I just wanted to ask about that.
PEMEX and IEnova highlighted the remaining JV as a platform for future product development.
Just talk about little bit the opportunities you see going forward with PEMEX.
And also is this model - something you could see PEMEX wanting to repeat i.e.
develop and construct their project in a JV and then sell their interest? Yeah look I think it's a healthy development for us in the sense that PEMEX is recognizing this transaction.
They repeatedly refer to it as a monetization as opposed to a sale because they see this opportunity to build these projects that they need to have done and then once they're built they can monetize them through a sale to us and then start on the next project and we see that or obviously we think that that's a very exciting opportunity for us.
And we were very happy that they wanted to stay into this partnership arrangement with the pipeline that's currently under construction and then the considered new projects in that.
So I think we do think - we are looking at this as a source of future projects.
We think it's a good model for us it's worked well in the past.
And I think the thing that that PEMEX appreciates is that they have now worked with us on these projects over the years.
They've had good results we've built good projects they've come in pretty much on time and on budget and I think they see us as a really good partner that they can count on to deliver for them.
And so that's something that we - obviously we pride ourselves on and we think that is going to lead to more projects in the future.
Mark I'd add on to that.
And Matt I think you guys don't always see this but Mark and I sit on the IEnova board and so we were just down there last week and we were with Debbie and we met with PEMEX and other government agencies.
And it's really important we have a very interactive ongoing relationship with IEnova.
And I just want to make sure you guys all understand that.
Okay great.
And just on the California facilities the GRCs mentioned they're going well.
Can you just update us on any kind of key or contentious issues that are emerging as the process goes on.
And I believe at the Analyst Day when you came out your longer term guidance you had assumed no rate increase resulting from the GRCs any update on how you're thinking about that assumption? Yeah I'm going to turn this over to Dennis to give you the details.
So let me just make one quick point which is - at the analyst conference and in the plan what we assumed with respect to the GRC was just normal attrition but I think that was just a conservative assumption to - for the planning purposes but I think Dennis can give you some more detail on that.
Thanks Mark.
Hi Matt.
Yeah as Mark said in his opening comments.
Things are going well.
We finished our evidentiary hearings two days ahead of schedule and we're happy with the overall pace of the filings.
Our witnesses from both SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E did a great job of explaining the overall merits and details of both of our filings.
And we're really optimistic that we're going to receive constructive decisions for both companies.
We can't obviously disclose anything related to any settlement discussions if we're in them.
But what we can tell you is given the strong show in that we had in our evidentiary hearings and the fact that our filings are consistent with the priorities of the PUC which are around safety reliability and customer service.
We feel really good about potential constructive discussions with intervening parties.
As it pertains to the plan that Mark talked about you're right what we just assumed was that our existing attrition rates of 2.75% for both SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E would continue from a planning perspective but obviously we've asked for more that supports our filings.
And so far the ORA in their reply have come back and said that they would be looking for 3.5% attrition increases in 2017 and 2018 or both SoCalGas and SDG&amp;E.
So having said all that we feel really good about where we're at this point.
Great.
Steven do you have any comment on that? No I really have nothing more to add.
But again as Dennis pointed out we concluded our regulatory hearings and we feel very confident in the outcome of those hearings and we look forward to construct a dialogue with parties going forward.
All right.
Thanks.
And then just one on the LNG side I thought it was great that you can have the visibility to target the FID on the Cameron expansion.
Any sense you can gives us for - do you have targets yet for FIDs on ECA or Port Arthur or can you give us a sense for maybe how far behind they are right now? I'll let [ph] Trevor address that.
Sure.
Port Arthur we're probably looking at something in the late 2017 late 2018 timeframe for FID.
It does take - it does require a different permitting process it's environmental impact same as opposed to environmental assessment which takes longer.
And obviously we don't have the benefit or the luxury of just a continuation of the existing EPC contract and contractor at Cameron.
So that will process with a limitation to bid and what not will take longer.
So late 2017 2018 timeframe is what we're thinking about Port Arthur.
For Costa Azul as we're putting all the key elements in place from regulatory standpoint and from a commercial standpoint that might be a little later than that or at the same timeframe frankly on that one I'm not confident enough at this point to make a prognostic as to the FID timeframe.
One of the things with respect to ECA is a lot of the regulations are still being developed.
So we're not really sure exactly how to go about that process.
I mean we've been working with the Mexican government on developing the regulations for LNG exports.
So we're still - so to give you a firm date would be really quite difficult but it is probably more in the Port Arthur timeframe than it is in the trains four and five timeframe.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
Thanks again.
Okay.
And we'll take our next question from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Hey Faisel.
Hey good afternoon.
Just on the PEMEX the accretion you guys discussed in your slide from $0.05 to $0.10.
So I guess all I've got so far in that JV is in terms of projects that you're working on are expanding with a JV is the ethane pipeline.
So what else is going to sort of drive that joint venture from $0.05 to $0.10? I'm assuming loss from [indiscernible].
That's still in the JV and the same ownership presenters so that doesn't change anything that's going on there.
Well I will let Joe address the EPS numbers.
Hey Faisel.
So most of it is the ethane project coming online but then in addition to that Mark talked a little bit about some of the synergies that we see and in an addition all the cash flow from the business would be accumulating and paying down debt or being available to provide some earnings and that's what's really driving the few cents additional as we go through the time period but the bulk of it is ethane.
Okay.
That's a pretty big uptick in earnings just from the ethane project.
What's the stats of these lines in the JV are they running at full capacity or are they - is there a room to grow that having to spend much capital? Yeah actually as I mentioned earlier there's two things that we really didn't put into the EPS guidance one was the efficiencies that we think we can get from running a whole system together that's one.
And then the two there is either additional capacity in the lines or capacity that could be added relatively and expensively with compression and we're in the process of marketing some of that capacity to other users.
So other LDCs power plants and those kinds of things and so we do think that there is upside there.
We haven't put that - we haven't calculated that into our EPS estimates of accretion but there is certainly other things that we think we can get.
Okay got it.
Makes sense.
And then just on Port Arthur so the sort of relationship here are talking about with the Woodside Petroleum.
So I guess what's the timeline in terms of when you guys decide whether you're going to go forward with the joint venture and I guess therefore market the asset together or what are you guys thinking about it right now.
What is the...
Well we're actually starting - we are marketing the asset right now but I'll let Trevor give a little more detail.
Yeah.
Let me be clear on the marketing side of the asset clearly we would not have engaged and pursued if we didn't find the interest so it's expert oriented.
As we look through what the project now will be structured then if it is with [indiscernible] side which obviously we hope and are confident it will be then we together will have to develop the marketing strategy for the asset.
So that's on the marketing side.
As far as what we expect to see going forward it's really going to be a continuation of the same process.
We're looking at the feasibility.
We're looking at the economics.
There are hurdles that we will have to go through to make sure we go to the next stage.
Are we confident we can put together a project that's low cost as it has to be? Are we confident that we can do all of the regulatory permits in all of the local issues we have to deal with? So those things will be a hurdle that we will be overcoming.
We're confident we can but it's tough to give you a timeframe at this point it's very specific.
I think you will see some developments between now and at the end of the year but I wouldn't want to commit at this point as to what those developments are.
And finally you may have missed it on the question before but we did discuss that we're talking about FID with that project with Port Arthur sort of late 2017 all the way into late 2018 sort of that time - probably in the 2018 timeframe.
Okay understood.
Then just on the Cameron expansion just in terms of lowering the cost of the - or providing a sort of lower cost and expansion from the economies of scale.
Where do you guys think that is right now? Especially since you've seen steel cost come down and we've seen I mean what - like on a percentage basis like versus what you guys have outlined for this one versus what you're thinking about the expansion is there any color you can provide on that? Thanks.
Well there is a color I could but won't.
Look right now we think we have a very competitive project.
We think our costs are some of the lowest in the region.
We're marketing that to our advantage and I really don't want to give any more details in that.
Okay.
Got it.
Fair enough.
Thanks for the time.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
And we will go next to Mark Barnett with Morningstar Financial Research.
Hey good morning/good afternoon everyone.
Hey Mark.
Hey you've talked a lot about the PEMEX assets and the PEMEX deal and some of your pipeline projects and upside today.
I'm just wondering given what's taken place over the past few months six months and what not how are you looking at the attractiveness of the generation sector in Mexico.
Well the generation clearly has been under stress in the U.S.
Prices have been relatively low but in Mexico there are going to be generation opportunities.
On the renewable side I think they will be quite good they'll be - and obviously we're well positioned to do that and ESJ can be expanded pretty easily.
But on the gas power generation side and especially with respect to combined cycle plants there will be opportunities to build those under contracts with CFE but they haven't really been let that out that much in any kind of volume of [indiscernible] one and what we're - we're going to have to kind of wait and see - to see how that market develops.
I think what they're doing in Mexico is actually really pretty smart which is they're building out the gas network first.
They're developing a very active gas market one that both CFE and the private sector will participate in to a great degree and once if that they have a robust gas market and a good supply network then I think you'll start to see them let out the opportunities to build more power plants.
But I think they definitely are staging at a little bit and I think rightly so.
Yeah it's definitely been a slow process.
I just wonder given that you're positioned already to be a fairly large operator of the gas infrastructure does that give you some kind of a look into where you are competitive position would be when those kind of biz do you start to show up? Absolutely I mean I think we are going to be very well positioned to take advantage of those and I think - we have every intention of doing that.
It's just that they have to meet our criteria for having long-term contracts and being solid investments which we expect them to be.
But given our infrastructure and our knowledge of the gas pipeline network in Mexico I think that we will be well positioned to take advantage of those offerings.
All right.
Thanks.
All right.
Thank you.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I will turn the call back to Mark Snell for closing remarks.
Well thanks again for joining us today.
If you have any follow up questions please feel free to contact the IR team and have a great day.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you again for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Please stand by.
Good day and welcome to the Sempra Energy Third Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead.
Welcome to Sempra Energy's third quarter 2015 financial presentation.
A webcast to this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
Here in San Diego are several members of our management team: Debbie Reed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Snell President; Joe Householder Chief Financial Officer; Martha Wyrsch General Counsel; Trevor Mihalik Chief Accounting Officer; Dennis Arriola Chief Executive Officer of Southern California Gas; and Jeff Martin Chief Executive Officer of San Diego Gas &amp; Electric.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we'll be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K and 10-Q.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that we will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our third quarter 2015 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today November 3 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
Please turn to slide 4 and I'll hand the call over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick.
During the third quarter our solid operating and financial performance across the company continued.
With strong year-to-date results we are now raising our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance range to $4.95 per share to $5.15 per share.
In addition we continue to execute on our five-year base plan and are on track to meet or exceed our approximate 11% adjusted base plan EPS CAGR for 2015 to 2019.
Since providing those projections at our March Analyst Conference we have announced more than $2 billion of investment opportunities that are incremental to our base plan.
We have also filed for commission approval of our GRC settlement agreement for SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas.
I am very pleased with our progress this year and I'm optimistic as we move into 2016.
Let's begin with an operational update and then Joe will provide more detail on our financial results.
Please turn to slide 5.
With regard to our base plan I would like to first revisit the visibility of our 11% adjusted EPS CAGR.
On this slide we provide key base plan assumption.
I will mention just a few points.
First the almost $20 billion of investments included in our five-year base plan reflect projects that were essentially approved contracted or under construction as of March 2015.
For earnings associated with these projects we have risk mitigation strategies in place that limit our exposure to changes in interest rates foreign currency rates or commodity prices.
We provide additional information in the appendix to this presentation.
Second our base plan projections do not include impacts from the proposed GRC settlement the $2 billion of new projects or acquisitions announced since March 2015 or any earnings from our three potential LNG development projects.
Third we do not need to issue Sempra equity nor any potential MLP equity in order to finance the base plan.
In light of the planned IEnova equity offering we discussed last quarter we do not need to issue Sempra equity to finance the PEMEX acquisition or any of the announced renewable projects that are incremental to our base plan.
Further we did not include any earnings impacts from a potential MLP in our base plan.
Altogether our five-year plan was built on conservative assumptions and we are on track to meet or exceed our base plan earnings projections.
Now let's go to slide 6 for an update on our growth and development opportunities.
Beginning with the California utilities we filed a multi-party GRC settlement agreement for both SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas in September.
The settlement agreement is subject to CPUC approval.
Under the agreement SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas would be allowed revenues sufficient to operate their businesses safely and reliably and to provide excellent customer service.
For 2016 through 2018 the agreement provides annual revenue increases for operations of approximately 3.5%.
When including costs subject to balancing accounts this equates to a total revenue requirement increase in 2016 of $17 million for SDG&amp;E and $122 million for SoCalGas.
Both utilities have also reached the second settlement agreement with the Office of Ratepayer Advocates for a four-year GRC term.
The four-year term agreement is contingent on approval of our 2016 to 2018 GRC settlement and on the commission approving a four-year term for all California utilities.
If approved the annual revenue increase in 2019 for SDG&amp;E and SoCalGas would be 4.3%.
Recall that our base plan projections assume utility revenues grow annually at the current 2.75% rate of attrition throughout the five-year plan period.
Moving to Mexico in July we announced that IEnova agreed to purchase PEMEX's 50% equity interest in their shared joint venture for approximately $1.3 billion.
The acquisition is expected to be about $0.05 accretive to Sempra's EPS in 2016 growing to about $0.10 per share by 2019.
We currently expect the Mexican Competition Commission to rule on the transaction this month and for the equity offering to occur before year end.
In Mexico IEnova also submitted a bid for the latest CFE pipeline auction with award schedule for this week.
Together with five other pipeline projects in Mexico that are currently being tendered the total near-term investment opportunity exceeds $6 billion.
I also want to mention that the Ministry of Energy has published the long-term plan for development of the national electric system.
The plan outlines significant needs for new generation in electric transmission.
We expect the initial transmission projects to be bid during the first half of 2016 under new rules of energy reform and IEnova plans to participate in these new markets.
We provide more detail in the appendix to this presentation.
Lastly I would like to take a moment to comment on the status of Sempra Partners.
In June we announced that our board authorized us to pursue the formation of an MLP.
The primary reason to form an MLP is to create a source of competitively priced capital to support Sempra's growth.
As you are aware current MLP market conditions are not ideal and we will not go forward at this time.
We are watching market conditions and we'll reevaluate our position in the middle of next year.
In order to preserve this optionality about whether to pursue an MLP we did submit a confidential S-1 with the SEC.
As I stated earlier we do not require equity from MLP markets in order to finance our base plan and we have flexibility in how we move forward.
If we proceed we will be convinced that the size and sustainability of the long-term value proposition for the Sempra's shareholder is intact.
Now please turn to slide 7.
With regard to investment opportunities post 2019 that are beyond our base plan period we continue to make good progress.
For Cameron expansion we filed our FERC application in September and expect to receive FERC approval mid-2016.
We received EPC pricing for Train 4 with per train costs that are lower than Trains 1-3.
We believe Train 4 could be one of the lowest cost LNG development projects worldwide and competitive in the marketplace.
Now that we have firm EPC pricing we can conduct focused discussions with customers and we continue to target announcing customer agreements prior to the end of the first quarter of next year.
For our Port Arthur project we have received our DOE FTA authorization and are continuing our project assessment.
We are targeting the first half of next year to execute a joint development agreement with Woodside.
For our ECA liquefaction project we continue to work on the regulatory and other project development issues with PEMEX.
We view both the Port Arthur and ECA liquefaction projects as potentially providing LNG post 2020.
With that let's turn to slide 8 for a discussion of the quarterly earnings.
Joe? Thanks Debbie.
Earlier this morning we reported third quarter earnings of $248 million or $0.99 per share.
On an adjusted basis we reported third quarter earnings of $250 million or $1 per share.
Third quarter earnings in 2014 were $348 million or $1.39 per share.
Adjusted earnings this quarter exclude expenses related to the development of our three proposed LNG liquefaction projects.
Similar to last quarter we only recorded $2 million of after-tax expense.
This number reflects the fact that a substantial portion of the costs are either being capitalized or shared with our Cameron joint venture partners and PEMEX.
Earnings this quarter include reduced tax expense associated with repatriation.
As I mentioned on last quarter's call we intend to participate in the planned IEnova equity offering and now expect to use about two years' worth of dividends from Mexico that we had originally planned to repatriate.
As a result we expect an approximate $0.10 per share benefit in both 2015 and 2016 from lower than expected tax expense.
Our current plan is to resume repatriation from Mexico in 2017 and 2018.
I also want to reiterate that third quarter earnings continue to reflect the impact of seasonality in SoCalGas's revenues.
This impact resulted in $113 million of lower earnings this quarter and $48 million of lower earnings year-to-date.
Applying seasonality will have no impact on full year earnings.
We will see a $48 million after-tax benefit in the fourth quarter due to seasonality.
You can refer to the appendix for additional detail where we illustrate 2014 SoCalGas earnings had seasonality in revenues being applied.
Excluding the impact of seasonality in SoCalGas revenues Sempra's third quarter adjusted earnings increased by $15 million compared to the same period last year.
Looking forward we are now raising our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance range to $4.95 per share to $5.15 per share.
With regards to 2016 earnings and dividends we anticipate updating our guidance in February on our fourth quarter call.
Our new five-year EPS and dividend projections will be updated at our 2016 Analyst Conference.
I will note two additional matters.
As a result of IEnova's anticipated purchase of PEMEX's interest in their shared joint venture we expect to record a non-cash gain in the fourth quarter from the step-up of our own investment to fair value.
This gain is not included in our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance.
Finally as Debbie mentioned earlier our GRC settlement agreement excludes an issue proposed in the proceeding regarding certain intra rate case income tax benefits relating to repair allowances.
The proposal recommended by one of the interveners would require reducing rate base by $93 million for SDG&amp;E and $92 million for SoCalGas.
In addition the proposal seeks to reduce pre-tax revenue requirements related to the 2015 year benefits in the amount of $46 million for SoCalGas and $34 million for SDG&amp;E through the third quarter of 2015.
Our current expectation is that the CPUC will rule in our favor and do so on the same timeline as our GRC proceedings.
That is because the proposed treatment would violate and contradict longstanding rate making and income tax policy.
It would also represent a material departure from historical commission practice.
Please turn to slide 9.
Individual financial results for each of our businesses can be found in the section of our presentation entitled Business Unit Earnings.
Key drivers for our consolidated earnings this quarter include $20 million of higher net operating earnings in Sempra International including foreign exchange impacts $14 million of higher earnings at SDG&amp;E from higher CPUC base margin net of expenses and higher electric transmission earnings and $14 million of lower tax expense at the parent related to reduced repatriation of dividends from Mexico.
Offsetting factors include the $113 million seasonality impact that lowered SoCalGas's third quarter earnings and two earnings items that occurred in the third quarter of 2014.
One the $25 million tax benefit for Sempra Natural Gas from the release of a state tax valuation allowance and secondly the $14 million gain on the sale of a 50% equity interest in the first phase of ESJ in Mexico.
Now let me conclude with slide 10.
Overall our financial and operating results for the third quarter continued to be strong and they positioned us to raise our 2015 adjusted earnings guidance range.
Increased operating earnings at both the California utilities and Sempra International underpin our solid year-to-date results.
Across the company we continue to capture development opportunities that are incremental to our base plan and look forward to providing you new projections early next year.
With that we will conclude our prepared remarks and stop to take any questions you may have.
Thank you.
We'll now take our first question from Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hey good afternoon.
Hi Neel.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> How are you? Great.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> First question was on the pipeline award expected this week.
There has been some articles with some bids submitted or published.
And it looks like you guys are a close second.
Are those apples-to-apples comparisons and does that reflect how the ultimate auction will come out or is that – or is the CFE still ruling on it? Well first let me say that they just changed the date when we will be notified on the bid to November 10 which is next Tuesday.
And if you've looked at any of these bids before the capital costs are not really reflective of who wins the bid it's one component of the total bid.
The real bid decision is based upon the tariff amount that you are agreeing to provide over the 20 years or 25 years of the contract in all of these pipeline bids and that's what will be analyzed and looked at next week and announced.
Capital is a component your return is a component what your gas costs for operating the facilities is a component what you think in terms of additional capacity sales that you might get off of the pipeline those all factor into the creation of a tariff rate and that's what they will be announcing next week.
So we feel good that we're in a close second only $4 million behind the low capital but there is a lot of other factors that will come into the final decision.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And second question on Cameron Train 4.
Has the timeline been pushed out as far as negotiating customer contracts or MoUs because I think previously you guys mentioned end of the year and I think in your prepared remarks you said you'd have something maybe by Q1 2016.
Can you just remind us of the timeline going forward and the market conditions for additional LNG? Sure.
I'll start and then I'll have maybe Mark add some additional color to it.
But I've been saying in meetings with the investors for some time that we were looking at the end of the first quarter of next year.
And that was because we really cannot – could not even begin negotiating MoUs until we have the EPC contract and we just got that this month.
And so now we have the information that we can get a firm price.
And we're very pleased that knowing that and getting a firm price we think Cameron will be one of the if not the lowest cost facility in the United States for LNG export.
And so that allows us to really negotiate a firm MoU.
And we followed the same process when we did Trains 1-3.
We really needed to know what the cost was going to be in order to have a firm MoU negotiated.
Mark do you want to add anything? Yeah.
I would just say that we've been having substantive discussions with a lot of potential customers and now we've been able to give them some hard data to work with and we do expect to show some results.
They won't all come at once and so we expect to have some towards the end of the year and in the first part of next year.
But our firm decision to move forward on this would be late in the first quarter.
You might also comment Mark on what we see in the contracting area there because I know that there has been a lot of articles and all and what we've seen is that there are still a lot of parties out there contracting.
Yeah.
I think there's always – there's speculation in the press and rightfully so picking up that LNG is oversupplied up through 2018 but when you start looking at the needs beyond that when you get into 2020 and 2021 there's definitely a need for additional capacity and we're seeing that.
And just to remind the audience just in 2015 alone we had 27 contracts signed.
And 17 of those were 20-year contracts four were 10-year and the rest were shorter term contracts.
So there is plenty of activity going on and we are certainly seeing that and we remain very confident that we'll move forward on Train 4.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> And Mark just to quickly follow up on the comment that off takers will need LNG in 2021.
How late can they wait before they sign contracts in order to procure that supply? Do they have another year or is it necessary to make that decision in 2016? I think they really got to start making those decisions in 2016 especially for new projects because otherwise they just won't be online in time.
We are probably the – as far as a new train goes Train 4 can probably come online as probably as quickly or quicker than any other train in the market that's starting anew and you've got to really kind of make that decision in 2016.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Yes Julien.
We can hear you.
Excellent.
Good afternoon.
Yes.
Indeed.
So perhaps firstly on Mexico can you elaborate a little bit on opportunities down there and I suppose principally focusing on non-oil and gas but obviously this transmission there's talk of electric capacity market like procurements et cetera.
What are you guys ranging to do down there at present? Yeah.
I mean that's a great thing about Mexico.
I think it's one of our wonderful growth platforms where we see layers of opportunities for our company there.
And certainly there is more bids coming out on pipeline we'll see $6 billion worth of pipeline bids occur over the next several months and we will be actively involved in that.
Following that they are finalizing the market rules for electric transmission and in our slides we showed you some of the projects that would be up for competition and probably within the first half of next year.
And we're very interested in participating in that market.
Further now some of the oil properties are beginning to be taken over as it is and we see some great opportunities to the liquids pipelines that will take how – take away capacity from some of those PEMEX properties that are now being developed.
And also potentially gathering and processing in those areas.
And then the generation market we'll be opening and we have as you know the ESJ lands property that could – we could add about another 1 000 megawatts or more to that area to do wind production.
And so we see some great opportunities there.
We also see some opportunities to really get some greater value add of our TDM plant.
So I think that and I would also add I should say that looking at our existing assets and a great pipeline backbone that we have we can also add capacity with industrial customers to that and we're working on that right now.
So we just see a great worth of opportunities wealth of opportunities in Mexico and are very excited about it.
Perhaps just a quick follow-up there.
TDM obviously you've been looking for contracts a while.
Is there an opportunity to re-contract that back into Mexico now because of the opening up of this market I mean is this quote finally going to happen? Yeah.
Those are the things that we're working on right now and we think that that those rules are getting put in place that would allow us to do it.
Mark do you want to...
Yeah.
I was just going to say that the procurement for electricity along the Baja border haven't been let out yet and so the CFE is working on that but we fully expect that there'll be opportunities to contract that plant into Mexico.
And you will have to weigh that against the opportunities on the U.S.
side.
Great.
And then lastly bigger picture if you would in terms of the U.S.
obviously we just talked about Mexico and the range of opportunities but you all have been pretty active both on gas pipelines and renewables in the U.S.
As you think about CPP California's own 50% RPS is there anything bigger picture we should be paying attention to any observation? Well I mean there are two sides of opportunity that we certainly see there.
As you know we do the renewable development and we have the potential to add additional solar project that can sell into the California market.
And as you know since our Analyst Conference we already got two additional solar projects sold into the California market and that was before the 50% was adopted.
So we see great opportunities to expand our existing solar facilities.
And then in terms of our utilities that the integration of 50% renewables is going to require both gas and electric investment and the reason it requires gas investment is the type of generation that's going to be needed to support renewables in the area is different and the location of that may be different.
And so we're looking at major investments to our gas system to support the future.
The North South Pipeline which we have before the commission right now would not only reinforce the system for reliability but also help provide for that 50% renewable future.
And then of course on our utility side we're going to have to make investments so it will allow us to integrate all of the additional renewables in.
So I think there are some investments that are not part of our current plan right now North South Pipeline is not part of our base plan nor are additional solar projects nor are any of the distributed energy resource planning on it.
None of that is part of our base 11% growth plan.
So we see that as all potential upside.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning/afternoon.
Hi Stephen how are you? Very well thanks.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I just wanted to talk about dividends from Mexico.
It makes perfect sense to use that cash to further invest in the business.
As you look out longer term do you think it's likely you're going to want to think about trying to keep more of that cash within Mexico rather than bring it back in the U.S.
It sounds like it's efficient in some ways to do that.
I'm just wondering whether you think this is more of a near-term phenomenon or something that we could see you extending out and trying given the excellent growth opportunities in a country.
Yeah I'll start and then I'm going to turn it over to Joe.
I mean I think when we were looking at doing the dividending it was because we had the net operating losses that we could benefit from.
So when we look at the PEMEX deal it made a lot more sense for us to keep the cash in Mexico for that major project.
And so I think to the degree that we continue to have major projects in Mexico that would drive some of our decisions there.
But why don't you talk about our plans Joe and...
Sure.
Thanks Debbie.
Hey Stephen.
It's a great question and I'll just go back.
I will remind you all that we essentially built all the equity in Mexico from profits from international operations over the last decade or more and basically doubled the value of that as we took IEnova public.
So it's been a really good investment for Sempra and we will continue to want to invest in it.
We do have public shareholders now so we will pay a good dividend from IEnova and Sempra will receive some of that cash.
We don't need to bring it all the way to the U.S.
Our current repatriation plan has us doing that through 2018 but as we just said we're going to hold off on that for two years so we can use that money effectively in this offering.
I expect IEnova to keep growing and I would expect us to want to continue to participate in offerings as we go along so that we don't dilute our ownership so much.
And so I think what you're suggesting is probably the way it will play out over time and that's been a really good thing for us.
That makes sense.
Great.
Thank you.
And just on your DRP overall.
Shifting gears any feedback or reaction that you had to the different elements.
It sounds like obviously the grid overall needs to change which you mentioned just a minute ago but just curious that any color and the kind of feedback that you've received so far.
I'm sorry.
I wasn't quite sure you're talking about...
Distributed resource plan.
The distributed resource plan.
Okay.
I'm going to ask...
That's right.
Yeah I'm going to ask Jeff talk about that.
Jeff do you want to...
San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co.</span></strong> Sure.
Good morning Stephen.
You recall the kind of focus that program is really intended to make sure that all the investor owned utilities are making the investments which are necessary to make sure that distributed resources like solar and other resources continue to penetrate the system.
And when you kind of compare that to some of the other things we talked about like SB 350; that's designed to make sure there's a lot more central station renewable.
So as you have more participation on the central clean energy side and the on the distributed side it really sets up pretty interesting dynamic for the electric utilities to make more investments around transmission and distribution to accommodate those resources and particularly the unique characteristics of the fact that they're so intermediate – intermittent.
But I think that the – one of the things we keep falling back on is we've got about a $5.8 billion capital program through 2019 and we continue to think of the DRP opportunities Stephen it's kind of a longer term opportunity.
Part of this maybe definitional in the way some of the different utilities in the state talk about it.
But for us anything that comes out of the DRP whether it's greater use of batteries synchronous condensers more solid state switches more investments around electric vehicle charging all of that we would view as being an additive to the plan that we already have from a capital program standpoint.
That's great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question will come from Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
Hi Greg.
Hi guys.
Just a couple questions on clarification and I apologize if I missed it.
But what was the assumed annual repatriation from Mexico for 2015 through 2018 in the last five-year plan? Joe cover that.
We basically said back in 2012 when we started Greg that we were going to do approximately $300 million a year.
We didn't break it down between Mexico and Peru but we set a roughly $300 million a year for that period 2012 through 2018.
And so we're pulling back on the Mexico piece for this two-year period.
So you can see we're talking roughly around $300 million investment in the IEnova $300 million to $325 million maybe something like that.
So if you think about that cut that in half and you see what the Mexico piece was for a year.
Okay.
So you're going to basically keep – so you're telling us that $325 million is the amount that you're now not going to repatriate and instead use to help finance...
In the two – yeah over the two-year period 2015 and 2016.
We already have the 2015 dividend.
It's already in a Mexican holding company above IEnova we'll use that and then we'll borrow some money for a short-term until we get the dividend next year usually in the summer time.
Okay.
Okay.
So you answered my question without me having to try to figure out on my own $325 million.
Thank you.
Roughly right around that.
And then the second question and it might entail a longer answer is I know you told us in the five-year plan what your assumptions were with regard to the general rate case outcome in terms of attrition it was 2.75% and the repair allowance benefits would be flowed through to customers beginning in 2016.
If this deal was approved I know the attrition adjustments are modestly better.
But can you explain the repair allowance – the prospective repair allowance framework and then also go back – maybe explain a little bit more what your exposure is perhaps the retroactive look at repair allowance goes against you? Sure.
Let me start this because having been in this business for 37 years I can't help but make comments on how flawed I think the proposal is.
And it was only raised in our case by one of the interveners and what they're basically trying to do is re-coup what had been decided in the last rate case.
So we think it's legal case retroactive rate making and I – we will fight it as a legal case that retroactive rate making.
What in our case is I just want to talk about our set of facts.
Because I think our set of facts is really important.
A record in our case was officially closed in July and we did not even file with the IRS for any consideration of a change of tax treatment until after the record had been closed and in the case of SoCalGas it was more than a year after the record had been closed.
So we think that to try to re-trade this and to go back and recoup those dollars is fully inappropriate.
And so we think we have a very good legal standing in our case with our set of facts and we will fight that.
As Joe mentioned in his prepared remarks the dollars that we're talking about or the SDG&amp;E for 2011 to 2014 is $93 million and for SD – or SoCalGas is $92 million.
And a memo account for 2015 because they were all concerned about the retroactive rate making effect and so they tried to cover it with a memo account.
There is SDG&amp;E $46 million pre-tax and SoCalGas $34 million pre-tax through September.
We will fight all of this because the history has been very very clear that it's to the benefit of the customers to have utilities pursue efficiencies and tax benefits and everything.
And that the shareholders have to pay for all the research and work that was done to accumulate these benefits.
And that the shareholder has always been able to keep those benefits in between rate cases and then the customer gets them at the next rate case.
And when we did our 2016 plan and beyond we did incorporate in that $40 million reduction at SoCalGas and $19 million reduction at SDG&amp;E starting in 2016 forward for that now going to the customer which has been the regulatory history of how these things have been dealt with for decades at least since I've been here.
So we think that we will prevail on this issue with our good set of facts and we will continue to fight this because we think it is a retroactive rate making situation.
Okay.
So that sums it up the worst case scenario would be you lose your – on your legal position and that goes as a reduction to rate base but prospectively you worked out how you're going to pull back the benefits? Right.
I mean that's the way it's always been is that the customer gets the benefits flow through to them at the next rate case and we assume that in our base plan and Dennis and Jeff went through that in March because we've always had that assumption that come 2016 those will become benefits that will go to the customer.
Okay great.
And then a final question amongst the many things you guys have talked about some – two of the biggest building blocks for earnings as we go into next year that were not in the base plan are the $0.05 of accretion from the PEMEX which rises to $0.10 in 2019.
And then also the continuation of this $0.10 benefit from not having repatriated cash from Mexico.
And then you've got all these other things on the checklist that you've won that weren't in the plan that you delineated earlier as well.
Correct? Yeah.
And some of those don't happen next year that they begin construction but they are not in service next year so...
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Yep.
Our next question will come from Chris Turnure with JPMorgan.
Hi Chris.
Hey guys.
How are you? I wanted to just follow up back on Trains 4 and 5 here.
Could you maybe give a little bit more color to the extent if there's anything different from what you said earlier in the call about the potential for getting a Train 5 contract signed in addition to just Train 4.
And then could you comment on whether the EPC contract preliminary agreements there were not just good but better than your expectations at all? Sure.
I'm going to ask Mark to comment on that as he's smiling.
So...
Well I would say that I'll answer the second question first which is with respect to the EPC contracts.
I think we were pleased with the way the numbers came out.
I won't say we were terribly surprised we suspected that continual construction would lead to a very low cost and we were – and I think we're proven correct.
So we do believe that it will be beneficial to continue the construction into Train 4 and that will actually reduce the costs for all of the trains in the facility.
So I think it will make Cameron a very competitive facility.
With respect to any change in the way that we're looking at it – as to Trains 4 and 5 I think we've said numerous times in the past that the decision to go forward with Train 4 is really a Sempra decision that we've made in conjunction with our partners.
And for Train 5 that will be a decision that's made by our partners and they're still contemplating that and whether they go forward at the same time or not is really not – is their call and really not ours and frankly not that relevant to our investment decision or our financial outcome.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then shifting gears to the total return vehicle.
You mentioned you're going to revisit the idea in the middle of the next year.
Is there a reason for that timing specifically and maybe you can give a little bit more color as to what you would view as a constructive MLP environment out there for you guys to have a low cost of capital? Yeah let me just say that the middle of next year is arbitrary it's more that we want to see sustained markets that can make us feel that the cost of capital that we would receive by doing it is better than what we would receive at Sempra.
And so we did not want to give you a view that we're going to look at it again next month and the month after it's going to be – we're going to have to see really sustained improvements in the market that cause us to want to launch something on the basis of allowing our growth this wonderful growth that we have to occur at a lower cost of capital.
And if it doesn't deliver that value proposition then it doesn't make a lot of sense for us to go forward.
So that's how we're looking at.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Our next question will come from Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Yeah hi.
Just first to follow up on that so is the registration still live for the MLP in the meantime or is it no longer kind of live? Yeah the registration can stay live for a period of time and what we did is we wanted to have full optionality.
So we did this with IEnova we did a lot of pre-work to be ready to launch if the markets were right.
And we ended up actually launching IEnova faster than we thought we would have because we saw Mexican reform coming we'd won some pipeline bids and it made sense for us as a way to raise both debt and equity.
But we would have to see the same kind of thing for the MLP and so that's kind of how we're looking at it.
Okay.
And then apologize to move back to the repair issue but just to kind of clarify if we looked at the forward revenue requirement of the utilities what would be the impact to that beyond what's currently in your plan if this is upheld? Well all I can...
Is it just the lost return on that rate base or...
Yeah.
Well there hasn't been a decision in our case.
So it's hard to say what it would be.
And I will say our set of facts is not exactly the same as another utility's set of facts.
So I wouldn't want to speculate I told you the amounts of what the tax was over the period of time but how it ultimately gets treated and everything that will be litigated in our case.
So I couldn't really speculate on that.
Okay.
And then finally the $2 billion of upsides – investment upsides to the plan which I guess that's also separate on top of the rate settlement separately but just the $2 billion of investments.
Could we just go through those one more time? I know we have – PEMEX investment is a big one.
Right.
Is it the two...
The PEMEX...
...renewables projects? Yeah.
There's three renewable projects and then the PEMEX the PEMEX was about a little over $1.3 billion and then the three renewable projects equate to the remainder.
So I mean that's...
They are in the slides Steve on page 19.
Yeah.
Okay.
And just at a high level has anything gotten worse than when you gave the plan any key drivers or is generally the rest the same? I would say the only thing that is down from the original plans is natural gas prices are down.
So that's a factor in – and you're looking at 2016 is that what we're talking about? No the whole five-year plan the 11% growth...
Yeah so really – oh the whole five-year plan.
I mean natural gas prices are clearly down almost $2 from when that plan was put together a year ago.
And FX clearly the dollar has strengthened against all the currencies that has actually been in our favor right now because the Mexico effect is bigger than the South American effect.
So it's a little bit hard to see how that will play out over the five-year plan period because it depends on what the U.S.
dollar does against those three currencies.
And I think those are really the two main factors.
Everything else is very consistent.
We have a very long-term contracted business with a good regulatory model and we just got this proposed decision that – or I'm sorry the settlement – proposed settlement so feels pretty good.
Yeah.
The only other thing that I would mention that I didn't mention in terms of the upsides to the plan is that we did get the additional pipeline in Mexico that's about $110 million.
So they're all listed on slide 19.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll now take our next question from Faisel Khan with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Faisel.
Hi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Can you remind us also just what the dividend growth rate is along with the base plan for 11% EPS growth 2015 to 2019? Yeah.
Well we had talked about a dividend growth rate that was around 5% to 6%.
But that – and our board considers that every February and the great thing that we have is that we have all of these projects that are long-term contracted and then we will get our GRC decision by February we will see the progress on construction of Cameron which is going really well.
And we will see if we're getting some contracts on Cameron 4 at that time and so there will be a lot of visibility to things that may cause our board to reconsider is that the appropriate growth rate over the time through 2019.
And so that happens in the February timeframe and we had targeted a 45% to 55% payout ratio at 2019 – and that I think there's been no change in that type of a thought process but what we do in the interim I think we're going to be looking at again in February.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And any change in your thought process around M&amp;A? Certainly the midstream and MLP sector has been hit pretty hard I'm not sure if that changes your calculus around how you look at assets and opportunities? Well we always look at – we've looked at a lot of the MLPs and we looked at – I think our interests would lie as we haven't seen anything that is greatly attractive to us in terms of the composite in an MLP.
But there are some assets there that if they need the cash and they need to start liquidating some assets that we may be very interested in.
And so we've identified things that would be of interest to us and we continue to monitor those and have discussions as appropriate.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
See let me just add – if I could just add to that.
I see this transaction and the wonderful thing that we have at Sempra is that we have such high organic growth that we don't have to do those kinds of transactions to get our growth.
And so I would just tell you all we're really picky about what we would acquire because we've had such success in doing greenfield projects that – and our returns tend to be higher on all the greenfield projects and the acquisitions.
So we're very disciplined when we make acquisitions and I think hopefully you'll see from the PEMEX acquisition.
We think it's a very good acquisition for us.
It's accretive.
It allows us to have a more robust pipeline system that we can grow from.
So that's what we really look at.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay understood.
And then just on the potential assets in Mexico I was wondering have you guys looked at exporting LPG propane and butane out of Mexico.
I know a number of people have been trying to figure out how to export LPG out of the West Coast and it's been a difficult process.
So I'm just trying to see if you guys have looked at that opportunity and if you think it's a viable option out of the West Coast.
Yeah.
I will have Mark talk about that.
I mean what we have – we have the ethane pipeline and that we look at all opportunities.
We also have the joint venture that we'll continue with PEMEX.
And so these are some of the kinds of things that we would see as being potential out of that JV.
Mark? Yeah.
I would say both in the U.S.
and in Mexico we've studied opportunities to export various kinds of natural gas liquids and we haven't put a project together or announced anything but it's something that we study all the time and I do think there's some interesting opportunities.
So it's definitely top of mind.
There is a real need to move some of these liquids out of the producing areas and to the extent that we find an opportunity that works for us I think we'd be willing to capitalize on it.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay last question from me.
Any impact from the hurricane on the West Coast of Mexico to your operations or assets? No.
No no.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay got it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We'll now go next to Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys real quick...
Hi Michael.
Hi guys real quick question.
Hi Michael.
...on the U.S.
renewable business.
Can you talk about how much incremental room you have for the development of solar projects whether it's Mesquite Copper Mountain.
Really can you just talk about it fleet-wide like almost how much excess room do you have in the backyard how many megawatts would that potentially create over a long period of time? So I'm going to have Mark address that.
Yeah.
Hi Michael.
Yeah we've got about 420 megawatts under construction and with respect to solar we have about 280 megawatts of property that's still available for development.
And then we're actually in the process of trying to acquire a little bit more to increase that.
And then with respect on the wind side we have just a flat rate we have over 200 megawatts that's potentially developable there.
And then of course at ESJ we have I won't say unlimited but it's a very very large amount of capacity that's potentially over 1 000 megawatts.
And that can sell both into the U.S.
or into Mexico.
Correct.
Yeah.
So we do have – we currently have developable properties that we can and then obviously we're looking at new ones all the time.
And how should we think about contract prices and the economics of the projects you announced at the second quarter call versus ones you started development on three years or four years ago? I would say that the economics are very similar or sort of within 75 basis points of each other.
Our returns we don't really announce what the returns are but the prices are cheaper because of the cost of this – of the product of both in wind and solar has dropped dramatically and that's made a big difference.
Got it.
Thanks Mark.
Much appreciated.
All right.
Thank you.
And we'll go now to Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Hey.
Good afternoon/good morning.
Hi Mark.
Thanks for all of the details today.
It's been a really helpful call.
A couple of just quick questions just one clarification for the $0.10 – extra $0.10 in guidance that was assuming approval of the PEMEX buyout this year? You want me to answer it? Yeah.
I'll have Joe answer that.
Yeah.
Go ahead Joe.
Yeah Mark.
No that was our reassessment of our desire to make the investment of the two years where the dividends 2015 and 2016 dividends.
And so we have recast our tax expense to assume that we will only repatriate this year and next year from Peru and not Mexico so that's locked in we are doing that.
Okay okay.
So that decision was certainly not then contingent on approval okay.
It's not contingent on the closing no.
We're just not going to repatriate those monies for 2015 or 2016.
We believe that the deal will close and we will fund it.
And so there is no contingency there.
We've already adjusted in the third quarter tax expense for that and so you'll see also lower tax expense in the fourth quarter combined that will be the $0.10.
Okay great.
Sorry I was a little confused on that.
And more of just a big picture question since it's a new development.
With the transmission bids that will be beginning in 2016 how do you view your competitive position there given that your existing relationships in gas is sort of a different ball game I guess on the electric side? Can you maybe talk about sort of the competition and the clarity that you've seen around the bid structures obviously something that took some time to develop with the gas? Yeah.
I think a couple of things.
We have some outstanding experience building major transmission projects in difficult areas.
Sunrise is probably one of the most difficult transmission projects to get done and it got done on time on budget.
So – and I think our company has shown our ability to work through regulatory agencies and get all of that done.
When you go to Mexico then and you take some of those skills and you transfer that rights of way will be a key issue.
It's very similar on the gas and electric side and in fact there may be cases where the transmission could use some existing rights of way that we've already acquired.
And then the siting of the line the ability to work with the agencies CFE would be the agency that would be bidding these out and we have good experience working with CFE.
And I think having a workforce of several hundred people headquartered in Mexico City that know how to work through these processes I think that we're in a really good place to enter that area of the business with the experience that we have in Sempra and do quite well in it.
Yeah.
And I would just add to that we have developed transmissions lines outside of the U.S.
as well.
We've been one of the – we've done a good job of building transmission in Chile we've built some things in Peru.
And so it's not – we're not without experience outside of the U.S.
as well.
So I think given the combination of experience that we have and our relationship with the CFE I think we're in – we should be in very good standing to be competitive in that market.
All right.
Thanks for your thoughts guys.
Sure.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Michael Goldenberg with Luminus Management.
Good afternoon.
Hi Michael.
Hi Michael.
Hi.
I wanted to get more understanding on the guidance and the $0.15.
So you increased the midpoint by $0.25 of which $0.10 is taxes.
Can you maybe help me understand the other $0.15 since it's not PEMEX? Well I think if you look at the strength of our business so far this year you look at how our performance is all of our businesses and then you adjust for seasonality at SoCalGas our utilities are having very strong years our other businesses are having very strong years.
So we look at where we are today and where we think that we will be at the end of the year across all of our businesses.
And I think everything is doing very well.
So there is not like one thing that's behind it.
There is $0.10 for the tax the repatriation issue but the rest of it is across our businesses.
So it's not one specific thing and it's not GRC and it's not PEMEX right it's just kind of spread out...
Well the GRC doesn't take effect until next year.
PEMEX will not close until later this year so it won't be until 2016 earnings.
So you won't see the GRC effect until 2016 nor will you see the effect of PEMEX until 2016.
So it's neither of those it's just the strength of our base operations across the board.
And then the other part that I'm trying to understand since you were raised $0.15 but you kept CAGR as the same is the starting point now high and thus the ending point will – and is the ending point also higher? I'm not sure I understood it.
He is saying we're raising $0.15.
Yes.
But keeping the CAGR the same.
I mean we're not setting a new CAGR.
Debbie was talking about our approximately 11% CAGR that was in the Analyst Conference.
We're not telling you a new number yet.
We'll give you a new guidance when we have the conference or what our 2016 to 2020 number is.
But we've already said we already know that the numbers are all getting higher because we have $2 billion more projects we have a number of positive things going for us.
So I think you can glean from that that it wasn't lifting up the front and keeping the end smaller that's not our intent of this conversation.
Yeah.
But I will also say that that's a 2015 to a 2019 CAGR.
And one of the reasons that has some big effect is that the end of the period what's been great is that we've been able to produce strong results at the beginning of the period.
So that Cameron adds a lot in 2018 and 2019 to that growth rate but we're also growing our business in a lot of other areas and we've had exceptional performance in safety reliability customer and financial performance from our utilities as well as our other businesses.
So what I'm hearing is both conceptually things are going great and mathematically as well if we just crunch the numbers...
We just won't tell you what number to forecast that's it.
Yeah.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Vedula Murti with CDP Capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning good afternoon depending how – wherever you are.
Hello.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm fine.
I'm wondering given the sales to the MLP market and everything yeah I'm sure – I would suspect you have this theory at least some inventory of very mature assets where the EBITDA and everything like that is on full run rate and everything like that and there are other entities that are going to be needing to big machines so to speak.
So can you give me a sense as to what – and you guys have always been very very good at recycling capital.
So can you give us unless I missed this earlier I did show up a little bit late I showed up in the Q&amp;A.
Can you give a sense as to what might be available in terms of either in some gross EBITDA value or something like that or certain types of assets that you think that it will recycle capital during this period while you're waiting to see things stabilize if they're all on their optimal run rates? Yeah.
If your question is like what is our capital allocation methodology and our enterprise is that what you're trying to get at? Inc.</span></strong> Well I'm trying to get at the fact is that you probably have certain plants or assets or whatever that already at regular run rates and they're contracted and the fact is that those – in theory would have probably been appropriate for holding on to for an MLP but if the MLP is going to be pushed off and you have MLPs and YieldCos that are going to need to acquire in order to justify their own cost of capital the question is whether you have a inventory of assets that you can recycle capital perhaps at better rates than sitting on them right now and just waiting for the MLP market or whatever to turn around? Yeah.
I would say that we always look at our assets everyday as if we've just bought the company.
And so everything we look at if it is – makes sense for us to sell it and to exit that we're willing to do it and same thing in terms of looking at acquisitions.
We're very disciplined on that.
I will give you examples of what we've done in the past I can't tell you what we might do in the future it depends on what the market is what kind of pricing we could get but we decided to exit merchant generation because it didn't fit our model and we filled our power plants as an example.
So those are the kinds of things that we do on a regular basis and a lot depends on what the market conditions are and what kind of premiums will be paid and whether or not it would make sense for us to exit that and then redeploy capital into some future growth.
And we always think that way but I'm not going to list any kind of assets that are for sale.
And I guess I would just add to that too is that all of our large assets that we expect to be – essentially fully contracted and moving forward and if you look at our pipelines in Mexico our LNG facilities all of those we believe have expansion capability.
And so it's not like – even though they're fully contracted for their current size we think all of them can – especially in Mexico we're in the process of expanding capacity on some of our existing pipelines and adding additional revenue.
We're looking obviously at Train 4 to Cameron.
We're looking at additional facilities.
So I think we've got a lot of growth left in a lot of our major assets.
So we really wouldn't be looking at that at this time.
We want to be completely sure that we capture all of that growth and all of that additional revenue.
But I think for more mature assets down the road as Debbie said we always look at that stuff.
Inc.</span></strong> Well maybe the point I was trying to distinguish between kind of legacy fully mature assets that are at their full EBITDA run rates or whatever where there is not – it's obviously contributing but there is not necessarily – that's not the growth component.
And I'm trying to distinguish that between Mexico expansions or Cameron or whatever.
And I just don't know what your – what the pot might be that because you guys have been one of the best in our industry in terms of recycling capital.
So I'm just curious if you can give a sense of what that.
Assuming this is the way you're thinking about whether there is a part of recycle book capital that is sitting there that's depending on given the other market participants.
That's what I'm trying to get a sense of.
Yeah I think that when we look at what we've had all I can tell you is what we've done historically and we did that with coal plants that we bought and we sold that when we thought the market was changing.
We did that when our generation plants came off the DWR contracts and that they no longer fit our model because we go for long-term contracts.
So we always look at the market and we always look at what's left in our contracts.
What we think is a little chance of re-contracting is there more value there to us that we could get out of the asset.
I mean that's the way we look at it and so I am not going to go through how we would look at specific assets but I can tell you that's the methodology we use.
Inc.</span></strong> Well one last question and I'll let someone else go.
And given that history and the way you describe it what starts bidding that type of thing to be examined like for instance gas storage the Mid-South (67:20) or something like that.
I'm just curious – I'm sure not everything is perfect.
So the fact is – and you guys have always been very very good at identifying that.
So I just want to get a sense of what might be available just to recycle and optimize? Yeah.
I just don't think I can answer what we would plan to look at selling.
I think I can tell you what the methodology is.
And when we look at an asset like storage I can tell you it's at very low values right now in comparison to what it's been in the past but you see what's happening in the gas market and you see what's happening relative to coal to gas conversion and the need for storage by utilities and then all of the LNG plants in the Gulf.
So the way we would look at an asset like that is do we think it could have greater value to our shareholders in the future and are there ways to optimize that and how much could we get to sell it in the market and that's the way we would always look at those kinds of assets.
So I really don't think I can give you a list of what we would be considering – that wouldn't even be a good thing to do for our shareholders in terms of any kind of negotiation.
So I think that's all I can really say.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
I'll let other people ask questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Good afternoon.
Hi Paul.
How are you doing? Just I know you've been asked this by Greg and Steve but I just want to make sure I have a better understanding.
With respect to the repairs deduction rate base potential impact you mentioned a couple of different numbers you mentioned memorandum account numbers.
And I just wasn't sure what – on a corporate wide basis what kind of rate base is actually sort of being challenged here retroactively which you guys don't plan on – I understand you guys don't feel a valid challenge.
But I just wanted to know what we're quantitatively roughly speaking about? Okay.
Joe I'm going to ask you to cover it...
Okay.
...and see if you can explain it better than I did.
Yeah yeah.
No no no you explained it well.
I think that the proposal suggested that we took the 2011 to 2014 savings and that added up to $185 million on a Sempra-wide basis roughly split between the two utilities and that would be what they suggested should be reduced from rate base going forward.
So you can do the math and figure out what that would mean to a revenue requirement.
Again we don't believe that's going to be sustained.
The memorandum account really dealt with 2015 and they treated that separately they're trying to get around retroactive rate making as Debbie suggested.
So the sum of the two numbers that she gave you and they were in my remarks as well totaled $80 million on a pre-tax basis through September less than $50 million after-tax.
That would be a 2015 impact that wouldn't go to rate base it would just be a direct impact that they were requesting.
This is what they requested as a way to get around the retroactive rate making.
We don't think they will be able to sustain it.
But that's the way it would work.
So the rate base is only that $92 million and $93 million.
Yeah.
Let me further say though who the "they" is because what I want to stress is that we don't have a proposed decision that does this.
Right.
The "they" is TURN one of the interveners in the case and this is their proposal in the case.
And so we have not yet received a proposed decision and we will make a very strong case that the record was closed officially closed by the ALJ before we even filed with the IRS to make these changes.
So I just want to be sure that the facts are really clear on this.
No absolutely and I apologies for having – there were a few numbers running around that I wanted to make sure I understood them.
No.
It was a good question.
I am glad you clarified.
And then with respect to the master limited partnership vehicle and what have you it seems to me that people – the Street and what have you sort of wanted you guys to move faster on this a while ago and I don't know you guys didn't and the situation has changed and you guys are looking at what the opportunities might be on a sustained basis.
I am just sort of wondering I mean strategically when you see something like what's happened in the markets and what have you whether or not it makes the bar higher or you think more about how you might want to unwind something if it ends up that – I mean because obviously these are not really short-term financing plans.
These are supposed to be vehicles that last for a period of time.
And I am just wondering when you have something that we just recently experienced what does that make you think about – I mean in terms of – does it make the bar higher? I mean what do you guys think about it I guess is what I am asking? I mean sort of a little bit more elaboration in terms of obviously if it doesn't make sense you're not going to do it but not only that if it "does make sense" for a period of time does – what would give you – do need more confidence in terms of that or just how do you think about that do you follow what I'm saying? Yeah.
I'll start a little bit and then I'm going to ask Mark to add to that.
I think that one of the things that became apparent was that there is some limited liquidity in that market.
And that the effects were great when people needed to change portfolios and clear out of that market and that creates a sense of discomfort for us because that's not what we see in the Sempra stock.
And so what we want to be able to see is that there is the ability to have – and that you can differentiate and I think you still do see that in the market.
You can differentiate quality from things that are not quality and quality continues to trade well even if that whole market segment is not trading as well.
Because I mean that's always been what we've been after is if we're going to do this it's going to be all about quality and that if we can't get the value for that quality then it doesn't make sense for us to go forward.
So Mark do you want to add? Yeah I guess my only add to that would be – I think when we looked at this in the beginning I think we had some skepticism and then as we watched these things progress over the last few years it was clear to us that there was a cost of capital advantage to these entities and that was worth taking advantage of and we had ideal assets and we still do have ideal assets for that kind of vehicle that was valuing cash flows at very high multiples or very low yields.
But I think to your point Paul and it's a very good one which is does this disruption in the market give us some pause to think that this was more – something like a passing fad.
And I think at the end of the day I think there's a high probability that these long sustainable cash flows will continue to garner a yield that makes the capital look really – that makes the cost of the capital look really attractive.
But I do think that we have to kind of make sure that we're in a market that supports that for the long haul and that there's enough liquidity in that market that as Debbie said the ones that have – that truly aren't tainted by underlying commodity prices can shine and can still garner that low cost.
And that's got to be proven and whether that can happen in the next six months or a year we don't know.
But I think we're going to keep our options open and look at it and take advantage of it if it makes sense.
And if it doesn't we're perfectly okay to keep – to do the course that we are on which is just as a C corp and I think we can be very competitive with cost of capital and we've got a great business here.
So the good news is our underlying assets and business are super – are just really sound and we don't have to avail ourselves of any one particular mechanism to raise capital.
We have lots of opportunities for that and we can meet our capital needs without any real problem.
Okay great.
Yeah.
Let me just add on one more thing and Mark just alluded to it.
But you guys may or may not have seen this in the last several months including last week we got a affirmation of our credit ratings and S&amp;P just moved us to a stronger business risk profile from strong to excellent.
We've a very strong business and we can finance our growth and this was an opportunity to maybe do something that was really cheap and good.
And so to everything Mark and Debbie said I just want to add that we have a very strong credit ratings and we can finance our growth we will need it.
Great.
I appreciate it.
Thanks so much.
Thank you Paul.
We'll now go to Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
A quick follow-up question.
Can you just go through in a little more detail what your net exposure is to currency with Mexico offsetting the exposure in Chile and Peru.
And then sort of a secondary question on that is in the places where you're dollar denominated I know that functionally inflates you but if we continue to have a strong dollar doesn't that put pressure on the regulatory construct and how do we think about risk in that framework? Joe do you want to take that or Trevor? Yeah I will speak first and then I'll let Trevor go through all the numbers of the net exposure and so forth.
But as you know we have a natural hedge here because we have when the dollar strengthens on all three of the currencies in Chile and Peru we have a reduction of our growth because of the translation of the two currencies in South America to the dollar by offsetting that is the fact that we do have dollar functional currency in Mexico because fundamentally most of the businesses are in dollars.
So we pay our taxes in pesos and we have some other adjustments in the income tax expense as a function of their income tax rules that impact us in the opposite direction when all three currencies decline.
And so that's what we've seen over time.
So I'll let Trevor walk through what the numbers were for the quarter...
SVP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Sure Greg ...and year-to-date.
SVP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Yeah.
So for the quarter we had a total decline in earnings from translation of the earnings of about $6 million for the quarter between Chile and Peru and that is more than offset by a $17 million pickup in Mexico and as Joe said that that's primarily from the revaluation of the taxes.
So the net benefit in the quarter was $11 million.
And then year-to-date it's not much different it's about $14 million of a benefit year-to-date and that was driven by $13 million of the P&amp;L hurt that we took in the translation of the earnings from Chile and Peru offset by $27 million net of NCI for Mexico giving us a net benefit year-to-date of $14 million.
And Greg let me just add to that.
In South America you're on point and say we do get adjustments in our tariff primarily from inflation but also FX too.
But what we have seen in South America this year it's a little bit unusual.
We've seen currency devaluation without underlying inflation in those countries.
So we're not getting the inflation adjustments for our tariff.
So it's really not putting as much rate pressure on as you might expect.
I'm not sure that's a good thing.
I mean we'd like to get the adjustment but we're just not seeing high inflation in those countries.
What we're seeing is just strengthening of the dollar and is probably more has to do with more U.S.
policy and the strength of the dollar worldwide than it has to do with really underlying weakness in those economies.
Okay so – sorry go ahead.
SVP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Go ahead Greg.
I was going to say you move into next year and you update your five-year plan to the extent that currencies have moved dramatically that would be reflected in your update on expected earnings from those jurisdictions right? Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah what we'll do and why we don't give you numbers until February as we look out the forwards at that time for currency and natural gas prices and we adjust our plans for those things as well as the additional growth that we've had in our businesses outcomes like the GRC and all.
So that's why we wait to give you our 2016 forecast in February and then at the Analyst Meeting in March we'll give you additional information for the next five years.
But in your opening comments you didn't seem like you're too concerned that this one factor would knock you off the aspirations that you currently have? Well we wouldn't – based upon what we see in currencies now we wouldn't see that and then gas prices are so low now they've already been reflected to a great degree and this is just pro forma.
So I guess they can always go lower you can never say they won't go lower but we have pretty low gas prices now.
So...
Okay.
Thank you.
Have a good afternoon.
SVP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Thanks Greg.
Thank you.
And we'll now take a question from Feliks Kerman with Visium Asset Management.
Hi.
This is Ashar Khan (81:30).
How are you guys doing and great results? One thing...
Thank you.
...which I picked up on the remarks is that we have a settlement with the commission that we might get a fourth year of the rate case with an attrition mechanism if I heard that correctly.
Could you just go over that I might have heard it wrongly? Sure.
No you heard it correctly that with the ORA the Office of Ratepayer Advocates we have a settlement for fourth year that would give us a 4.3% attrition for that fourth year and that will be looked at by the commission separate from our other settlements.
So we have a settlement with eight parties for the three years and then we have a settlement with one party for the fourth year that party being the Office of Ratepayer Advocates.
Okay.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you so much and great results.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Reed I would like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks Well thank you all for your great questions.
You kept us really busy this morning and we appreciate that.
And if you have any follow-up please contact our Investor Relations team and have a great day.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Sempra Energy Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Rick Vaccari.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to Sempra Energy's fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial presentation.
A live webcast of this teleconference and slide presentation is available on our website under the Investors section.
Here in San Diego are several members of our management team Debbie Reed Chairman and CEO Mark Snell President Joe Householder Chief Financial Officer Martha Wyrsch General Counsel Trevor Mihalik Chief Accounting Officer Dennis Arriola Chief Executive Officer of SoCalGas Jeff Martin Chief Executive Officer of SDG&amp;E and Octávio Simões President of Sempra LNG.
Before starting I would like to remind everyone that we'll be discussing forward-looking statements on this call within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those discussed today.
The factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent 10-K filed with the SEC.
It's important to note that all of the earnings per share amounts in our presentation are shown on a diluted basis and that will be discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the presentation slides that accompany this call and to Table A in our fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings press release for a reconciliation to GAAP measures.
I'd also like to note that the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation speak only as of today February 26 2016 and the company does not assume any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements in the future.
With that please turn to slide four and let me hand the call over to Debbie.
Thanks Rick.
Before discussing the quarter I would like to say a few words about the natural gas leak at our Aliso Canyon storage facility.
On February 18 the Division of Oil Gas and Geothermal Resources or DOGGR confirmed that the leaking well is permanently sealed.
Our focus since the beginning has been on safely stopping the leak reducing the odor from the well reducing the amount of natural gas being emitted into the environment working cooperatively with agencies and elected officials and supporting local residents including providing temporary housing and air filtration system.
Now that we have stopped the leak an independent investigation of the root cause will be conducted.
I want to emphasize that providing safe and reliable service to our customers is the highest priority for SoCalGas.
We will continue to work with our regulators and customers to ensure our path ahead reflects these values.
Later I will provide more information on Aliso Canyon and Dennis and Martha are also here to address your question.
Turning to our financial performance; in 2015 we had very strong results and exceeded our adjusted earnings guidance.
This morning we reported full-year earnings of $5.37 per share or $5.21 per share on an adjusted basis.
Our 2015 results were driven largely by growth in operating earnings at our California Utilities and Sempra International.
In addition our board approved an increase in the 2016 dividend to $3.02 per share.
This payout represents an 8% annual increase and provides dividend growth that more closely aligns with the 11% annual increase in our 2015 adjusted earnings.
Moreover we are targeting annual dividend increases of 8% to 9% over the next several years to better align our dividend growth with our projected EPS growth.
Our dividend strategy is underpinned by confidence in our future cash flows and supports our commitment to return capital to our shareholders.
Regarding 2016 earnings; we have updated our assumptions and are providing an adjusted EPS guidance range of $4.80 per share to $5.20 per share when compared with the 2015 results we forecast a higher effective tax rate for 2016.
In part this is due to a large number of benefits recorded last year that related to the resolution of tax matters.
Also as we move into the new GRC cycle at our California utilities we will now be providing an estimated $60 million of repair allowance tax benefits to ratepayers as part of the standard rate case true-up.
In our 2016 adjusted guidance we assume that we retain all repair allowance benefits for tax years preceding our new GRC.
Key updates and comparison to the 2016 guidance we provided at last year's Analyst Conference reflect several other factors.
Notably we include our best estimate of the GRC decision for the California utilities based on our settlement agreement as well as new market assumptions for commodities and foreign exchange rates that have changed considerably since last year.
Additionally our adjusted guidance range now includes approximately $20 million to $25 million of estimated LNG development expense.
Regarding transactions we announced last year that were additive to our base plan such as the potential PEMEX acquisition and new renewable contracts we expect our earnings impacts to largely occur in 2017 and beyond.
Please note that our proposed GRC settlement agreement is subject to CPUC approval and we do not anticipate receiving a final decision until the second quarter.
We have moved our Analyst Conference to May in order to incorporate an expected final GRC decision.
And we'll provide you with our business unit guidance and longer-term projections at that time.
Overall we are well-positioned to achieve our long-term strategy of providing earnings growth that is twice that of the average utility but with a moderate risk profile.
Combined with strong anticipated growth in the dividend we are focused on providing top-tier shareholder return.
Now please turn to slide five.
This slide summarizes the key assumptions included in our 2016 adjusted EPS guidance.
I will briefly discuss each item and you can find additional detail in the appendix.
First as I mentioned earlier this year we include developing costs for our LNG liquefaction and related infrastructure opportunities.
In 2015 we had about $10 million of similar expense that was excluded from adjusted guidance due to uncertainty about the nature and timing of these costs.
Given progress on the projects and our estimates of the spend rate and amounts capitalized and shared with partners we now include a 2016 after-tax expense of roughly $0.08 to $0.10 per share.
Please note however that the vast majority of planned expenses targeted for Port Arthur and related infrastructure as we have already incurred most of the upfront costs for Cameron expansion.
Going forward we will be sharing cost for Port Arthur with our partner Woodside.
We will nevertheless monitor our progress in securing market commitments and other needed approvals to advance the project.
To the extent our progress is slower than expected we will adjust our spending accordingly.
Next we've seen a significant decline in natural gas price forecast over the past year.
Specifically the Cal border 2016 forward curve has fallen from $3.60 in our prior guidance to $2.60 in our new adjusted guidance.
The impact from this assumption is a reduction in earnings of approximately $0.05 to $0.07 per share that is associated with the LNG marketing contract from our ECA import facility in Mexico.
Third we reduced projected earnings from the TDM power plant due to lower power prices and lower expected capacity revenue.
This month IEnova decided to hold the assets for sale.
The sale would complete our exit from merchant generation and allow IEnova to deploy capital and projects that provide more stable earnings.
While we project approximately $0.04 to $0.06 per share of reduced earnings associated with TDM we do not consider any potential gain or loss from the sale in our adjusted guidance.
Moving to Parent we assume that we will use dividends from Mexico to participate in a potential IEnova equity offering.
We forecast a 2016 earnings benefit from lower repatriation tax expense of between $0.08 and $0.10 per share.
Offsetting this impact is an estimated $0.04 per share after-tax of higher interest expense to fund projects in our base plan.
Next like natural gas prices we have seen exchange rate forecast moved significantly over the past year.
Relative to our previous guidance our current forecast is for the dollar to strengthen in 2016 by an additional 20% against the Chilean currency and by an additional 13% against the Peruvian currency.
Projected earnings are reduced by roughly $0.09 to $0.11 per share as a result of translating South American earnings into dollars.
In Mexico we have not previously forecast the impact of foreign currency effects.
We now include in our adjusted guidance a reduction in tax expense associated with peso depreciation during 2016.
Based upon the forward curve at year-end we estimate this benefit to be approximately $0.05 to $0.07 per share.
With regard to IEnova's acquisition of PEMEX this ownership and their shared joint venture Mexico's Competition Commission has required PEMEX to competitively auction two assets included in the original transaction.
IEnova is negotiating changes to the original agreement with PEMEX that will reflect the auction outcome among other things.
Our adjusted guidance assumes that the transaction moves forward with the same assets and closes in the third quarter of 2016.
Based on this timing we assume an estimated $0.02 of accretion this year.
Our adjusted guidance excludes however any potential gain associated with the remeasurement of our investment in the joint venture.
In our Renewables business we incorporate new forecast for wind resource and availability that reduced earnings by approximately $0.02 per share.
However our base plan now includes 328 megawatts of additional projects announced last year that are under construction.
Given that these projects are expected to be in operation by the end of 2016 we expect to see the full earnings impact beginning in 2017.
Finally for the California utilities our prior guidance was based on a very conservative assumption that revenues would be based on our current attrition mechanism with no further adjustments.
Our new adjusted guidance range includes projected earnings that are more closely aligned with the GRC settlement agreement and our best estimate of the outcome given the record in the preceding.
Now let's go to slide six for our business update beginning with the California utilities.
In our general rate case we are currently expecting to see a proposed decision in March and to receive the final decision in the second quarter.
As you recall we reached a multiparty settlement agreement with the major parties in the case.
Until we get a final GRC decision we will record revenues based upon the authorized revenue requirement in 2015.
When we receive the final decision we will make an adjustment to reflect the retroactive earnings back to January 1 2016.
Turning to Aliso Canyon; we have received confirmation from DOGGR the California agency responsible for regulating gas storage that the leaking well has been permanently sealed.
We have approximately 15 Bcf of natural gas in the storage field and the field is stable.
Moving forward an independent engineering firm has been selected by DOGGR and the CPUC to investigate the root cause of the leak.
While we do not know how long this process will take we will cooperate on the investigation and share publicly available data.
Consistent with new rules under development we are implementing enhanced leak detection and well inspection activities.
We are also working cooperatively with all of the agencies involved to determine a path forward for the facility which is regarded as integral to the reliability of the electric grid in California.
Reflecting the most up-to-date information which primarily includes revised temporary relocation and well drilling expenses we now estimate the total costs or amounts to pay (13:45) and those forecasted to be paid to be approximately $330 million.
Of this amount approximately 90% is for the temporary relocation program cost to address the leak and attempts to stop or reduce the emission.
The remaining amount includes among other items the value of lost gas and estimated cost to mitigate the GHG emissions.
For the estimate we assume the relocation period for the majority of residents ended on February 25 as they agreed upon with the City of Los Angeles.
We have concluded it is probable that we will receive insurance recovery for the total amount less retentions of $325 million.
Beyond this estimate we cannot predict all of the potential categories or total amount of future costs that we may incur as a result of the leak.
We have at least four types of insurance policies that provide in excess of $1 billion in insurance coverage.
Based upon what we know today and subject to various policy limits exclusions and conditions we believe that our insurance should also cover the following categories not included in our estimates.
Costs associated with litigation and claims by nearby residents and businesses and in some circumstances depending upon their nature and manner of assessments fines and penalties.
I refer you to our 10-K for further details.
Please turn to slide seven.
In Mexico CFE is tendering several more gas pipelines.
IEnova submitted a bid for one pipeline earlier this month is in process of submitting a bid for second and is preparing to submit a third bid in March.
According to CFE estimates the three pipelines represent an investment opportunity of almost $2 billion and we expect award dates to occur in March and April.
This spring IEnova is also preparing to participate in Mexico's first auction of renewable energy certificates.
IEnova is looking at potential solar opportunities and may submit a bid to expand the ESJ wind facility with this joint venture partner InterGen.
The CFE would be the initial off taker under 15-year to 20-year contracts and total awards could amount to 2 500 megawatt of new power generation.
In our LNG business there have been two noteworthy development.
Our Cameron expansion project received its FERC environmental assessment on February 12 and we expect to receive the FERC permit in the second quarter.
Though current market conditions are not ideal Cameron train 4 is a very competitive market offering for long-term buyers.
Based on recent meetings with potential customers we are bypassing the memorandum of understanding stage and are in negotiations for definitive 20-year sales and purchase agreement.
While our sales and purchase agreement will take longer to execute than an MoU we are targeting the second half of 2016 for announcing customer agreements needed to launch the project.
This approach provides us greater certainty on project commitments prior to incurring large capital expenditures.
For Port Arthur yesterday we signed a joint development agreement with Woodside Petroleum that outlines development roles in the potential project.
In addition to how we will share costs and market capacity the agreement provides a framework for how we will work together technically to design a cost competitive plant.
Last month I was in Australia meeting with the CEO and senior management of Woodside and we shared the view that Port Arthur has good market prospect post 2020.
Before moving on remember that we have not incorporated additional LNG or other growth projects in our guidance.
We are actively working on development opportunities across our businesses that could provide upside to both our near-term and long-term projection.
With that please turn to slide eight and Joe will discuss our financial results.
Joe? Thanks Debbie.
Earlier this morning we reported fourth quarter earnings of $369 million.
On an adjusted basis we reported fourth quarter earnings of $370 million or $1.47 per share.
Adjusted earnings in the fourth quarter exclude $3 million of expenses related to the development of our proposed LNG liquefaction project.
In addition in October 2015 an agreement was reached with the SONGS insurance provider for a $400 million payment associated with the failure of the replacement steam generators.
Of this amount SDG&amp;E's share was $80 million.
After reimbursement of legal fees and an allocation of $75 million of net proceeds to the ratepayers our fourth quarter adjusted earnings exclude a $2 million after-tax adjustment to the loss on the SONGS plant closure.
Full year 2015 earnings totaled $1.349 billion or $5.37 per share.
This compares to 2014 earnings of $1.161 billion or $4.63 per share.
On an adjusted basis 2015 earnings were $5.21 per share.
Year-over-year adjusted earnings grew 11%.
Individual financial results for each of our businesses can be found in the section of our presentation entitled business unit earnings.
I will address the key drivers for our consolidated quarterly results now on slide nine.
Compared to the prior year fourth quarter earnings include a $48 million seasonality impact that increased earnings of SoCalGas.
We call that applying seasonality to earnings of SoCalGas does not affect full year results instead this fourth quarter variance offset seasonality impacts during the first three quarters of the year.
At Parent we recorded $21 million of lower tax expense primarily related to a favorable resolution of prior year's income tax matters and reduced repatriation of dividends from Mexico.
The lower tax expense at Parent along with lower effective tax rates of the California utilities were primary reasons why we exceeded our revised 2015 adjusted guidance that we gave on our third quarter call.
Third SoCalGas recorded $16 million of higher earnings due to a higher CPUC base margin net of operating expenses and offsetting these factors was $18 million of lower tax expense in South America in 2014 as a result of Peruvian tax reform.
Now let's conclude.
So please turn to slide 10.
Overall we delivered strong financial results in 2015 and exceeded our adjusted guidance.
Solid growth in operating earnings and confidence in our long-term cash flows supported our decision to raise the 2016 dividend.
In order to better align our future dividend growth with projected EPS growth we are now targeting annual dividend increases of 8% to 9% over the next several years.
Looking ahead over the next five years we continue to anticipate earnings growth around twice the level of our utility sector average.
Combined with the strong dividend growth we aim to provide top-tier total shareholder returns.
With that we will conclude our prepared remarks and start to take any questions you may have.
Thank you.
We'll go first to Greg Gordon of Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Greg.
Debbie I know that it's not – in the normal course you usually don't update your five-year earnings growth forecast until the Analyst Day.
But can I take from your comments early in your presentation that you still feel like the fundamental building blocks in the prior five-year plan that drove the earnings growth you articulated last February are still substantively in place? Greg I think that's an excellent way to put it actually.
If I look at the fundamental building blocks as you know our business is based upon long-term contracted and utility asset.
And when we lay out our growth rate the key things that are driving our growth longer-term are Cameron 1 through 3 which is progressing on schedule on budget and we expect that to come online in 2018 as we've outlined before.
Our Mexican pipelines are now all except for three of them are actually in operation that are contracted and so that is going quite well.
And then our utility businesses and the fundamentals of our utility businesses as you can see from last year's earnings are very strong.
And we would anticipate getting a rate case decision soon and one reason we want to hold off providing any numeric guidance is that we want to get that rate case decision and then be able to go through as we always do with you at the Analysts Meetings the details.
The other thing I'd just comment on is our board felt that there is great visibility to our growth.
And since it's long-term contracted in utility they were very comfortable setting an 8% to 9% target for our dividend increases over the next several years.
And I think that is a really strong statement in our sector to be able to grow your dividend at that kind of rate.
Right.
And that's up from the last articulated target of 6% correct? Yes.
We had talked before of about 6% growth rate in the dividend and now we're talking about 8% to 9% over the next several years.
Okay.
Shifting gears to Aliso.
You've articulated what your estimate is relative to the line items you've laid out.
As we go forward here and we think about the path to understanding whether or not there will be further costs as they relate to fines or penalties.
Which of the primary agencies that will be reviewing the safety efficacy performance of the plant? And if there were to be fines or penalties in what categories would they potentially fall and who would be the agency that would be deciding whether or not to implement them? Well let me just start by saying that the key agencies that are doing the investigation are the Department of Oil Gas and Geothermal Resources or DOGGR and the CPUC.
And they're now beginning the investigatory phase to see what's happening on the leak.
I'm going to refer to Martha regarding the whole scope of agencies that would be involved and how we deal with fines and penalties.
I will say though that there haven't been any that have been assessed.
So it's kind of hard to estimate anything.
Martha? Thank you Debbie.
That's correct.
The DOGGR and the California PUC are the primary agencies that would be – are investigating and would potentially fine the company for what they discover in the investigation.
And as Debbie said in her remarks earlier our insurance coverage is quite broad with the four insurance policies that we have and we do believe that in certain circumstances and depending on the nature and manner of the assessment that insurance should cover fines and penalties.
Okay.
Last question in the California utilities bucket of things that have changed I just wanted to be clear on my understanding.
The first thing that's changed – has changed is or one of the things that's changed is you're no longer budgeting for $60 million of repair allowance and tax benefits.
But the other thing that's changed is you've updated your assumptions for to take into account what you believe the impact is of the underlying economics of the settlement.
Are those the two major changes? Greg that's correct.
As we've looked at this we told you last March that when – under the rate case process that when we go through the rate case process that there will be a true-up on this repairs allowance and that was approximately $60 million.
So our earnings would be reduced for that going into 2016 in our utilities.
But then we've reached this rate case settlement and when we've laid out kind of our guidance for 2016 our assumptions are and our range is that something similar to the rate case settlement would be adopted and that's what we would anticipate.
Let me Debbie this is...
$60 million is after-tax right? Hey Greg Greg...
Sorry.
Yes because it's a tax item but Joe wants to say something.
Yeah.
Greg this is Joe.
I just want to make sure just to be clear for you and others the $60 million was taken into account in the guidance we gave you last year for 2016.
So that's not something that was new in our new introduced guidance today but the GRC settlement was new but the $60 million was in last year's number.
Okay.
So $60 million was baked into the February guidance number? Thank you.
Yeah.
But it's important to understand because it's a difference going from 2015 to 2016.
So it's a critical item to understand.
Got you.
Thank you.
I'll get off now.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Greg.
We'll move next to Steve Fleishman of Wolfe Research.
Yeah.
Hi good morning.
Apologize to answer.
To ask a question that you probably don't want to directly answer right now but just you're on the one hand saying the 8% to 9% - Steve.
Yes can you hear me? Yeah I can hear you now.
Now we can hear you.
We honestly did not cut you off.
Okay.
We can hear you now.
You might regret that you didn't after I ask this question.
But so just on the long-term growth rate so we have two data points today.
We have twice the utility average and we have 8% to 9% dividend growth that better aligns with long-term earnings growth.
Is it fair to say the 8% to 9% is not a view of your long-term earnings growth? Yes that's fair to say.
I mean I'll answer that question.
And I'll give you a – I'll use 2015 as an example.
We grew 11% in 2015 we increased our dividend by 8%.
So I would not link the two directly together.
What I would look at is what are the fundamentals of the growth drivers? And the fundamentals of the growth drivers are Cameron getting online on time our utilities performing well and our Mexican pipelines being constructed and in service and all of that is going quite well.
Okay great.
And then on the Cameron 4 update and the decision to move to directly to a contracting as opposed to an MoU could you just maybe give a little bit more color on why you're doing that and is that something the customers want or is that something that's better for you so you don't have to commit as much up front? I wasn't sure I understood the rationale there.
Sure.
I'm going to ask Octávio to cover that but what I would say is we see it as better for us because we do have a timeframe by which we have to commit to get Cameron in service and maintain continuous construction.
So actually getting the sales and purchase agreements done and have definitive agreement is a real positive for us so this is something we like to have in place.
Octávio why don't you have a talk about it from the customer perspective as well.
Sempra LNG Corp</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
The reason why is because as Debbie indicated we have a timeframe that's tight and we're trying to take advantage of the long-term pricing that we have from our EPC contractor.
So going through an MoU we'd (30:58) create an additional step that might drag that schedule.
And as you know given the way we structure our deals on the LNG.
We're not just selling cargos for a price which would be a much easier sale.
We're actually putting together deals that deal with low commodity risk and essentially long contracting capacity for the liquefaction so we have to speak a lot to our customers about the upstream conditions where the gas comes from where it's delivered how it's delivered and those tend to be more complicated sessions.
And as a result we've all decided to go forward.
It wasn't just us the customers also decided to go that way.
So the people we're talking to at this point we've all agreed to pursue the supply purchase agreements and gas supply agreements as part of our discussions in order for later in the year to have the full commitment to take the commitments we need to make on the capital side to launch the project.
Okay great.
And one last question on Aliso.
Could you maybe just talk a little bit more about the – and I know this is hard without the root cause analysis.
But one is the potential scenarios of fixes for the future.
And then I guess the second question is it does seem like Aliso is a critical facility for reliability in California.
Could you talk a little bit about that issue and this conflict with some people wanting it not to start up? Sure.
I'm going to have Dennis address that.
What I will say is that the DOGGR has come out with a new set of rules that we're already implementing and that they are very very parallel to what we filed a few years back in our rate case for our program that's called Storage Integrity Management Program or SIMP.
And so I think that there are processes and things that we actually envisioned and already had filed for in our rate case that would allow us to safely operate this field going forward.
Dennis do you want to address further? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director Southern California Gas Co.</span></strong> Sure.
Good morning Steve.
Yes.
As Debbie talked about our SIMP program and you know at the utilities we have an acronym for everything.
But we actually started on a pilot program back in 2014 even before we got an approval.
And as you know we have requested within our general rate case for additional funding for our Storage Integrity Management Program.
So that we're waiting for the final decision there.
As far as the importance of Aliso and just gas storage in general to both gas and electric reliability I think it's been very clear with a lot of the comments by both policy and regulatory leaders especially coming from the California Energy Commission as well as the PUC that it's vital that we have safe and reliable gas storage to support not just gas demand but especially in the Los Angeles basin electric reliability as well.
So we're pleased to see that even in the visit that Department of Energy Secretary Moniz when he came out and visited he reemphasized the importance of making sure that obviously the facilities are safe but that we have been back online in order to support both gas and electric reliability.
So we know that there is as Debbie mentioned there is a full process that's been approved by DOGGR on their comprehensive safety review we're working very closely with them on that.
There is also some legislation that's been presented that so far is open to amendments to incorporate as a process that DOGGR has laid out.
So we're optimistic that sounder minds now from a policy regulatory and political side recognize the importance of getting Aliso back online as safely and as expeditiously as possible.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Moving on to Neel Mitra of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Hi Neel.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> It's been awhile since we've gotten an update on Mexico.
Obviously you have three bids coming up that are pretty important.
Could you just comment on the competitive environment there and what you're seeing and possible opportunities beyond just the CFE pipes at this point? Sure and I'll have Mark talk about some of the upcoming bids but what – a couple of things I've said before and I'll say again in terms of Mexico and the key thing for us is that we have a really great set of assets in Mexico that are expandable assets that have additional growth potential.
And so these bids are very important to expand the infrastructure that we own there but they are not the only way that we can grow in Mexico.
And Mexico now have some pipeline bids that are going to be coming for us very soon we've talked about the three that are out for bid right now there will be others that will come out later this year.
Mexico is also going out for bids for about 2 500 megawatts of renewables.
And we have our ESJ plant operational there that has the availability to expand by about a 1 000 megawatt.
So we think that's a great opportunity and then at Mexico is looking at going into other areas of bidding with electric transmission and electric generation.
So there's bidding but there is also growth potential that occurs from the great asset base that we have there.
Mark do you want to talk about kind of the bids and...
Sure Debbie.
There is – as you know there is three pipelines right now that are currently under that we have submitted bids for and we're awaiting the determination.
In total it's roughly a couple of billion dollars' worth of work.
We think we're well positioned for it but as you've seen there are – there has been some increased competition for some of these pipeline bids but we're sticking to our kind of strategy of targeting kind of high single-digit IRRs and we're really looking to try to pick up these ones that we think fit our – that fit our profile and what we're looking for and obviously we're interested in these at the right price.
But I think the most important thing is Debbie's point is on the opportunities around our existing pipeline footprint which just to remind everyone we are the largest pipeline operator in Mexico.
We're very well-positioned not only for this new work but to expand those opportunities and start building laterals into other industrialized areas.
And so we see the opportunity for IEnova in Mexico for continued growth.
And I think we've all seen some of the comments on PEMEX over the last few days and their desire to raise additional capital and to think about selling some of their additional assets we're very well poised to take advantage of those opportunities our relationships there are very strong.
And so we're very optimistic about IEnova's growth potential.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So to summarize really basically you believe that there's a lot of lateral opportunities just beyond the CFE pipes which you can service off of your existing infrastructure.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes.
That and also – and eventually additional capacity through compression on a lot of the lines that we currently operate.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then moving to the GRC settlement the extension from Q1 to Q2.
Is there anything to read into that bonus depreciation extension et cetera? Do you feel comfortable with the settlement at this point? Or any thoughts on that? Yeah.
I mean we feel comfortable but we're going to get a decision proposed decision in the March timeframe.
I mean that's what we're looking at.
And the issue of bonus depreciation was part of the litigation in the record of the rate case and the settlement was made understanding that there was some potential for extension of that.
So we think that the settlement is – we think it's likely to get adopted.
And we think that we should have a decision hopefully sometime in the second quarter.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Good morning good afternoon.
Hi Julien.
Hey.
So just following up a little bit more on the Aliso conversation can you elaborate a little bit more on thoughts on next steps just both from a regulatory process? But perhaps more importantly from an operational perspective how do you think about getting the asset back in the service? And then also how do you think about your own investment plan in light of what may be required out of that regulatory process and or working around any limitations on the Aliso Canyon asset itself? Yeah let me just take a comment on that and then I'm going to refer to Dennis on coming back into operation.
I think one thing that's quite positive is that when we filed our rate case we had actually filed for a program that would do internal inspections of wells and some of the things that has now happened on pipelines.
And we filed for a program that would do that for storage facilities.
And that in the rate case settlement we ended up with two-way balancing account that would allow us to make those kinds of investments to do the review of the storage wells and go through them on a programmed planned kind of a basis which is what we had proposed.
But getting that all in place now and getting the facility operational for injection season we've been spending a lot of time looking at how we use that program which is basically aligned with what the Department of Oil Gas and Geothermal Resources or DOGGR has kind of outlined as well.
So Dennis why don't you kind of talk about what we're doing now with Aliso and all of our storage facilities there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director Southern California Gas Co.</span></strong> Good morning Julien.
Let me start with Aliso and it's kind of really a two-pronged approach.
First is we're obviously as Debbie mentioned we're cooperating with the investigation that's being led by DOGGR and the CPUC and they have an independent expert on the outside a company call Blade Energy Partners.
And so we're supporting them and they're really driving the time schedule there.
So whatever time it takes for them to do their work and to issue the report will kind of take its own path.
But as far as getting the field back into service as I mentioned DOGGR has issued its comprehensive safety review that we're working with them on.
And it's very detailed process of testing inspecting if necessary repairs.
And as Debbie mentioned it really does it's very parallels what we had put in place as far as our SIMP program and what we're doing from a pilot standpoint.
So we're working to expeditiously implement that.
It's hard to tell at this point in time how long it will take us to get through all of the 115 wells.
But the way that the program is put together it does allow us once we've accomplished a minimum threshold of tests on all the wells we can start bringing some of the wells on.
We don't have to do complete work on a 100% of those.
We can isolate or abandon certain wells and bring on the other wells at the same time.
So we'll be giving further updates on that down the road but I think the key points there is again policy makers the regulators and we're very closely working with all of these.
So that they understand what could happen both here in the summer from electric reliability standpoint and from a gas standpoint.
We're all really working together to make sure that Aliso and all of our gas storage facilities are safe and reliable.
And they can service our customers.
We're also – there also is an emergency regulation that was put in place by DOGGR is that applies to all gas storage facilities not just Aliso.
And so we're complying with that as well.
And that includes things such as daily pressure reads testing the wellhead valves and some other procedures that have to be put in place.
So there's a lot going on we've got a people at all of our facilities.
And we're focused on again doing this as expeditiously and as safely as possible.
Great excellent.
And just quickly following up on one of the last questions with respect to the decision to move from an MoU to just an outright contract.
Let me just be very clear about this.
Your confidence level is higher incrementally or you said obviously less ideal market backdrop but moving in that step I would presume to be a statement of comfort that indeed this is moving forward.
But I don't want to put words in your mouth either.
Yeah.
I mean there is no question that the market is tougher than it was when we signed Cameron 1 through 3.
But Octávio has been negotiating with some very strong counterparties and they want to go to sales and purchase agreement we want to go to sales and purchase agreement.
That would allow us more comfort in starting to spend money on the facility because it kind of lays out all the terms and as long as long you meet those terms then they are obligated.
And an MoU doesn't have that same level of obligation.
So I think getting these sales and purchase agreement signed would give us a lot of confidence and being able to move forward with the facility later this year.
Octávio do you want to add anything to that? Sempra LNG Corp</span></strong> No I think that we're pretty much as Debbie indicated it's good that we're moving in this direction obviously the counterparties are using resources that are expensive whether it's a law firms or their internal resources.
So there's interest involved in this.
As you know this is a facility that's not selling into the current market it's a facility that's going to sell into market 2020 plus.
And it's going to be one of the lowest if not the lowest facility at that point in time to deliver LNG to a time where just about anyone agrees there is going to be a shortage of supply.
Got it.
Thank you.
Citi's Faisel Khan has our next question.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks good afternoon.
Hi Faisel.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi Just the decision to expense some of the LNG development expenses was that for Port Arthur or was that for Cameron's trains 4 and 5? Most of the – the majority of the $20 million to $25 million is for Port Arthur and it's to do the work that's necessary to design enough of the facility where you can price it so you can market it.
And that is engineering and legal cost and all.
And then legal cost associated with the sales and purchases agreements for Cameron and then the related facilities the pipelines and storage and all of that integrate with that.
That's what's most of the costs are.
And they're expensed because those are the accounting rules once we get contracts signed then we would expect that this expense to not be part of our ongoing guidance because we'll spend the funds once.
And once we get contract signed then we will begin capitalization of the substantial part of the project costs.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay got you.
And then in terms of as you enter into these negotiations for train 4 what are the hurdle rates you're looking at in terms of a return on capital for the project? Is it similar to the IRRs you were talking about with the Mexico pipeline that are 9% or is it higher? How do you guys look at the returns? We don't share that because we're still negotiating with customers.
But we always look at what our cost of capital is on a risk adjusted basis.
And that we would have a reasonable return for that.
So I mean that's the way we would be looking at it and our returns tend to be in the high-single digits low-double digits for most of our projects so.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
And then could you remind us on the pipelines in Mexico the tariffs are in dollar denominated terms.
Is that correct or am I or some of them in peso terms? In Mexico our tariffs are in dollars but we pay taxes in pesos.
And so that's why we have the FX issue in Mexico which usually has recently as always been in our favor in Mexico.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So it just happens to be a coincidence that the tax benefit in Mexico offsets the currency depreciation in Chile and Peru? It's a little more than a coincidence.
There usually a some relation to currency valuations around the world but it has been more of a one-for-one offset in the past it has disconnected a little bit as we've moved forward.
Faisel this is Joe I'll just add on to Mark's comment.
The FX benefit in Mexico doesn't have to do with the tariffs because all of these dollar denominated contracts and our dollar denominated business is really the functional currency and that's how we operate in Mexico but we have to pay our taxes in pesos.
And the Mexican tax rules require that we have FX adjustments related to our monetary assets and then taking into account inflation.
And so as these currencies kind of move in a similar direction against the U.S.
dollar we get this natural hedge natural offset.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay I think that makes sense.
And then when you talk about your guidance though for 2016 you're talking about a further depreciation in some of these currencies or are you just looking at the forward rates? I just wanted to make sure I understood that language.
Yeah.
Joe why don't you kind of walk through that? Yeah let me walk through that Faisel because I think this is important for everybody to understand and we talk about it from time-to-time.
But we have some really really well run utilities in South America and over time those have done extremely well and you can look back to the early 2000s.
They've done very well over time and we like those assets a lot.
But they are local currency run companies and their revenues are in local currency.
And so we've seen a depreciation against the U.S.
dollar because we have to translate those into dollars of about 15% to 20% since last year's plan.
So when we did the 2016 plan last year and showed you a number those currencies have depreciated 15% to 20% and there's to some degree some offset in our tariffs and they catch up over time because we have adjustments in our tariffs.
But we've adjusted the revenues or the net earnings from those companies for that change in FX rates from a year ago to the ones we have now.
In Mexico the tax expense I was just referring to a moment ago that's an annual adjustment kind of it goes from what was the peso at the beginning of the year to what it's going to be at the end of the year.
And I think Debbie mentioned in her remarks that we haven't had this in our planning in the past.
And the reason is we're not allowed to under accounting – GAAP accounting rules we're not allowed to kind of forecast that.
So with this year we put it in the plan because we know that the Mexican pesos forecasted to move about 3.5%.
And so we forecasted a change in our tax expense for that 3.5%.
And so in 2016 we see a little bit of loss there.
In 2015 we actually had earnings as a result of this.
We had $31 million increase at Mexico and a $20 million decrease in South America so we had $11 million plus.
So again in 2013-2014 it was neutral and between 2015 and 2016 that is going to be kind of neutral.
These things don't move the needle very much for us.
They're pretty small.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's very clear and I appreciate that.
Last question for me.
On the Renewables segment just – and this is a small number but if I look at the topline revenues in your Table F (52:19) sort of year-over-year they are down.
I'm just trying to understand why.
I know that there's a lot of stuff below the line including tax and gains on asset sale and stuff like that they tend to move the needle – tend to move the earnings.
But on the top line I would suspect that that number would be relatively stable.
So I'm just trying to understand why it would be down year-over-year.
Yeah I'm going to have Trevor go through that.
SVP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Sure.
Faisel what's really happening there is some of that is really the assets that have been dropped into the joint venture structures.
And so there is certain assets that we owned a 100% in 2014 that are now owned 50% and then are picked up through the equity method of accounting.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
It makes sense.
Thanks guys for the time.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Faisel.
We'll move on to Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys.
One question on LNG and less about your contracting and maybe more about just the broader LNG markets.
I mean if you read the stuff that comes out of a lot of the economic consulting firms or other folks they tend to talk about how the LNG market is oversupplied.
And so that would imply that it would be a headwind for any new LNG development.
And yet it seems with some of the things you talk about at Cameron 4 and Port Arthur that your views and your actions and potential growth are contrary to that.
Just curious if you could talk a little bit about the global LNG market what you see for the near term and what you see for the long term? Sure I'm going to ask Octávio to answer that but what I want to ask – to raise to you is a lot of this is a about timeframe and that what you read about is the current LNG market is seen as being oversupplied.
What you also read about is that beginning in the 2020 period and beyond there is a need in the marketplace for more LNG.
So now part of it is the timing of these things.
So if you were having a non-contracted project coming on today that might be a real challenge.
If you have a project coming on when there is a market need and that market need grows over time then that's a very different market that you're going after.
So Octávio why don't talk about the broad market and then how we feel that our facilities are going to compete in that market? Sempra LNG Corp</span></strong> Again a bit of (54:51) introduction to the timeframe issue.
The one thing that we need to start looking at is the current market is oversupplied as you indicated no discussion about that but we also have a little problem with the current market.
We have an oversupplied market and yet the spot cargoes are more expensive than the long-term pricing which was agreed in the tight market.
So market is broken in its pricing formulas and the market is adjusting to it as we speak and will adjust for the next couple of years.
But our focus is not the current market.
Our focus is 2020 as I've indicated where you'll see that the current oversupply would we absorbed and then there is a shortage and unfortunately or fortunately depending on your point of view these facilities take five years six years to come online once you decide to go forward.
And as a result we need to make decisions today to meet that demand.
It is difficult to make.
It's large capital investments when a lot of the big players are taking write-downs because of oil that's the condition why the market is tough.
Some of the buyers are confused by the oversupply but our focus is not the current market.
So globally unless you believe we're going to switch everything from gas to coal and oil which would increase our carbon footprint significantly and it seems like the winds are the other way around if you do believe that we are going forward not only with a continuous economic growth but with a change to a lower carbon footprint then gas is going to play a role not just in the current markets but in other markets that are yet to open.
One interesting statistics I heard this week at CERA Week was the fact that the lower demand from Korea and Japan was made up by increased demand in Middle East countries and therefore the demand didn't go away and that was not there in the earlier projection.
So globally where our projects fit? We're comfortable.
It is a tough market for people to make decisions when they're under significant pressure.
But we think we are offering to the market the lowest cost producing facility for 2020 and that's why the interest is there.
And I remember at one of your investor meetings you outlined where your facilities I think it was your last Analyst Day.
You outlined where your facilities sit on a cost curve relative to other global LNG facilities.
Just curious given the fact that Port Arthur is greenfield and Cameron was brownfield the thing that surprised us back then and still does a little bit now is that they are so close to each other on that dispatch curve in compared to some of the others.
How are you thinking about how the economics of Port Arthur as a greenfield would differ from some of the disclosures you've given previously on Cameron 1 through 3? Sempra LNG Corp</span></strong> That's a very good question and I'll be happy to bring up another topic that sometimes gets forgotten.
In the economics of the – pardon me in the Cameron based project we included $1 billion of the cost of the existing facilities which is essentially replacement value.
So the economics of Cameron in that chart you saw at Analyst Day as well as all the other charts included the value of existing facilities.
And so what we're doing with Woodside and Port Arthur is looking at ways to break some of the paradigms in the industry keep it as safe and reliable as we want it to be as the customers expect it to be but look at ways to reduce cost.
Just like we found when we did Cameron that we had the lower cost per ton for conventional technology of liquefaction.
We have an even lower price for the expansion of Cameron for trains 4 and 5 and we expect to achieve similar results with Port Arthur.
If we don't find that we can do that then Port Arthur is not going to go away.
We simply believe that the industry has to be going back to a discipline of developing the next lowest marginal cost available of supply in order to be sustainable.
Got it.
Thank you Octávio much appreciated.
Sempra LNG Corp</span></strong> You're welcome.
We'll go next to Feliks Kerman of Visium Asset Management.
LP</span></strong> Hi this is Ashar how are you guys doing? Hi Ashar.
LP</span></strong> Debbie I just wanted to – there's a little bit of confusion a lot of calls going on today.
But if I'm correct I heard you say in your prepared remarks and please correct me if I'm wrong that the goal is still to meet or exceed previous expectations set.
Is that correct? I'm not sure what expectations you're referring to.
What we're very focused on is that the growth that we have outlined for you in our plans is long-term contracted growth or in our utility.
And that what we put in our base plan is things that we already have under contract and then expected utility performance.
What we expect to do is over the next five years we expect to add projects to that.
And this last year alone we added 325 megawatts of renewables that will come online late this year.
We've added or will be adding when the transaction closes the PEMEX acquisition and that was not part of our base plan a year ago.
So our expectations are that we're not going to sit still we're going to continue to develop and grow our business.
And that what we show you though in terms of our growth is and when we get to our Analyst Conference we will do what we always do which is the blue box and the green box.
That shows you what we have contracted and what's basically in our utilities as projects approved or in our rate case.
And then we show you what we're working on that could add to that growth over the five-year period of time and we'll be doing the same thing for you this year.
LP</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go to Morningstar's Mark Barnett next.
Hey good morning everyone.
Hi Mark.
Thanks for all the comments on the LNG market today.
I did want to ask one more question about Mexico.
And I know that some of the pressure on PEMEX does create an opportunity in the – some of the assets they might be looking to offload.
But I'm wondering if you know you see beyond maybe this current slate of projects some headwinds just from the lower oil revenues from the Mexican government and maybe if you could talk about how you see that balance of opportunity versus challenge? Yeah I mean honestly when you talk to our CEO in Mexico he sees it as an opportunity because the whole reason for a reform was to bring capital into Mexico to build the kind of infrastructure that they need for the kind of growth.
And you have to realize Mexico is going to be more competitive the lower the energy prices are in the long term for them that has been kind of their stumbling block on being globally competitive.
So to the degree that they can use other party's capital and that would be us I mean we'd like to put our capital there and as if they can build the infrastructure that reduces their energy cost that they're moving forward on that basis.
And so we think that I think it's a struggle for PEMEX with having being reliant on oil revenues but it's an opportunity for us to come in and build things that wouldn't otherwise be built and that are needed as part of their long term Mexican infrastructure.
So that's kind of the way we look at it.
Mark do you want to? Yeah I would just – let me just add to that too.
I think that the – when we talk about energy reforms in Mexico I think a lot of folks are focused on the reforms at PEMEX and they haven't seen increases in production and some of the things that they expected to see from energy reform and I think that's entirely the fault of $30 oil and very little to do with the reforms what are coming out of the reforms is a massive amount of energy infrastructure within the company within the country and that infrastructure is doing exactly what it's supposed to do as Debbie said it's lowering energy costs bringing natural gas in the regions of the country that didn't have access to it before it's making – it's really making a big difference on lowering electricity costs across the country and that's working very very well.
And to the extent that low gas or low oil prices are hindering some of the reforms at PEMEX I think that again is creating a large opportunity for us because it increases the need for PEMEX for capital.
It gives opportunities for us to look at the assets that they are going to be putting up for sale.
And so from our perspective I think we think that the reforms are working very much as intended and that we will continue to benefit as being one of the best placed companies in the country to take advantage of those opportunities.
Okay.
And with the latest round of bids I apologize if I missed it in your comments.
I mean you gave the bid dates do you have an estimate for when you might expect the results from the bidding process? They were looking at – they haven't given any specific dates but probably in the March and April timeframe is most likely.
Okay.
Right.
That's all from me.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Debbie Reed for closing remarks.
Well thanks again for all of you joining us today and all of your excellent questions.
We hope to see you at our Analyst Conference on May 24.
And if you have any follow-up questions our Investor Relations team is available to answer anything that was left off from the call today.
Thank you very much.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you all for joining.