Welcome to the SunTrust First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kris Dickson Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thanks Lindy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to SunTrust's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thanks for joining us today.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call today.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedule are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Jim Wells; Bill Rogers; Mark Chancy and Tom Freeman.
Jim will start the call with some opening remarks.
Bill will then comment on TARP redemption and provide an overview of the quarter.
Mark will discuss financial performance and review asset quality and Bill will wrap up with operational highlights from our businesses.
At the conclusion of the formal remarks we'll open up the session for questions.
Before we get started I need to remind you our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our press release and SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim.
Thanks Kris.
I think it's important to comment on the CEO leadership change that was announced this morning along with the earnings release.
As you know there is a tradition at SunTrust that CEOs retire by their 65th birthday and for me that's May 2011.
As you also know SunTrust and its board were on a robust succession management and development process and that process has been in place and operative for some time for this particular succession.
Bill Rogers is a deeply experienced banker and leader and has created great value for SunTrust over his long career.
He's been the driving force behind our play to win growth and operating strategy that has helped drive the improvement in our performance in recent quarters.
He has my respect as a leader and as a person so not only due to the calendar but also due to the fact that the financial services industry is now in the midst of a meaningful inflection point we believe it's the appropriate time for this change.
This point in time is also a particularly good one for the invigorated leadership team we've assembled over the past several years to guide SunTrust through the difficult economic regulatory and political environments.
As those environments continue through a period of radical and uncertain change Bill and the team are well-positioned to ensure that SunTrust will compete and will win.
I'm very proud of what has been accomplished at SunTrust broadly and in recent years.
And I'm also very proud of the leadership team that is now in place and I'm confident of what I know they will achieve.
With that I'll turn it over to Bill.
Jim thank you.
As anyone would imagine I feel very fortunate to be in the position I find myself in today.
I joined this company almost 31 years ago as a management trainee.
I've seen virtually every area of the company and worked with and for some great leaders.
I'm very excited about the opportunity and what our company can do in the future.
After all we've got a great brand the best footprint in banking the best-in-class client service positive momentum in key areas and teammates focused on winning.
And as Jim said our key senior leadership team has never been stronger or more focused.
Now at the same time I'm also very proud of how our company has responded to the adversity of the recent past and particularly Jim under your leadership.
Thank you for your support.
Thank you for leading by example.
The impact of your contributions to this company over 43 years will be felt for a very long time to come.
I also appreciate the courage patience and strength of character you've shown and at possibly no time greater than you demonstrated during what I'll refer to as the TARP era and leading up to our recent repurchase of government shares.
So thank you.
Now before we get into the financial results I'd like to spend a moment on Slide 3 discussing our redemption TARP shares which occurred at the end of the quarter.
In mid-March upon the completion of the Federal Reserve's review of our capital plan submitted in connection with the CCAR we took actions to facilitate the redemption of TARP shares.
First we conducted a successful $1 billion common stock offering.
It was well received by the market as evidenced by the pricing and oversubscription.
Further it had a follow to offer premium of 4.4% which is a number that we were clearly quite pleased with.
We followed that with $1 billion senior debt offering which also went very well.
It priced through our rating with attractive spread of just 160 basis points over the 5-year treasury yield.
And on March 30 we redeemed the $4.85 billion of preferred shares that were issued to the U.S.
Treasury under TARP.
Our common stock issuance in connection with the redemption of those shares was just 21% of the total TARP outstanding which we believe is well below the amount it would've been had we redeemed the shares earlier.
By keeping shareholders' best interest in mind and demonstrating a patient deliberate approach to TARP redemption we successfully lessened the dilutive impact to our shareholders.
And on balance we're pleased with how this all concluded.
Now let's just take a look at Slide 4 at the impact this transaction and repayment had on our capital position.
With the issuance of the common equity and the redemption of the TARP preferred securities our capital position was significantly enhanced this quarter.
The Tier 1 Common equity ratio increased 92 basis points to an estimated 9%.
And the Tier 1 Capital ratio excluding TARP was up 98 basis points to an estimated 11%.
Our capital position is well above current regulatory requirements as well as the proposed Basel III regulatory standards.
Now that TARP shares have been redeemed I'll reiterate our future capital plans.
As we've said we have been investing and will continue to invest in our people and businesses to support future growth.
At the same time we also recognized the value of returning capital to shareholders and that regard in due time we plan to increase the common dividend.
We expect that our board will evaluate this decision in the latter part of this year and if our financial results and the economy continue on a positive flight path the board would be in a position to consider a modest increase.
Now moving on to Slide 5.
I'll provide review of our financial results.
As you saw we reported $0.08 per share or $0.22 when excluding the noncash charge from our TARP redemption.
Further improvement in credit quality expansion of the net interest margin and a reduction in expenses drove earnings that were even with the prior quarter when you exclude the TARP charge.
As we emphasized profitable growth and credit quality continued to improve we delivered solid performance that was in line with our expectations for the quarter.
We also made additional progress in executing our strategies to drive longer-term growth.
I'll spend a moment highlighting some of the key drivers this quarter and then Mark will provide some more detail.
Client deposit growth continued its positive trajectory reaching a record high this quarter.
A positive mix shift continued as well with lower cost deposit increases more than offsetting the decline in higher cost deposits.
Overall average loan balance increased only modestly.
However an important part of the story is the continued run-off on higher risk loans which are down significantly this quarter.
They were offset with increases in targeted lower risk loan categories.
We had another quarter of strong net interest margin growth.
This marks the eighth consecutive quarter where we've seen expansion.
The income declined as anticipated due to some seasonal aspects and lower refinance phase mortgage originations.
The expense story is a good one compared with the prior quarter.
Despite seasonally higher employee benefit expenses we managed expenses down 5% from the prior quarter.
And finally improvements to credit quality continued as nonperforming loans and assets early stage delinquencies net charge-offs and the provision for loan losses all declined during the quarter.
So we continue to navigate through a challenging operating environment.
We're pleased with a solid first quarter performance and recent operating trends.
Before I turn the call over to Mark I'll conclude by noting that with the redemption of TARP shares behind us we are singularly focused on our client centric strategies which are aimed at taking advantage of the growth opportunities in our market.
We believe they'll be the catalyst for further improvement in profitability.
We're continuing to invest in three main areas: teammate engagement client loyalty and growth in primary relationships.
And we believe this will drive market share growth and ultimately higher levels of profitability and improved financial performance for our shareholders.
And Mark I'll turn the call over to you and then I'll come back to wrap up.
Thanks Bill and good morning everybody.
I'll begin my comments today with a high-level review of the income statement on Slide 6.
As Bill noted we posted net income to common shareholders of $38 million or $0.08 per share for the quarter.
These results included a $74 million or approximately $0.14 per share noncash charge in conjunction with TARP redemption which relates to the write-off of the unamortized discount on the TARP preferred shares.
Adjusted for this charge EPS was $0.22 which was relatively stable compared to the $0.23 reported in the fourth quarter.
These results were driven by a lower loan loss provision and lower noninterest expenses in the quarter offsetting a decline in fee income.
All of which are consistent with the expectations that we outlined for you last month.
Results in the current quarter compare very favorably to the prior year driven by higher net interest income a lower provision and higher fee income.
I'll provide additional detail on our performance on subsequent slides so let's turn to Page 7 and begin with the review of our loan balances.
Now before discussing the trends in the loan balances I'll first orient you with our loan segments which were introduced in our 10-K in conjunction with new accounting guidance for the industry around disclosures of loan portfolios credit quality.
Loans are now reported in three segments: Commercial Residential and Consumer and the bar chart on this page reflects these categorizations.
You'll also find more granular detail about our sub-portfolios also called Classes as you review the balance sheet tables contained within our press release.
The classes in our largest segment which is Commercial include CNI Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Construction.
I will point out that Commercial Real Estate reflects the income producing loans while the owner occupied loans are now included in the C&amp;I class.
The Residential segment includes mortgages Home Equity products and residential construction.
And Consumer includes the balance of our portfolio the largest categories of which are guaranteed student loans and indirect lending.
Now turning to the content on the slide.
As you can see average performing loan balances were up approximately $400 million compared to the fourth quarter.
The increase was driven by growth in the Consumer segment more than offsetting declines in commercial and residential.
Consumer was up approximately $1.1 billion due to the full quarter effect of an auto loan portfolio purchase that occurred late in the fourth quarter improvement in our own auto loan production and from higher government guaranteed student loans.
The Commercial segment was down sequentially by about $350 million as we continued to manage down the commercial construction and commercial real estate classes.
The decline was partially offset by an increase in C&amp;I included target areas for growth and asset based middle market and SBA lending.
With respect to commercial client utilization rates we experienced a small increase in our diversified commercial line of business and our utilization within CIB our corporate and Investment Bank declined slightly and remained at a historically low level.
Residential average balances declined during the quarter by approximately $550 million due to reductions in nonguaranteed mortgages Home Equity and residential construction loans.
Now relative to the prior year average performing loans were up just over $2 billion or about 2%.
The growth was within the Consumer segment and again driven by indirect auto and government guaranteed student loans.
The Commercial segment declines were due to Commercial construction and commercial real estate while the residential portfolio stayed relatively flat as run-off in the high-risk segments of the portfolio was offset by an increase in government guaranteed loans.
So there are two main takeaways that I'd like you to leave with from our loan discussion.
The first is that while overall loan growth had been modest due to weak demand we have made progress in our balance sheet diversification strategy.
One aspect of that strategy is to grow the Consumer segment and we increased balances there by about $4.5 billion from the prior year.
Another component of the strategy is to grow targeted portions within the Commercial segment and we're also making progress on this front.
As a couple of examples we originated $4.4 billion in new C&amp;I loans and commitments this quarter which is up by $1.3 billion from the same quarter last year.
We also grew our asset-based lending balances by over $500 million relative to last year.
In addition to growing these targeted areas we've also been reducing our exposure to higher risk portions of the portfolio.
This change in the risk profile of the loan book is the other key takeaway which I'd like to discuss in greater detail on Slide 8.
Loans that we deemed to be higher risk are displayed on this page and totaled $12 billion at the end of the first quarter.
That's down by over $11 billion or almost 50% from the fourth quarter of 2008 and these higher risk categories now represent only 10% of our total loan portfolio.
Furthermore government guaranteed loans are up over $6 billion during this same time frame and they now comprise $9 billion or about 8% of our total portfolio.
Taken together the reduction in higher risk balances and the increase in guaranteed loans constitutes a significant derisking of the overall portfolio.
And the risk reduction continued in the first quarter of 2011 as higher risk categories declined by $1.1 billion or 8% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
The largest dollar declines came in the commercial construction and the Home Equity portfolios.
So with that as background let's turn to Slide 9 now for a discussion of deposits.
Average client deposits were up $1 billion from the fourth quarter and we continue to see the favorable shift in mix towards lower cost accounts.
DDA NOW money market and savings increased by a combined $2.2 billion or 2% while time deposits were managed down by $1.2 billion or almost 6%.
Compared to the first quarter of last year average client deposits were up about $5.6 billion or 5%.
And the increase was also due to growth in the lower cost accounts specifically DDA and money market while higher cost time deposits declined.
As we've acknowledged before our favorable deposit trends have undoubtedly been aided by changes witnessed throughout the industry such as clients' preferences for increased liquidity.
But as Bill will share with you later we are also confident that we are driving the trends via providing superior client service and through the investments that we've made.
One financial metric where these efforts are evident is in our net interest margin which you can see on Slide 10.
Net interest income was down $17 million or 1% from the fourth quarter due primarily to the fact that there were two fewer days in Q1 versus Q4.
However the net interest margin was up 9 basis points to 353 marking its eighth consecutive quarter of expansion.
The sequential quarter increase was driven by a combination of higher yields on earning assets in part from the securities portfolio repositioning that we completed during the quarter as well as from lower rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities which was largely the result of the aforementioned deposit mixed shift.
Relative to the prior year net interest income increased by $75 million or 6% and the margin expanded 21 basis points.
This improvement was primarily the result of the previously discussed deposit trends and our effective deposit pricing.
Our loan pricing improvements and our commercial loans swap position have also helped mitigate the impacts of the prolonged low interest rate environment.
Looking ahead to the second quarter of 2011 we do expect our net interest margin to be relatively stable to its current level.
So let's switch our focus to noninterest income on Slide 11.
On a reported basis noninterest income was down 14% sequentially but as in prior quarters we've made adjustments for certain items like securities gains and mark-to-market impacts and the full list of these adjustments may be found in the appendix.
Net of these adjustments noninterest income this quarter was $825 million which was down 11% from the prior quarter.
This reduction was in line with our expectations and primarily driven by lower mortgage production and Investment Banking income.
Trading account profits and commissions were also one of the larger drivers on a reported basis.
However this line item was stable when factoring in the adjustment items.
Sequential quarter mortgage production decline was due to the impacts of higher mortgage interest rates during the quarter.
As a result of the higher rates we experienced a 34% reduction in closed loan volume as well as lower production margins.
Investment Banking declined from its record fourth quarter level primarily due to lower syndication revenue as numerous clients accelerated closings of transactions into the fourth quarter of 2010.
Relative to the prior year adjusted fee income increased by $53 million or 7% despite lower deposit service charges due to Reg E.
The growth came from a broad array of core consumer and commercial key categories including trust income retail investment services Investment Banking and card fees each growing by more than $10 million and by double-digit percentages.
Now let's turn to Slide 12 for a discussion of mortgage repurchase trends.
As you can see in the top left portion of this slide the income statement impact from repurchase costs was $80 million during the current quarter.
This was down slightly from the prior quarter as charge-offs declined $15 million to $75 million.
The reserve was increased $5 million to $270 million as we did see an uptick in repurchase demands during the latter part of the quarter.
The top right portion of the slide shows that pending demands increased to $363 million and this was caused by increased repurchase requests which are depicted in the bottom left of the slide.
This quarter we had $313 million in repurchase requests which was an increase of $80 million from the fourth quarter and driven primarily by increased agency requests related to the 2007 vintage loans.
As the quarterly trends depict repurchase requests can be very lumpy from one period to another and while we continue to expect some volatility in these requests we also continue to believe that over time normal seasoning patterns will result in a decline in volume in the higher loss 2006 to 2007 vintages.
The information that we have provided in the bottom right of this slide is consistent with what we shared last quarter and is intended to provide you useful information with respect to calculating a lifetime loss estimate as well as some additional detail around our non-agency exposure.
Now unrelated to the repurchase reserve but another mortgage topic that has gotten a lot of attention recently is the impact that the April 13th mortgage servicing consent order could have on the value of mortgage servicing rights.
In short our MSR value of $1.5 billion was evaluated in the context of the overall servicing market at the end of the first quarter and does not explicitly include any incremental cost that may be associated with the order.
However we did assume in our valuation methodology that the elevated level of mortgage servicing costs that we are currently experiencing remains high for a considerable period of time into the future.
We are in the process of evaluating whether there could be additional costs associated with the consent order that warrant inclusion in our valuation approach but it's too early to know what this impact might be.
In the interim as you are developing your own estimations it is important to remember that servicing portfolios can vary significantly across servicers due to differences in product mix delinquency status and service fee levels all of which can create valuation differences across institutions.
Now let's turn to Slide 13 for a review of expenses.
On a sequential quarter basis reported noninterest expense declined $83 million or 5% while adjusted noninterest expense was down $67 million or 4%.
These declines came despite higher seasonal employee benefits costs experienced during the first quarter and were driven by three areas: credit related marketing and outside processing expenses.
Credit-related costs were down $34 million due to lower other real estate expenses as well as decreases in credit and collections expenses.
Marketing and outside processing were down $18 million and $16 million respectively as both of these categories had specific investment related expenses that were incurred during the fourth quarter.
Relative to the first quarter of 2010 expenses increased by a little over $100 million.
Staff expenses were the largest driver up $62 million due to higher compensation from improved revenue generation as well as the hiring of additional teammates primarily in mortgage origination and in client service and support roles.
Let's now switch gears and turn to Slide 14 for a review of credit quality.
Asset quality metrics continued a multi-quarter trend of improvement as early-stage delinquencies nonperforming assets and net charge-offs all declined again.
As a result we lowered the allowance by $120 million or about 4% to its current level of 2.49%.
Early-stage delinquencies excluding the guaranteed portfolios were 80 basis points this quarter which was a 10 basis point improvement from the prior quarter and a little more than we expected.
Improvement occurred in most of the portfolios and was most notable in a 27 basis point decline in the nonguaranteed residential mortgage portfolio.
Among other large portfolios commercial real estate and indirect auto both declined 10 basis points while Home Equity notched up a little bit by 6 basis points.
We continue to expect that additional improvement in early-stage delinquencies particularly in our residential portfolios will be tied to the health of the general economy since commercial and consumer delinquency rates of 24 and 79 basis points respectively are already at relatively low levels.
We'll discuss nonperforming loans and net charge-offs in greater detail on the following page so I'll keep my comments brief for now.
Nonperforming loans were down $139 million marking the 7th consecutive quarterly decline.
Nonperforming assets declined by $190 million due to lower NPLs as well as an approximate $50 million reduction in other assets.
Net charge-offs also continued their favorable trend down $50 million in the quarter to an annualized 2.01% of average loans.
Now the decline in the allowance for loan and lease losses was consistent with the reduction in the fourth quarter and it was also commensurate with the improved credit quality of the portfolio including a reduction in higher risk balances as we discussed earlier lower emerging risks in the portfolio as evidenced by the lower delinquency rate and the recognition of current-quarter charge-offs.
So let's turn to Slide 15 for a review of credit trends by loan segment and you may also find  additional detail by loan and class in the appendix.
Nonperforming loans were down 3% from the prior quarter driven by residential and specifically the nonguaranteed mortgage portfolio.
Included in this nonperforming loan decrease was a transfer of $57 million in carrying value to loans held for sale.
The value of these loans was reduced to $47 million in connection with the transfer and a $10 million differential was recognized in the current quarter as a net charge-off.
Commercial Loans continued to perform well and had relatively stable nonperforming loans as a $118 million sequential decline in commercial construction was partially offset by a $93 million increase in commercial real estate.
Relative to the prior year nonperforming loans were down $1.2 billion or 23% driven by nonguaranteed mortgages construction and C&amp;I.
Net charge-offs which are depicted at the bottom of the page were down 8% from the prior quarter driven by lower losses in the Commercial segment and specifically within the C&amp;I and commercial real estate portfolios.
The Residential and Consumer segments were relatively stable.
Relative to the prior year net charge-offs declined across most portfolios and were down by a total of $250 million or 30%.
And the largest reduction occurred within the nonguaranteed mortgage portfolio.
And as we look to the second quarter of 2011 based on the continued progress that we've made in early stage delinquencies we currently expect nonperforming loans to decline and net charge-offs to be relatively stable to first quarter levels.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Bill to discuss some recent business highlights.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
And before we open the call up for Q&amp;A I'm going to spend a few minutes highlighting a selection of recent accomplishments.
I want to share with you how we're aligning the company to deliver improved performance as well as some of the progress that we've made today.
Now as you'll recall from a number of our prior presentations our three guiding principles for operating and growing our company are centered around one team client first and focus on profitable growth.
It's a pretty simple formula but its results are powerful when executed correctly.
One team can be exemplified by engaged teammates who are more passionate about their jobs.
They understand the company's mission and their role in its application and they provide better service to their clients.
Well-served clients are more loyal they're less likely to attrite and they offer a greater a share of their wallet and finally they are a great source of referrals.
And when all that occurs we make more money for our shareholders.
By focusing on these three core tenets we're confident we can markedly move the needle on core performance.
And today we've chosen to highlight a few key accomplishments in each of those areas.
First and we believe foundational to our success in the other two areas is our ability to work as one team.
And we measure this very intently and we're realizing positive improvements in virtually every area.
We're listening to our teammates and we're making the necessary changes to improve the experience of working for SunTrust.
An engaged teammate we believe is a competitive advantage.
One team also means working to ensure the entire bank has delivered to our clients seamlessly.
Our improved cross-selling efforts and client penetration are testaments to our progress here.
One example is in our ability to cross-sell mortgages to our banking clients.
Currently 1 in 5 of our input print homeowner households have a mortgage with SunTrust and we believe that's a high number.
Our strategy is one that's grounded in providing the best service to our clients.
That's what we mean by client first and like teammate engagement it's something that we measure intently.
In fact we call 1 000 clients a day and ask them how we're doing.
And overall they tell us we're doing pretty well.
This is also clear from the recognition we've received for both consumer and commercial banking client experience.
For example we recently received 18 Greenwich Excellence Awards for our distinguished performance in delivering for our business clients.
This is up substantially from prior years and we were one of the top award recipients nationally.
We were the only bank to earn 18 Greenwich Awards and the JD Power Customer Satisfaction Award in Business Banking in the same year and we recently received the #1 ranking for customer experience from Forrester Research.
These awards and our own internal measures support our belief that we offer our clients a differentiated high-quality banking relationship.
I believe this supports Mark's statement that our client service is helping drive increased deposit balances.
Our client service levels are also driving client loyalty.
Our client satisfaction is at the highest level it's ever been as measured by our own service excellence program.
And this is evident in our numbers as net new consumer checking accounts were up 30% this quarter from the same quarter last year.
What's also important to note that this increase was driven by a 9% decline in closed accounts as our attrition rates continue to improve.
So you've seen improved performance over the past several quarters and we believe even better days are ahead of us.
A few highlights from this quarter on areas where we've succeeded include: industry-leading client deposit growth the third-best net income and revenue quarter in  Corporate Investment Banking revenue up nearly 50% over the prior year substantial increase in Wealth and Investment Management net income up 34% from the prior year with a 16% in net fee income; overall we're pleased with the progress we've made thus far but there's some obviously more ground to cover.
So moving onto the final page I'll wrap up with some formal comments for this call.
Let me give a brief summary of what we shared with you today.
We redeemed our TARP shares via a patient approach and are well-positioned from a capital perspective to pursue our growth objectives.
The emphasis on profitable growth that I just outlined coupled with continued credit quality improvement asset and liability pricing discipline all resulted in solid performance this quarter and that's despite some cyclical and industry headwinds.
And our investments are paying off with some favorable trends in our core businesses.
Now with that said Kris I'll turn it back over to you.
Thanks Bill.
Operator we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
I'd like to ask the participants to please limit themselves to 1 primary question and 1 follow-up.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from John Pancari from Evercore Partners.
You talked about your the servicing the MSR valuation you mentioned that your assumption that costs related to servicing remain elevated -- are your assumptions for the MSR.
So can you give us any help in trying to quantify what you mean by elevated and how the current assumption compares to the costs previously? John it's Bill.
Let me just start with the presumption and you've seen in our numbers and we've been investing steadily in both people and technology related to the mortgage challenges for the past two years.
So while we might see some modest increase in expenses from the consent order I mean I think we're still evaluating that full impact and I think the cost of what we've been doing is included in that analysis.
And you also have to consider the composition and performance of our portfolio and how it might differentiate from others.
Did I get at it? Yes you did; that's helpful.
The third-party review of your foreclosures process as required under the consent order has that begun yet? If you go over the order there -- it's Tom Freeman.
Yes it has begun.
We have people in place.
The evaluation is to go over right now how it's going to be conducted to make sure it's going to be done in conformance with what the authorities are looking for but it's underway.
Our next question is from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the loan pricing that you're seeing in Commercial? I've noticed that not only have you had pretty good growth but the yields are holding up.
So I'm wondering both what kind of pricing are you getting and then what kind of impact from swaps might be in that average yield? Okay.
Matt I'll take the first part of that; maybe I'll switch it to Mark to take the second part of that.
We've had an intense focus as you well know on both the asset and liability pricing.
We've put a great deal of discipline into the system and we have been pleased that we've held up.
I mean we looked intently at how we're doing not only relative to last quarter but also relative to industry benchmarks.
All that being said and we're pleased with where we are that's not to dismiss that there's a lot of price competition out there right now and it's intense and we're all focused on adding assets to the balance sheet.
So while we've held up we're in a pretty good headwind on pricing spread.
And Mark I'll turn it over to you if you want to talk about the swap.
Yes.
Matt we've had a good benefit as you know over the last several quarters from the Commercial Loans swaps.
They still have about three years duration left and the quarterly benefit is around $150 million.
So I think as we move forward you'll have a view on interest rates if rates continue to stay low on the short end of the curve we will continue to get a benefit for a period of time.
That's certainly benefiting our overall commercial yields.
We also did some securities portfolio repositioning in connection with the TARP repayment process during the quarter that also augmented our earning asset yields in the quarter.
And then Mark just a follow-up question on the liability side.
You've obviously have had this good remixing of your funding base growing deposits running off some of the long-term debt.
Outside the debt issuance to repay TARP do you think you can work down the long-term debt further from here? Yes we have made a lot of steps here in the last couple of years in reducing our long-term debt and it benefited dramatically frankly from the strong growth and improvement in market share in the deposits.
We do have some additional room to go in terms of the liability management.
There are also the trust preferreds that we will be evaluating as we move forward during the course of the year depending upon the final capital rules that are proposed by the Federal Reserve and so that's another area that we will be evaluating during 2011.
Okay.
And I'm probably trying to squeeze in a third question but it's a little bit related.
I guess some banks swap out their long-term debt.
It seems like you've chosen to put it more on the asset side because it doesn't look like you've swapped out the long-term debt.
Is that -- is there a lot...
Let me say it this way Matt: As of the end of the quarter that's correct.
We issued on a fixed rate basis.
We will evaluate in the context of our overall balance sheet management and our asset liability management strategy whether or not to swap that issuance to floating rate and/or other similar actions.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Just a question on the credit side.
Mark and Tom you've been talking now for several quarters about just as we think about the outlook for charge-offs more flattish if you will in Q2.
But the question relates to with $120 million in basically reserve release this quarter the commercial past dues are basically half of what they were a year ago.
The mortgage side is becoming more stable.
So how should we kind of think about -- two parts: One your assumption in terms of the ongoing kind of loss severity and your assumptions built into the reserves there on the mortgage side; and just ongoing reserve release given kind of the stabilization that we're now starting to see in the mortgage and kind of that flat outlook for charge-offs.
It's Tom.
The indication -- I think of what's going on I think you have to go back and go back through the chain again and the chain starts with early stage delinquencies continuing to come down within early stage delinquencies coming down with the lag effect.
I think that that has implications for charge-offs later in the year and early next year in terms of a continued improvement in charge-off activity.
And I think we're going to continue to work through although it's hard work working through getting down our nonperforming loans.
I think we're seeing a recurring downward trend in those activities as asset quality continues to improve our need for reserves mitigates.
So if I hear you're right there may be still more release to come on the reserve side perhaps more so on as it ties to commercial.
But we may not see a more tangible benefit until maybe later in the year or early next year just based on where the delinquencies are trending? This is Mark Chancy.
We're at about a 2.5% reserve ratio versus about a 2% charge-off ratio in Q1.
We had a pretty nice takedown 8% sequential decline in net charge-offs as you saw and that was certainly a rationale for us along with the delinquencies as Tom mentioned and the reduction in nonperforming loans.
You'll see a reduction of about a similar magnitude that you've seen in the last couple of quarters in terms of the reserve.
We're not providing any specific forward-looking guidance but we are guiding you down on non-performers and relatively stable net charge-offs at least in the second quarter as we continue to have some higher levels of commercial real estate which we have guided you to in the past couple of quarters.
And as Tom mentioned we see the further improvement in charge-offs in the consumer portfolio that correlates to the delinquency trends.
Our next question is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC</strong> Sticking with the nonperforming asset questions do you guys have the inflow number that you report on your line 9? If you look at it the last three quarters the inflows of new nonaccruals have been running at about $1.2 billion.
And tied to that did your classified loans decline this quarter relative to the fourth quarter of last year? Oh classifieds came down nicely during the quarter and we're continuing to see a path of slowing inflows in almost all of the loan categories into nonperformance.
LLC</strong> On the classified decline was that 5% 10%? I'm trying to think how to answer that.
Classified declined; we don't report separately I think.
Yes.
Gerard that'll come out...
[indiscernible] It'll come out more of queue 9 right now if you could wait a couple of -- a few days.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on the net interest margin if you assume that the fed funds rate stays around 25 basis points through the year-end and the yield curve is essentially where we are today what would be the main driver of keeping it where it is? Will it be more the management using different derivatives or is it going to come from better loan growth what should we focus on to see what this net interest margin could look like over the next nine months assuming rates stay low and loan demand doesn't pick up dramatically? As I mentioned earlier we've been getting a significant amount of improvement in the margin that's come from the deposit mix that continues to be favorable in terms of growth at the low-cost accounts like DDA and money market.
That's been a real driver for us in the past year particularly when you look year-over-year where those lower costs deposit categories have grown double digits while time deposits have shrunk.
And the repayment of the debt as we talked about a few minutes ago.
We have some additional liability management strategies that we can employ that will continue to support and/or augment the margin.
But one of the things that we've said consistently in the past year is as the economy improves we are expecting commercial deposits to decline somewhat as loan growth accelerates.
So far that hasn't happened at the pace because the economic environment hasn't picked up to the level that we had all hoped.
And so at this point we're continuing to benefit significantly from the higher level of deposits.
As the curve has steepened so new CDs become a little bit more expensive and so we're going to evaluate that in the context of the continued growth strategy that we have in growing core households.
So all that mixed together we've given you guidance that we think is relatively stable in the near-term.
Yes and I'll just add onto that we're continuing to maybe surprise ourselves by the ability on the liability side to continue to wring a couple of basis points with a variety of different strategies as Mark elaborated.
And then we'll have to see on what happens on the asset growth side.
I mean I think we've got some good signs in a couple of key areas related to asset growth but that'll clearly be dependent upon some continued and improved economic recovery during the latter part of the year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask you about the restructuring.
We moved a little more than $5 billion of treasuries over to agencies.
What was the pickup in yield and what kind of duration did you put that into? Marty this is Aleem Gillani the treasurer.
We picked up about 30 basis points in excess yield on those and we put those -- we put the new funds into a mix of agency bullets and into MBS.
Average duration of the new funds would be on the order of about 4 years.
LLC</strong> And was that pretty consistent with the treasuries that you were coming out of? So did you shift any of your positioning at all? The last set of treasuries that we were in just before we sold them off in order to repay the TARP were 5-year treasuries.
Yes our overall buck [ph] securities portfolio duration is still around low 3 3.3 years.
But not a significant shift.
We do have a view that interest rates on the short end are going to continue to stay relatively low through the end of the year given the continued weakness particularly in the housing markets.
And we have the balance sheet postured with that view in mind.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And excess cash on the balance sheet seems to be or may be around $2 billion.
Is that a decent approximation? A little higher than that it's in terms of the amount at quarter end.
We've been fluctuating in and out of basically $2 billion to $4 billion of excess cash.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just to extend on Gerard's question.
Mark to your point about currently getting a nice benefit in the NIM from the swap position and that would continue as long as rates remain low can you just walk us through and remind us what happens when rates start to move higher? Do you expect you can keep the margin just kind of flattened as those two things trade off? Higher rates but then the swap income comes down? Yes let me just comment.
When we do our asset and liability simulation analysis we are basically neutral to a rising rate scenario whether you shock it and/or you do a gradual ramp of rates.
And so what I was trying to say is as it relates to the commercial loan swap position if rates continue to stay low we get the full benefit of the differential between that received fixed payment and the floating payment that we made and we're getting a significant amount of net interest income coming off of those that swap which the last number I have in my head is around $16 billion in aggregate notional.
So on a go-forward basis as rates rise we are in a relatively neutral posture overall as a company.
Inc.</strong> Okay so the delta to rates would then really be just your ability to grow loans and keep deposit costs low? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And my second question is just on the loan portfolio I heard clearly where you're expecting to see growth over time and I'm just wondering as far as some of the portfolios that are just continuing to shrink or in kind of net runoff mode at what points could you expect to see whether it's the CRE portfolio the Home Equity portfolio Commercial and Construction? Any signs that those portfolios get close to bottoming at some point this year or is it just going to be a continuously kind of downward trail? I think clearly for this year we're on a continual decline because as you might imagine there's not a lot of opportunity to replace those assets and we're on a $1 billion a quarter kind of trail from last quarter and we don't have that kind of good asset opportunity in those categories.
Inc.</strong> And then my last final follow up on that is just then how are you approaching just the CRE market generally speaking from the terms of a capacity to look for opportunities when they come? And also what pockets if any do you expect to see improvement? Are there any signals at all whatsoever? Yes there are a few and we're clearly being selective.
We're working with long-standing clients.
We look at our heat map so to speak of our franchise and where we see opportunities.
And you as you might imagine multifamily would be one of those examples where you see some opportunities in select markets that will follow our clients.
There are some industrial opportunity in some markets.
Again we'll follow our clients into well-structured deals.
So selective in the market with our clients around specific asset classes and specific markets.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Christopher Marinac with FIG partners.
LLC</strong> I had a question on the mortgage prepurchases back on Slide 12.
Is there any I guess background on the small increase we've seen from 2011 vintage? 2011 vintage? It's coming off of a very small base so when you look at it that way there's nothing of any significance there Chris.
LLC</strong> Okay very well.
And just a question for Tom is there anything geographically you're seeing on classifieds? Will they be following across the board by region as well? It goes into the spread of asset classes that we're in.
The C&amp;I stuff just continues to improve I think across the board in all of our geographies.
And the commercial real estate because of our concentration in Florida I think is most affected both residentially and commercially by continued weakness in the Florida market place.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
Bill I was wondering if you could give us your sense on how you look at expansion through M&amp;A? I know SunTrust has been through is back to profitability now.
You've paid back the TARP.
I know there's a lot of work to do internally and you often refer to the franchise strength.
But just trying to gauge -- there's been a lot of discussion about consolidation in the space at the same time new organic growth just really doesn't seem to be that abundant.
Is that something you have an appetite for or below a certain size is it just not worth the effort if you can just elaborate on that? Yes I think we've been sort of fairly consistent on that front.
I mean we've looked at opportunities.
I mean we're skilled in the process and what you've seen from us in the past other than maybe a few small acquisitions in the Wealth and Investment Management area we haven't found anything that was particularly attractive or accretive to the franchise.
I think going forward we would still be primarily an end-market type look and things that round out our franchise in areas where we have opportunity.
But it would have to be geographically accretive to what we're trying to do and financially a smart deal.
And in your question I mean some of the small things we've seen today just don't really fit into that category.
Thank you.
Our final question today is from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I want to ask you about the quarter-to-quarter movement and that mortgage production revenue line item and particularly the game piece of it.
It does seem like that  decrease was more than what we've seen from other banks.
I'm just wondering if you can just talk about that quarter-to-quarter move and kind of what we can expect going forward or how we should think about it going forward.
Let me take a first shot at it.
We were down 34% in closed loans applications down about 16% and the gain on sale margin was tightened.
I don't -- it would be confusing to me that we would be any particularly different from anybody else as it relates to that.
Now all that being said starting 18-months-plus ago I mean we're tight on credit so we're maintaining to maybe in some quarter or not maybe giving up a little market share to ensure that we've really got a tightness around the quality of the assets.
On a go-forward basis clearly refinances is waning.
It's about 40% of the volume in the quarter and has been going down pretty substantially.
March was a little better month on the purchase side.
We're starting to see some uptick in early application volume and we'll have to see what happens on the purchase side going forward.
I mean it'll clearly be a purchase-driven market for the rest of this year.
And Jefferson to your question also you got to remember that the repurchase costs are a net against net production income and we had about an $80 million addition to the reserve or impact to the income statement down from the last couple of quarters in that $85 million to $95 million range but we've been hovering in that level.
As that works itself through that will be a reduction of a headwind if you will to net mortgage production income that we'll be able to post.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And one follow up on the mortgage repurchase request.
It would seem like that the requests are coming in sequentially and we felt like they were getting closer to the end because we were doing more 2008 2009 possibly requests.
And what I hear you saying is that the '07 vintage requests have increased is was the feeling of sequentiality if you will incorrect or do you think the sequential piece of it is out the window or is still kind of happening sequentially? Or just how should we think about the increase in the '07 vintage? Yes I mean the bottom line is that we continue to have some variability on a quarter-over-quarter basis particularly with one of the agencies as it relates to their processes and then what we should expect in terms of file requests and ultimately repurchase requests.
I think what you can take from our reserving process is that while we did have a slight uptick in the reserve that correlated to the higher repurchase demands during the quarter that at a high level we are tracking and based on the delinquency levels that we see and the expected burnout in some of those higher request vintages of '06 and '07 that we should continue to see improvement as we work ourselves throughout 2011 with repurchase requests.
We made a statement earlier that we expected the net impact of the income statement to be down relative to 2010.
And but we're going to have some variability on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Very good.
Everybody this concludes our call for the day.
I want to thank you for joining us and please feel free to contact the Investor Relations department if you have any other questions.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the SunTrust Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Kris Dickson the Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thanks Wendy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to SunTrust's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thanks for joining us today.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call today.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
Discussing our results today will be Bill Rogers our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining me are Tom Freeman our Chief Risk officer; C.
T.
Hill our Head of Consumer Banking and Mark Chancy our Head of Wholesale Banking.
Before we get started I need to remind you our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risk and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our press release and SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of [indiscernible] to GAAP financial [indiscernible] press release and on our website.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
And with that out of the way I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Okay.
Kris thanks.
Good morning everybody and glad to have you with us today.
As you saw this morning we reported net income available to common shareholders of $174 million or $0.33 per share.
While the operating environment still has many uncertainties we continue to show meaningful improvement in all aspects of our asset quality and improved performance in our business results.
I'll spend a few moments providing a high-level overview of this quarter's results and a little more [ph] color excuse me later in the call.
Since the peak of nonperforming loans and charge-offs in 2009 our asset quality has demonstrated continued improvement.
This quarter [indiscernible] as nonperforming loans and assets early-stage delinquencies net charge-offs and [indiscernible] declined again during the quarter.
Deposit growth has also continued its multi [indiscernible].
Client deposits reached a new record high and the favorable mix shift continued as lower cost deposit increases more than offset the decline in higher cost deposits.
Aleem let me turn it over to you.
Thanks Bill and good morning.
I'll begin my comments today with a high-level review of the income statement on Slide 4.
Net income available to common shareholders for the quarter was $174 million or $0.33 per share.
This compares favorably to the first quarter reported EPS of $0.08 or $0.22 when adjusted for the noncash charge associated with TARP redemption.
The primary drivers of the sequential EPS growth were a lower provision due to continued improvements in credit quality higher fee income across multiple categories and lower preferred dividends due to TARP redemption partially offset by higher noninterest expenses.
These results also compare very favorably to the prior year driven by higher net interest income a lower provision and lower preferred dividends.
I'll share additional color on our performance in a moment so let's turn to Page 5 for a review of the loan portfolio.
Average performing loans were flat compared to first quarter levels of $111 billion.
However we continued to make progress in diversifying the loan portfolio as we drove growth in targeted commercial and consumer areas while further reducing our residential real estate exposure.
We also continued to de-risk the portfolio and I'll share more detail with you about that later.
Growth this quarter within the commercial segment was driven by C&amp;I loans which increased by $1 billion or more than 2%.
This growth came generally from larger corporate borrowers and was most pronounced within areas that we've been targeting for growth such as asset-based lending middle market and certain industry verticals within our Corporate and Investment Banking business.
The consumer segment expanded modestly driven by guaranteed student loans.
Conversely residential loans declined by about $650 million a similar amount to last quarter mostly due to lower non-guaranteed mortgage and home equity balances.
Relative to the prior year performing loans increased by about $3 billion or almost 3%.
This growth was driven by consumer loans which were up about $4 billion specifically in student loans and indirect.
Residential balances were down marginally as non-guaranteed mortgages and home equity balances both declined by about $1 billion which more than offset the growth in the guaranteed mortgage portfolio.
The commercial segment also declined primarily due to intentional reductions in commercial construction as well as lower commercial real estate balances which more than offset the C&amp;I growth that we've experienced for the last several quarters.
Overall loan growth and loan demand remained weaker than we would like but we are pleased with our progress in growing selected areas of the portfolio while concurrently reducing risk.
Further detail on this risk reduction is on Slide 6.
This page provides a visual of the trends in loans that for this purpose we categorize as higher risk.
These portfolios now total $11.4 billion and have been declining consistently and meaningfully down over 50% since the end of 2008.
Concurrent with these declining higher risk balances we've also grown our government-guaranteed loan portfolio which now totals over $9 billion or about 8% of our total portfolio.
Taken together the reduction in higher-risk balances combined with growth in government-guaranteed loans constitute a substantial improvement in our risk profile.
During the second quarter higher-risk balances declined by about $700 million or 6% with roughly half of that coming from commercial construction.
Relative to the prior year balances are down about $3.8 billion or 25% with significant declines in each of the categories you see on this slide.
We expect declines in the higher-risk portfolios to continue in the future although given their smaller aggregate balance the absolute dollar decline could moderate somewhat.
As such the runoff in these portfolios could be less of a headwind for total loan growth than it has been in prior periods.
Turning to Slide 7 for a discussion on deposits.
Average client deposits were up $1.2 billion from the first quarter reaching a record level of $121.9 billion.
The favorable shift in the deposit mix toward lower-cost accounts continued most notably by a DDA growth of $1.6 billion or 5.5%.
Higher-cost time deposits declined $300 million.
And NOW accounts also decreased in part due to public fund migrations into DDA.
Relative to the second quarter of 2010 average deposits were up $5.4 billion or 4.7%.
This growth was entirely from lower-cost accounts primarily DDA and Money Market which increased by a combined $9.5 billion.
This growth in lower cost accounts has enabled us to manage down our higher-cost time deposits which decreased by $4.3 billion or 18% from the prior year.
Slide 8 covers net interest income which declined modestly from the first quarter of 2011 primarily due -- which has increased modestly I'm sorry from the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to day count.
The net interest margin after expanding for 8 consecutive quarters stabilized at 3.53%.
Interest-earning asset yields declined 5 basis points due to lower loan yields.
This was offset by a 7-basis-point contraction in interest-bearing liability costs due to the favorable deposit mix shift lower rates paid and a reduction in our long-term debt costs.
Relative to last year net interest income increased by $78 million or 6%.
The net interest margin expanded by 20 basis points.
Favorable deposit trends were the primary drivers as rates paid declined and lower-cost deposit accounts increased.
The enhanced liquidity position also enabled an almost $3 billion or 17% reduction in our average long-term debt balances.
As we look to the third quarter while we see both headwinds and tailwinds to the margin our current expectation is for a modest decline due primarily to further decreases in interest-earning asset yields resulting from the low-rate environment.
Let's turn to noninterest income.
As in previous quarters we have made certain adjustments to our noninterest income for items like securities gains and mark-to-market accounts.
And we've included these details in the appendix.
After adjustments noninterest income increased $37 million or 5% sequentially.
Most prominent was the $28 million increase in investment banking due to strong syndicated financial revenue and another really good quarter for SunTrust Robinson Humphrey our investment banking business.
While the investment banking line item has and continued to experience volatility due to market factors it's clear that the investments we've been making in our Corporate and Investment Banking businesses are paying off.
Other notable sequential quarter increases in fee income included deposit service charges and card fees.
Relative to the prior year adjusted noninterest income was up $53 million or 7% despite the $38 million decline in deposit service charges due primarily to Reg E.
We saw increases across a broad range of consumer and commercial categories including growth of $11 million or 12% from higher debit interchange revenue and retail investment services growth of $11 million or 23%.
Let's now turn to Slide 10 for a discussion of mortgage repurchase trends.
This is the same information that we've shown you for the last few quarters reordered just a little bit.
The top left shows new repurchase demands which were $348 million in the second quarter.
That's up by $35 million from the prior quarter $26 million of which was from the 2007 vintage.
As you see at the bottom of that table a very limited amount of the demands only 5% this quarter are non-agency related.
As a result of the new demands the pending population which is shown at the top right part of the page grew to $472 million.
In light of this larger pending population we've increased the mortgage repurchase reserves to $299 million which is shown on the bottom left portion of the slide.
You'll also see that the income statement impact this quarter grew to $90 million despite actual charge-offs declining to $61 million.
While demands will likely continue to be volatile on a quarter-over-quarter basis we continue to believe that demands from the higher-loss 2006 and 2007 vintages will decline as normal seasoning patterns occur.
Let's now turn to Slide 11 for a review of expenses.
Expenses were up $77 million on a sequential quarter basis.
Credit-related expenses accounted for $37 million or about half of this increase due to legal and compliance-related accruals.
We also saw a $10 million increase in the FDIC premium due to the new asset-based assessment methodology.
So overall I'd characterize the growth in expenses as primarily due to the credit and regulatory environment but I'd also say that at roughly $1.5 billion a quarter which is where we've been plus or minus our expense base is too high for this environment.
Bill will speak momentarily to our efficiency improvement focus.
Compared to the prior year adjusted noninterest expense was up by about $100 million and you see the factors listed on this slide.
Compensation was the highest driver due to improved revenue in certain businesses as well as for additional teammates that we've hired primarily in client-facing and loss-mitigation positions.
Let's switch to Slide 12 for a review of credit quality.
Our asset quality story is a good one again this quarter.
We continued and in some cases accelerated the multi-quarter trend of improvement that we've seen in all of our primary metrics.
Early-stage delinquencies excluding government-guaranteed loans improved to 73 basis points down 7 basis points from the prior quarter.
Delinquency declines were evident across most loan categories notably an 18 basis point improvement in non-guaranteed mortgages following the 27 basis point improvement last quarter.
Commercial and consumer loan delinquency rates of 22 and 66 basis points respectively are at relatively low levels.
As such we believe that any future improvements in delinquencies will be driven by the residential segment and be influenced by the overall health of the economy.
Nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets were down 9% and 10% respectively and we also saw a reduction in NPL inflows.
Net charge-offs also showed notable improvements declining from the first quarter by 12% while the net charge-off ratio fell 25 basis points.
In light of the improvement in credit quality and the continued reduction in our risk profile the allowance for loan losses declined by 4% for the first quarter to $2.7 billion.
Let's turn to Slide 13 for some additional detail on nonperforming loans and net charge-offs by loan segment.
Like last quarter we've also provided some supplemental information by loan class in the appendix.
The $361 million sequential decline in nonperforming loans marked the eighth consecutive quarterly decline and was primarily due to our commercial segment including a 25% reduction in commercial construction.
Reductions in almost all other loan classes occurred as well.
The $1.1 billion or 23% decline in nonperforming loans from 2010 was largely driven by commercial construction non-guaranteed mortgages and C&amp;I.
Net charge-offs are shown at the bottom of the page and the $66 million sequential decline was driven by our residential segment specifically by the non-guaranteed mortgage and home equity portfolios.
The $217 million or 30% improvement in charge-offs from the prior year was widespread across loan categories with the largest dollar declines coming from non-guaranteed mortgages commercial construction and residential construction.
Overall we're pleased with the direction in which all of our credit metrics are moving.
The early-stage delinquency data indicate we may expect these trends to continue.
Therefore as we look to the rest of this year we expect NPLs to continue to decline.
We also expect net charge-offs to continue to trend favorably over time although given the significant second quarter decline third quarter net charge-offs are likely to approximate those of the second quarter plus or minus.
I'll continue my comments by focusing on capital.
Capital ratios continued their expansion this quarter and remained well above regulatory minimums and the proposed Basel III ratios.
Tier 1 common grew by an estimated 15 basis points to 9.2% while Tier 1 was up by an estimated 10 basis points to 11.1%.
Tangible common equity ratio expanded to 7.96% and tangible book value per share increased to $24.57.
I'll conclude by noting that in light of the improved earnings per share we have generated this year as well as the momentum that we're demonstrating in several of our businesses we intend to request a modest dividend increase from our Board of Directors during the second half of this year.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Bill.
Thanks Aleem.
Now I'll turn you to Slide 15 and as you'll remember we're organized around a consumer and wholesale businesses and this outlines several of the accomplishments in both.
I'm not going to detail all of them this morning but I'll point to the fact that we continue to make progress as we pursue a strategy that's grounded in providing the best service to our clients thereby fostering loyalty which helps us in attracting retaining and expanding relationships.
A few highlights from the quarter on these areas where we've succeeded include: Retail client loyalty which continues to improve and is exceeding our internal benchmarks.
The loan production in the consumer businesses while still low is up 14% over the same quarter in 2010.
Corporate and Investment Banking experienced its second-highest quarter of revenue generation and its third highest quarter of net income.
Diversified Commercial Banking net income is up over 40% year-to-date with favorable trends in both client acquisition and attrition as compared to last year.
So overall we continue to be pleased with the progress we've made and I think more importantly with the momentum we've established.
Now as you're all aware and in light of regulatory changes banks are evaluating how they charge for their services.
We have invested significantly in the science of understanding consumers' behaviors and needs and clearly that has shown us that attitudes about money and banking are evolving.
So in response we have reviewed our consumer product offerings to ensure they remain relevant competitive and profitable.
This quarter we announced some key changes to our checking account portfolio.
And as part of these changes we've simplified our products suite.
We've discontinued free checking and introduced products that respond to how clients use their bank including our new core product Everyday Checking.
This is one of the means by which we're both responding to clients' needs and mitigating the impact from regulations that are impacting our revenue stream.
I'll outline a few more monetarily.
But now that we've had clarity on the Durbin amendment let me first provide some transparency around our estimates to the run rate impact of that particular piece of legislation and its impact on fee income.
Now based on our business mix we estimate that Durbin will have a 50% annualized impact before any mitigating actions.
So to give you some additional context our year-to-date annual debit interchange revenue is approximately $370 million.
And as you're aware the final rules will not be implemented until the beginning of the fourth quarter so we'll only experience a small percentage of this in calendar 2011.
And we've been evaluating a variety of methods to mitigate both the impacts of Durbin and Reg E.
And you will recall that we made no immediate changes to our products or fees in response to Reg E as we wanted to monitor both the competitive and regulatory dynamics.
Now with some additional clarity on both fronts and with a lot of client insights we've moved into implementation mode on certain mitigation efforts.
Now for example we recently eliminated our debit rewards program and I told you about the current rollout of our new checking product set.
We also have other value-added checking features that we plan to introduce later which we believe will be beneficial to our clients as well as enhance our deposit fee income.
So collectively and over time we currently estimate that the benefits from all these changes will enable us to recapture around 50% of the revenue lost from both Durbin and Reg E.
Now I want to emphasize that we've been very deliberate in this process and we've spent a lot of time garnering feedback from our clients.
During the implementation of Reg E we received accolades from our clients and within the industry in terms of client satisfaction and with our communication efforts.
We needed to understand the final impacts of both Reg E and Durbin before we rolled out our new product set.
In the last few months I've been in virtually all 4 corners of our retail franchise and I'm really pleased with our teammates' responsiveness.
The early results are exceeding our expectations and producing more primary accounts and accounts with higher balances.
Now let me turn to the last slide for closing remarks.
Now overall we had some encouraging signs during the quarter growth in targeted loan categories a continued favorable shift in the deposit mix good growth in certain fee areas and continued encouraging asset quality trends.
Now while our results aren't yet where we'd like them to be progress is being made momentum is building and we have specific initiatives aimed at accelerating our performance in the future.
Some of these efforts are designed to further improve our revenue generation and we feel good about our prospects particularly as the economy improves and provides a little bit of tailwind.
Now we also recognize that expenses or the run rate is just simply too high for this new environment.
As a result we also have initiatives underway to lower our expense base with a targeted run rate reduction of $300 million by the end of 2013.
Now similar to our successful E squared expense reduction initiatives a few years ago there are multiple tactics involved that are structural and will accrue benefits over a period of time.
And I'll just take a moment or 2 to give you a flavor of how we plan to do this.
First a key focus will be on implementing an aggressive approach to what's commonly referred to as shared services wherein we will centralize and eliminate redundancy of similar functions currently housed in multiple parts of the organization.
This will allow us to more effectively balance costs quality and service so we can more efficiently meet the needs of our lines of business geographies and support projects.
We've identified enterprise-wide solutions in such disciplines as technology and operations finance procurement marketing and human resources to maximize their impact and improve their efficiency.
Further our supplier management efforts will be intensified to yield greater cost savings and plans to reduce paper usage both within the organization and our interaction with clients will be accelerated.
And while we're not approaching this as a headcount reduction exercise per se we will be providing these services with fewer people in the future.
Our clients continue to demonstrate an increasing preference for more technology-driven self-service channels such as a more robust ATM network and enhanced mobile banking platforms.
This increase in convenience for clients also results in lower delivery costs and improved efficiency in the branch network.
As all of these reductions are intended to produce permanent alterations to our expense base versus a quick fix only a small portion will be realized in 2011 while we expect that we'll have approximately 80% of the expense savings in our run rate by the end of 2012 with the remainder occurring in 2013.
So to be clear these expense reductions are above and beyond those that we expect to normalize as the environment improves.
Credit-related noninterest expenses for example have been running about $700 million in annual clip or roughly 12% of our expense base.
That's several multiples above where they were pre-cycle and a big drag on our efficiency ratio.
Even if these expenses normalized to a level somewhat higher than they were pre-cycle there are still several hundred million dollars in credit-related expenses that over time we expect to come out of our current expense run rate as the environment improves.
Our individual efforts and an improving economy are ingredients to our overall effort to permanently reduce our normalized efficiency ratio to under 60%.
Getting to that level will take some time and the realization of it is in part dependent upon an improving economy but I've outlined elements that we can impact regardless.
And I can assure you they we will receive the requisite intensity.
It's important to note our efforts will be focused on driving expense savings without compromising the high service levels that our clients have come to expect and we believe strategically differentiate us from our competitors.
So put another way we are approaching this as we approach all aspects of our business: with a focus on the guiding principles of our operating philosophy putting the client first by viewing the relationship through the eyes of those who choose our services building a [indiscernible] team and focusing on profitable growth by operating efficiently and investing prudently.
This planned development has been a team effort and I have great confidence and a strong belief in our franchise potential and ability to deliver.
So Kris let me turn it over to you and we can start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Bill.
Wendy we're ready to open up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Brian Foran with Nomura.
I lost you a little bit in the expense targets.
You threw out $300 million as well as $700 million of credit-related expenses.
So is it $1 billion of annual expenses that come out between the cost-save program and credit normalizing or is it some number in between? Yes.
Really what I wanted to point out is a couple of things.
So the $300 million is a specific initiative with the things that I identified.
The credit-related expenses we don't know -- don't know the timing.
Normalized credit expenses were somewhere in the past around $200 million.
Will it get that low again? I don't know but I don't think they'll operate at the current $700 million.
Okay.
So maybe we have $400 million to $500 million of credit-related expense reduction that will drop to the bottom line.
And then on the $300 million can you just clarify is that a targeted $300 million reduction relative to the current level or is that $300 million of expense saves some of which will be offset by natural growth and reinvestment and things like that? Think of this specific $300 million as a net run rate reduction by the end of 2013.
I mean I think that's sort of the easiest way to think about it.
The other investments that we'll make in our business which we'll continue to do will be self-funded.
So this is intended as sort of a permanent reduction of a run rate by end of 2013.
And so a run [indiscernible] $0.5 [ph] billion we see today? Yes.
Think about a normal quarterly expense [indiscernible] billion [ph] and a half.
Does that make sense? That does make sense.
Thanks Brian.
Our next question is from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
I think you just answered this but just putting all the numbers together so you're at $6 billion run rate right now on the expense side.
And as you think about the end of 2013 you take away the $300 million and then take away the estimate that $400 million or $500 million of environmental costs and your all-in expenses would be in the $5.5 billion range plus or minus would be how to think about it? Yes I think if you assume that as sort of a run rate kind of basis and that doesn't assume other investments that we might make relative to growth.
But I think your math is right in terms of how you're thinking about it and you need to make your own assumptions on the credit-related costs.
So I think you got to put that in your model because I think we're all sort of -- speculating as to what the new normal might be as to credit run rate.
And then of that $5.5 billion or so of expenses that would be the base that you'd hope to get an efficiency ratio I think you said of 60% or the low 60s? Yes I think if you sort of do the math think about our current non- and net-interest income think about the expense base minus the $300 million minus whatever you would assume for credit-related costs and then minus repurchase costs mortgage repurchase costs which we assume will get back to some sort of normalized level and then you sort of crank that [indiscernible] you can sort of see a way to a below 60% efficiency ratio and an above 1x ROA.
Okay yes.
Makes sense.
And then separately if you look at your tax rate this quarter it was high versus last quarter even though the pretax earnings was similar.
You pointed to several specific discrete items that drove a higher tax rate.
I don't know if you have any comment on what those things might be and what's the tax rate going forward? Matt it's Aleem.
There were several individual tax items that affected us this particular quarter.
There are actually several of those every quarter.
That's sort of a normal thing.
There are always going to be some adjustments.
Typically some go positive some go negative and they may average out overall.
This quarter we had several which ended up actually just being net unfavorable and that raised our effective tax rate.
But if you think about what our normalized tax rate is and how that looks over time as a general rule think about us as having sort of $100 million to $120 million of tax-free income.
So if you take a look at our overall income subtract $100 million to $120 million per quarter of tax-free income and then apply our marginal rate to the remainder you sort of get a generally effective tax rate number.
What that tells you is that over time as our income rises our effective tax rate should be rising also as our marginal rate then gets applied to a higher proportion of our total income.
Our next question is from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask you about the credit-related expenses.
If you look at the metrics and what we've seen in net charge-offs and nonperformers they're all moving in a favorable direction.
But when you look at the credit-related expenses this quarter we actually saw about a $40 million increase to a number that was higher than what we've seen in the last 3 or 4 quarters.
So was there any kind of proactive cleanup or some things that we did on the balance sheet that pushed that number up this quarter? This is Bill.
The largest part of that was really operating losses and the increase in operating losses.
And that line item was impacted by sort of legal and compliance-related accruals the preponderance of those being mortgage related which I don't think would be a surprise to anybody.
LLC</strong> Right.
And [indiscernible] something we hadn't added [ph] that came out this quarter that allowed us to make those and then who knows what going forward but at this point we wouldn't see that reoccurring as much or at that level? Well I can't promise that.
I mean new information comes out and we have to react to it and things that are as my accounting friends will say estimable and probable.
So when we know them in that category we'll address them and they were in that category for this quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then last question was as we look at our normalized kind of earnings going forward one of the things that in the past you all had just a pristine kind of asset quality experience so we always assume that your [indiscernible] was going to kind of cycle through run rates are going to be relatively low especially compared to your peers.
Now that we've gone through a little more stressful period and the Southeast was hit a little bit harder I think it was kind of [indiscernible] higher.
Is that part of why we go through this efficiency initiative to get back to normalized kind of profitability levels above 1% ROA [indiscernible] assuming higher in this cycle kind of losses? Yes.
I think when you sort of crank through that math you could assume we've operated in the high 30s to low 40s in our past.
And will we ever get back to that kind of level as a country and as a region and as a company? I don't know.
But I think even assuming some sort of higher numbers 50 basis points for example and that kind of run rate you can still operate sort of at a north of 1% ROA.
I can't tell you whether it will be at the same level as before.
I can tell you we'll continue to have a focus on pristine credit quality.
And I think if you look at particularly the areas where we had significant management focus and what we're known for the past in the C&amp;I and CRE and our numbers really look good.
LLC</strong> Right.
And I was just wondering what the efficiency initiative -- is that part of the motivation [indiscernible] really feeling the need to keep pushing that forward or is it just as we're going forward in the environment revenue growth is going to be [indiscernible] because of the economy so efficiencies become more a greater of a focus? Yes I think it's a combination of all those things and the keyword of that being uncertainty.
And as we sit here the certainty of a revenue increase while we expect it and expect the economy to rebound probably has a longer tail attached to it than we all thought.
And what we want to ensure is that we go into that with the most efficient organization that we can have.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> It's a question about the earning asset growth and progression the earning assets were down but period ends it looks like it was above the averages.
And I'm just wondering with loans flattening out and now the securities reinvested post the TARP are we at the point where we should start to see earning assets begin growing again? Well if you sort of look at our earning assets and dissect them say on the loan side C&amp;I growth was a little over 2%.
So I mean we're starting to see some real C&amp;I growth.
For us it's the flattening out is offset by the fact that we had significant continued decrease in our -- what we labeled higher-risk loan categories.
Those will start to level off.
They won't go to 0.
Those will start to level off.
And as we continue to see improvement particularly on the C&amp;I side which appears to be significantly leading the consumer side I'm more optimistic that we'll have core asset growth.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And just my second clarification.
I hate to come back to the expensing again but I just wanted to make sure that the point you're making is that whatever we take out of expenses is separate from what you'll also be investing in the business over time.
So I just want to make sure are we supposed to think about it as a purposeful net reduction to whatever around that $5.5 billion number it is? Or is it that $5.5 billion number before we consider ongoing investments that you'll always be continuing to make in the business? I think you need to think of it as a net reduction sort of a permanent $300 million reduction and -- off that base and then we will continue to make investments in the business.
And those investments will be funded call it self-funded by the growth in our respective businesses.
Inc.</strong> Right.
So in line with revenue growth you'll be investing within the businesses? Absolutely.
Our next question is from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the mortgage repurchase trends.
You certainly noted the increase in the repurchase demands in 2007 and I know it's relatively small numbers.
But I was just curious about the increase in the repurchase demand from 2009 to 2011 vintage mortgages.
That strikes me as a little interesting given that most of the focus has been on the pre-2008 vintages.
So if you can just provide some color on that that would be helpful.
Sure thing Matt.
It's Aleem.
The agencies are often just changing their internal processes for sampling and for file review.
So it's hard for us to pinpoint what leads to a change like this.
The increase this quarter that you saw actually related more specifically to the 2010 vintage.
And overall it doesn't overly concern us for several reasons.
These were demands and our success rate in refuting this vintage of demand is actually very high.
The loss content in this vintage is expected to be very small given the tightening of overall credit guidelines and the focus on quality in 2010.
And to date we've actually repurchased a very small amount of loans from the 2010 vintage.
In fact our total losses to date on the 2010 vintage have been less than $1 million.
Aleem let me provide a little bit of point of clarification just to make sure that we answer the question.
So you asked about the 2009 and 2010 increase in demands and our experience which Aleem answered.
But you might have gotten an implication that increase in demands for this quarter actually was sort of from the vintage -- pre-vintage that you are thinking about.
So you asked sort of 2 different questions.
Is that fair? LLC</strong> I think so yes.
And Jim if I could follow up with a question really on your branch system? Clearly you've done a lot of work trying to assess what your customers need how your customers want the products delivered particularly in the new regulatory environment.
Within the focus that you're providing in terms of cost reduction how are you thinking about your branch network and how aggressively you want to grow or perhaps shrink that part of the business over the next 3 years or so to provide the service level that your customers want but also right size the expense base? Yes I mean we'll be looking at that.
We come into this within our markets as one of the most convenient branch operating networks in our region.
And that's a combination of our traditional branches and a good reliance on our in-store.
So we go into it with an entity that's fairly efficient.
I think it'll be more in the thought of how we staff and run that network versus big increases or big decreases in branches.
I think that's probably a better way to think about it as we start shifting more consumer activity to online channels ATM channels which we've been very successful of introduction of technology.
So I think it'll be -- think more of the efficiency within the boxes versus a large number of increases versus decreases.
Our next question is from Scott Valentin with FBR Capital Markets.
Just a little bit of a philosophical question.
As capital frees up and you seek to grow the balance sheet what's the thought process regarding margin versus the net interest income? In other words if loan growth remains tepid do you then start growing the securities book and we can expect a decline in margin? Or would you then decide some way that maybe not growing the company as fast and allocate capital elsewhere? Well I think the -- from a margin perspective we are very focused on what our clients are doing and we're trying to make sure that we're there for them.
And so to the extent that we can grow the loan book and focus on our client business that's what we will be trying to do first.
To the extent that loan growth does remain tepid and deposit growth continues to -- cash continues to flow in about the only place we can put excess cash for now is in fact in the securities book.
So we will be growing securities if that happens.
Having said that we're also focused on the potential rate risk within the securities book so we'll be managing that very closely to make sure we don't overemphasize that book over time.
Okay.
And just as a follow-up in terms of the Durbin impact and some of the offsets your deposit -- I'm sorry on Reg E your deposit service charges were up link quarter.
Should we expect additional growth in deposit service charges as we go forward? Scott that's where the interchange income gets booked so I think starting in the fourth quarter as you see Durbin come into effect so it's actually in card fees that's where you'll see the card fees to come down.
As you look at deposit fees some of the things that Bill talked about earlier in the context of the new checking product suite and some value-added features would be where the majority of that would flow through.
Yes.
And one of the reasons they're up is just new accounts.
I mean so we've been successful at expanding and growing our business so the core -- not related to any fee or particular issue but just growing more accounts and due to the investments we've made on the service quality side we're losing fewer.
Our next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
A couple of questions.
One is on just cost of funds.
Could you just give us a sense as to what levers you see in managing cost of funds to be as low as possible over the next couple of quarters? Well Betsy I think 2 major levers we see there.
Number one on the deposit side.
As you know rates are very low.
We've managed to extract a lot of value by driving deposit costs lower over the last several quarters.
I think some of that is -- or most of that has played out.
However perhaps not all so we're hoping to be able to grind out an extra basis point or 2 in our deposit costs and bring our overall cost of funds down there somewhat.
Secondly as you know we've been very active on our liability management side done a tender for a bit.
We've repurchased it.
We've had some high-cost debt maturities and we're going to continue to stay focused on that to bring down whatever we can on the -- on our high-cost debt side.
So I think those are the 2 major levers we'll be focusing on when it comes to cost of funds.
And degree of impact on NIM you think those have? It will be positive but I think it will be slightly outweighed by the maturing loans that we have on the asset side.
And as those loans mature we'll be reinvesting that cash into new loans.
And new loans are coming on at slightly lower rates in the current low-yield environment.
So overall I do think that our NIM will decline a little bit as we look to Q3 and Q4.
Okay.
And then just separately on the dividends you mentioned that you were going to be requesting a dividend hike from the Board of Directors.
I would expect that that would need to be passed by the Fed as well [indiscernible] and sort of how you're thinking about payout ratios and the like as you put the request in? Well over time over the long run we do expect our payout ratio to climb.
You're aware that the Fed through the SICAR process appears to have limited or capped the total amount of payout ratios for all of the 19 banks in the SICAR process.
But over time we do expect that our payout ratio would climb toward that kind of a number and we're looking for ways in which we can return capital to shareholders.
And to set expectations I mean Aleem did say modest increase we'd be asking for [indiscernible] second half of the year which is consistent where we've been all year.
Our next question is from Kevin Fitzsimmons with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Just 1 clarification.
I know you quantified the revenue base that's being affected by Durbin and then you're going to be putting these mitigating steps in you're going to look to recapture 50% of the revenues lost from that but also Reg E.
I'm assuming Reg E is already in the run rate.
Can you quantify how much has been lost from Reg E so if we have to think about you recapturing 50% of that what that is? How about if I just do it in sort of total run rates of which we've talked about before? So we talked about a range on Reg E of $80 million to $120 million sort of normalized run rate.
Let's just use the high end of that for just purpose of the discussion.
And then Durbin has about a 307 [indiscernible] rate as to where we are right now so you've got $180-ish-plus million [indiscernible] as it relates to that.
So that's the total run rate number that we're talking about offsetting 50% of.
And I think -- and I hope and I think that that's a conservative estimate because I think the high end of both ranges and the low end of the range are offsetting.
So I think we'll be somewhat north of 50% in terms of recovery of that total run rate number.
[indiscernible] clarify.
L.P.</strong> That's great.
And one quick [indiscernible] net charge-offs in the third quarter maybe approximate to where they were in the second quarter.
How about the pace of reserving? Should we expect -- as long as credit metrics continue to improve do we expect you to continue to release but maybe not at the pace we've seen for the past couple of quarters? It's Tom Freeman.
As we've looked at the pace of release about what's going on I think the release of the reserve will stay in line with the improvement in credit metrics.
We expect the credit metrics to continue to improve over the next several quarters.
We think the release actually lags by a couple of quarters the improvement in credit quality.
Because you want to make sure that what you're not getting is a false signal in an individual quarter.
So we've been pretty cautious about the amount of money we've released out of the reserves [ph].
Our next question is from Christopher Marinac with FIG Partners.
LLC</strong> [indiscernible] acquisition.
And I guess the question really relates more to as folks bring opportunities to you -- and I'm thinking more smaller than anything large or strategic do you want the organization to be at a particular point before you consider them? Or do you feel you can consider acquisitions or the things that are related to the franchise now? Yes.
I mean Chris we've got a core competency so I mean it's not that we can't handle it.
I mean we've got people and systems and process and competency in doing this.
But all that being said I mean I'm spending 99% of my time on our franchise because I think we've got such an upside and opportunity within our own franchise.
That's where I'm devoting most of my time.
But we have competencies so we would look at things.
But we kept out of the FDIC buyout of small bank just because we thought it would be a diversion quite frankly to our overall objective of what we're trying to accomplish.
And I want to just make sure that the company is again focused on the opportunity within our franchise.
Our next question is from Bob Patten with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question.
Could you -- 1% ROA seems kind of like a low bar for what SunTrust -- the history of SunTrust.
Can you give us sort of a reminder of what the long-term return profile of the company is going to look like ROE ROA earnings growth efficiency and sort of when you think you're going to get there? We don't normally guide toward long-term ROE and ROA targets.
And with the current uncertainty of course it's very hard for any bank to do that over time.
We have set ourselves an ROA target.
We have set ourselves an efficiency target.
And what we are focused on is really excellent execution within our franchise and delivering the bank to all of our clients.
So over time I do think that you will see from us an ROA that will be north of 1%.
I think you will see from us an efficiency ratio that will be below 60%.
But we frankly don't guide to long-term ROE targets.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Did you guys give a timeframe of when you hope to attain the 1% ROA? We didn't.
And really what I was trying to sort of going through the math was an ability to just sort of get to a calculation where you can see to north of 1%.
A lot of this is obviously just is economic driven.
Sort of when are we going to see in improvement in general economy such that those normalized charge-off ratios we talked about earlier and normalized credit expenses will start to materialize? Those are less in our control.
The things that we can control is the expense base and the chassis from which we attack the business and that's what we're going to be -- have a laser focus on.
Inc.</strong> And then just last question for Bill.
How much of your time are you spending with the regulators on your daily job today versus say a year ago? Well a year ago I wasn't in this slot so.
Let me sort of start that from that framework.
It's hard to put a percentage of the time.
We've got a great team.
We have a lot of focus.
We spend time with our regulators.
Can I put a specific percentage on it? No.
Am I focused every day to make sure that I'm balancing how much time we're spending with the regulators ensuring that we're doing all the right things complying with the consent order all of the things that we need to be doing to making sure that we're on the right track but also ensuring the fact that I'm spending enough time on running the business and making sure that we're achieving our objectives.
So I haven't done the calendar calculation on that.
So I don't know if I've dodged your answer or answered it but...
Inc.</strong> No I understand what you're saying.
It's just a point of I was just trying to see how much time is being taken up by non-revenue producing issues with the regulators and so forth versus...
I think one of things -- and this was Jim's leadership -- is if you go down one layer in our company they're spending the appropriate amount of time on running the business.
Now there are a few of us that are spending a higher percentage on regulatory things than we'd like to and than we will going forward.
But the core team in the field the guys running our businesses they're certainly doing the things they need to do to respond to the regulatory issues.
But they're running the business and we're very focused on ensuring that we've got that right balance.
Our next question is from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
Bill you mentioned before just on the expenses some of the structural changes.
And I'm just curious with some of the changes that are coming through within the mortgage business and the mortgage industry just wondering kind of as you guys are addressing some of the recent Fed orders and so forth how are you thinking about the mortgage business today and kind of going forward? And does that potentially kind of fall into your outlook in terms of some of the structural changes that you're thinking about on the expense side? Yes in fairness related to the expense thing I've really sort of tried to exclude mortgage from that discussion because it'll have ups and downs and offsets as originations goes down and the regulatory expenses go up.
So I've tried to [indiscernible] that from the overall expense discussion.
Now that being said if you're asking the question are we going to be in the mortgage business going forward I mean mortgage has been an important part of what we do.
1 in 5 of our clients who have a mortgage have it with SunTrust.
We've got a lot of our new client origination comes from the mortgage channel.
Will we evaluate the efficiency and productivity in that business going forward? Absolutely.
Will we look at sort of what volumes of servicing we have versus what volumes of origination? Are we going to be in retail? Are we going to be in the [indiscernible] we are and will be evaluating all of that.
But mortgage is a core business for SunTrust.
It's been a big part of the relationship strategy that we have as a company.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just as follow-up.
Operating leverage was negative this quarter and certainly the -- addressing expenses is obviously important.
But how should we think about just kind of generating positive operating leverage going forward? You mentioned that a small amount of the cost saves were likely to come out in the back half of 2011.
But as I look at the business mix and some of the seasonality and some of the headwinds in the back half of the year how should we think about kind of positive operating leverage going forward and kind of the timing of that? Well we did talk about the expense run rate the expenses being a little less impacted this year.
And that's really because we're trying to put in structural permanent changes in the business such that we've got a permanent run rate and smaller chassis as we approach the business.
So this isn't a quick fix go lop off a lot of expenses just to accomplish a short-term objective.
By the same token we have the same amount of intensity on a bunch of revenue opportunities.
And you've seen the growth on our deposit business.
You've started to see some of that C&amp;I growth starting to come back.
That's supported by really good production numbers increases in commitments which bode well for the future.
And you've seen things like in our fee businesses our Investment Banking business which is sort of significantly run rate last 4 quarters above where it was 4 quarters before that.
So the answer is I can't give you specific timing other than to say I can assure you the focus is on both ends of that equation.
Our final question today is from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Aleem you didn't talk -- I don't think you talked too much about the margin and what the drivers are of it in the future.
Can you talk about your outlook for the margin? Sure thing Jefferson.
So over the next couple of quarters obviously there are some headwinds and tailwinds in the margin overall.
The -- I think overall we are guiding and I do expect that we'll have a modestly declined margin from the 3.53% that you saw this quarter and in the first quarter.
And the primary reason for that really are maturing loans.
So there is good [indiscernible] bad news there.
The good news is that there are clients in America who do believe in repaying their debts.
And so we are having some loans mature.
And the bad news of course is that we're putting on new loans at slightly lower yields than the old ones came off at.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> All right.
And a follow-up when I look at that rate bucket sheet I see a 4.36% rate beside that brokerage CD number.
Are those just old CDs or they -- or some hedging stuff going through there? Or what's that large rate cost doing there? Those are silks.
Those are the $2.3 billion of silks that we'd put on some time ago.
They are old and the overall duration of that portfolio is coming down.
I think we're down to under 3 years now on that particular book.
You can see the overall balance of brokered CDs has been falling very considerably year-over-year.
This is not an area of focus for us.
Thanks everybody for joining us.
We appreciate it.
If anybody has any follow-up questions as always please feel free to contact the IR department.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the SunTrust Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kris Dickson Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thanks Wendy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to SunTrust Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thanks for joining us.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call today.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
Discussing our earnings presentation today will be Bill Rogers our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining us today among other members of our executive management team are Tom Freeman our Chief Risk Officer; C.
T.
Hill our Head of Consumer Banking and Mark Chancy our Head of Wholesale Banking.
Before we get started I need to remind you our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our press release and SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Kris.
I'll keep my introductory comments brief this morning and then let Aleem get right into the review of the quarter so we can get grounded in the numbers.
I'll come back on afterwards and share my perspective before the Q&amp;A.
If you turn to Slide 3 I think that's a good summary of the quarter and I'm pleased to report we have momentum in several key areas fueled in part by our intense client-centric focus.
Loans were up again this quarter with targeted portfolio growth exceeding planned declines in higher-risk categories.
We continued to grow deposits with a favorable mix shift and key credit quality metrics improved across-the-board.
We are pursuing initiatives to help drive better performance over time including but not limited to our expense reduction program.
I'll revisit that topic later in the call.
But first let me turn it over to Aleem to provide some color on this quarter's financial results.
Thanks Bill and good morning everybody.
I'll begin my comments today with the summary income statement on Slide 4.
I'll provide you greater detail into the primary performance drivers on subsequent slides.
So for now I'll just hit the highlights.
Earnings per share this quarter were $0.39.
That's a $0.06 per share increase from the second quarter primarily due to a lower provision resulting from improved credit trends.
Compared to the third quarter of last year earnings per share increased $0.22.
The largest drivers were higher net interest income a lower provision and the elimination of the TARP drag.
The improving profitability trends that we've reported over the past couple of years are evident in the year-to-date figures.
2011 earnings per share were $0.81 which obviously compares favorably to the net loss that we reported during the first 9 months of last year.
If you'll turn to Slide 5 we'll drill down further into our performance beginning with net interest income and net interest margin trends.
Third quarter net interest income increased sequentially by $7 million or 1%.
This was due to an additional day during the third quarter and a decline in interest expense which was primarily attributable to lower deposit rates and the continuation of the favorable deposit mix shift.
The net interest margin decline of 4 basis points was consistent with our guidance and primarily driven by lower earning asset yields.
Relative to the third quarter of last year net interest income increased $27 million or 2% and the margin increased 8 basis points.
This was the result of a 29 basis point decline in interest-bearing liability costs due to favorable deposit trends and a reduction in longer-term debt.
This benefit more than offset the 17 basis point decline in earning asset -- in interest-earning asset yields due to lower rates.
On a year-to-date basis net interest income increased 5% again due primarily to lower liability costs.
As we look to the fourth quarter particularly in light of the low rate environment we expect a similar decline in the net interest margin to that experienced in the third quarter.
Let's turn to noninterest income on Slide 6.
As in previous quarters we have made certain adjustments to our noninterest income for items like securities gains and mark-to-market impacts and the details of these adjustments are included within the appendix.
The major components of this quarter's $63 million adjustment included $78 million in valuation gains that were recognized on the company's fair value debt and index-linked CDs partially offset by $21 million in valuation losses on previously secured securitized loans and illiquid securities.
On an adjusted basis noninterest income declined by $21 million this quarter.
Investment Banking revenue was down $27 million coming off a high second quarter as transaction volume decreased in light of the market volatility.
That same market volatility in August also resulted in somewhat lower core trading revenue.
Mortgage production income was up by $37 million this quarter on an adjusted basis.
Core production income rose by about $65 million as a result of increased origination volume as well as wider margins.
Partially offsetting this was $27 million of higher mortgage repurchase costs which I'll discuss in more detail momentarily.
Notwithstanding the stronger sequential quarter mortgage performance mortgage-related revenue was lower than the third quarter last year when we saw extremely high levels of refinance volume as well as very strong MSR hedge performance.
These were the primary drivers of the approximate $200 million decline in adjusted noninterest income from a year ago.
On a year-to-date basis noninterest income was stable with 2010 levels.
Double-digit growth in core consumer and commercial fee categories like Investment Banking card fees and retail investment services was offset by lower mortgage revenue as well as lower deposit service charges due to Reg E.
As you are aware our debit interchange revenue will decline beginning in the fourth quarter.
As mentioned last quarter we expect about a 50% reduction which equates to approximately $45 million to $50 million per quarter.
We continue to expect to mitigate about 50% of the approximate $300 million combined annual revenue reductions from Reg E and debit interchange.
Most of that mitigation should be in the run rate by early 2012 with the balance late in 2012 and in 2013.
Let's turn to Slide 7 for a discussion on mortgage repurchase trends.
As shown in the top left portion of the slide new repurchase demands increased to $440 million during the quarter with the 2007 vintage continuing to be the largest component.
Demands remained difficult to predict and they were elevated this quarter which is a trend that may continue in the fourth quarter.
As you can see in the bottom row of the table almost all of the demand this quarter were agency related.
The top right part of the page shows that pending demands ended the quarter at $490 million.
That's up only modestly from the prior quarter despite the increase in new demands as we worked hard to actively resolving these issues.
You can see evidence of this in the bottom left portion of the page as charge-offs increased from second quarter levels.
This was largely expected as a significant portion of last quarter's new demands came late in the month of June thus driving up the second quarter pending population.
As such and despite the fact that charge-offs declined that quarter we had built the second quarter reserve in anticipation of this quarter's increase in resolutions.
As the losses were recognized we were able to utilize a portion of that reserve increase.
The mortgage repurchase provision during the third quarter was $117 million and the ending reserve level was $282 million.
Let's take a look at expenses now.
Expenses increased by $18 million or 1% on a sequential-quarter basis due to mortgage-related costs.
Specifically operating losses and credit and collections expense were up a combined $19 million.
Other expense line items were essentially stable.
Relative to the prior year adjusted noninterest expense increased by $74 million.
Operating losses increased by $45 million largely attributable to mortgage servicing.
Employee compensation was the other major driver up $41 million due to staff additions in client interfacing and mortgage loss mitigation and servicing roles.
Higher incentive compensation due to improved revenue in certain businesses also contributed to this increase.
Partially offsetting this was a $15 million decline in other real estate expense.
And as Bill mentioned he will provide you an update to our expense program later in the call.
Let's move on to the balance sheet starting on Slide 9.
Average performing loans increased by over $1 billion or about 1% from the prior quarter.
Growth was driven by targeted loan categories including C&amp;I and consumer loans while higher risk elements of the portfolio continued to be managed down.
Commercial loan growth came from the C&amp;I category which increased by $1.1 billion or almost 2.5% primarily driven by our large book of borrowers.
The growth was across multiple industries mostly in the form of increased term funding.
We saw a modest increase in large corporate utilization rates and a similar increase in commitment levels for our smaller commercial clients.
Growth within consumer was across all loan categories with the largest dollar increases in guaranteed student loans and indirect auto.
Period-end loans were up over $2.5 billion or more than 2% from the prior quarter.
Notable items included increased production volume higher loan balances during every month of the quarter and the $500 million student loan portfolio acquisition that closed at quarter end.
Relative to the prior year average loans grew almost $3.5 billion or about 3%.
This growth also came from the targeted C&amp;I and consumer portfolios.
Commercial category loans increased by about $0.5 billion as strong C&amp;I growth more than offset declines in CRE and commercial construction.
The consumer portfolio was up by approximately $3.5 billion with student and indirect auto again driving the growth.
Conversely residential loans declined due to about a $2 billion combined reduction in non-guaranteed mortgages home equity and residential construction partially offset by growth in guaranteed mortgage.
Overall we are pleased with our traction in growing selected areas of the portfolio this quarter.
And currently we were also able to continue to reduce risks and further information of this is shown on Slide 10.
The portfolios that we've categorized as higher risk have accounted for about 50% of our net charge-offs over the past couple of years.
As may be seen on this slide these balances are down by almost $13 billion or about 55% since the fourth quarter of 2008.
These portfolios fell by another $700 million this quarter with declines across all the categories especially the commercial construction and higher-risk home equity portfolios.
Overall these higher-risk portfolios now constitute only 9% of our total loans.
Less than $1 billion of this is nonperforming and has been written down or reserved for while the remainder of the book is exhibiting more favorable characteristics.
For example the performing higher-risk home equity portfolio has a refreshed averages FICO score in excess of 700.
At the same time that we've been managing these high-risk balances down we've also been reducing our risk further by increasing our government-guaranteed loans.
Government-guaranteed loans increased this quarter by about $650 million.
And they now total $9.8 billion or 8% of our loan portfolio.
Let's move on now to a discussion on deposits.
Average client deposits were up again increasing by over $1 billion or about 1% from the second quarter.
Favorable mix shift continued as growth was again concentrated in lower-cost categories most notably via the $2.1 billion or 7% single quarter increase in DDA balances.
Time deposits were down and we also saw a decline in NOW balances many of which migrated into DDA.
Relative to the prior year average deposits were up $5.7 billion or about 5%.
Lower-cost deposit accounts increased by about $10 billion which primarily came from 20% growth in DDA and 8% growth in money market.
And currently higher-cost time deposits declined by about $4 billion or 17%.
Moving on to credit quality.
All of our primary asset quality metrics improved this quarter largely due to favorable trends in the commercial portfolio.
Early-stage delinquencies excluding government-guaranteed loans declined 3 basis points from the prior quarter.
Commercial loan delinquencies were down 7 basis points while residential loans improved by a modest 2 basis points.
You can see this detail in the Appendix where we've provided you the usual supplementary slides.
Commercial and consumer early-stage delinquency rates of 15 and 67 basis points respectively are at relatively low levels.
So we expect any further improvements in overall delinquencies to be driven by residential loans and to be influenced by the overall economy particularly by changes in unemployment and to a lesser extent home value.
We saw another quarter of meaningful improvement in nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets which were down 10% and 8% respectively.
I'll share with you the drivers of this momentarily.
Net charge-offs were $492 million.
This was a 3% improvement from the prior quarter and consistent with our prior guidance.
In light of the overall continued credit quality improvement and risk reduction in the portfolio we decreased the allowance for loan and lease losses by $144 million this quarter.
The allowance ended the quarter at 2.22% of loans.
Of note if you exclude government-guaranteed loans from the denominator this ratio is about 20 basis points higher.
Slide 13 provides some additional detail on nonperforming loan and net charge-offs [ph].
Sequential quarter decline in nonperforming loans marked their ninth consecutive quarterly decrease and was driven by commercial loans.
Commercial construction NPLs fell $242 million or almost 40% as the result of continuing risk-mitigation activities.
C&amp;I and CRE NPLs declined by almost $60 million each or over 10%.
Nonperforming residential loans were essentially unchanged.
Relative to the prior year nonperforming loans declined by $1.1 billion or 26%.
Every loan category was down with the largest dollar declines coming from commercial construction non-guaranteed mortgages and C&amp;I.
Net charge-offs declined by $13 million from the prior quarter driven by residential loans as home equity and residential construction fell by a combined $17 million.
Commercial charge-offs were relatively stable as an approximate $40 million sequential quarter increase in commercial construction was largely offset by about a $35 million combined decrease in C&amp;I and CRE.
Compared to last year net charge-offs were down by about $200 million or about 30% which was driven primarily by lower residential losses most notably in the non-guaranteed mortgage loan category.
Overall NPL declines in recent quarters have been driven by commercial category loans as the higher-risk commercial construction portfolio has been reduced while the C&amp;I book has generally performed well overall.
Residential loans have been the largest driver of our lower net charge-offs.
This portfolio has seen notable improvements over the past year although that stabilized somewhat this quarter.
Taking this together we expect the third quarter trends to be similar in the fourth quarter specifically additional declines in nonperforming loans with generally stable net charge-offs.
I'll conclude my comments today on Slide 14 with the discussion of capital.
The Tier 1 common ratio expanded to an estimated 9.25% while the Tier 1 capital ratio ended the quarter at an estimated 11.05%.
The latter was down marginally due to a modest reduction in our outstanding trust preferred securities as well as the impact of loan growth on risk-weighted assets.
Both of these ratios continue to be well above the current and proposed regulatory requirement.
The tangible common equity ratio expanded by over 30 basis points due to higher retained earnings as well as an increase in accumulated other comprehensive income due to higher unrealized gains in our securities portfolio.
Those same factors drove a 4% increase in tangible book value per share which ended the quarter at $25.60.
We told you on the last call that we intended to approach our Board requesting a modest dividend -- a common dividend increase.
We did so and received their approval.
And we announced during the third quarter a 4% share -- a $0.04 per share increase in the quarterly dividend.
Separately we also repurchased and retired about 4 million SunTrust warrants during a public auction conducted by the U.S.
Treasury.
While both of these actions were relatively small they are consistent with our desire to increase the return of capital to our shareholders.
With that and to lead us through a discussion of our strategic growth initiatives I'll turn the call back over to Bill.
Great.
Thanks Aleem.
I'm going to take us to Slide 15.
And as we discussed before we're pursuing specific strategies to drive higher profitability and growth from a more diversified platform.
I think this slide shows 3 of the 4 main categories and provides some examples of the success we've already garnered.
The fourth category improved expense efficiency will be covered on the subsequent slide.
While there are certainly more to come on each of these fronts I wanted to provide some data points to demonstrate the momentum we're generating.
There are several interrelated components to our strategy for growing consumer market and wallet share.
Most importantly the initiatives are grounded in our ability to win by providing the best service to drive improved client loyalty and better relationship penetration.
We believe this is a critical means of differentiating ourselves in the market place and is resonating well with our clients on a very broad basis.
As you heard earlier evidence of this is showing up in absolute deposit growth as DDA balances are up 7% over the prior quarter.
Lower-cost deposit increases more than offset the decline in higher-cost deposits maintaining our favorable mix shift.
A relative growth however was evidenced in the recent FDIC deposit share data as we increased share in 8 of our top MSAs.
Last quarter I indicated that we were beginning the planning for our new checking product suite.
This was the result of extensive client research and is now in full implementation mode.
We discontinued free checking and introduced our new Everyday Checking product.
Everyday Checking carries a monthly maintenance fee which can be waived by holding a $500 daily balance or by simply having a direct deposit into the account.
Everyday Checking also has a monthly check card fee for unlimited check card usage which is assessed only when the card is used on a monthly cycle at the point of sale.
Now as was expected we're opening fewer accounts.
However the average balance of the new accounts are twice as high as those opened under free checking.
We're also seeing triple digit growth in the sale of our higher tier accounts which require higher balances and a greater breadth of relationship with SunTrust.
So on various fronts this conversion is meeting or exceeding our expectations.
Another strategic priority is better diversification of our loan portfolio.
Our C&amp;I and consumer books grew by combined $7 billion over the last year.
More importantly production in C&amp;I and consumer were particularly strong this quarter and we saw some improvement in utilization in large corporate and an increase in total commitments in core commercial.
Our guaranteed portfolios both residential and student have also been growing and contributing to both our diversification and risk improvement.
All this growth more than offset the targeted reductions in our non-guaranteed residential loans which are down $2 billion since the third quarter of last year including a $1 billion decline in home equity.
So overall good progress toward this objective as well.
A better diversification also applies to our business mix and fee income.
Expanding wholesale business is a key strategic element in this priority and we generated significant momentum on this front.
While the third quarter was impacted by an industry-wide decline in capital markets revenue Corporate and Investment Banking year-to-date revenue was up 16% and net income was up 23%.
Diversified Commercial Banking revenue is up 9% and net income is up 34%.
Growing our private wealth business is also a priority and you see we've had some success here as well as retail service income was up almost 20%.
Now moving onto our expense initiatives in Slide 16.
So anticipating a tougher operating environment earlier this year we embarked upon the development of a program to uncover additional ways to make significant and permanent expense reduction throughout the organization.
As a result of those efforts we announced to you last quarter our plans to eliminate $300 million in run rate expenses by the end of 2013.
Today I'd like to provide some more specificity around what we're doing to accomplish that goal.
First you'll notice that this program now has a name which is the PPG Expense Initiative.
PPG is an acronym for playbook for profitable growth.
It's what we call the collection of initiatives across the organization that we believe over time will be a key component in our plan to reduce our efficiency ratio to under 60%.
As you can imagine there are numerous initiatives in place under this program but for purposes of communicating our progress we've categorized them into a few core buckets which you can see depicted on the slide.
As we move through the process we'll be updating you on the status of these with increasing accuracy and transparency.
The bar across the top of the page will be filled in overtime with real dollar progress towards our program goal.
As we've previously stated only a small portion of the savings will actually be realized in 2011 and as such the dollar impact of our efforts thus far has not been meaningful.
We have however made significant progress on our overall plan and are in full implementation mode on several large and dozens of smaller initiatives.
I'll remind you that the $300 million in expense reductions are above and beyond the expected credit-related expense and mortgage repurchase reserve normalization that undoubtedly will occur -- undoubtedly occur as the economic environment improves.
The sub-60 efficiency ratio goal is the culmination of both the program and these expected normalizations.
So let me move to some of the specific initiatives.
So first starting with the strategic supply management effort.
That's focused on not only securing even more competitive pricing from our supply base but also proactively further managing down our own demand and assessing value received for costs incurred.
Nearly all outside spend areas are in scope and the entire enterprise is in the game.
The broad categories for which we are providing status updates are: Discretionary spending demand management and outsourcing.
Immediate actions have been taken to further reduce expense in obvious discretionary areas.
But more importantly we're enhancing our engagement model focused on sustaining these new lower levels of spending.
The next key component of the program is the consumer bank efficiencies initiatives which includes channel optimization alternative channel management and sales and service productivity.
As we've articulated previously we've made numerous investments in client-facing technology such as mobile and ATM enhancements which have supported and enabled a meaningful shift in clients' willingness to use self-service channels.
As clients utilize these channels it allows us to evaluate other aspects of our consumer delivery model such as our branch network.
This is not a widespread branch-reduction exercise though it will include some branch rationalization and core changes to our branch staffing model.
There are going to be increases in key opportunity branches but overall net reductions to reflect reduced transaction volume.
The changes are underway and we'll begin to see the results early next year.
The objective is to accomplish this while maintaining the key momentum we've established in our industry-leading loyalty.
Operations staff and support is the final of the 3 main categories of savings and includes our shared service initiatives along with digital technology and lean process design and management.
Within our corporate operations there will be strategic consolidation of certain areas where redundancies have been identified.
Today some aspects of our corporate functions are performed in multiple parts of our organization like corporate staff within the lines of business and/or within the geographic units.
Our future model will use a more centralized approach for support functions with more centers of excellence while preserving our key local sales and service delivery model.
We expect that this will enable us to perform functions like marketing procurement technology and human resources more efficiently and more effectively.
We're also pursuing other opportunities such as standard reporting through all elements of the organization.
Digital technology in this case refers to a set of initiatives designed to significantly increase both our internal and our clients' use of digital solutions.
We're uncovering means of reducing the amount of printed material in our interactions with clients in the day-to-day operations of our branches and across the bank.
It also includes efforts to improve adoption rates of our more robust digital solutions by our clients.
While many of the initiatives are very specific like consolidations redundancy eliminations and spans and layers analysis we're also incorporating lean tools and technologies in to virtually the whole bank to boost productivity.
We've had much success in using lean process principles in our technology and operations area to help drive large-scale transformational improvements.
We plan to adopt these on a more widespread basis across more disciplines.
As the PPG expense program progresses we'll provide status updates on each of the major initiatives outlined on this slide along with the real dollars that are coming out of our expense base as they are realized.
I want to assure you this program has my full attention and I'm confident that we've built the resources and have the intensity to accomplish our objective.
So in conclusion and before we open up the call for Q&amp;A I'll note that while our bottom line performance is not yet where we'd like it to be progress is being made.
Momentum is building around the initiatives we have in place to grow targeted businesses better diversify the loan portfolio and reduce expenses.
While the future may be a little less certain virtually all of our asset quality metrics improved this quarter.
Our client first mandate and focus on having a talented highly engaged workforce is being recognized and rewarded by our clients.
And all that's being done with an eye towards driving better return for our shareholders.
I have great confidence we've got the right priorities in place.
We have a great team leading our company.
We have focused teammates working towards a common objective.
Now before we turn it over to Q&amp;A I'd like to take a little liberty to thank the teammates who are on this call as they are what define SunTrust.
So with that said Kris let me hand it back over to you and we'll start the Q&amp;A Thanks Bill.
When we're ready to open up the call for Q&amp;A I'd like to ask the participants to please limit yourself to one primary question followed by one follow-up.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question I wanted to focus on was really the credit-related expenses.
And what we've seen the last 2 quarters is that number kind of moving back up and kind of this quarter we picked our head back above $200 million.
Was just curious if as we saw the DVA [ph] coming in and we had some positive movement on that side if we didn't see some opportunity to kind of make sure we were working real hard to get some of these things behind us as we go on through the quarter.
Marty it's Aleem.
Yes we're actually working very hard to do that and you I think saw a little bit of that happening this quarter.
We've got a team of people particularly on the mortgage side and on the putback side working to see how many of those demands that come in we're able to refute working very hard to see of those demands that we accept how we limit the severity of those things.
You saw that in the amount of overall resolution that happened this quarter so I think there's a real -- you've got a team of people who are working hard and I think you saw some of that actually take place this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And do you think that this 2011 kind of number starts to work its way down now as we've seen the asset quality improvements or is this kind of the inflection point when we'll start seeing some improvement as we move forward? I'll answer and then I think Tom Freeman will jump in with some color.
I think that's real hard to say Marty.
That's really sort of an overall economic issue.
We are exposed to the economy the whole financial system is.
And the primary driver overall for credit for us as you know is unemployment.
And as the economy goes we're leveraged to that we'll go the same way.
So Marty I think while you've seen some increase in those costs as they're put together especially on Slide 27 when you look at the detail that's put together the core cost of running the workout businesses are remaining relatively flat and starting to decline a little bit.
And what Aleem was speaking to is we're working really hard on the return loans from the agencies and making sure that we've got that stuff rationalized in the appropriate manner.
I think staff is looked at we're rebalancing our staff as our workloads go down and I think this stuff is dependent upon the number of defaults going forward as Aleem just told you.
And we've had pretty good luck so far.
I think right now it continues to improve.
But boy it's an uncertain environment out there right now.
And Marty I'd add -- this is Bill that some of the operating losses are fees related to the delays in the foreclosure process.
And you'd presume over time those will absolutely come down.
Our next question is from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on an expense-related question.
As we think about the $240 million of run rate savings you expect to get by the end of next year how should we think about that progressing from the fourth quarter of 2011 throughout next year? Is that somewhat even? Is it going to be back ended? I would think about it as starting in the second quarter and then lower in the first quarter and then start progressively quarter by quarter through the fourth quarter so not totally back ended but clearly progressive.
And it just makes sense.
I mean if you got to start run rate expenses you should build [ph] that way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess in terms of the timing of implementation of a lot of these projects it's more likely to kick in starting in the second quarter then? Well it's things like implementation are today I mean that's when it started.
I mean the example on the branch piece is we're already down in some areas in branch FTEs.
You just won't see the run rate part of that until the first and second quarter so implementation -- I don't want to send a mixed message.
Implementation is now.
We're more than fully underway.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then separately the detail of the government-guaranteed loans that you've provided is helpful in terms of separating the mortgage and the student and you gave us the yields and everything.
Can you give us a sense though of what type of duration you're adding the mortgage spreads of 3.6%; student 4.4%? Obviously they look low on an absolute basis but if there's no credit risk it can provide a different picture.
But what type of duration on the mortgage side? And then just remind us on the student the duration of how those loans are as well? Sure thing.
It's Aleem.
The duration is actually quite varied as you pointed out depending on the type of loan that we're adding.
On the mortgage side we're adding anywhere from adjustable-rate mortgages out to 15-year fixed out to 30-year fixed.
So the overall duration across those is mixed.
On the student loan side those tend to be relatively shorter-duration loans overall.
But overall when you look at the duration of the balance sheet in total holistically including those loans including everything else we've got both on the asset and liability side the duration of the entire balance sheet is coming down a little bit quarter-over-quarter mostly as a function of rates coming down.
Our next question is from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Billy a big focus of the quarter with the banks has been capital planning capital management kind of going into 2012 and the CCAR progress.
As you mentioned you guys recently raised your dividend paid back or repurchased some of the warrants from Treasury.
How should we think about kind of 2012 with the capital Bill that you've seen this year yet it's a bit -- again the economy we're hearing more about kind of the uncertain environment going into 2012? For SunTrust how do we think about kind of your priorities in terms of dividends buyback redeeming more trust preferred and other types of things that you might be thinking about contemplating in perhaps more uncertain world in 2012? Let me take it at a pretty high level and then Aleem might want to embellish my answer and it probably is worthwhile actually going back a little bit to last year in the CCAR process.
So if you think about last year our submission was focused on minimizing shareholder dilution and that was #1 2 and 3 in terms of our priorities.
So that set the tone for where we started from.
Today -- so going into the same process now this year we go into this with higher capital better earnings and it would be safe to assume that we will be more balanced in our submission regarding both the dividend and share repurchase.
It will be a part of what we'd be looking at.
As you mentioned this is an industry process.
We all don't know the rules yet.
And Aleem I don't know if you'd want to embellish that and maybe talk about TruPs a little bit.
Sure.
I'll add a couple of points to Bill's answer.
Not only higher capital and better earnings but also a better structural balance sheet overall less risk overall and even stronger liquidity.
So overall we're coming into this year stronger on every conceivable metric.
And the focus of our CCAR submissions or going through the stress tests will be to help the Federal Reserve Board to understand exactly how strong we are coming into this and provide a balanced return to our shareholders in every way.
Whether that be by dividends or some other type of capital action we'll try to structure something like that in there if we can.
Of course as you know we don't know what the rules are yet for this next CCAR.
Apparently we'll get all of those next month with a submission date some time in January and the response date back from them some time in March.
On the TruPS question you may have noticed we actually have been reducing our TruPS somewhat over the course of this year so we've been finding ways to return capital to shareholders wherever we can.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And again just going back to the dividend buyback in kind of a balanced approach if you will can you give us a sense in terms of how you're thinking about targeting kind of the distribution or payout overall? It seems as though still a number of companies are leaning more towards dividend versus buyback and perhaps even more cautious on kind of -- in 2011 which was a kind of a 30% guideline how do you think about that guideline going into 2012 and how you weigh again that dividend versus buyback question? ; Well I'm not sure what the guideline will be for '12.
We know what it was for '11 but it may not be there in '12.
So we'll have to wait until we hear from them to find out exactly what that guideline is.
But if and when they tell us we will balance our submission around a guideline both on dividends as well as to try and find some other ways of returning capital to shareholders besides just dividends.
Our next question is from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about your margin outlook going into 2012? I know you gave some color in terms of the fourth quarter but can you talk about '12 and more specifically what you expect in terms of the impact on securities reinvestment yields as well is the impact on the loan yields and how much that could influence the trajectory of the margin? Sure thing.
You may have seen as you know sort of coming into this that we were actually positioned -- one of the few banks who is positioned not to be asset sensitive.
So with the big drop in rates that we got in August we were actually positioned a little bit better than some others and so the impact on us has been slightly less and we're coming into this in a slightly better position I think than some other banks.
Going forward we've given you a little bit of guidance for Q4.
We do expect to see a modest margin decline in Q4 also.
And then as we look out into 2012 we're thinking about the kinds of levers that we've got to be able to protect the margin.
Those kinds of levers include things like further drops in deposit rates.
Overall ability that we've had to drop deposit rates has actually extended out farther than I had initially thought it would.
So that's been a pleasant surprise and we're now looking to see how we can continue to do more of that going forward.
Other levers that we've got at our disposal are going to be things like further TruPS redemptions further payoffs of our longer-term more expensive debt.
So we've got some levers that we're going to be continuing to pull on to try and manage the margin overall.
But we're focused not just on the margin we're also focused on the net interest income number.
And we're going to be trying to protect that net interest number as much as we can through 2012.
And don't sort of excuse the fact also of the discipline that we put in the management of both the asset and the liability side of our balance sheet so part of that improvement in prior quarters in NIM was just due to just a much tighter management.
So to Aleem's point that's also a continued lever.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your implication of trying to protect the margins you're implying there's probably a downward bias there but you're aiming to keep it stable? I think if rates stay where they are we'll have runoff.
We do have loans paying off.
We do have securities maturing.
And that runoff will be invested in the current rate environment whatever that happens to be.
So if rates do stay low I think that what you'll see for the industry overall will be a continued decline in margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up would just be on -- you mentioned that you're focusing on supporting NII net interest income and can you talk a little bit about your strategy around the bond portfolio? Are you looking to move out the curve a bit there to seek a bit of yield? We're actually not pushing out the curve much.
We've always had a strategy of laddering our reinvestments.
Our portfolio has always had monthly cash flow.
So as that cash flow has increased somewhat due to the reduction in rates more recently we're continuing that strategy on and we're buying securities anywhere from 5-1 ARMs out to 30-year or agency MBS.
We're just continuing the same strategy we've always had.
Our next question is from Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> What specifically drove the pickup in the OREO balances? And I'm wondering could the -- maybe a little more aggressive disposition of these balances impact pre-provision earnings in the fourth quarter.
So what drove the increase in the balances was the success in moving a lot of the commercial loans from a collection status to a resolution status.
Actually our success rate on the resolution activity is pretty good.
We're able to dispose of the foreclosed properties very quickly once we get them in the queue for disposition.
So we've been able to meet our disposition costs our disposition activity I think quite well.
And we control those costs I think pretty aggressively.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just kind of one housekeeping question here.
Can you help us with the tax rate? I believe you pay a statutory 35% which is offset by roughly $100 million of tax shield benefit.
How should we think about this rate in the fourth quarter? Well I think the way to think about what our tax rate is likely to be is that as you say we've got about $100 million of income that's generated that's roughly tax free.
And above that we pay the statutory tax rate.
So whatever your model says for what you expect our net income to be that's generally a good way to think about that.
And where we've been over the last couple of quarters if you average those out that works out to roughly about 18%.
Research Division</strong> And is the $100 million mostly from bonds that are tax free or is it from like low-income housing credits? It's only partially from bonds.
It's actually a lot from our overall business with local government clients.
Our next question is from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on commercial loan growth.
Commercial loans were up about 2% this quarter and I'm just curious about the competitive environment.
Most of the regional banks have reported C&amp;I loan growth that has been much stronger than the overall portfolio growth.
I guess I'm curious as to your thoughts about how competitive that environment has gotten and how pricing has responded to that or has the backing away of some of the European players in the U.S.
market provided some more opportunities so competition really hasn't gotten that bad? In fairness you're asking and answering the question because I think that's exactly it.
I mean there are a lot of countervailing forces here.
You've got the supply and demand issues of banks working hard to increase loans counteract them.
So on the commercial side sort of low-end commercial middle commercial that continues to be competitive.
Although I'll say our coming-on spreads are -- haven't experience the kind of decline you might expect from a highly competitive market.
And then on the large-end corporate side I mean I think you've defined it.
I mean what's happened in the last quarter is a pretty dramatic shift.
Now you won't see that in the total portfolio.
But in coming-on spreads you've had actually some increase.
LLC Research Division</strong> And if I can just to follow-up on Basel III.
Have you estimated your Basel III Tier 1 common capital ratio relative to the Basel I ratio that you reported this morning? Indeed we have Matt and they're actually very similar.
You would normally expect Basel III capital ratios to be substantially lower than Basel I ratios but we get a benefit primarily as a result of the large unrealized gain we have in our securities portfolio.
And as a result our Basel III and Basel I numbers are coming in almost on top of each other.
LLC Research Division</strong> And how are you thinking about managing for the liquidity requirements under Basel III? Have you started to do that or are you still waiting for a bit more guidance in terms of that part of the regulation? We're watching that very carefully.
And I personally expect that the way the current regulations are written there will be a little bit of flex in that between now and the final regulation.
So we're aware of it.
We're watching it.
We know where we are but I expect that there'll be little bit of change between now and when they're finalized.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Ian Foley in for Ken.
A quick question for Tom.
Just how should we think about reserve release going forward and where it could potentially bottom out once charge-offs normalize in the future? You're sort of breaking up.
Can you repeat that question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I just wanted to talk about reserve release going forward and kind of where you think the allowance could bottom out once charge-offs normalize? I think if you take a look at what we've done over the past several quarters we've given some small very gradual releases in the reserves as our credit quality metrics have continued to improve roughly about $100 million of reserve relief per quarter.
This has come in conjunction with improved risk metrics across the portfolio.
I think if you look relative to a year ago delinquencies are down 25 bps NPLs are down 25% and charge-offs are down almost 30%.
And I think concurrent with the risk reduction in the portfolio we've been growing high-quality assets including significant portion of government guarantee.
As a result of all of this we have lower incurred losses the GAAP basis of the reserve.
Our ALLL process is rigorous diligent and we certainly are keeping an eye on the pace of the recovery.
But in light of that we continue to keep a meaningful qualitative reserve.
But overall we feel the reserve is properly calculated and more than sufficient at the current time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then a quick question on mortgage banking and production.
Just as far as revenue recognition and whether any of this quarter's spike in demand could carry through next quarter and kind of just your outlook on whether gain on sale margins are sustainable or not.
Well we just -- we had production was up 24% or so and application volume was up about just shy of 30%.
So that's a pretty good indication at least for the start of the fourth quarter.
And as it relates to gain on sale margins we continue to see those at a pretty high base.
This has been a pretty good environment.
And again sort of early reads are that it's continuing to hold up.
Our next question is from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about rep and warranty and just talk about GSE behavior residual [ph] rates severities expectations for provision anything you can do to help us think about how this expense changes in the future and how this -- how the total expense is going to play out over time.
Well Jefferson I wish I could help you more.
You know this has been a very volatile issue overall.
If you think back a little bit you know that the trends and the demands actually declined pretty substantially and more than we expected late last year.
And then in the last couple of quarters they've come back up again.
So it is hard to speculate what the future activity is going to be.
Assuming that demand stay elevated again in Q4 sort of seems reasonable but it's tough to give you a good read on subsequent quarters past that.
It does stand to reason that the further we get away from 2006 and the 2007 vintage that mortgage repurchases will have less of an impact because the later vintages have tighter underwriting criteria and came in after the bulk of the housing price declines.
And the improvement in our delinquency ratios overall do suggest that lower demands will eventually follow.
But to be fair we haven't seen what we expected so far.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And my follow-up I wanted to ask you about the trading line item x the DDA.
Can you talk about the quarter-to-quarter decline there and talk about whether the fourth quarter is the type of environment where that could bounce back? Or if you just expect some low trading revenue for a quarter or 2? Well as you know on a reported basis our trading line item went up.
But after excluding out the adjustment items core trading was down about $15 million to $20 million quarter-over-quarter.
The majority of that really happened in August as a result of all of the market volatility and all the issues that happened in Europe.
We're not a huge trader.
Most of our trading positions are really kept to service our client business.
But we were impacted a little bit by that risk-off trade that happened in August and concurrent with the downgrade of the U.S.
debt by S&amp;P.
In the fourth quarter I think typically what you see happen across the industry is trading revenue generally goes down as we get into the holiday season.
It's a little hard to say now what the whole quarter is going to look like.
I think the important point that Aleem highlighted is this is not a big line item for us.
I mean this is really only the core trading is $15 million to $20 million a quarter anyway.
So this isn't going to have sort of wide variations that you might see somewhere else.
We're about out of time.
I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to Bill and he's going to wrap us up today.
Okay Kris thanks.
And I just had a couple of closing comments.
We're under no illusion that the operating environment is going to be easy but we're focused on and making meaningful progress in the areas that we can control.
So just to summarize if I could this quarter we saw loan growth in our targeted commercial and consumer categories.
Deposits hit a record new high.
Credit trends continued to improve.
We grew tangible book value.
And our capital ratios were well in excess of current and proposed regulatory requirements including Basel III.
Our strategic priorities are set.
Our teammates are focused.
Our results are showing signs of progress.
So with that as a conclusion thank you for joining us today.
Thanks everyone.
Feel free to give the IR department a call if you have any further questions.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the SunTrust Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kris Dickson Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thanks Wendy.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
We appreciate it and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call today.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
With  me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Freeman our Chief Risk Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risk and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our press release and SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that out of the way I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Okay.
Thanks Kris.
I'll begin today's call with some brief comments about the quarter and then we'll pass it over to Aleem to provide more detail on the results and then I'll come back.
I'm going to start today on Slide 3 which provides a summary of the major drivers for our performance.
Net income was $152 million for the quarter or $0.28 a share.
Full year EPS was $1.09 and up meaningfully from the prior year.
While we generated good core business momentum and that was building throughout the year some of that progress is being masked by legacy mortgage issues that continue to impact results.
Our favorable loan and deposit both growth and mix trends continued this quarter.
Performing loans were up a solid 4% and that is net of our continued efforts to reduce our exposure to higher-risk loans.
At the same time we saw strong DDA growth over the last quarter and last year.
Over the course of the last few years strong deposit growth has outstripped loan growth causing our loan-to-deposit ratio to decline though the current momentum on the loan side is going to allow us to better utilize the deposits and thus bring the ratio more back in the line.
While the net interest margin was down slightly improved deposit mix pricing discipline and loan growth drove an absolute increase in net interest income.
Conversely fee income declined from last quarter due to lower debit interchange revenues and an increase in the mortgage repurchase provision.
We're going to provide much more detail on mortgage repurchases later in this call.
Total expenses were down modestly from the prior quarter but we've made excellent progress on our PPG program this quarter hitting 25% of our annualized target by year end and putting us firmly on track to remove $300 million from our expense base by year end 2013.
From a credit quality perspective we continued to see improvement across all primary credit metrics.
Most notably nonperforming loans were down 10% sequentially.
Lastly we generated positive capital growth and our capital ratios remained strong and well in excess of current and proposed regulatory requirements.
Now that sums up the quarter from a very very high level.
I'm going to turn it over to Aleem.
He's going to give you some more details.
And then as I said I'll come back and sum up a bit.
Aleem? Thanks Bill and good morning everybody.
We appreciate it's been a busy week for you so thank you for choosing to join us this morning.
We had several large items impact our results this quarter some positively and some negatively.
So before getting too deep into our results let's get grounded in these.
As we do each quarter we spelled out certain adjustment items in our appendix.
This is done to provide you clarity on items affecting our noninterest income and expense trends that are nonrecurring or non-core.
The 3 largest such items from the fourth quarter are shown at the top of Slide 4.
First we wrote down the value of our MSR by $38 million due to the expected increased prepayment speeds associated with HARP 2.0.
While this is an upfront financial cost of the program we do expect to realize future benefits from HARP-related refinance activity.
Second and per our November 8-K filing we made the decision to freeze our defined benefit pension plan.
Concurrent with the freeze we also made a onetime contribution to our longer-tenured teammates' 401(k) accounts.
The net impact of these 2 items resulted in a fourth quarter gain of $60 million.
We also recorded $27 million in severance-related expenses associated with our Playbook for Profitable Growth or PPG Expense Program.
This was due to progress that we made on the implementation and design of the program during the fourth quarter.
This quarter's accrual reflects what we currently believe to be the majority of the severance costs to be incurred over the life of the program.
Two other notable items this quarter are shown at the bottom of the slide.
As we previously communicated we observed an elevated level of mortgage repurchase demands during the fourth quarter.
These demands together with an increase to our mortgage repurchase reserve led to a $215 million mortgage repurchase provision which is up by $98 million from the third quarter.
We'll discuss this in greater detail in a few minutes.
And lastly we had an approximate $50 million reduction in card fees due to the impact of debit interchange regulations that became effective during the fourth quarter.
One item you don't see on this slide is an accrual for a mortgage servicing settlement with the state's Attorneys General.
Like several other servicers we have very recently commenced discussions regarding such an event.
However this dialogue is in the very preliminary stages so we do not yet have a reasonable estimate of the amount and no accrual for the potential financial impact has been recorded in our financial results.
As discussions progress over the next few weeks we expect to provide an update on this matter in our 10-K.
With these items as a backdrop please turn to Slide 5 for a review of the summary income statement.
Net income to common shareholders was $152 million this quarter or $0.28 per share.
This compares with $0.39 per share last quarter and $0.23 per share for the fourth quarter of last year.
The $0.11 sequential quarter decline was the result of lower noninterest income primarily due to the impact of 3 items I mentioned on the previous slide: The increased mortgage repurchase provision lower debit interchange revenue and the HARP-related MSR adjustment.
These more than offset an increase in net interest income a lower provision and a modest expense decline.
$0.05 EPS increase from the fourth quarter of 2010 was driven by higher net interest income a lower provision and the elimination of the TARP preferred dividends.
These were partially offset by the decline in fee income for mortgages and debit cards.
For the full year we reported EPS of $1.09 up meaningfully from the net loss of $0.18 reported in 2010.
This was driven by a 4% increase in net interest income a significant reduction in the loan loss provision due to improved credit quality and the elimination of TARP dividends beginning in the second quarter of 2011.
Let's now delve deeper into each of the major income statement categories beginning with net interest income on Slide 6.
Fourth quarter net interest income increased sequentially by $31 million or 2%.
This was due to an increase in interest income resulting from strong loan growth together with a decline in interest expense due to the continuation of the favorable deposit mix and pricing trends as well as a reduction in long-term debt.
Consistent with our prior guidance the net interest margin declined by 3 basis points the result of lower-earning asset yields.
We expect that we'll see another 3- to 5-basis-point margin decline in the first quarter also attributable to lower yields.
Relative to the prior year fourth quarter net interest income increased by $30 million or 2%.
This was driven by a lower interest expense which was attributable to 22% average DDA growth a 20-basis-point reduction in deposit rates paid and a $2 billion reduction in average long-term debt.
Similar factors also drove full year net interest income growth of over $200 million or 4%.
Turning to noninterest income.
On a reported basis noninterest income declined by $180 million from the third quarter.
This was attributable to an increase in the mortgage repurchase provision the HARP 2.0 MSR valuation adjustments the impact of debit interchange regulation and lower valuation gains on the company's fair value debt.
On an adjusted basis noninterest income declined sequentially by $101 million due to the $98 million increase in the mortgage repurchase provision and a $42 million decline in card fees.
Partially offsetting this was a strong quarter for Investment Banking driven by higher syndicated finance revenue.
Trading income also increased as market conditions were more favorable than those in the third quarter and core mortgage production was also strong with volume and gain-on-sale margins remaining at healthy levels.
Relative to the fourth quarter of 2010 fee income declined by $185 million again primarily due to the mortgage repurchase provision and card fees.
Moving to Slide 8.
You see in the top left portion of this slide that we received $636 million in demands this quarter up by almost $200 million from the last quarter.
The increase was entirely due to agency-related demands most notably from 2007 vintage Fannie Mae loans.
Overall the reasons for the demands are similar to those in previous quarters such as borrower misrepresentation or issues with the prices.
The demands that we've received have been more concentrated in loans that have already been through the foreclosure process.
However we have recently noticed some change in the pattern of requests relative to their delinquency status.
The more recent requests for full loan files which are a precursor for future demands have been more skewed toward loans that are delinquent but not yet in foreclosure.
This suggests to us that the agencies are working through the backlog of demands from prior years which indicate that the demand increase in Q4 could be an acceleration of timing rather than growth in the overall population.
The top right part of this page shows pending demands increased from $490 million to $590 million.
This was due to the increase in current quarter demands.
You'll note that due to our high level of loss resolution this quarter the pending population at quarter end was actually below the amount of current quarter demands.
Charge-offs for the quarter were $177 million up by over $40 million from Q3 due to the high level of demand resolution activities.
A provision of $215 million exceeded charge-offs resulting in an increase to the mortgage repurchase reserve of $38 million.
We believe this higher reserve level is appropriate in light of the recent increase in demands.
The bottom right portion of the slide reflects originations demands activity and losses to date for the 2005 to 2011 vintages.
Now let's turn to Slide 9 where we hone in on similar data for the 2006 to 2008 vintages which have accounted for about 85% of all demands and 90% of losses to date.
This slide shares some new disclosures that we hope will provide you with focused information on these 3 highest loss vintages.
Some additional information on each of these individual vintages is also included in the appendix.
On the left side of the page you see that we originated and sold loans with $120 billion in unpaid principal balance or UPB.
This includes $99 billion in agency loans and $21 billion of private label.
You'll also see some historical information on delinquencies the repurchase rate and loss severity.
The right-hand side of the page shows our loss experienced to date from the 2006 to 2008 vintages.
I'll walk you through this framework as it's a useful one not only for understanding our losses to date but also for estimating future losses.
Starting at the top you see the $120 billion in loans originated and sold.
When you multiply that by the 17.7% of loans that have ever gone 120 days past due you arrive at a total ever 120 days past due delinquent amount of $21.2 billion.
This is relevant as the vast majority of demands have come from this population of loans.
To date demands received on 2006 to 2008 vintages have equaled 20.9% of this delinquent population or $4.4 billion in total demands.
$0.5 billion of those demands are still pending and $3.9 billion in demands have been resolved.
The repurchase rate on this $3.9 billion has been 58% or $2.3 billion in total repurchases.
At a severity rate of 47% this has resulted in $1.1 billion in losses recognized to date.
This loss figure taken together with our current reserve for these vintages has led to a $1.3 billion income statement impact to date for these 2006 to 2008 vintages.
The 4 key variables in this framework are the delinquency rate the request rate the repurchase rate and loss severity.
Let's focus on the delinquency and request rates first.
Repurchase requests received to date have had an inverse correlation to the amount of time between origination and default.
The shorter the timeframe between origination and default the greater the request rate.
And the longer the timeframe the less likely it is that a request will be received.
There has also been a positive correlation between the current loan-to-value ratio and the request rates.
The higher the current LTV the higher the request rate and vice versa.
The preponderance of demands received has come from loans that went delinquent within the first 36 months after origination.
If this pattern continues and investor selection criteria do not change it suggests that the pool of delinquent loans from which we'll receive demands should be stabilizing given that any performing loan from the 2006 to 2008 vintages is now past this 3-year mark.
The lifetime request rate is likely to increase somewhat as it would be reasonable to expect new demands from this delinquent population of loans.
Current LTV is one predictive variable for the potential magnitude of the increase.
If housing values generally continue to decline this could indicate the potential for a continuation of elevated request levels.
However as I noted previously we've been witnessing some patterns in demands in full file requests which suggest that the backlog of demands from prior years could be thinning.
Factors that point to a more modest increase in the request rate are the passage of time the shift in full file requests from later stage foreclosed loans to earlier stage default status and the fact that demands can only reasonably be gauged [ph] on that population of loans that did not meet underwriting guidelines.
With respect to the other 2 variables the repurchase rate on these 3 vintages has been fairly consistent in the 56% to 58% range while the severity rate in the last 12 months has been about 55% which is higher than the 47% lifetime severity.
This increase is due to the impact that declining home values have had on severity as well as the higher proportion of demands coming from the 2007 vintage which was the peak of the housing market.
In conclusion while mortgage repurchase demands remain difficult to predict we do expect them to remain elevated in the coming quarters.
However if the assumptions that lead us to believe why we're seeing an acceleration of demands prove correct then we would expect the earnings impact associated with this issue to lessen during the second half of 2012.
Let's move on to Slide 10 for a discussion of noninterest expenses.
Expenses declined by $13 million from the third quarter.
This was driven by a $126 million decline in employee compensation and benefits.
Roughly half of that was due to the pension curtailment net of the 401(k) contribution.
The balance was largely driven by a year end reduction to incentive plans based upon the company's full year financial performance.
So we will obviously see an increase in this line item next quarter as the pension gain is nonrecurring compensation plans will reset for the new year and we'll have the usual seasonal increase in FICA and other benefits.
Partially offsetting this quarter's total expense decline were increases in credit and collections expense due primarily to seasonal tax and insurance payments on nonperforming mortgages higher operating losses associated with specific legal accruals and a seasonal increase in marketing.
Relative to the fourth quarter of last year reported expenses were stable.
Employee compensation declined while operating losses and credit and collections expenses increased.
On to the balance sheet beginning with loan trends on Slide 11.
Our loan performance growth was strong with average performing loans increasing by over $4 billion or 4% from the third quarter.
Most notable was the $2.2 billion or almost 5% increase in C&amp;I loans.
Growth here was largely driven by our larger corporate borrowers with our Corporate and Investment Banking line of business accounting for $1.7 billion of the increase.
Growth came across most industry verticals with healthcare and energy contributing the most.
Our asset-backed commercial paper conduit also helped drive the increase as did asset-based lending.
The Diversified Commercial line of business also demonstrated growth with outstanding up about $0.5 billion driven by a modest increase in utilization rates.
Residential loans increased by about $700 million entirely due to government-guaranteed mortgages.
We added to this portfolio during the quarter as we continued to make progress on diversifying and de-risking the overall balance sheet.
Consumer loans also increased up $1.6 billion or about 9.5%.
Growth came across all categories with government-guaranteed student loans being the largest driver up $1.2 billion due to portfolio acquisitions.
Relative to the prior year average performing loans were up $5.5 billion or 5%.
C&amp;I grew more than $4.5 billion or over 10% while consumer loans increased over $3.5 billion or almost 25%.
Concurrent with the growth in these targeted categories and as part of our loan portfolio diversification strategy we decreased our exposure to other asset classes.
The resulting de-risking of the portfolio is shown on Slide 12.
Portfolios that we've categorized as higher risk declined by over $13 billion or more than 55% over the past 3 years.
At the same time government-guaranteed loans increased by over $11 billion.
We've essentially replaced loans that were higher risk with those that are guaranteed.
This double de-risking has driven a meaningful improvement in our risk profile.
The decline in the higher risk balances continued last quarter falling by another $0.5 billion.
As expected the pace of dollar decline moderated somewhat during the second half of the year which is a function of the overall balances reaching lower levels.
Relative to the prior year higher risk balances declined by almost $3 billion or more than 20%.
Commercial construction was the largest driver down $1.3 billion or more than 50%.
Higher-risk mortgages and home equity also declined by approximately $800 million each.
Overall we're pleased with the progress that we've -- that we're making in our loan portfolio diversification strategy.
We've been successful both in growing targeted commercial and consumer categories as well as in reducing our exposure to certain residential and construction categories.
Our strategy to purchase government-guaranteed loans has performed well as a bridge during a time of low economic growth.
And if organic loan growth continues in the coming quarters we expect slower growth in this category.
As for deposit performance fourth quarter saw a continuation of favorable deposit growth and mix trends.
Average client deposits increased by $2.1 billion or 1.7%.
This growth was again driven by lower cost deposits most notably DDA which increased by more than $2 billion or almost 7%.
NOW accounts also increased while higher-cost time deposits continued their decline falling by about $800 million or more than 4%.
Story from the prior year is similar.
Client deposits grew by $5.4 billion or 4.5%.
Lower-cost deposits led the way up over 8% with DDA the largest driver increasing by more than $6 billion or over 20%.
And currently higher-cost time deposits declined by almost $3 billion.
These favorable deposit trends have been the major driver of our higher levels of net interest income and the year-over-year increase in NIM.
Moving on to credit quality on Slide 14.
Primary credit metrics continue to trend favorably this quarter.
The only anomaly is the increase in the total delinquency ratio which you see on the top left graph.
This was due to the purchase of government-guaranteed student loan portfolios.
That asset class has higher delinquency rates although the true loss exposure is very low due to the government guarantee.
Delinquencies excluding government-guaranteed loans continue to trend lower down 2 basis points driven by improvements in nonguaranteed mortgages and home equity.
Nonperforming assets and nonperforming loans declined by 10% each while net charge-offs fell modestly lower by 4%.
We'll look further at the underlying trends in both of these metrics momentarily.
In the light of the continued credit quality improvement the allowance fell by about $140 million.
The ratio of the allowance to loans declined on a reported basis by 21 basis points to 2.01% with this quarter's growth in loans contributing an 8-basis-point decline -- an 8 basis -- contributing 8 basis points to the decrease.
When excluding government-guaranteed loans from the denominator of the calculation the allowance was 2.27% of loans at the end of the quarter or about 25 basis points higher than it was on a reported basis.
Overall we're pleased with the continued improvements in the quality of the balance sheet.
Slide 15 provides some additional detail on nonperforming loan and net charge-off trends.
Nonperforming loans declined by 10% on a sequential quarter basis.
This marks the 10th consecutive quarter of lower nonperforming loans.
Similar to recent quarterly trends commercial loans were the largest driver down by $279 million or 23% with notable decreases across each of the commercial loan categories.
Residential nonperforming loans also decreased driven by improvements in residential construction and nonguaranteed mortgages.
Net charge-offs improved sequentially lower by 4% from the third quarter level.
This improvement was driven by commercial construction loans partially offset by a $23 million increase in residential loans.
Relative to the prior year nonperforming loans were down by $1.2 billion or almost 30%.
Commercial construction C&amp;I and nonguaranteed mortgages were the largest drivers of the decline though every loan category improved.
Fourth quarter net charge-offs declined by $150 million or almost 25% from the prior year.
Declines were most evident in nonguaranteed mortgages commercial construction C&amp;I and home equity.
For the full year net charge-offs declined by over $800 million or about 30% with residential loans being the largest driver.
As we look to the first quarter of 2012 we again expect to see a further decline in NPLs with net charge-offs relatively stable to modestly down.
Slide 16 shows trends in our capital metrics beginning with Tier 1 common at the top left of the page.
Tier 1 common capital continued its higher trend this quarter up by about $100 million as a result of retained earnings.
The estimated Tier 1 common ratio ended 2011 at a healthy level of 9.25%.
The modest decline from the third quarter was due to strong loan growth generating additional risk-weighted assets.
Tier 1 capital also increased while the Tier 1 ratio was estimated to decline from the third quarter due to risk-weighted asset growth as well as continued modest reductions in our outstanding trust preferred securities.
You may note that over the course of the year we were able to reduce our outstanding TruPS by almost $400 million.
Both the Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios continue to be well above both Basel I and Basel III regulatory requirements.
The tangible common equity ratio declined by 30 basis points due to lower accumulated other comprehensive income which was primarily the result of actuarial adjustments to our pension as well as higher assets.
The AOCI decline partially offset by this quarter's retained earnings is what led to the 1% decline in tangible book value per share which ended the quarter at $25.33.
Let's turn to Slide 17 for a discussion of our PPG Expense Program.
We previously outlined this program for you.
And as Bill stated earlier we have made some very good early progress toward achieving our $300 million goal.
By the end of the year we have achieved $75 million in annualized savings from our cost base or about $18 million per quarter.
PPG is comprised of 3 primary areas of opportunity: Strategic supply management consumer bank efficiencies and operations and staff support.
These opportunities span the entire organization and every teammate is involved in delivering expense savings and meeting our goal.
On this slide you can see that we have provided the major initiatives within each category and our progress against them.
As we're still relatively early in the process some initiatives are still in the planning phase while others are starting to deliver real-time expense savings.
Strategic supply management represents our largest opportunity and the savings to date are coming from our negotiations with vendors as well as demand management.
On the vendor side we've commenced initiatives to secure even more competitive pricing.
At the same time we're proactively further managing down our own demand.
For instance we've reduced demands for print services market data tools travel and the like.
While none of these individually are overly significant in the aggregate they add up and these types of initiatives have the added benefit of getting all of our teammates engaged to help improve performance for our shareholders.
Moving to consumer bank efficiencies.
Savings to date here have come entirely from our sales and service productivity initiatives.
We've made these changes in response to changing client behavior and preferences.
Clients' willingness and desire to utilize self-service channels has increased so we made numerous investments over the past few years in client-facing technology such as mobile and ATM enhancements.
The adoption rates of these self-service channels has been high which has shifted transaction volume out of the branch.
This is allowing us to refine our branch network and staffing models.
Specifically we have reduced our branch staffing levels primarily through attrition as we transition into a new staffing model.
This model will be more efficient and we believe it will enable us to maintain our high levels of client satisfaction and loyalty.
Operations and staff support is the other main category of savings.
Savings realized to date have been achieved largely through our consolidations and shared services initiatives.
We've already made strategic consolidations in our finance and marketing groups which are driving the current savings and we'll also be making changes in other functional areas.
As our PPG Expense Program progresses we'll continue to provide status updates to you along with the savings that are being realized.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Bill.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem.
We're pleased with the progress we've made on our expense saving program.
As Aleem stated we got off to a fast start in 2011 and you can expect to see us move steadily towards our targets in 2012 and '13.
Let me assure you this has my Aleem and the company's full attention.
Now by now you are familiar with our strategic priorities to drive higher profitability from a more diversified platform.
In addition to our efforts to improve the expense efficiency we're also focused on growing consumer market and wallet share diversifying the loan portfolio and optimizing our business mix and we've had some real successes against these initiatives in 2011 and more importantly have positive momentum headed into 2012.
I'm going to spend a few minutes just today highlighting some of the key underlying fundamentals in each of our lines of businesses to give you a perspective on core performance.
In spite of regulatory headwinds we've made great strides in our efforts to grow consumer market and wallet share.
The core of these initiatives show up on our retail line of business and is a testament to our investments in improving client loyalty.
In 2011 despite all the product changes we were able to expand our primary relationships over the prior year.
Building on client loyalty as the foundation we also significantly expanded our product penetration per relationship and this was done particularly well in the fourth quarter.
From an overall deposit market share perspective despite increased competition we have increased share in 8 of our 10 largest MSAs.
And on the lending side we're delivering strong performance with both consumer direct and indirect loans up marketably over last year.
On a very short period of time we've become an industry leader in our market in service quality and client loyalty.
Our goal now is to better monetize this position via increased momentum and acquisition retention and significant improvement in relationship expansion and I'm pleased to say they're all showing a positive trajectory.
Our Wealth and Investment Management net income was up 16% over last year with retail investment income generating an impressive growth rate of 12%.
Trust income was also up significantly over last year and we drove the revenue of this line of business while keeping the expenses stable.
An improving market can only add additional leverage.
Our Corporate and Investment Banking business delivered record revenue and net income results in 2011 evidence that our relationship-based business model is working and being embraced by the market.
On the asset side loans were up an impressive 25%.
Further we moved up in most lead table rankings and we're simply winning more lead left mandates.
The business is growing the top line adding and expanding relationships and investing in talent all while operating with a close eye on efficiency.
Our Diversified Commercial Banking line of business delivered solid growth in both net interest and fee income with total revenue up 9% and net income up 33% over last year.
Loans grew steadily throughout the year coupled with strong growth in primary relationships which helped drive performance.
The efficiency ratio for this line of business is also very attractive.
Growing CIB and Diversified Commercial Banking are key elements of our strategy to optimize our business mix and they will be accretive to our efficiency story.
I'll also point out that credit quality held up very well in both businesses on a relative basis throughout the cycle and both had low loss rates in 2011.
Overall I'm pleased with the progress that we've made here and the potential for future growth.
I hope you can tell from the discussion thus far that SunTrust is driving some very solid core business momentum.
But as I stated earlier some of the momentum is being masked by legacy mortgage issues.
The Mortgage line of business lost about $700 million in 2011 largely due to issues related to loans originated in 2008 and before.
So we're continuing to work through these legacy issues and we'll get them behind us in due time.
In the meantime our mortgage origination volume continues to be healthy.
It's got attractive margins.
It's relationship driven and our risk management has significantly improved.
As evidence of our client-centric approach to origination we just ranked second highest overall in customer satisfaction according to the 2011 J.D.
Power survey.
Our Corporate Treasury and Other segment is next in line by revenues.
What I want to point out here is that due to our intense focus on balance sheet management we were very well positioned for the lower-for-longer rate environment.
We have a lot more discipline at SunTrust around our asset and liability pricing and you see the benefits of that showing up in our NIM which while down slightly is still well above our own historical average.
Lastly Commercial Real Estate our smallest business but one with a great amount of potential for earning asset growth.
CRE lost $300 million in 2011 as it also had a housing-related exposure but on a relative basis we had significantly fewer challenges than many of our peers.
We're beginning to see opportunity in the marketplace in select markets and in particular asset classes.
We transitioned this business back into production mode and we believe there's good future potential here.
As with our other nonhousing-related exposures our commercial-oriented real estate businesses have also performed relatively well through the cycle.
Now let's move to the last slide of recap.
While 2011 was a challenging year overall we ended it with significantly better momentum than when it began.
Full year EPS was up meaningfully from last year.
Balance sheet trends closed favorably.
Low-cost deposits continued to increase and loan growth exhibited a notable pickup during the third and fourth quarters particularly in the portfolios that we targeted for growth.
Many of our core businesses demonstrated good trends throughout the year helping to offset some of the regulatory and environmental headwinds we faced on the fee side of the business.
Credit quality improved steadily through 2011.
We further reduced our exposure to higher-risk loans and have produced a much better diversified and lower-risk balance sheet.
Our capital ratios remain strong at the close of the year and well in excess of the current and proposed regulatory requirements.
We repaid the government's TARP investment in a less dilutive manner and increased our common dividend to shareholders during 2011.
We hope to be able to increase our return of capital to shareholders coming out of this year's CCAR process.
From an operating perspective we launched our PPG Expense Program and made progress towards our goal.
We also saw results from our other strategic priorities.
So we've clearly generated momentum in many of the key areas of our business.
Our focus on our strategic priorities is yielding results and we're committed to building our -- on our momentum as we move into the year.
I know we spent a lot of time but we had a lot to cover today.
So with that Kris let me turn it over and let's take in to Q&amp;A All right.
Wendy we're ready to open the line for Q&amp;A.
I'd like to ask the participants to please limit themselves to one primary question and one follow-up.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> If you could just hone in on the expenses a little bit.
You talked about some of the moving pieces going into 1Q.
But just as we think about reported expenses from 4Q to 1Q any clarity you can give on the absolute level? Did they go up down relatively flat? Well as you said Matt we've got a lot of moving pieces.
We do know that there will be some of those moving pieces that will go up in 1Q.
As you know FICA expenses typically go up in 1Q and our compensation plans will reset for the quarter.
So we expect those things to go up.
We are continuing to get benefits from our PPG program and we expect that there will be further expense cuts as a result of that program as we move forward during the year.
So that will be a benefit.
I think the big key overall for us is our credit-related and operating expenses and operating loss expenses and how those look.
And it's just too early in the quarter to give you a really good indication of how we -- how those will look for the full quarter.
And Matt it's Bill.
And I  know it's frustrating to sort of look at the absolute level but we're really tightening down to make sure that we're fundamentally changing the core run rate of expenses.
And we're going to provide a lot of transparency on this PPG program so you can gain some confidence that that's happening.
And as we stated I think for the 2011 we gained a lot of momentum.
I'm confident of where we're headed to this to get that run rate by 2013.
Research Division</strong> And I guess maybe just taking another stab at this.
If we take out the credit-related expenses and the operating losses which can be very variable I can appreciate that.
If we take that out and we think about cost for the full year of 2012 versus 2011 do they come down? Or I'm just trying to get some kind of absolute guidance or a little more clarity on the underlying expense trends as we go forward just to make sure that there's steady progress going on or how to think about that.
Matt it's Bill.
Let me try to take it at a really really high level and then we can dive down anywhere you want to.
But sort of taking it at our highest level and doing it the way you suggested we've got about a $6 billion expense base.
We have about $800 million of the credit and operating expenses.
So core expense run rate's about $5.2 billion.
And then sort of take that as its -- sort of the working number.
What we'll do by 2013 is we'll take $300 million out of that core expense base.
Now it will grow.
Because it's core it'll grow by whatever it may grow by merit increases investments in the business and all that kind of stuff.
But if you look at our past history on that core base sort of about what we've shown before if you take E squared out that was really really low single-digit growth over the past actually 5 years in that core expense base.
So we're going to take $300 million out of it and then it will grow at it's well-managed type of base.
And then as it relates to the $800 million it's just hard to predict.
I mean we know that's going to come down.
We know it's going to come down appreciably.
It's just hard to predict on a quarter-to-quarter basis exactly when that's going to happen.
Research Division</strong> So taking the $5.2 billion if I assume say a 3% growth in our core growth in 2012 and 3% in 2013 and then you phase in the $300 million just say half and half that would imply flattish expenses in '12 and '13...
And I think your assumption of the core growth is high so start with that as a premise.
When I say low single digits I mean really low single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So hopefully we come down then each year off of the $5.2 billion.
I think when we get to 2013 that should be flat to slightly down including that $300 million.
And Matt as we've also said which we've been clear about this is also efficiency ratio driven.
So that answer will also be predicated around our revenue and our opportunities around revenue.
Our next question is from Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This is Conor Fitzgerald for Erika.
Just heading into CCAR can you talk about how you thought about stress case kind of put-back losses if the economy deteriorates like the Fed outlined? And do you have a sense about like if regulators are thinking about it the same way? Well Conor we can't tell you exactly how they're thinking about it.
We can tell you how we thought about it.
You know what the stress case was and the kind of assumptions that were built into the Fed stress case: Substantially higher unemployment rates substantially lower housing prices and substantially lower GDP.
And when we modeled all of those things through in the stress case numbers that we presented to them they did result in higher put-back numbers than we had in our base case.
However everything that we had modeled through resulted in very high capital ratios at the end of this process and what we believe to be numbers that they will find highly acceptable.
So yes we did model higher put-backs but nothing that ought to damage our ability to sail through the CCAR process.
And Conor it's Bill.
This -- and we dealt with this last year as well.
So I think we've got some credibility with our modeling as it relates to that process.
And last year as you know we were highly TARP focused and I think you'd have to say the result of our CCAR process as it relates to TARP was very successful.
Our next question is from Bob Patten with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on Matt's question.
We talked about the core numbers.
Any -- can I get you to tackle the environmental as it trims down over the next couple of years? Let's all take a couple of cracks at it.
How about that? Because in fairness it's just -- it's hard to predict it quarter-to-quarter.
Aleem you want to take the first shot and I'll jump right in.
Yes.
And I don't know that I can give you enormous confidence Bob but honestly we don't know where this is going except directionally it will be down.
Clearly as the economy normalizes our credit and collections expenses will come down.
Our OREO expenses will come down.
Our operating losses will come down.
We're leveraged to the economy and that's where all of these are going.
Also as we move through the backlog of properties that sit in Florida and as that inventory comes down over time all of the associated expenses with those homes: Insurance maintenance et cetera will come down.
So I think directionally I can give you very good confidence on which way it's headed and unfortunately quarter-to-quarter volatility I can't give you exact guidance.
And Bob I think for us related to that Florida-specific exposure to Aleem's comment property taxes given that's a no income tax state they're higher in the state of Florida.
It's a judicial foreclosure state so we're stuck with a multi-hundred million dollar portfolio that we sort of can't get all the way moved through yet.
So to Aleem's point we can see it.
I mean the proverbial rat through the python is being digested at a rate and I have confidence where it'll end up.
It's just a hard quarter-to-quarter number to nail.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know Bill.
And not that I want to create more work for Kris but I guess is there any way to think about the number of homes in Florida the sheer number that we've been through to date how much more is to go or maybe some kind of way we can take a look at that inventory and say we're making progress on it? Well I have no hesitation about making more work for Kris.
That is not something that I worry about.
Let us think through that.
I mean it's a good question and let us think through if there's a more granular disclosure that will help give you sort of a longer-term confidence.
I hope you can hear from our voices we have long-term confidence we're just very apprehensive about giving a quarter-to-quarter guidance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No it's a sticky number and there's a lot of people involved in that number too.
Our next question is from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was going to follow up on the repatriation question the capital repatriation.
I understand that a lot of this is going to rest on the CCAR but can you just I guess talk about the type of capital that you expect to return to shareholders next year? You already have a $0.05 dividend in place so that's a $100 million already.
But can you talk about appetite for buybacks or your thoughts on capital repatriation as a whole? Jefferson this is Bill.
Let me sort of -- there's not a whole lot we can say but let me sort of take it at a high level.
If you again sort of take it back to last year we put all our eggs in essentially one basket.
And with guidance from our shareholders that basket was to get out of TARP in the less dilutive manner possible.
So last year we were sort of focused -- we were a one-trick pony so to speak.
This year we'll be very different.
And if you think about this year where we're approaching it from different from last year I mean we're profitable.
We've generated more capital.
Our credit metrics are wildly better.
We've got good dynamics as it relates to asset growth and deposit growth.
So the fundamentals are just different.
So I think at sort of the very very highest level what you could expect to see from us is an improved return to shareholders and a more balanced mix.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And for my follow-up I just want to ask about the direct [ph] warranty provision that $215 million.
It sounded like we expect that to still be in that range for the next quarter or 2 but I just wanted to see what you guys -- see if that's what you guys think.
Well it's probably just a little bit too early in the quarter yet Jefferson to give you a sense of how it looks for the quarter.
What I can tell you is that the trends that we're starting to see now are a little bit encouraging for us and that the move that we've now got past 2011 we're past that 3-year period for the 3 most challenging vintages 2006 to 2008 for us.
So that should indicate a lower set of demands going forward and in the trend that we see from the agency starting to move in their full file request promise to loans that are delinquent rather than loans that are actually in foreclosure.
Those kinds of trends are encouraging and those ought to play out over the rest of 2012.
The next quarter or 2 we certainly do expect provisions and demands to be elevated but I can't tell you exactly whether they're going to be where we are -- where we were in Q4 or lower than that.
Our next question is from Greg Ketron with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A question regarding balance sheet strategy going forward into 2012 centered around the loan growth and how it would impact net interest margin and net interest income.
It looks like you've had very good growth.
And as 2012 plays out would you anticipate that growth to continue maybe continuing to put more mortgages on the balance sheet? And when you think about the spread of the incremental growth maybe being dilutive to margin but we could see net interest income grow somewhere to what we saw this quarter.
It's Aleem.
A couple of points there.
The loans that we put on the balance sheet -- the government-guaranteed loans that we put on the balance sheet over the last couple of years I think have actually proven to be very helpful for us very successful through a period of time when the economy wasn't growing at all.
So they were a terrific bridge to help manage the balance sheet.
Going forward I would actually annualize as you saw we put 4% -- we had 4% loan growth in the fourth quarter I wouldn't actually annualize that going forward and think about that kind of number going forward as a result of portfolio purchases and putting government-guaranteed loans on our books.
If we start to see the organic loan growth that we saw in the last couple of quarters continue on through 2012 obviously client-related business will have the first call on our balance sheet and our liquidity and we'd much rather do organic client business than the kind of government-guaranteed product that we put on.
So it was a successful strategy for us in the past.
Hopefully it starts to decline now as the economy starts to come back and we're able to do more client business and lend more money to clients.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would it be fair to look at net interest margin expect some degree of compression like you alluded to in the first quarter but still having the ability to grow net interest income in 2012? We will be focused on net interest income.
I think it'll be challenging for the entire industry given where asset yields have gone over the last couple of years.
And if you think about the 3-year swaps for example now at 70 basis points it's pretty hard to make money when that's the gross yield that the market is offering you.
So I do expect margins will drop for the entire industry and we will be focused on net interest income rather than margin.
But we also have a couple of levers I think that we can continue to try to pull to try to improve net interest income and margin over the course of the year.
We're going to be focused on additional deposit pricing initiatives.
We've got some more debt rolling off the books.
And to the extent that we can we're going to be focused on what we're able to do on the TruPS side too.
So we're going to be doing whatever we can to manage the balance sheet appropriately and try and grow income and mitigate the margin decline.
And Greg I think Aleem's point was really the one -- the critical point strategically is to start replacing some of that lower NIM although low-risk government-guaranteed business with more client-centric-oriented business.
And as Aleem said I think that's been a smart strategy for us.
We were very aggressive in getting the higher-risk loans down.
And I don't want to use the word plug we were putting a place on our balance sheet on low risk while we were waiting for and working towards getting more of our client-centric businesses back on a positive trend.
Our next question is from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the pricing environment on the loan front what you're seeing there in terms of trends and then how that's impacting the shared national credit space in terms of the spreads you're able to achieve in that book? Yes.
I'll start at the high level and it's something we've been really concerned about obviously as all of us have been asset-hungry here in the last several quarters.
And it is a very competitive environment so I don't want to be dismissive of that at all.
But that being said maybe a lot due to scale and focus on client and selection and all that kind of stuff but spreads have held up pretty well.
I mean spreads in the fourth quarter coming on spreads were pretty consistent across most lines of business with where they were in the third quarter.
A couple of aberrations in a different line of business but overall we've not seen a significant declination in spreads fourth quarter to -- in accordance [ph] so far sort of continuing to hold up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the loan demand on the core book can you give us some additional color on what your commitments did this quarter? And then also a little bit more color around the pipeline for the commercial book.
The commitment story is good in the sense that commitments were going up in some of our businesses.
2.5x to 3x core outstandings were going up so the good news is we're adding core new relationships and utilization rates which hopefully are harbingers for the future.
But utilization rates in the CIB side are pretty flat.
And so while commitments are up number of new relationships -- so it's not just adding bigger commitments it's adding new lead relationships -- are up fairly dramatically and again in some cases at 2.5:3.1 ratio.
In the commercial side utilization rate actually was up a little bit.
In addition there the commitments probably were more tracking the additional and outstandings.
I don't know if you had anything Aleem to add to that.
So the good news it's healthy on virtually every front versus it's just a big utilization push or bigger commitments or those kinds of things.
This is just core blocking and tackling adding new relationships adding new commitments in a low utilization rate environment.
And the only other point I'd add to that John is when you sort of step back and look at the year and what that sort of tells you year-over-year about the economy and how we're able to do within that actual loan production for us went up 13% year-over-year.
So I think that gives you a good indication of what's happening in the overall economy and what we're able to do for our clients.
And the third and fourth quarter were particularly good on the production side.
Our final question today is from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about -- and I wanted to tell you I appreciated the format you put together on looking at the detail of the mortgage repurchase.
In my mind the critical assumption really lies on that 20.9%.
In other words when you start looking at whatever been's delinquent at a little over $20 billion.
And so far you've had 20% of those get pushed back to you.
What was -- if you kind of think about in guesstimate of the population of your loans that potentially would have had those borrower misrepresentations or appraisal issues so what's kind of maybe the guesstimate of what that 20% number could be in the whole population of the portfolio? Help me with your question for a moment Marty.
Are you asking what you think that 20.9% request rate could go to? LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
In other words if we have a subset of loans that are already fixed and the only issue is the agencies have to go through the loan documents to get to the amount that have deficiencies if we kind of knew what the percentage was that -- were potential to have deficiencies we got to be closing in on that number because they've had a couple of years to work at this.
And especially recently they've been very active.
So I wanted to get a feel for out of the general population what is your kind of rule of thumb that had these deficiencies that would potentially be coming back to us? Well I think there are several things that go into that Marty.
There's sort of the -- that's one issue is where are there issues they can come back and there are several subsets within those.
It's borrower misrepresentation.
It's documentation issues.
It's appraisal issues.
It's a whole list of those things.
But I think as we talk with the agencies they seem to be looking at sort of 2 variables within that.
One is the amount of time that's gone by for which the loan has been delinquent.
And as I said earlier the -- there seems to be a very very high correlation between the demand and the amount of time with 0 to 36 months being the key.
So that is particularly helpful to us in the industry as we now move past those 3 most challenging vintages.
I think the other big issue that the agency seemed to be looking at is LTV.
And to the extent that the housing market has stabilized from here and LTVs don't continue to decline I think that will also be helpful.
Both of those things I think Marty are going to help mitigate the rise in the request rate.
Because this is a cumulative request rate 20.9% your point is dead on.
It will rise from here but I think both of those issues I just mentioned will help mitigate that rise and it just -- it shouldn't go up significantly more from the kinds of numbers we've been seeing.
Does that help? Does that get at your point? LLC Research Division</strong> Well it does.
I mean I think the amount of time actually limits the loans over 120 days past due.
Whatever comes to past due past this doesn't really matter because you've already passed that timeframe.
So the $21.2 billion there stays the same because we've already passed out of the sweet spot of when they could actually think about it from that standpoint.
I was just curious in the overall portfolio.
To me if you were to get to 30% that would just be an extraordinarily high number relative to loans that were delivered to agencies that had a potential discrepancy that would give them the right to give it back to you.
So I think we were -- as a banking looked at regulated and that was something that we all spent a lot of time on.
So that's -- you're saying that we're getting close to the top at 21%.
If you double that number and get to 30% you can only add about another $500 million to $600 million which you've already reserved $300 million.
So the incremental impact from here going forward has to start to wane just because we've kind of gone through the subset that's potentially able to get back to us.
Marty I'm glad you found this framework helpful.
Thanks everybody for joining us.
We apologize for going a bit over today.
If you have any further questions feel free to give the IR Department a call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the SunTrust First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kris Dickson Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thanks Wendy.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining SunTrust's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address today during our call.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Freeman our Chief Risk Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risk and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our press release and SEC filings which are available on our website.
During this call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on the website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Okay Kris thanks.
And I'll begin today's call with some brief comments on the first quarter and then I'm going to pass it over to Aleem to provide the details on the results.
We'll start on Slide 3 of our presentation where we hit the high-level points.
Net income for the quarter was $245 million and earnings per share was $0.46 which was $0.33 increase over last quarter and a $0.38 increase over the prior year.
Growth in revenue and continued favorable loan deposit and asset quality trends drove the improved results.
Both net interest income and noninterest income were up over last quarter.
On the net interest income side we benefited from higher loan balances lower cost deposit growth and a reduction in funding costs such that our net interest margin expanded 3 basis points.
Sequential quarter fee income was up sharply and most notably in mortgage production as low interest rates and HARP 2 drove significant refinance activity.
On a year-over-year basis fee income was stable as high mortgage revenue this quarter offset the lost income due to debit interchange changes and lower security gains.
Expenses declined from prior quarter and we've made significant progress against our Playbook for Profitable Growth expense savings goal.
Today we've put in place annualized savings of $190 million and as such we're on track to achieve the $300 million goal for the program.
So while I'm pleased with the progress this is ultimately about establishing an efficiency-minded culture which will allow us to exceed our goal without a bounce-back.
Now moving to the balance sheet.
Favorable loan and deposit trends continued this quarter.
Performing loans were up 3% with growth in targeted categories and declines in high-risk loans.
We also saw sustained lower-cost deposit growth.
Credit quality also continued to improve with marked decreases in all primary credit metrics.
Nonperforming loans were down another 9% this quarter and net charge-offs were down 11% sequentially.
Lastly we generated positive capital growth and our capital ratios remained strong and well in excess of our current and proposed regulatory requirements.
Now that being said however let me take a moment to proactively address CCAR.
As part of the process moving forward we'll be resubmitting our capital plan.
We're required to submit the revised plan by mid-June and then expect to hear back by the end of the third quarter.
First quarter results will be included in our submission and we'll be running another full stress test.
This new submission will only cover any proposed capital actions for the fourth quarter of this year and first quarter of 2013 as anything beyond that will be incorporated in the next year's CCAR process.
So we're still in the process of learning all the variables.
There's not much to report at this time.
We're going to be working closely with our board as we decide what to include in our revised submission.
So with that Aleem let me turn it over to you.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us.
I'll begin my comments this morning on Slide 4 with a high-level overview of the income statement.
Earnings per share this quarter were $0.46 which compares favorably to the $0.13 per shares -- $0.13 per share reported last quarter and the $0.08 per share from last year.
The $0.33 sequential quarter increase was driven by both higher revenue and lower expenses.
Revenue increased by $171 million with growth in both net interest income and noninterest income the latter of which was largely mortgage-related.
Expenses declined by $126 million primarily the result of the $120 million fourth quarter accrual for the potential mortgage servicing settlement.
Relative to the prior year the $0.38 earnings per share increase was driven by higher net interest income a lower provision resulting from improved credit quality and the elimination of the TARP dividend drag.
In addition to the preferred dividend payments made that quarter we also incurred a $74 million noncash charge related to the unamortized discount upon the redemption of the TARP shares.
Let's now delve deeper into each of the major income statement categories beginning with net interest income on Slide 5.
Net interest income increased sequentially by $18 million or 1%.
This was driven by higher average loan balances and favorable liability trends including reduced rates paid on deposits strong DDA growth and lower average long-term debt.
This combination of actions drove a 9 basis point decline in our liability costs this quarter which more than offset a 5 basis point decrease in our interest-earning asset yield leading to the 3 basis point increase in net interest margin.
This increase exceeded our expectations due primarily to better-than-forecasted deposit trends.
Relative to the prior year net interest income grew $65 million or 5%.
This increase was driven by a $7 billion increase in average loan balances improvements in deposit mix and pricing including a 25% increase in DDA and $5 billion of combined reductions in longer-term debt and CD balances.
As you're aware part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy includes hedging certain floating rate commercial loans with received fixed swaps.
The swaps effectively convert these loans from floating to fixed rate.
Net interest income attributable to the commercial loan swap position was approximately $150 million during the first quarter of 2012.
And as previously disclosed we will see about a $35 million decline from this amount in the second quarter.
Effectively some of our previously fixed rate commercial loans are converting back to floating.
This $35 million decline will equate to about 10 basis points of net interest margin compression.
Assuming no major changes to LIBOR commercial loan swap income is expected to remain relatively stable at this new run rate for the remainder of the year.
Let's turn to noninterest income on Slide 6.
Noninterest income increased by $153 million from the fourth quarter driven by higher mortgage-related revenue which was up by $125 million.
Excluding the $40 million decline in the mortgage repurchase provision core mortgage production income was up by $85 million or more than 50%.
Production volume this quarter was $7.7 billion 12% increase from the fourth quarter.
Locked volume increased more than 30% and we also saw wider gains on sale.
About 3/4 of this quarter's volume was refinance related and we began to take HARP 2.0 applications.
Borrowers are taking advantage of this program and we're being proactive about helping them as we think this program is a beneficial one for our clients and our country.
Mortgage servicing income also increased from the prior quarter up by $59 million.
This was due in part to the $38 million MSR write-down we took during the fourth quarter in anticipation of increased prepayment volume from HARP refinancings.
Third quarter results also benefited from favorable net hedge performance.
While mortgage income was strong this quarter certain fee categories exhibited seasonal weakness such as deposit service charges and investment banking which declined by $12 million and $16 million respectively.
Relative to last year fee income was stable on a reported basis and up 7% on an adjusted basis.
The primary puts and takes were higher mortgage production income due to both increased volume and margins and lower card fees due to the impact of the new debit interchange regulations.
Turn to Slide 7 to discuss mortgage repurchases.
As shown in the top left portion of this slide the purchase demands were $448 million this quarter down by about $190 million from the high level experienced during the fourth quarter.
The timing of demands continues to be variable and this quarter's decline was the result of lower demand volume from Fannie Mae.
Consistent with what we expressed last quarter we believe the trends suggest that the agencies are making progress and working through the backlog of potential demands from prior years.
Specifically the composition of the demands this quarter remained concentrated in loans that have already been through the foreclosure process while the requests for full loan files the precursor to future demands continue to become more skewed toward loans that are delinquent but not yet in foreclosure.
Pending population shown in the top right portion of this slide declined by about $25 million ending this quarter at $564 million.
This was primarily the result of fewer new demands.
Bottom left portion of the page shows the changes in the mortgage repurchase reserve.
Mortgage repurchase provision this quarter was $175 million which exceeded the $113 million in net charge-offs.
The resulting $63 million increase in the reserve was made in light of our expectation for continued high levels of future demands as well as the belief that the decline in net charge-offs could be timing related.
Some summary statistics of our sold mortgages are displayed in the bottom right of the page and we've also provided for you in the appendix the same level of additional detail on the 2006 to 2008 vintages that we shared last quarter.
Overall I'd note that our expectations around mortgage repurchases remain similar to a quarter ago.
We foresee demand volume remaining high and variable in the coming quarters.
However if the patterns and full file requests and demands continue to play themselves out as expected we continue to believe we will experience a reduced income statement impact toward the latter part of the year.
Let's move on to expenses on Slide 8.
On a reported basis expenses declined by $126 million from the fourth quarter.
This was largely the result of the $120 million accrual taken in the fourth quarter for the potential mortgage servicing settlement.
We also saw a decline in credit-related expenses and operating losses.
As usual we provide some additional information on these expenses in our appendix.
You'll see that collectively they were down by $91 million with the primary drivers being seasonally lower credit and collections expenses lower losses from other real estate owned and lower legal and mortgage servicing-related accruals.
Employee compensation and benefits increased by $173 million this quarter.
You'll recall this line item was abnormally low in the fourth quarter as we curtailed our pension plan and made reductions to our 2011 incentive compensation pools.
After you adjust for these 2 items the increase this quarter was primarily related to the normal seasonal increase in employee benefits costs.
Relative to the prior year expenses were up by $76 million.
Employee compensation and benefits increased by $43 million in light of improved performance and modest annual salary increases.
Operating losses were also higher up $33 million as a result of specific legal and mortgage servicing accruals.
Conversely marketing and FDIC premiums and regulatory assessments were down by a combined $30 million.
Before we turn to the balance sheet sliding on slide -- starting on Slide 9 I'll summarize the income statement this quarter by noting that we benefited from many of the favorable trends that began to develop in the second half of 2011 and we were pleased to begin 2012 with a quarter of solid core performance.
Average performing loans grew by a healthy $3.3 billion or 3% from the fourth quarter and were up by $8.6 billion or 8% from the prior year.
The sequential quarter increase was relatively evenly split between the commercial residential and consumer loan categories.
Within the commercial book C&amp;I was again the primary driver up $1.1 billion or 2%.
Similar to recent quarters the growth was primarily concentrated in our large corporate and middle market segments.
Large corporate growth occurred in most industry verticals most notably media healthcare and energy.
And momentum within the middle market segment continued to build as it was up by about 10% sequentially.
Residential loan growth was driven by guaranteed loans which increased by $1.2 billion and was partially offset by a decline in home equity.
All consumer category loans increased led by student loans which was up primarily due to the full benefit of loans acquired during the prior quarter.
The growth from last year was driven entirely by targeted categories specifically C&amp;I guaranteed mortgage and consumer loans.
C&amp;I increased by $5.4 billion or 12%.
Similar to the sequential quarter story loan growth was widespread across large corporate industry verticals as well as our middle market segment.
Guaranteed mortgages were up $2.2 billion and consumer loans grew by $4 billion led by student and auto.
Conversely CRE construction home equity and non-guaranteed mortgage balances all were managed down by about $3 billion in total.
This contributed to a continued derisking of the loan portfolio which you see on Slide 10.
The portfolios that we've categorized as higher risk declined by $13.6 billion or 58% over the past few years and they were down by another $400 million this quarter with the declines evenly distributed across the 3 major categories.
Higher-risk balances were managed down by $2.4 billion or 20% over the prior year.
Commercial construction comprised $1 billion of the decline while higher risk home equity and mortgage balances both declined by $700 million.
As can be seen at the bottom of the page the overall decline in the higher-risk balances has essentially been offset by increases in government-guaranteed loans which has helped to significantly alter the risk profile of the portfolio in a relatively short period of time.
This improved risk profile becomes evident in our credit trends which you see on Slide 11.
Credit quality continued to trend favorably this quarter with meaningful declines in delinquencies nonperforming assets and loans and net charge-offs.
Early-stage delinquencies excluding government-guaranteed loans were down by 9 basis points this quarter.
The accelerated rate of improvement from prior quarters is attributable to normal seasonality of delinquency trends coupled with continued improvements in the loan portfolio.
We're happy to report a 29 basis point decline in indirect a 19 basis point improvement in home equity and an 11 basis point decline in non-guaranteed mortgages.
Nonperforming assets and nonperforming loans both declined by approximately $250 million this quarter.
The 9% sequential quarter reduction in nonperforming loans is primarily driven by declines in commercial construction and residential mortgages.
A portion of the residential mortgage decline was the result of our decision to move $86 million of nonperforming loans to held for sale and we expect to complete the sale of these loans during the second quarter.
Relative to the prior year nonperforming loans declined about $1.3 billion or 33% with commercial construction C&amp;I CRE and residential mortgage the largest contributors.
Several banks this quarter reclassified into NPL performing home equity lines that are behind delinquent first mortgages.
Based upon our existing accounting policies and practices we did not believe it was necessary for us to make a similar reclassification.
However I will point out that our reserving methodology takes this issue into account either by the direct knowledge we have from servicing the first mortgage or via the regular refreshing of FICO scores which quickly respond to borrower delinquencies.
Therefore if we are ever required to reclassify this small population of performing loans as nonperforming we would expect the income statement impact to be immaterial.
Net charge-offs were down by $50 million or 11% sequentially which was better than our expectations.
Declines came from most loan categories most notably C&amp;I CRE and residential construction.
These declines were partially offset by a $10 million increase in residential mortgage charge-offs the result of the aforementioned move of certain nonperforming loans to held for sale.
Relative to the prior year net charge-offs were lower by about $150 million driven by commercial construction residential mortgages and home equity.
In light of the continued improvement in credit quality the allowance for loan and lease loss ratio declined by 9 basis points to 1.92%.
Excluding government-guaranteed loans from the denominator of the calculation the ratio at quarter end stood at 2.16%.
Overall we're pleased with the continued improvement in credit trends.
As we look to the second quarter we currently expect to see additional declines in nonperforming loans and relatively stable to down net charge-offs.
Let's take a look at our deposit performance.
This quarter we again benefited from favorable deposit trends.
Average client deposits grew $800 million with all of that coming from lower-cost categories.
DDA was the primary driver up $1.3 billion or 4% with growth from both consumer and commercial clients.
Conversely higher-cost time deposit balances continued their decline by $700 million or 4%.
Compared to a year ago client deposits grew by about $5 billion or 4%.
DDA increased by over $7 billion or 25%.
Savings was up by $600 million or 14% while time deposits declined by $2.4 billion or about 12%.
We've been able to achieve this deposit growth while also closely managing pricing demonstrated by interest-bearing deposit costs coming down 17 basis points from last year.
Another benefit of our strong liquidity position and DDA growth is that we reduced our average long-term debt by $2.5 billion from last year.
Collectively these favorable liability trends have resulted in an $82 million or 27% year-over-year decline in our overall interest expense which has been a major driver of our net interest income growth.
Slide 13 provides information on our capital metrics.
Tier 1 common capital increased for the seventh consecutive quarter up sequentially by another $200 million as a result of retained earnings.
Tier 1 common ratio ended the quarter at an estimated 9.3% up from 9.22% at year end.
The tangible common equity ratio increased by 5 basis points due to higher earnings which also led to the increased tangible book value per share shown in the bottom right of the page.
Let's turn to Slide 14 for a discussion of our Playbook for Profitable Growth Expense program.
As you know our PPG Expense program's ultimate goal is the removal of $300 million from our run rate expenses by the end of next year.
To date we've achieved $190 million of these savings on an annualized basis.
This program is comprised of several fundamental expense-savings initiatives.
They're broken into 3 main buckets: strategic supply management consumer bank efficiencies and operations and support staff.
You can see on the bottom of the slide that many of our programs are well underway and we've clearly attained some good initial results.
Our strategic supply management initiatives have lowered costs with our suppliers as well as reduced our own demands for such services.
In addition to contract renegotiations savings are being realized through markedly reduced travel and lower usage of temporary labor courier and print services.
In the consumer bank efficiencies category savings have come through branch staff and location efficiencies that we achieved via technological advancements and strategic investment in lower cost channels.
This is a win-win as our clients value the enhanced conveniences and adoption rates of the new technology have been high.
Further we garnered savings on our rewards check card program by renegotiating what we pay for the rewards and restructuring the rewards earnings rate.
Several initiatives have driven our operations and support staff savings.
We further reduced spend in layers in the organization and initiated Lean process design efforts to streamline key business processes generate measurable savings and enhance client experiences.
Furthermore we made significant progress in our efforts to leverage digital technology reducing paper statements by hundreds of thousands.
These items coupled with the progress we made last year put us in a good position relative to our stated expense savings goal.
Taking the broader view and looking over the longer term we are acutely focused on improving our overall efficiency ratio.
We've previously articulated our longer-term goal for a sub-60% efficiency ratio upon the abatement of elevated credit- and mortgage-related expenses and that is what we're actively working toward.
This program is the start and is providing the impetus for us to become a more efficiently run organization.
I'll conclude today with an overview of some changes that we've made to our segment reporting structure.
You will recall that we previously reported results for 6 primary lines of business: Retail Banking Diversified Commercial Banking Corporate and Investment Banking Wealth and Investment Management Mortgage and Commercial Real Estate with the remainder in Corporate Other.
Starting in 2012 our results are being reported via the 4 segments that you see here: Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management Wholesale Banking Mortgage Banking and Corporate Other.
Mortgage and Corporate Other are largely unchanged but there are notable changes in the other 2 segments.
First we formed Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management by combining our legacy Retail line of business with the private wealth portion of our former Wealth and Investment Management line of business.
Second we created Wholesale Banking by combining our previous Corporate and Investment Banking Diversified Commercial and CRE lines of business.
Business Banking our small business banking unit which was previously included in Retail is also now part of Wholesale.
Additionally the other major units of our former Wealth and Investment Management unit GenSpring our family office and RidgeWorth our mutual fund complex also roll up into the new Wholesale reporting segment.
These changes were made in light of how our clients want to bank with us and how we manage our business.
For example when a business client has cash management lending real estate and capital markets needs we serve this client by delivering SunTrust's full set of capabilities via our Wholesale Banking line of business and this reporting structure facilitates that delivery approach.
Similarly when a consumer client has traditional banking and wealth management needs our Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management line of business is able to seamlessly offer these capabilities.
To best serve our client needs we reorganized our management structure last year and appointed an executive to run each of our major segments.
Brad Dinsmore is in charge of Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management.
Mark Chancy runs Wholesale Banking and Jerome Lienhard leads Mortgage Banking.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Bill to wrap us up before we go to Q&amp;A.
Okay thanks Aleem.
Before we move on let me briefly share with you a few comments about our business line performance to help reiterate the improvement we're seeing in our underlying core performance.
During the quarter Consumer and Private Wealth Management completed our deposit transformation away from free checking.
We retained 98% of our balances through this process and the average deposit size of a new checking account is up almost 50% in our Everyday Checking product relative to what it was under free checking.
Loyalty as you might expect took an early dip during the transition but I'm pleased to say it has rebounded and it now exceeds where we were before the transformation and maybe most importantly total deposits have continued the favorable trend.
Now another good sign of early recovery and our execution is evidenced in consumer lending overall where production has been very strong.
It's up 24% on a year-over-year basis and that's totally organic not from purchased assets.
Our Wholesale business continues to perform well.
Net income is up 60% from the prior year.
Our Corporate Investment Banking business continues to build momentum and this unit posted its second-highest quarterly profit ever.
C&amp;I loan growth overall remains solid though still more concentrated in larger corporate and middle market.
Deposits are strong and the Wholesale line of business is generating positive operating leverage.
While we continue to manage through the legacy issues in Mortgage origination activity was a bright spot this quarter.
Production was up by 1/3 from the prior year reaffirming our relationship-driven model.
So our progress is steady.
We're on the path to improved performance relative to our opportunity.
I'll wrap up my comments on the quarter.
I'd characterize our results as a solid start to the year that built upon improved momentum that we established and generated last year.
We benefited from the mortgage refinance tailwind this quarter helping us overcome some of the fee income headwinds on the consumer side.
More broadly though we see good underlying improving core performance in virtually all of our businesses.
So with that said Kris I'll turn it over to Q&amp;A.
Right Wendy we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Kevin Fitzsimmons from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Was wondering Mortgage was definitely the main bright spot this quarter.
You mentioned it as a tailwind.
Can you just give us a little sense for how to look at that going forward? I know the MBA forecast is for the refinancing to peak -- have peaked in fourth quarter and for that to flow through but you also mentioned the HARP program.
So just how should we think of that? Should we think of it as kind of falling off a little bit in the next few quarters or does it remain at this level for a quarter or 2? Kevin it's Bill.
I'll take a crack at starting that and it depends on a lot of variables.
I mean clearly refinance -- I mean we were -- 3/4 of our business was refinanced and 1/3 of that was HARP.
So HARP was big for us.
If you think about our markets the amount of homes underwater its still a significant opportunity for us.
So I think HARP as an individual unit probably has more legs than maybe we would have anticipated a quarter ago and we got off to an early start at HARP.
We have to eventually see some purchase volume though to sort of keep the momentum up.
And while we see sort of glimpses of it and we'll see a week to week or slight improvement it still is not the big driver and refinance eventually runs its course.
That being said I think it probably has a few more legs than it did and we need to see that purchase volume.
Does that make sense? L.P.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes it does.
One quick follow-up.
You mentioned early on in the call about the impact of the swaps rolling off and I think you said that would be roughly a 10 basis point impact to the margin.
Should we look at that as the total hit to the margin or are there other offsets that could lessen that impact on the consolidated margin? Well that 10 basis point impact Kevin was just for the swaps alone.
In addition to that of course weve just got the regular overall drift of lower interest income and lower margins as a result of the interest rate environment we're in.
So I think you'd already seen some of that happening around the industry this quarter and for the last several quarters.
The 10 basis point will be in addition to what you're already assuming for us as lower margin and drift-down.
Having said that you see some of the actions that we've already taken and already been taking over the last year to try and offset the impact of the rate environment.
We're grinding down on deposit rates.
We're looking at how we can manage our overall debt.
One of the levers we have yet to pull is the ability to call our high-cost TruPs at some point.
So all of those things will end up being offsets to the declining rate environment.
Our next question is from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just staying on the theme of interest cost.
I'm just curious Aleem where you think you might be able to get the deposit costs down to over the course of the next couple of quarters.
It was 55 basis points in the first quarter down about 4 basis points.
I'm just curious as to how you were thinking about getting that number down over the next couple of quarters.
Matt that's a great question.
If you'd asked me this a year ago I would not have said we could get them down another 17 basis points in the next [indiscernible].
So rates have come down more than we expected.
The ability to move rates down has been greater than we expected.
And it looks like from what we can see that we still have the ability to do more of that and more than I would have thought a few months or quarters ago.
So we continue to test markets.
We continue to see what we can do how we can work with our clients to provide them the best product and service that we can at a fair rate and what the market is able to take.
So I think you'll see us continue to work this down as much as we can over the course of the next several quarters in this rate environment.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just following up on your comment on the TruPS and I appreciate there's some timing issues with this.
But in terms of the focus of what you could potentially repurchase over the course of this year it looks like you've got one fixed rate issue and a couple of others -- couple of other smaller floating rate issues.
I'm presuming that you're going to look first to repurchase the higher cost fixed rate TruPS or is there something other than the regulatory call that prohibits you from doing that? No.
We're primarily waiting on the regulatory issue and you're aware that what we're waiting for here is for the Federal Reserve to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that formally designates TruPS as no longer qualifying as Tier 1 capital.
And as soon as they do that that's a change in the structure of the product for us and where -- we can then call them.
The total amount of TruPS we've got outstanding is $1.9 billion.
Of the $1.9 billion about $700 million are floating rate and we may end up keeping those just as regular Tier 2 capital.
There's $1.2 billion that's at a relatively higher rate.
And actually both -- the $1.2 billion is composed of 2 issues both of which are fixed rate.
So it would be a reasonable assumption to make that we would focus on that $1.2 billion first.
Our next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions one on liquidity.
Could you just give us a sense as to how you define your excess liquidity and how much more you could shift into either securities or loans? I know it has a function of deposit growth so assuming deposits are flat? Well we don't really think about liquidity as being excess liquidity.
We dont always define liquidity as having -- from that perspective.
As you know Betsy we've got a big store of liquidity in our securities portfolio.
So we've got about $25 billion in our securities portfolio $22 billion of which is composed basically of U.S.
treasuries and agencies and agency MBS.
That's a big store of liquidity.
The way we think about it is our first call on liquidity is always client business.
So we've got the store of liquidity always available in order to support any client requirements.
That's number one.
Second store of liquidity is in case we need it for liability management purposes.
From that perspective we've got lots of capacity but we don't really think about liquidity from a sort of required and excess perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up is just on HARP 2.
Could you just give us a sense of the potential HARPs that you think you have in your portfolio and how much you've got done this quarter? If that rate change persisted how many more quarters we could have HARP 2 impact your numbers? Yes.
It's a -- there's a lot of capacity within the portfolio.
So if you were just to sort of do that as analysis you'd have a multi-quarter opportunity.
But we do a lot of outreach.
It's sort of hard to project and predict how a client will respond.
We've been pretty happy with their response today.
But if you just did a pure calculation it's a multiple of what we did in this first quarter.
Research Division</strong> So it could take you through 2012 into 2013? Well yes.
I just want to be careful about sort of going through and saying we'd have this level of HARP all the way through 2012 to 2013 because we just sort of really have to anticipate will the program continue how does it go and what client responses are.
But as I said earlier it has more running room than we thought initially and the response has been very good and uniquely in our market there are a lot of -- unfortunately a lot of opportunities.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is regard to the NII outlook again.
I just want to get your thoughts about future loan growth and the pace of the growing areas.
And can they kind of offset the runoff and can loan growth offset -- or can earning asset growth offset the NIM compression as we look into the second half of the year from an NII perspective? That's a great question Ken.
When you look at the loan growth that we got over the last couple of years I think it was very good and probably somewhat surprising in the context of the lack of economic growth that we saw throughout the country.
So I think you can see over the last couple of years we probably outperformed the average bank in terms of loan growth.
We've built solid client-facing businesses.
I think we're pretty close to our clients.
We understand what their needs are.
And if there is any type of economic recovery that's anything above sort of the anemic 1% 2% GDP growth we'll be there to capitalize on that.
As you heard from our previous answer to Betsy we've certainly got a store of liquidity available to support that loan growth.
So we expect and we hope that in this part of the country where our footprint is if there's any type of economic growth we'll be able to leverage that and we'll be able to leverage that more positively than you've seen in the past.
And maybe I'll add to that just on the loan growth side.
Our production numbers are good so we're continuing to see positive increases in production.
I talked about the consumer side being up 24% over last year.
First quarter is always lower than the fourth quarter but production is up.
Pipelines in the commercial and large corporate side look good.
But to Aleem's point the real leverage is in utilization.
Utilization is basically flat and has continued to be flat multi-quarter.
Given sort of our concentration in this business the nature of the type of commitments we make the loyalty that we have from our client base any economic recovery where utilization starts to increase we get I think sort of a disproportionate impact of that on the positive side.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
My follow-up question is just related to PPG and the program outlook.
You mentioned you're about 2/3 of the way through the annualized run rate.
I'm just wondering if you can help us understand where that is showing up underneath it.
It looked like salaries were still a little bit high.
And how confident do you feel in obtaining if not exceeding the $300 million number given how close -- how far through you already are on the realization? Well Ken let me start that off and Bill may kick me under the table here.
I expect that we're going -- I'm very confident we're going to attain that number.
And actually I'm pretty confident we're going to exceed that number.
The key with the PPG program is it was a good start to move us toward really thinking like a more efficient company.
So the program in and of itself is important.
We're very focused on it.
We're going to make sure we hit and beat that target and probably earlier than we had anticipated when we kicked the program off.
But the program itself is not the be-all and end-all of where we're going.
Where we're really headed is to turn this company into a more efficient organization and try and hit that sub-60% efficiency ratio target.
So this is a start for us.
It's the impetus to get that thought process changed.
So we'll hit this and we'll beat it and we'll keep going.
Did that get all your question? Our next question is from Kevin St.
Pierre with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if we could just dig a little bit more into the credit-related expenses where you saw a nice sequential decline in the quarter.
I know in the back half of '11 particularly on the operating losses you were a little bit inflated with catch-up charges.
Do you anticipate the credit-related expenses declining over the balance of the year? And if so what do you consider a more normal range? Some of that decline this quarter Kevin was as a result of the inflated numbers you saw on the fourth quarter.
You'll recall fourth quarter of every year there's a seasonal increase in costs in credit and collections for example for taxes and that sort of thing.
So some of the decline this quarter was just as a result of reversing that.
However having said that we're very very focused on this number.
You know we are.
And we're going to be continuing to try and push this number lower year-over-year maybe not quarter-over-quarter but year-over-year from what you see.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the mortgage repurchase provisions.
In the K you've put a range of between 0 and $700 million in terms of remaining accruals.
Are you still comfortable with that range? And can we assume now that we're talking about 0 and $525 million? We're still comfortable with the overall range.
I don't know that we're going to get an exact dollar-for-dollar match.
But I think what you'll see is something that's directionally correct and that overall range generally will continue to hold.
Your next question is from Brian Foran with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess just following along the lines of the cost-save program when we try to benchmark how much opportunity is left kind of on the face of the income statement.
So you talk about getting the core efficiency ratio sub-60% adjusted for all the credit-related items.
Can you just give us what you peg that number at in the current quarter just given there's enough moving parts that I can imagine different people would come up with different numbers? There were a lot of moving parts Brian.
Here's a way to maybe think about it.
When you look at Q4 versus Q1 our overall noninterest expenses were down $120 million.
One way to think about that is that $120 million was really all the reduction of the fourth quarter accrual for mortgage servicing litigation.
So that brings us about flat.
Within that flat Q4 to Q1 there were lots of puts and takes.
Generally here's the high-level numbers of what we saw Q4 to Q1.
Employee comp and benefits was up about $170 million as I said.
The pieces that went into that $170 million were the low pension number in the fourth quarter as a result of the curtailment the reduction in other incentive plans we put in place in the fourth quarter and the Q1 seasonal increase in FICA and employee benefits.
So those are basically the components of the $170 million increase.
And that $170 million was basically offset by reductions in marketing in operating losses litigation accruals in FDIC premium and in those credit and collection costs and other noninterest expenses like legal and consulting lower PPG severance et cetera.
So net-net down $120 million but with a lot of puts and takes.
Having said that most of those puts and takes were really a Q4 noise not Q1 noise.
As I think about Q1 it was a relative -- it was a very clean noiseless quarter and most of the differences were really Q4 items from last year.
And I'll just maybe add a little bit.
And I know it's frustrating because we talk in terms of run rate.
And we want to see it in every quarter and it just sort of doesn't have that perfect match.
But we're confident in the things that we're putting in place that permanently get that run rate down.
And you look sort of -- to some examples and maybe the other I'd give you is full-time equivalents were down 300 last quarter and down another 500 this quarter.
And that's clearly another leading indicator of where you look at from a -- or what you need to look at from the expense side.
Research Division</strong> And then just one other follow-up.
I mean I guess the mortgage banking improvement in the revenue trends quarter-over-quarter as well as -- I'm assuming relative to your expectations what would be the kind of expense offset we should pencil into that just as we try to figure out that a couple more good quarters from HARP eventually that's going to normalize.
And I'm assuming at least some of the maybe expense disappointment that investors feel this quarter might come from the mortgage upside but I'm not sure if that's the case.
So some of it clearly does.
Incentive expenses will all go up as a result of the increased production.
However keep in mind there's a little bit of a timing difference between when we recognize income unlock and when we pay incentive expense on close.
So some of the revenue from this quarter the incentive cost for that will actually show up 60 days out or so when we pay that out on close.
But the answer overall to your assumption is correct is that the bulk -- other than sort of normal kind of merit increases again offset by sort of total reduction in FTEs is primarily centered in the things that are driving revenue.
So think mortgage think Investment Banking revenue the things that we're accruing relative to where we see the opportunity.
And on mortgage part of the offset of that also is just -- I think HARP 2 is a much more efficient loan done through a much more efficient channel.
So it over time has a different efficiency dynamic and return dynamic than a traditional refinance or certainly a purchase loan.
Your next question is from Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just on the home equity book.
Didn't look like there was any real impact from the kind of new change or the guidance valuation methodology put in place in January.
But is there any expected future impact from this or in terms of changes in NPA balances or provisioning? Well I guess that depends on whether we're asked to make the changes that apparently some of the money centers were asked to do.
It looks like from what the announcements we saw over the last week or so Craig that money centers were asked to make this change but regional banks generally weren't.
But having said that let me sort of lead you through how we're looking at this now.
So we've got a $15 billion home equity book.
About 1/3 of that book are actually firsts not seconds.
Of the remainder about 1/3 of those we already service the firsts.
So we can see what's going on in the first and we have a good sense of what's going on in that book.
Of the remainder where there are seconds and we don't service the firsts we actually do a FICO refresh every quarter.
And if the first does go delinquent you know it has an immediate impact on FICO and we're able to see that immediate impact and adjust.
So our reserving methodology already takes that into account.
Where we can see that happen we built that into our reserving methodology.
Therefore if we are ever requested to put a required -- to put what are currently performing loans into a nonperforming category we actually don't expect that the income statement impact would be material for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if we think about your home equity book out of the 2/3 that are seconds 1/3 of that you already service the firsts.
So effectively it's the same valuation methodology the money centers using now.
And out of 2/3 of the 2/3 you refresh the FICO so the delta would be modest if anything.
That's exactly right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up question.
In your 10-K you gave an upper limit to mortgage repurchase provisions of $700 million.
Given that you had $175 million this quarter is the kind of updated upper limit now effectively $525 million? Well Craig as I said earlier I don't think it's going to be an exact dollar-for-dollar match every quarter.
But directionally we expect when we file our K and we update that range it'll be directionally correct.
Our next question is from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one other follow-up on the HARP stuff.
Where are you in terms of the capacity to increase production at this point? And are you actually refi-ing just out of your own servicing portfolio or are you looking outside? We're primarily within our own portfolio.
And as I said earlier I mean the runway within our own portfolio is pretty long.
And given sort of our capacity and our portfolio and quite frankly the desire to serve our clients and we're reaching out very specifically I don't see that changing short term.
I think we've got plenty of runway there.
And using our capacity I think we'll stay with our portfolio here in the short term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on utilization.
You talked about this being flat for multiple quarters.
Are you seeing actually higher commitments? So is it more you just not seeing a ramp-up in utilization on the part of your borrowers? We're continuing to increase commitments.
I mean as we grow our business and add relationships our commitments are continuing to go up.
But we're just not seeing the utilization firm.
So if you look multi-quarter over the last 3 or 4 quarters we sort of have a continual steady increase in commitments.
Our final question today is from Greg Ketron with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Question on Mortgage.
It looks like your application volume's up about 30% over the last quarter.
And just a couple of points there that I was looking at.
One it looks like your correspondent volumes picked up and we know some people have downsized their correspondent business.
So I guess one question would be the market share that you sense that you're picking up and then two would be the production spreads that you're seeing in this current pipeline compared to what we saw in the fourth quarter -- I'm sorry in the  yes in the fourth quarter that may -- or first quarter that may carry on to the second quarter.
Yes.
Greg I'll take a crack at both those.
Correspondent was up and you know what's going on in the industry.
But that being said our retail was also up and clear focus on our clients and clear focus on HARP.
Could correspondent be up more if we didn't have HARP 2.0? Probably but we're trying to manage that fairly tightly and keep a focus on our clients and on HARP as using up a good portion of our capacity.
On the spread standpoint spreads were better.
I mean we know everybody's talked about that and that's the case.
Spreads were better in the first quarter.
Would they come in slightly over the second quarter? I would anticipate they would because they were at universally abnormally high in the first quarter and I don't imagine over time that's sustainable.
So they'll come back at -- to a more normalized level over the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one maybe bigger-picture question in terms of loan growth and deposit growth.
And you guys are growing the balance sheet in these areas at rates that we haven't seen in a while and the industry is experiencing a much faster growth rate.
But do you sense that you're gaining market share? And if so the strategy or what are the sources of that -- of the market share gains? Well you can look at the things you look at.
So we talked about in the fourth quarter where we looked at FDIC data and from the deposit side and clearly looked at 8 of the 10 largest markets we had.
You couldn't come up with the conclusion other than we've gained market share I think I mean from that data.
As it relates to loans you just look at sort of the fed data and sort of industry growth and how we look relative to that.
And Id have to come up with a sort of a similar conclusion that there's some gain in share.
Where that comes from specifically? I'd say everywhere.
I mean it starts up -- there's a lot of disruption and things that are going on in our market that we all know about.
On the small side we've had gosh I think 140 bank failures in Georgia and Florida since the beginning of this.
So we're seeing reduced competition from that standpoint.
So I don't think Greg it's any one place.
I just think it's just good raw execution everywhere for us and picking up incrementally every opportunity that we have.
Research Division</strong> And that's something you feel that's sustainable as we look forward? We've been on a good path.
And I think as we continue to not only gain marginal share and probably more important is share of wallet and I think that's where our big opportunity is so not only within the market but even within our own client base we're really putting a lot of efforts to gain that share through share of wallet.
Yes let me just take a minute to wrap up the call and just make a couple of comments.
I hope that you've been able to conclude that momentum and intensity are building here at SunTrust as we continue to progress against our game plan to significantly improve our performance.
We've seen evidence of this in our core performance coming out of last year and very positively continue in the first quarter.
I believe we've prioritized appropriately.
We're focused in areas that can best impact our future performance and we very much look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.
And with that said I thank you.
Thanks.
Feel free to give the IR Department a call if you have any other questions.
Thanks for joining us.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the SunTrust's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the meeting over to Kris Dickson Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning everyone and welcome to SunTrust's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thanks for joining us today.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call today.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Freeman our Chief Risk Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risk and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our press release and SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website at www.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that out of the way I'll turn it over to Bill.
Okay.
Thanks Kris.
In our normal fashion I'll begin today's call with some brief comments on our performance this quarter and then pass on to Aleem to provide details on the results.
The high-level points are shown on Slide 3 of our presentation.
Core performance continued to steadily improve this quarter.
Net income to common shareholders was $270 million and earnings per share was $0.50 a $0.04 increase over last quarter and a $0.17 increase over last year.
On the revenue side total revenue was up $28 million over last quarter driven by higher noninterest income.
Strong Mortgage revenue drove a $64 million or 7% sequential quarter increase in fee income while our net interest income declined $36 million due to decrease in swap income.
Mortgage production volume remained high this quarter.
To date this year we've closed almost $16 billion in Mortgage loans up over 50% from last year which helped over 62 000 clients buy or refinance a home this year including many through the HARP program.
Now moving to expenses.
They were stable the last quarter and last year.
Included in this quarter's expense was a $13 million noncash charge associated with redemption of a $1.2 billion of trust preferred securities.
These were higher-cost fundings and as such we moved quickly to redeem them once the capital treatment of that occurred allowing us to do so.
We've made significant progress in our efforts to reduce expenses through our PPG program.
To date we've generated annualized savings of $250 million and we're now well within our sight of $300 million goal for the program.
Now at the risk of being redundant I'll reiterate that we're committed to establishing a more efficiently-run organization.
The PPG program was the catalyst but was never intended to be the final goal for us.
So what I'm saying here is that when PPG is done our work is not.
The ultimate objective is getting our efficiency ratio under 60% and we have high intensity around both revenue and expense initiatives to help us achieve that goal.
Now taking a look at the balance sheet.
Targeted loan growth particularly in C&amp;I drove a $1 billion increase in average performing loan balances over last quarter and nearly a $10 billion increase over last year.
At the same time we've been actively managing down certain real estate-related loan balances.
Though average client deposits were stable to last quarter's record level we continue to see the favorable mix shift this quarter.
Average DDA balances were up 3% from the prior quarter and 23% from the prior year while CD balances declined.
Credit quality also continued to improve across-the-board.
Net charge-offs are 1.14% of average loans down 17% from the prior quarter.
Nonperforming loans were down 7% and early-stage delinquencies declined 7 basis points.
Lastly we generated additional positive capital growth with Tier 1 common ratio estimated at 9.4% at quarter end.
Now before I wrap up my comments and turn it over to Aleem I'm going to take a minute to address our resubmitted capital plan under the 2012 CCAR process.
As you're aware we submitted our revised capital plan in mid-June.
While the fed is in the process of reviewing our plan I wanted to share with you in advance that we elected not to request any increase in the current level of the dividend or any other return of capital at this time.
We made this decision in light of the fact that this submission only covered capital actions for the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013.
Additionally we considered the close proximity of the resubmission to the 2013 CCAR process which is expected to begin in the fourth quarter of this year shortly after the time we expect to hear back on this plan.
And we think this is the best course of action for the short term but it's not indicative of our long-term plans to return capital prudently to shareholders.
As a reminder in their review of our original plan submission the fed did not object to the trust preferred redemptions which as I noted earlier have been completed or to maintaining the quarterly common stock dividend at $0.05 a share.
The 2013 CCAR process will begin later this year will provide us an opportunity to evaluate capital deployment alternatives for next year.
So overall we made continued progress this quarter with momentum building in several key areas of our company.
Of note was the solid noninterest income growth mainly driven by strong Mortgage production though with a pick up in several other fee categories as well.
We also saw a continuation of a multi-quarter trend in increased performing loan balances particularly in our C&amp;I book.
So looking ahead challenges remain with the less-than-ideal operating environment but I believe SunTrust is well-positioned to capitalize upon our opportunities.
And with that said let me turn it over to Aleem.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today.
I'll begin my comments this morning on Slide 4.
Bill had a lot of the highlights so I'll be brief here and then we'll delve deeper on subsequent slides.
As Bill noted earlier we're pleased to report higher earnings per share this quarter of $0.50 which is a $0.04 increase from the prior quarter and a $0.17 increase from last year.
This sequential quarter income growth is attributable to higher revenue and a lower loan loss provision.
Revenue grew $28 million as higher noninterest income more than offset the swap-related decline in net interest income.
Provision declined $17 million due to lower net charge-offs and continued improvements in other credit metrics.
Higher revenue and a lower loan loss provision also drove the growth from the second quarter of last year where revenue increased by $48 million by a combination of higher net interest income and higher fee income the latter of which was primarily mortgage-related.
Improvements in credit quality were widespread driving a $92 million decline in the provision while noninterest expense was essentially unchanged.
Year-to-date EPS was $0.96.
This is more than double the $0.41 reported during the first 6 months of last year.
Revenue was higher up 2% on a reported basis but by a more meaningful 5% net of the usual quarterly adjustment items we detail in the appendix.
Other drivers were a lower loan loss provision and the redemption of the capital purchase program preferred shares.
Let's take a look at each of the major income statement categories beginning with net interest income on Slide 5.
On a sequential quarter basis net interest income declined by $36 million or 3% and the net interest margin fell by 10 basis points to 3.39%.
Both of these declines were almost entirely due to the previously disclosed reduction in income for maturing commercial loan swaps.
Excluding the impact of the swap net interest income and margin were relatively stable as lower loan yields and a smaller securities portfolio were offset by the benefits of higher loan balances and an improved deposit mix.
Despite lower swap income net interest income increased from the prior year by $20 million or 2%.
Interest income declined by $49 million as lower asset yield outweighed the favorable impact of higher loan balances.
However this was more than offset by a $69 million decline in interest expense driven by favorable liability trends including strong DDA growth a 17 basis point reduction in deposit rates paid and a 65 basis point decline in long-term debt costs.
I'll spend a few minutes discussing some of the major drivers of future net interest income and margin.
First on the asset side.
With a slightly improving economy we expect to see continued loan growth which would be additive to net interest income.
Although as you're well aware most going-on rates are lower than the portfolio's current yield.
Our securities balances declined somewhat this quarter as we didn't see many attractive alternatives in light of the continued decline in yields.
But we'll continue to monitor the market and we'll pick our spots to reinvest.
Commercial loan swap income is expected to stay relatively stable through the next year at its current level of about $120 million per quarter assuming no major changes to LIBOR.
Turning to the liability side.
During the third quarter we'll begin to benefit from last week's redemption of $1.2 billion in higher-cost trust-preferred securities which had a weighted average cost of about 7%.
Deposit pricing opportunities are obviously becoming limited at this point given their low absolute rates but this is something that we do continue to evaluate and manage carefully.
We'll also benefit from higher-cost CDs maturing and rolling into lower rate products.
So all told there are headwinds and tailwinds.
As we look specifically to the third quarter we expect those headwinds and tailwinds to largely offset one another such that the net interest margin is relatively stable.
Look at noninterest income on Slide 6.
Second quarter noninterest income was $940 million a sequential quarter increase of $64 million on a reported basis or $39 million net of the adjustment items we detail in the appendix.
Mortgage production income was strong this quarter as origination volumes and gains on sale remained high.
During the quarter we closed over $8.2 billion of loans which was up 8%.
Purchase volume was $3 billion an increase of over $1 billion.
Refinance volume declined modestly but remained healthy at $5.2 billion.
Mortgage production income was $103 million this quarter or $258 million exclusive of the mortgage repurchase provision.
Sequential quarter growth and the reported figure was $40 million $20 million of which was attributable to a lower repurchase provision and $18 million due to a gain in conjunction with the sale of a portfolio containing government-guaranteed mortgages.
And I'll discuss both of those in more detail on subsequent slides.
In addition to the increase in mortgage production we saw growth in numerous other consumer and commercial fee categories.
As a couple of examples loan commitment fees recorded in the other charges and fees line item were strong and card fees grew due to increased client usage.
Relative to the prior year noninterest income was up $28 million on a reported basis and $59 million or 7% on an adjusted basis.
The largest driver of the adjusted fee growth was a $99 million increase in mortgage production with core mortgage production income up $164 million partially offset by a $65 million increase in the repurchase provision.
Trading income was also a driver of the year-over-year growth due to improved market conditions.
On the flip side card fees declined due to the implementation of caps on debit interchange income.
We also saw a decline in investment banking income on lower syndicated finance volume.
Let's turn to Slide 7 for a discussion of this quarter's trends in mortgage repurchases.
Mortgage repurchase demands shown in the top-left box were $489 million this quarter.
That's an increase of about $40 million from last quarter but within our range of expectations and well below the elevated levels we saw in the fourth quarter of last year.
Demands continue to be concentrated in the 2006 to 2008 vintages which have accounted for roughly 90% of all demand activity over the past several years as well as this quarter.
While demand levels may remain elevated in the coming quarters consistent with what we've expressed for several quarters now the underlying trends in demands and full file requests continue to suggest to us that the agencies are making progress in working through these higher-loss content vintages.
For example full file request volume has moderated somewhat and continue to transition toward loans that are delinquent but not yet in foreclosure.
Pending population shown in the top-right portion of this slide increased to $652 million up roughly $90 million from the prior quarter.
This was the result of the increase in new demands as well as a slower rate of demand resolution.
We're taking a deliberate approach to the demand review process ensuring that we repurchase loans where appropriate yet cure or moderate losses wherever possible.
Mortgage repurchase reserve shown at the bottom left of the page increased to $434 million up $51 million from the first quarter.
The increase relates primarily to the higher level of the pending population.
Said differently the reserve increase is in part due to the higher level of demands and in part to a reduction in charge-offs which is merely a function of loss recognition timing.
Similar to prior quarters some summary statistics of our sold mortgages are displayed at the bottom right of this page and we've also provided some additional detail on the 2006 to 2008 vintages in the appendix.
Overall I'd note that our expectations around mortgage repurchases remain generally unchanged from what we've shared with you in recent quarters.
We foresee demand volume remaining high and variable in the coming quarters.
However if recent patterns and full file requests continue as anticipated we expect to see a reduced income statement impact towards the end of this year.
Let's move on to expenses on Slide 8.
Expenses were essentially stable compared to both the prior quarter and prior year.
On a sequential quarter basis employee compensation and benefits declined by $35 million due to the seasonal reduction in benefits.
This decline was offset by growth in a handful of other categories.
Bill mentioned earlier the $13 million noncash charge that we incurred related to the redemption of trust preferred securities.
Additionally operating losses increased $9 million due to specific mortgage-related losses and legal accruals.
FDIC premiums increased $8 million.
This line item was a bit lower than normal in the first quarter and the Q2 level is expected to be a more normal run rate.
In credit-related expenses which we detailed for you as usual in the appendix increased by $7 million.
I will point out that this quarter we refined our methodology for recognizing tax payments on delinquent loans which resulted in an approximate $10 million increase in credit and collection expenses.
As a result of this change we should not experience the seasonal fourth quarter spike in this line item that we've seen in prior years.
Relative to the prior year adjusted expenses declined $11 million driven by lower FDIC premiums credit-related expenses and marketing costs.
These declines were partially offset by a modest increase in compensation and higher outside processing costs.
Before we turn to the balance sheet starting on Slide 9 I'll summarize this quarter's income statement by noting that we drove continued improvement in our core earnings this quarter.
Obviously our low -- our absolute level of profitability is still well below our profit-generation capability.
But overall we were pleased to note continued progression toward a more normalized level of earnings.
Average performing loans increased again this quarter up sequentially by a little over $1 billion or about 1%.
Growth was driven by commercial loans specifically C&amp;I which was up $1.3 billion.
Within our Wholesale businesses growth continued to be concentrated in larger corporate clients and to be well diversified.
Specific industry verticals within our Corporate Investment Bank that drove the bulk of this quarter's growth were healthcare diversified financial services and media.
We also booked some modest growth in our Diversified Commercial Banking business driven by auto dealers and not-for-profit clients.
While we saw a continued runoff of legacy assets in our commercial real estate book the pace of decline moderated again this quarter.
The residential portfolio was relatively stable this quarter.
Within it we grew non-guaranteed loans by about $700 million driven by high FICO jumbo loans.
The guaranteed portfolio was down approximately $600 million largely due to the sale of $0.5 billion in loans this quarter.
Relative to the prior year performing loans grew almost $10 billion or 9% with the growth coming entirely from our targeted categories namely C&amp;I guaranteed mortgages and consumer loans.
C&amp;I led the way up $5.6 billion or 12% driven by large corporate and middle market borrowers.
Consumer loans increased almost $4 billion or 24% with growth across all loan categories most notably student loans.
And government-guaranteed mortgages were up $1.5 billion or about 33%.
The overall portfolio growth was partially offset by intentional declines in certain portfolios including CRE construction and home equity which were managed down by a combined $2.3 billion.
The continued impact of this derisking is evident on Slide 10.
Portfolios that we've categorized as higher risk declined by $14 billion or 60% over the past few years and they were down by another $400 million this quarter.
Higher-risk balances were managed down by over $2 billion or 18% from the prior year with the decline split relatively evenly between the 3 major categories.
This can be seen at the bottom of the page.
The overall decline and the higher risk balances over the past few years has essentially been offset by increases in government-guaranteed loans.
This combination has helped to significantly improve the risk profile of the company in a relatively short period of time.
Additionally the increases in government-guaranteed balances also served as a bridge to a time of organic loan growth.
Recent quarters' higher-risk loan balances have declined at a slower pace in light of the smaller size of this portfolio and its improving risk characteristics.
Additionally we've seen a pickup in organic loan demand.
As such and as part of our continued active management of the balance sheet we elected to sell about $0.5 billion of government-guaranteed mortgages this quarter and this resulted in an $18 million gain.
Let's turn to Slide 11 for a review of credit trends.
Credit quality continued to trend favorably this quarter with meaningful declines in delinquencies nonperforming assets nonperforming loans and net charge-offs.
Early-stage delinquencies excluding government-guaranteed loans were down by 8 basis points from the prior quarter driven by residential loans.
Non-guaranteed mortgage delinquency rates declined by 23 basis points and home equity improved by 11 basis points.
Nonperforming loans declined sequentially by almost $200 million or 7%.
Improvements were evident across the portfolio most notably in commercial real estate and residential and commercial construction.
Nonperforming assets declined by over $300 million or 11% driven by the decline in nonperforming loans as well as reductions in other real estate owned and the completion of the sale of the nonperforming mortgage loans that we commenced last quarter.
Year-over-year nonperforming loans were down $1.2 billion or more than 30%.
All loan categories showed improvement with the highest declines coming from commercial construction CRE and C&amp;I.
Net charge-offs declined by $72 million or 17% sequentially and the net charge-off ratio fell by 24 basis points to 1.14%.
Non-guaranteed mortgages home equity and commercial real estate were the biggest drivers of the improvement.
Relative to the prior year net charge-offs were lower by $155 million or about 30% with meaningful improvements seen across most of the portfolios.
The allowance for loan and lease losses was $2.3 billion at quarter end or 1.86% of loans.
In light of the continued favorable trends in credit quality the allowance declined this quarter albeit at a more modest pace than recent quarters.
Excluding government-guaranteed loans from the denominator of the allowance calculation the ratio stood at 2.07%.
Overall we were pleased with our trends in credit metrics and the improvements exceeded our expectations particularly in net charge-offs.
As we look forward a recovering economy should continue to support our positive asset quality trends with improvements primarily driven by the residential portfolio as most of the commercial and consumer portfolios are currently nearing more normal credit metric levels.
Looking specifically at the third quarter we currently expect to see additional declines in nonperforming loans and relatively stable net charge-offs.
Let's take a look at deposit performance.
Average deposit balances were stable with their record first quarter level of approximately $126 billion.
A favorable shift in deposit mix continued as DDA and savings increased while higher-cost time deposits declined.
Compared to last year client deposits were up $4 billion or 3%.
Lower-cost deposits drove the increase with DDA up almost $7 billion or 23%.
Conversely time deposits were down almost $3 billion or 14%.
This favorable mix shift has contributed to our year-over-year net interest income growth.
Slide 13 provides information on our capital metrics.
Tier 1 common increased for the eighth consecutive quarter up sequentially by approximately $300 million primarily from increased retained earnings.
The Tier 1 common ratio ended the quarter at an estimated 9.4% up another 7 basis points from last quarter's 9.33%.
While not shown on this slide I'll mention the capital impact of our decision to call the $1.2 billion of higher-cost trust-preferred securities.
The redemption of these securities resulted in a reduction of our Basel I Tier 1 ratio of about 90 basis points and that impact is already reflected in our second quarter capital ratio estimates.
As you're aware this will not impact our fully phased-in Basel III Tier 1 ratio as trust preferreds are not Tier 1 qualifying instruments.
As it relates to our recent Basel III notice of proposed rulemaking we continue to evaluate the potential impact to our capital ratios.
Under this proposal we expect to see some increase in risk-weighted assets and a corresponding decrease in capital ratios primarily due to the ranges of risk weightings for residential mortgages and home equity.
If implemented as stated in the recent NPR our resulting capital ratios should still comfortably exceed all proposed regulatory requirements.
Bottom part of this slide shows our tangible common equity ratio and tangible book value per share.
Both were up this quarter due to increases in retained earnings and other comprehensive income.
Tangible common equity ratio increased by 17 basis points to 8.15% while our tangible book value per share climbed about 2% to end the quarter just above $26.
Let's turn to Slide 14 for a discussion of our Playbook for Profitable Growth expense program.
As you can see we made continued progress against the $300 million expense savings goal for the PPG program.
To date we've reached $250 million in annualized savings.
As you know this program is comprised of numerous expense savings initiatives broken into 3 main buckets: strategic supply management Consumer Bank efficiencies and operations and support staff.
This quarter we garnered savings in each of these categories.
And on the slide you can see the activities that were the primary drivers of the savings.
In our strategic supply management initiatives we achieved additional savings through further contract renegotiations.
Additionally we have successfully managed down our own spending on items we consider discretionary items such as travel temp labor print and wireless service.
Our teammates are finding ways everyday to cut out expenses for things that once seemed like a necessity.
There's a high level of commitment here throughout the company and this is something every teammate can do to improve efficiency and meet our goals.
In the Consumer Bank efficiencies category we've achieved savings primarily due to 2 key initiatives.
First we revamped our branch staffing model to better align market needs with staff from both a capabilities and a volume perspective.
We're achieving greater efficiencies by differentiating staffing by client segment served and market opportunity.
Furthermore we've changed our incentive compensation structure for certain types of positions and this is now yielding real dollar savings.
Several initiatives have driven our operations and support staff savings though the chief component of our savings this quarter came from tighter spans and layers with further reductions in FTEs.
We also made additional progress in our efforts to leverage digital technology making significant reductions in the number of paper statements that we now process.
Though we are rapidly approaching our goal of $300 million in savings as Bill mentioned earlier this by no means should imply that we are done with our work here.
PPG was the beginning of a process of transformation of SunTrust.
We will continue to leverage the strong momentum we have generated to drive toward our ultimate goal of a sub-60% efficiency ratio upon the abatement of elevated credit and mortgage-related expenses.
PPG program is only the start of our efficiency improvement efforts.
That wraps up my comments for today.
So I'll call -- I'll turn the call back over to Bill.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem.
And before we move into Q&amp;A I'd like to take a few moments to highlight some of the progress we've been making in our lines of business.
These results punctuate the core momentum we're building.
I'll start by noting that the efficiency ratio is down at each of the lines of business relative to last quarter and last year.
Of course their absolute levels are too high but each business has specific plans that aimed at driving continued improvements.
In our Consumer Banking and Private Wealth line of business we generated solid DDA growth of 11% and loan production volume was up a healthy 19% during the first half of the year.
From a revenue perspective -- I mean regulatory headwinds continued to challenge noninterest income in this business.
However you'll notice that expenses were down 7% from the second quarter of last year due in large part to reductions in staffing driven by our PPG initiatives which Aleem highlighted.
Another encouraging statistic is that client loyalty continued to increase in our retail business this quarter solidifying our position as an industry-leading bank and our footprint for this metric.
Also of note here is our credit card business.
Our relaunch of this business is in its early stages but it's going well thus far with new account sales more than 4x the levels generated in the second quarter of last year.
We've been delivering strong results in our Wholesale business.
Year-to-date net income was nearly double what it was a year ago.
We saw a record net income and revenue in Corporate Investment Banking and it generated the lion's share of the 8% Wholesale loan growth over last year.
DDA balances were up over 20% driven by our Diversified Commercial Banking business.
We're also beginning to generate some core commercial real estate growth.
Like credit card we're in the early stages here but we're pleased with our progress and believe commercial real estate loan balances are nearing an inflection point where we'll start to see some growth in this portfolio in coming quarters.
We're also seeing improving trends in our Mortgage line of business.
Year-to-date Mortgage production volume was up $5.5 billion or over 50% and core Mortgage production income was $320 million higher.
The overall profitability of our Mortgage business continues to be negatively impacted by legacy issues and still operating a net loss position this quarter but the trends are improving.
Given the current rate environment and some overall improvements in the housing market coupled with the HARP pipeline we expect to have near-term Mortgage production revenue to remain strong.
So overall line of business performance is trending positively and we're seeing the results more clearly in the company's financial metrics.
Our SunTrust team is working hard in delivering better results and I'd be remiss in not recognizing them and thanking them for their collective effort.
So with that said Kris let me turn it back over to you.
Candy we're ready to start the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from John Pancari Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us some more color around your decision to not request deployment as part of the CCAR resubmission? I mean was it influenced by the Basel III NPR? I know you didn't give us the basis point impact but that would be helpful as well on Tier 1 common.
Yes.
John it's Bill.
I'll take the first crack at that.
First of all it was not influenced by the -- by Basel III.
I think sort of in its simplest form I mean the resubmission gave us 2 more quarters of better performance.
Waiting until 2013 gives us 4 quarters of continued performance and you've seen we're on the steady trend.
That might ought to give some indication of our confidence.
So it was more just continuing to wait for the company's performance to improve both on the income side and the credit metric side not actually more complicated than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So do you have what the basis point impact from the Basel III NPR changes...? I'll let Aleem take a swing at that.
John let me take a crack at that.
First of all I think we -- I've got to say we were pleased to see the NPR.
Having that out I think is going to provide more clarity to the industry as to what the capital -- expected capital ratios are going to look like going forward.
Having said that parts of the NPR I think came as a little bit of a surprise.
On the numerator side it came out pretty well as much as the industry expected.
But on the denominator side some of the changes to RWA for example were not expected and aren't actually part of the Basel proposal.
These are U.S.
regulatory proposals.
We are along with the rest of the industry responding to that proposal now and I think the industry has a deadline of sometime in September to respond back to that.
At that point the regulators will take a look at all of the response letters and come out with final rules at some point probably next year.
As we try to estimate what we might look like under this proposal I think you've seen a lot of banks over the last few days estimate that their final numbers are in -- are going to be in that 8% range using these proposals on our current portfolios and prior to any management mitigation.
And I think it'd be fair as you look at our portfolio to say we'll come in around that same kind of level as most other banks are estimating.
Next question is from Josh Levin Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So given how challenging the rate environment is for all the banks one of your peers yesterday said it was going to close up to 5% of its branches.
As you think about the environment rates and regulatory costs and how you want to drive costs down are you considering branch closings or some kind of infrastructure reduction in order to save costs? I think I'd put it more in the category of just general efficiencies.
And particularly in the Consumer Banking area I mean if you look at what we've done expenses being down 7% there that's a combination of just being efficient.
Clearly transaction volume in branches are down.
I mean nobody is sort of missing that.
I'm a believer in that -- that branch is a sales center as much as it is a service center.
So physically having people there on the sales side is a benefit.
Whether we close a few branches or open a few branches I mean we'll sort of be netting around that number.
We'll look at that as a consideration long term.
But the real efficiency just is in what we do within the branches and you're already starting to see that from us.
I mean I think we're sort of ahead of the game on that front.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Some of your peers have suggested that over the last few weeks given the macro uncertainty customers are becoming a bit more reticent about investing in their businesses.
Are you hearing that or sensing that from your customers when you're out in the field? It's sort of a tale of 2 cities.
I mean you see what's going on with our loan growth particularly on the upper-end side.
Our pipelines on the commercial side are actually quite strong and ahead of where they were significantly this time last year.
But if you're out there and I'm out there a lot and you talk to primarily sort of on the small business side yes I think there's a lot of uncertainty in the -- all the things that would cause that uncertainty from fiscal cliff to tax to healthcare to all the things that they're concerned about and you see it in the cash build-up.
But having despite all that we're still seeing some good loan growth.
Next question is from Chris Mutascio Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Aleem if you can walk me through something I would appreciate it.
On Slide 14 you talked about the cost saves that you've realized about $250 million of the $300 million that you've planned for.
But then I go to Slide 26 in the presentation and look at your own adjusted core noninterest expense and on a year-over-year basis you're only down $10 million.
So I would've expected that quarterly number to be down more like $60 million or 1/4 of the $250 million of savings that you've gotten already.
So I guess my question is where are the cost saves coming? Yes Chris let me help you a little bit with that.
There have been cost saves pretty well across-the-board.
There've been cost saves for example in compensation.
There've been cost saves in areas -- discretionary expenses.
And as you go down our income statement those cost saves have showed up pretty well all the way down the line however some of those have been offset by cost increases in some other areas.
For example our -- we've got some consulting costs for now that have come in as a result of the mortgage foreclosure review that were not originally anticipated.
So you'll see some of those in there.
And you'll see some compensation increases as a result of increased revenue.
And so just as a result of revenue-related compensation increases we've got some increases there.
And so that's why overall you see a netting but that netting is -- I would consider that to be a really good trade in that we're paying people commissions on revenue they're generating while at the same time we're reducing core costs.
Yes.
I mean if you put some -- this is Bill.
If you put some numbers around that just think of the 2 businesses that are most highly correlated to compensation in Mortgage and CIB and over a year-over-year comparison they're up about $350 million in revenue and about $50 million in comp.
Well I think that's a pretty good trade-off.
Similarly our core revenue is up about 5% and core expenses are up about 1.5%.
So that -- those are driving us towards that lower efficiency ratio.
Do we want it to be faster? Are we still frustrated by our level of expenses? Absolutely.
It won't be an excuse-making category.
But some of these trade-offs as it relates to revenue and comp I think are worth making.
And next question is from Jefferson Harralson KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to possibly discuss this 60% efficiency ratio goal and what needs to happen to get there.
So you assume the rest of PPG assume all of credit and collections.
Do you need some -- or some percentage of credit and collections and credit-related expenses? And do you need to have a better margin or a better operating environment or higher rates to get all the way to the 60s? Jefferson this is Bill.
Let me take it really high level and then we can just let it go down any tributary you want to go down it.
And this is the way that I like to think about it just because it sort of makes it easy and it doesn't make it sort of dependent upon a bunch of exogenous factors.
If you normalize a number of facts -- so let's assume sort of a flat revenue environment.
Let's assume we actually don't get another penny's worth of revenue.
If you normalize for a net charge-off/provision at some basis so normalize it wherever you want to but call it 50 to 70 basis points which is clearly higher than we've trended in the past.
If you normalize for FIN 45 mortgage repurchase and just put some number in there pick a number but it's -- it would be appreciably smaller than where it is today.
Then you normalize for the credit-related expenses so there they've run about $800 million sort of annualized a little higher now they're running closer to $700 million annualized and we're starting to see that benefit.
It used to be about $200 million.
I don't think we'll get to there.
So pick a number just cut it in half as a thought process and then put $300 million in PPG on top of that and you get to at that point essentially a 60% efficiency ratio and a 1% plus ROA.
So at a really high level I mean that sort of what gives us confidence.
Now it won't work out that way exactly and there'll be puts and takes.
And the timing will be different and one quarter will be up one quarter will be down.
But if you think about that in sort of a goal that's it.
Now to the point of PPG if some of those things don't materialize if the credit expenses don't come down like that or if the charge-offs don't normalize the way I've described or in fact if revenue is down for some reason unforeseen then the number on the savings will be higher.
I mean that's how I like to think about it just sort of about a really really high level.
Does that make sense? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> It does.
It does.
And next question is from Paul Miller FDR.
Research Division</strong> On Slide 7 of the mortgage repurchase trends you -- I love this detail by the way guys best detail out there.
There was a particular company yesterday at one of your competitors that said that they felt that repurchase claims would increase by the end of the year from discussions with the GSEs that they were going to get requests from every loan that has defaulted that they sold to them over the '05-'09 time period.
I know you took a big charge-back in the fourth quarter.
Was that due to that same type of discussions? Are you getting all your files requested from the GSEs? I'm just wondering a lot of guys are guiding us to higher numbers towards end of the year and you're guiding to lower.
So have you already been through that process with the GSEs? I'm not sure where others are in their progress with the GSEs.
But we feel like last year was our peak and probably the fourth quarter of last year was our peak in terms of total demand and provisions.
As we look to the next several quarters the trends that we're seeing are for example changes in full file requests and the nature of the full file requests which we're seeing now.
And as you know those are a precursor to where future demands are moving more toward loans that are earlier stage in delinquency and not in foreclosure.
And given that -- given those trends it looks to us like demands will decline over time.
Now there's always going to be some volatility.
You never know one quarter to another.
But directionally it does look like that given where we're seeing in full file requests demands will actually decline.
Research Division</strong> So you've been getting full file requests since last year? Yes.
We've been getting full file requests all the way through.
Research Division</strong> All the way through? The nature of those full file requests as they move away from foreclosed loans and toward delinquent loans is a key indicator for what we're expecting to see in future demands.
We -- I think we're improving our dialogue with the agencies all the time.
And as we continue to improve communication and dialogue and continue to gain confidence in what we expect to see we're starting to feel a little bit better about these numbers.
And next question is from Matt O'Connor Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm sure you've seen some other banks try to take an upfront hit to reserve for the mortgage repurchase cost.
And I guess I'm just wondering one do you just not have enough information to do this or do you not really believe in kind of kitchen sinking the quarter? Or how should we think about it? Because you've seen others think that it's estimated well what the lifetime losses would be at this point.
You've just made our CFO perspire a little bit.
Matt I think yes you've seen a couple of banks that have provided a lifetime loss but most haven't.
Most banks including us have got a reserve that -- which reflects losses that are both probable and estimable.
And that line around probable and estimable losses in the reserve as the industry learns more from the GSEs probably converges with the line of an estimated lifetime loss.
And you might have had a couple of banks this quarter that feel confident enough in their communication and what they're seeing and there've actually seen those 2 lines cross.
I think for the whole industry that's not the case yet.
But probably over time as more and more communication improves with the GSEs yes you will see those lines continue to converge and then cross.
Research Division</strong> And I know it's difficult to know sitting here right now but would you hope that by the end of the year to have enough visibility that you could put this issue behind you as we think about 2013 and beyond? Or is your best guess that that won't happen? Well I'm not sure exactly when it will happen.
But Matt if your question is do I hope it will happen? Yes I hope it will.
But I don't know that I can say with complete confidence it will be by the end of this year.
Obviously the sooner the better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your comments about the actual cost itself coming down kind of towards the end of year by the end of the year I guess that would imply costs in 3Q similar to 2Q and then hopefully down the fourth quarter? I don't know that I can give you an exact quarter.
But I will say yes by the end of this year they will be down.
Next question is from Ed Najarian ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So I guess my question my first question is a follow-up on Chris's question about operating costs.
When I sort of look at your year-over-year op costs and then I normalize for the TruPS redemption cost this quarter but then I get about $21 million of lower FDIC-related costs on a year-over-year basis this quarter versus last quarter.
And then again I try to factor in the $250 million of PPG savings.
It looks like your internal expense growth rate is running about 5% to 6% annually.
Probably that's a little bit higher than what you would call sort of a normalized growth rate x the PPG savings because of the revenue you talked about and because of the strong mortgage quarter but can you give us a sense of what you think that sort of normal internal growth rate is x expense savings going forward? Would it be 3% 4% 5%? How should we think about that? Well I think the 5% number that you referenced is generally about right.
However remember that includes the effect of the increased revenue growth also.
So looking just at the expense line alone without looking at the revenue growth and the effect -- the positive effect that's had on the bottom line might be a little bit one-sided.
In terms of what we expect to see as a normalized expense growth number going forward what we're shooting for is low single digits.
And so certainly lower than 5% is what we would expect our core expense growth to be on a normalized basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then as a quick follow-up.
When I'm looking at the average balance sheet and I'm looking at your funding costs specifically sort of aggregated interest-bearing funding costs in the first quarter they were 77 basis points.
They fell 1 basis point to 76 basis points this quarter so pretty flat.
Now I recognize that you're going to get some benefit from redeeming the TruPS in the third quarter.
But other than that TruPS redemption benefit do you feel like you're starting to run out of room to further drop your funding costs? That's what it would look like just on a -- sort of a one-quarter look basis.
Or do you still feel like there are some areas again excluding that TruPS benefit to continue to drive down funding costs? And I'm glad you referenced this was only a one-quarter look.
And you're right.
We only dropped 1 basis point this quarter but I don't think that's actually the start of the flattening trend.
Now having said that deposit rates are at absolute low levels.
So it's hard for us or anybody to grind them down by double digits from here.
But we do believe we still have some runway to drop deposit costs further from here and you may see some of that this quarter.
One of the levers we have is maturing CDs.
We've got several billion dollars of -- $4 billion of CDs that are going to be maturing between now and the end of the year and they have the weighted average cost of north of 1%.
So you would expect to see those renew at much lower yields between now and the end of the year and that'll drop our deposit costs I think much more than the 1 basis point you saw in Q2.
Next question is from Gerard Cassidy RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question I have is when you look at your slide I think it's 25 or so where you have the detail on the put-back numbers by vintages.
The question is the ever 120 days past due that you list there $21.5 billion are those outstanding so we could take it relative to the number you have up above the outstanding UPB at $31.7 billion? Or is that $21.5 billion really reflective of the $120 billion which is the total sold number? Yes that's reflective of the $120 billion.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the $21.5 billion includes loans that have been paid off then? Yes that's part of the $120 billion that was totally sold.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you know how much of the $21.5 billion is in the outstanding UPB bucket? I don't right now.
But if you try giving Kris a call later he may be able to help you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then second on the cost savings program that you guys announced.
One of your competitors yesterday KeyCorp announced a cost-savings program which is a second one for them.
They had one in place that ended at the end of 2011.
What kind of environment would you have to see where you would announce another similar type of program as the one that's in place now? Yes I think sort of this goes back to my earlier comments.
This isn't so much about a program as it is about a culture and it is about driving to a goal.
So I'll continue to talk about what we're doing to drive to a 60% efficiency ratio and in fairness I'll probably talk less about programs.
As I mentioned in my comments the program was really the catalyst.
I mean that was to sort of set the initial bar the starting gun to turn things around.
So for us it's really driving towards that efficiency ratio.
I mean every unit in our company has an efficiency ratio target.
They know what they're driving towards.
There are lots of corporate initiatives underway that help them get there.
But there are lots of just good individual smart thinking and smart management and it's going to be more of that than the announcement of another program.
Our final question comes from Terry McEvoy Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I'll move away from expenses.
Bill in the Atlanta Journal last weekend you said SunTrust is Goldilocks today or just the right size.
I guess my question is are there certain markets where you need to have a greater presence to get to that Goldilocks position? And in light of the cost-cutting efforts does it make sense to exit certain markets versus building a scale in investing? Yes thanks for reminding me of that reference.
My point was right.
I might have used a different reference.
In -- we've been very careful and planful of having scale and relevance and I think relevance is the most important comment in all of our markets.
There isn't a particular market today that I would say we're not relevant in that we're looking to have an exit in.
Everywhere where we are we've got an opportunity and we're big enough either with branches or commercial lenders or CIB or mortgage or some combination of the businesses that we're engaged in in a market to be relevant.
Now that being said are we constantly looking at everything and looking at efficiencies and do we have an opportunity intra-market with leveraging our in stores and traditional branches and loan production ops and all that? Sure we'll always be looking at that.
But the great part about our franchise is the fact that we're in great markets and we're relevant in those markets.
So as a general thesis no.
Okay great.
Well maybe just a quick comment before we wrap up the call and thank you.
And though we cannot -- we can't change the operating environment or the pace at which the full recovery happens but there is plenty that we can do and that we have been doing and will continue to do here at SunTrust.
We're building a more effective and efficient company.
We're improving our talent base.
We're ensuring that our teammates have the tools and training they need to uncover and meet more client needs and deliver the revenue results that we expect.
A simple way of putting it is we're building more intensity around everything we do in virtually every corner of our organization.
So with that being said again thank you for joining us today and please reach out to Investor Relations and Kris with any additional questions that you may have.
Thank you everybody.
This concludes the call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the SunTrust Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Kris Dickson Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thanks Wendy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to SunTrust Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call and thanks for joining us.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call today.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website at www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Freeman our Chief Risk Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause the actual results to differ materially in our press release and SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website at www.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Okay.
Thanks Kris.
In our normal fashion I'm going to begin today's call with a brief overview of the quarter.
After passing it to Aleem I'll wrap up with an update on our expense saving program and provide some recent line of business highlights.
First I'll begin by acknowledging there are a lot of moving parts this quarter.
We have endeavored in our remarks today and throughout the presentation to provide you clarity on those items and how they impacted the results.
Aleem will provide more details momentarily and I think you'll see that we continued the trend of delivering improved core performance.
Further we're positioned to more favorably coming out of the quarter in large part due to the actions we announced in September.
Our overall risk profiles improved and our balance sheet is strengthened.
This is highlighted by lower nonperforming and delinquent loans and a mortgage repurchase reserve that now fully covers estimated remaining losses on the pre-2009 vintage GSE loans.
As you know those are the loans from which the vast majority of demands and losses have been generated and we're able to accomplish all of this while continuing to grow our capital base this quarter.
Now turning to the presentation.
Slide 3 summarizes some of the key drivers of our third quarter results.
Earnings per share was $1.98 with the actions we announced last month contributing $1.40 per share.
The diversity of our revenue streams benefited us this quarter.
Mortgage production was again strong and investment banking income also increased while net interest income and margin were relatively stable to the prior quarter.
Expenses were up on a reported basis but excluding the non-core items they were stable the last quarter and down from the prior year.
As you're aware this continues to be an area where we have lots of focus as we strive to achieve our ultimate goal of a sub-60 efficiency ratio.
I'm going to talk more about this in context of our PPG program later in the call.
Taking a look at the balance sheet.
Overall loan growth was slower but growth in targeted categories particularly C&amp;I drove a nearly $1 billion increase in average performing loan balances over last quarter and a nearly $10 billion increase over last year.
This more than offset certain real estate-related loans that we have been actively managing down.
Now on the deposit side the favorable mix continued with average DDA growth of 3% from the prior quarter and 19% from the prior year.
From a credit perspective derisking of the balance sheet helped drive a 30% reduction in nonperforming loans over last quarter and a 47% decline from last year.
And as I mentioned earlier our capital position continued to increase with our Tier 1 common equity ratio estimated at 9.8% up 40 basis points from last quarter.
All in all we're continuing to demonstrate improved core performance.
And that coupled with proactive actions we took this quarter positions us well for the future.
I'm going to turn it over to Aleem let him walk you through the details and I'll give you more -- and give you more clarity on the quarter's results.
Aleem? Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us today.
After several noise-free quarters and consistently improving results as Bill noted we had a number of lumpy items that impacted the third quarter.
So I'll spend a few minutes grounding you on them before we get to the -- in the operating results.
If you turn to Slide 4 I'll start with an update on the items we preannounced in September.
The acceleration of the agreement regarding our Coca-Cola shares generated $1.9 billion in securities gains and the charitable contribution of 1 million Coke shares to the SunTrust Foundation resulted in the recognition of $38 million of expense.
Our third quarter mortgage repurchase provision was $371 million.
Consistent with last month's announcement and as Bill noted earlier we expect the resulting mortgage repurchase reserve to be sufficient to cover the estimated remaining losses from pre-2009 vintage loans sold to the GSEs.
During the third quarter we transferred to held for sale slightly over $0.5 billion of nonperforming mortgage and commercial real estate loans.
The total net charge-offs recognized in writing the loans down to disposition value was $172 million.
The majority of the loan sales were completed during the third quarter with only about $40 million in net balances remaining to be sold this quarter.
We also transferred to held for sale $1.4 billion of student loans and $0.5 billion of delinquent Ginnie Mae loans.
In doing so we wrote these loans down to the expected sales price and the $92 million charge most of which was associated with the delinquent Ginnie Mae loans was a reduction to noninterest income.
You will recall the majority of the combined $1.9 billion in student and Ginnie Mae loans we're selling are more than 90 days delinquent.
Their disposition reduces our delinquency ratio and makes the size of our government-guaranteed loan portfolio more consistent with our longer-term balance sheet targets.
All of the transferred loans were included in loans held for sale at quarter end.
To date in the fourth quarter we've already sold $1 billion of student loans and we expect to complete the remaining student and Ginnie Mae sales by year end.
We also transferred approximately $190 million of affordable housing investments to held for sale during the quarter.
The $96 million write-down taken upon the transfer was recorded as a noninterest expense and the resultant carrying value reflects our best estimate of the ultimate disposition price.
We expect this sale will be completed in the second quarter of 2013.
Combined the preannounced items contributed $753 million in net income or $1.40 per common share to the third quarter results.
This was exactly on our prior guidance.
Shifting to the bottom portion of Slide 4 you see 4 other items the first of which relates to a credit policy change.
During the third quarter we moved the timing of charge-off recognition for junior lien loans from 180 days to 120 days.
Our analysis indicated that when junior lien loans go 120 days past due they rarely cure and typically roll to 180 days.
Accordingly we altered our policy which resulted in the accelerated recognition of $65 million in incremental net charge-offs in the quarter.
For clarity this is not related to the policy change other large banks made this quarter regarding the treatment of consumer loans that were not reaffirmed following Chapter 7 bankruptcy.
We have not received such guidance from our regulator and have not taken any action in response.
However we are monitoring developments.
We do estimate that we have approximately $400 million of such loans about 35% of which are already classified as performing TDRs.
We expect to receive coordinated regulatory guidance on this issue and will take any appropriate action at that time.
I'll cover the final 3 items on the page fairly quickly.
I'm pleased to note that our credit spreads tightened considerably in the third quarter.
Unfortunately this also resulted in $41 million in mark-to-market losses on our fair value debt which reduced noninterest income.
Next we accrued $29 million in severance expense associated with post-PPG efforts to streamline our organization and achieve our efficiency ratio objectives.
And lastly we incurred a $17 million expense associated with reassessments and ultimate reduction of our real estate needs.
Slide 5 provides a summary income statement and the collective impact of the items that I just reviewed are apparent.
Third quarter noninterest income was up substantially from prior quarters and the gain from the Coca-Cola transaction more than offset the increased mortgage repurchase provision the write-down on the student and Ginnie Mae loan sales and the mark-to-market loss on the fair value debt.
Provision for credit losses increased this quarter due to the NPL sales and the credit policy change.
Expenses were higher due to the affordable write-- affordable housing write-down the Coke shares donation severance and the real estate charges.
Looking at the bottom line third quarter 2012 earnings per share of $1.98 is up markedly compared to the prior quarters.
Obviously a lot of the favorable variance is driven by the $1.40 per share impact of the September actions.
After backing that out this quarter's EPS of $0.58 continued our favorable core earnings trends and it compares favorably to the $0.39 from a year ago and the $0.50 from last quarter.
Subsequent slides provide clearer views of our underlying trends.
So let's turn to Slide 6 for a discussion of net interest income which was $1.3 billion this quarter and the margin was 3.38% both of which were down slightly from the prior quarter.
Interest income from earning assets declined about $50 million sequentially.
This was driven by 3 primary factors: first we experienced 10 basis points of loan yield compression mainly driven by mortgage and C&amp;I as new loans that we're originating are coming on the books at lower yields than those that are paying off; second we saw a 38-basis point decline in our securities yield which was largely attributable to the elimination of the $15 million quarterly Coke dividend; and lastly we continue to modestly reduce the size of our bond portfolio in light of the lack of attractive investment alternatives.
On the liability side interest expense declined sequentially by $44 million and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities was managed down by 14 basis points.
This was driven by the reduced funding needs associated with the smaller balance sheet the previously announced redemption of $1.2 billion of higher cost trust preferred securities early in the quarter and the maturity of a population of higher-cost CDs which helped drive the overall cost of time deposits down about 20 basis points.
Relative to the prior year net interest income was up modestly and the margin declined 10 basis points.
Key drivers were lower earning asset yields higher loan balances and reduced interest costs associated with an improved deposit mix lower deposit rates paid and a reduction in long-term debt.
As we look to the fourth quarter we expect to see a reduction in the net interest margin on the order of mid-single digit basis points driven by additional reductions in asset yields which will partially be offset by lower liability costs.
In the fourth quarter we expect a reduction to net interest income as a result of the lower margin coupled with our smaller balance sheet due to the closed and pending loan sales.
Let's turn to Slide 7 for a discussion of noninterest income.
As we discussed earlier reported noninterest income was up substantially this quarter due to the favorable net impact associated with the September actions.
As usual we've also provided a view of our adjusted noninterest income and we detail the adjustments in the Appendix.
The $216 million sequential quarter increase in the mortgage repurchase provision which is booked as a contra-revenue drove the decline in adjusted noninterest income from the second quarter.
Otherwise fee income trends this quarter were solid.
Most notable was core mortgage production.
Excluding the impact of the repurchase provision mortgage production income hit a record high this quarter and increased $49 million or almost 20% sequentially.
Production volume was high and stable to the second quarter level of about $8 billion which was split roughly 70-30 between refinancings and purchases.
Looking ahead while it is reasonable to assume some volume and margin compression we do expect overall conditions in the mortgage market to continue to remain favorable in the near term.
Investment banking was another business that was up sequentially driven by strong syndication volume.
Conversely the other charges and fee category declined as a result of lower commitment fees and card fees fell due to a reclassification of card rewards costs.
Relative to the prior year adjusted noninterest income declined $111 million driven by a $254 million increase in the mortgage repurchase provision.
Apart from this adjusted noninterest income increased $143 million or 15%.
Similar to the sequential quarter comparisons strong core mortgage production was the primary driver and higher investment banking revenue also contributed driven by syndication and bond origination fees.
Conversely card fees declined primarily due to the impacts of regulatory reform.
Let's turn to Slide 8 to take a look at mortgage repurchases.
For consistency's sake we've continued to share with you the same layout of this page from prior quarters.
But obviously the important news on the mortgage repurchase issue for us this quarter was contained within our September announcement.
Specifically as a result of additional information we received from both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac coupled with our own analysis of the patterns of demands and full file requests we were able to more precisely estimate the remaining losses on pre-2009 GSE loans the population of loans that to date have accounted for about 95% of all repurchase losses.
As such we recorded a $371 million provision this quarter and the resulting mortgage reserve which you can see on the bottom left of this page increased to $694 million.
Looking forward we expect this reserve level to decline as the losses are recognized.
The top left portion of this slide shows that demand has declined to $405 million this quarter driven primarily by the 2006 to '08 vintages.
Demand levels could continue to vary in the coming quarters; however the trends and full file requests precursors to future demands are improving in 2 ways: first the absolute number of full file requests is declining.
This suggests that over time we should begin seeing a decline in the overall level of demands; second the percentage of full file requests for loans that have never been 120 days past due is increasing and more recently delinquent loans tend to have better cure rates.
The pending demand population which is displayed on the top right portion of this page increased to $690 million.
This is due to the new demands and a modest extension of resolution time lines.
We continue to take a deliberate approach in reviewing repurchase demands ensuring that we repurchase loans where appropriate yet cure the defects or moderate losses wherever possible.
Overall and in line with what we said in September the mortgage repurchase trends continue to play out in a manner consistent with our expectations and information we receive from the agencies.
Let's move on to expenses.
Adjusted expenses were essentially stable to the prior quarter.
Other real estate costs declined $22 million due to lower losses on disposition and outside processing fell $9 million.
These were offset by increases in employee compensation and FDIC premiums.
The $18 million compensation increase was largely due to the accelerated vesting of deferred compensation associated with certain organizational changes and to a lesser degree higher contract labor costs.
$7 million increase in our FDIC premium is due to quarterly variability in the assessment rate.
Relative to the prior year adjusted expenses declined $24 million or 2% credit-related costs declined driven by a combined $38 million reduction in other real estate and collection services expenses.
FDIC premiums also fell by $13 million.
Partially offsetting these reductions was an employee compensation and benefits increase of $30 million.
This was in part due to the aforementioned accelerated vesting of certain deferred compensation as well as an overall improvement in business performance.
As we look to the fourth quarter we currently expect our adjusted expenses to be flat to down.
Cyclically high costs are expected to continue their overall declining trend and employee compensation is expected to decline.
Conversely certain volume and seasonally driven line items for example outside processing and advertising may increase.
Let's turn to the balance sheet on Slide 10.
Average performing loans increased by about $900 million or 1%.
Growth was driven again this quarter by C&amp;I which was up $1.1 billion or 2% and came predominantly from large corporate clients with not-for-profit and auto dealer also contributing.
Period-end C&amp;I growth was less robust than in recent quarters as we saw some slowing of loan demand due to borrowers' uncertainties associated with the economic environment and the fiscal cliff.
This said loan pipelines still remain fairly strong.
I'll also point out that our corporate investment banking unit has benefited from the increased activity in the bond market via improving bond origination fees during the last couple of quarters.
Relative to the prior year performing loans increased by $9.5 billion or 8%.
C&amp;I was the largest driver up $5.7 billion or 12% with growth across a diverse array of industry verticals.
Additionally guaranteed student loans were up by $2.4 billion and guaranteed mortgages non-guaranteed mortgages and indirect consumer all increased by around $1 billion.
The overall portfolio growth was partially offset by intentional declines in home equity commercial real estate and construction.
The effects of this derisking are shown on Slide 11.
The portfolios that we've categorized as higher risk declined by another $0.5 billion this quarter.
While we've continued to apply the higher-risk label to this grouping of loans I'd point out that 95% of this book is accruing.
And of that 98% is current on principal and interest.
The non-accruing high-risk loans have been appropriately reserved for and the accruing book looks a lot like the rest of our portfolio.
For example the weighted average refreshed FICO scores of the higher-risk mortgage and home equity books are well above 700.
Due to the improved performance of the higher-risk book and its smaller absolute size you can expect to hear less about this portfolio in future quarters.
You see in the bottom part of this page that the government-guaranteed portfolio declined by $2.3 billion this quarter.
This is largely due to the transfers to held for sale of $1.4 billion of student loans and $0.5 billion of Ginnie Mae loans.
In the fourth quarter we also expect to transfer to held for sale another approximately $600 million of student loans.
This $600 million was included in the loan sale guidance that we gave in September but did not meet the held for sale accounting criteria at quarter end.
We do not expect the gain or loss associated with the fourth quarter transfer to be material.
Let's take a look at Slide 12 for a review of credit trends.
Overall the credit story is again an improving one this quarter.
Early-stage delinquency ratios were relatively stable to the prior quarter.
Consumer loans saw normal seasonal increases which were partially offset by declines in home equity delinquencies.
Excluding government-guaranteed loans consumer and commercial delinquency ratios were 58 and 18 basis points respectively which are at relatively low levels.
As such and as is the case with most of our credit metrics we would expect residential loans to drive future improvements as residential delinquencies are still somewhat elevated by historical standards at just above 1%.
Nonperforming assets and nonperforming loans were down by over $700 million from the prior quarter.
A 30% sequential quarter decline in nonperforming loans was largely due to the $544 million sale of the mortgage and CRE NPLs.
However excluding these sales NPLs still declined by about $185 million or over 7%.
This decline came despite our adding to NPL for regulatory guidance $81 million in junior lien loans that are current on their payments but subordinate to a delinquent risk mortgage.
At quarter end our ratio of nonperforming loans to total loans was 1.42% down from 1.97% last quarter and 2.76% a year ago.
This brought our allowance to NPL ratio up to 130% a rise of 36 percentage points from the second quarter.
Net charge-offs this quarter were $511 million as compared to $350 million last quarter.
Included in this quarter's figure is the $172 million in net charge-offs associated with the NPL sales and the $65 million from the junior lien credit policy change.
Backing these 2 figures out net charge-offs were $274 million down $76 million sequentially.
Core net charge-offs have trended favorably for some time and we expect that overall trend to continue in the coming quarters.
We could see some increase in the fourth quarter from this $274 million level though as a function of some normal seasonality and the fact that our recoveries were about $30 million higher this quarter than what we've experienced recently.
The allowance for loan and lease losses ended the quarter at $2.2 billion down about $60 million from the prior quarter due to the improving core credit quality trends.
Despite the modest dollar decline in the allowance this quarter the allowance ratio remained essentially unchanged at 1.84% on a stated basis or just above 2% when excluding government-guaranteed loans from the calculation.
Taking a step back when you take a look at what we have done to improve the risk profile of the organization over the last little while the last 2 slides make that really evident.
We've been aggressively and intentionally reducing our higher-risk book for several years.
Those balances are down by $14.6 billion or more than 60% over the past few years so our derisking is largely complete.
Nonperforming loans have been on a similar trajectory down by $3.8 billion or almost 70% since their peak in 2009.
And we took actions to further accelerate this decline this quarter as well as reduce our 90-day plus delinquency ratio.
Overall we have made meaningful and substantial strides that have resulted in a much improved risk profile for SunTrust.
Let's next take a look at our deposit performance.
Average deposit balances declined modestly from the prior quarter and the favorable shift in deposit mix continued.
Noninterest-bearing deposits were up $1.3 billion or 3%.
This was essentially offset by a $1.2 billion or 7% reduction in time deposits as we had an above average amount of CD maturities during the third quarter.
We also saw a modest decline in money market balances as we're being deliberate about pricing discipline and have let certain promotional rates expire.
Relative to the prior year deposits are up $2.4 billion or about 2%.
Lower-cost accounts are the driver of the growth led by almost $6 billion or 19% DDA growth.
Conversely higher-cost time deposits are down by $3.4 billion or 17%.
Slide 14 provides information on our capital metrics.
Tier 1 common capital increased by approximately $400 million.
Recall that the September actions were essentially neutral to our regulatory capital level so this quarter's increase is primarily driven by core earnings.
The Tier 1 common ratio ended the quarter at an estimated 9.8% up a healthy 40 basis points from last quarter.
Our estimate for the Basel III Tier 1 common ratio assuming that all the components of the Federal Reserve's recent notice of proposed rulemaking are implemented in their current form held relatively stable at 7.9%.
As shown at the bottom of the page the tangible common equity ratio increased by 16 basis points sequentially due to a reduction in the asset base and tangible book value per share ended the quarter at $25.72 down 1% from the prior quarter as the modest tangible book value dilution associated with the September actions was largely offset by this quarter's core earnings.
With that I'll now turn things back over to Bill to cover the last few slides.
Okay and I'll move to Slide 15.
And during the third quarter we achieved our PPG expense program target well ahead of schedule realizing a little over $75 million in quarterly savings or obviously $300 million on an annualized run rate.
The collective efforts that got us here so quickly should not be minimized.
A lot was accomplished in a relatively short period of time and that's a result of our teammates' intensity around delivering results.
But that being said it's not lost on me or anyone at SunTrust that we still have work to do.
The PPG program served as a catalyst towards achieving our ultimate goal of significantly improving the overall efficiency of the organization.
It's been successful in not only garnering meaningful savings but also in galvanizing our team in pursuit of our sub-60 efficiency ratio goal.
So now that we've hit our PPG target what kind of updates can you expect from here? Well we're not going to roll out a new program with a new name nor will we publicly track our progress beyond the $300 million goal.
But I will tell you that we're not finished in our efforts to improve our efficiency.
As a matter of fact we're just getting started.
And going forward I want you to measure us by the same metric that we're holding ourselves accountable our efficiency ratio.
We've incorporated this metric into our incentive compensation plans.
We've built a lot of intensity throughout the bank around improving both the revenue and expense components of the calculation.
So PPG was instrumental in getting us on the track and we'll leverage that momentum as we go forward.
Now moving to the next slide and before we move into Q&amp;A I want to spend a few minutes highlighting the progress we've made from a line-of-business perspective.
In Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management we've had another quarter of solid loan production growth with year-to-date volume 15% ahead of last year.
Favorable deposit trends also continued as we generated year-over-year DDA growth of 14%.
And though from a revenue perspective this business continues to be challenged due to regulatory headwinds we have reduced expenses here by 3% from last year.
Clients are increasingly utilizing self-service channels which as just one example has enabled us to make changes to our staffing model to improve our efficiency and effectiveness.
Our Wholesale business continues to deliver strong results with year-to-date net income nearly double what it was a year ago.
Significant growth in capital markets fees coupled with a higher net interest income drove Wholesale revenue gains of 14% over the third quarter of last year.
Loans were up 8% and client deposits increased 5%.
Furthermore our Corporate Investment Banking business surpassed last quarter's revenue and net income levels marking yet another quarter of record performance.
While the Mortgage business reported a net loss primarily due to the increase in the mortgage repurchase reserve and the mortgage NPL sale core trends continued to markedly improve.
Year-to-date mortgage production volume was $24 billion up nearly $8 billion or 48% from last year and core mortgage origination income was $460 million higher more than 130% increase from last year.
The elevated levels of refinance activity have certainly been beneficial to the business while we're also continuing to devote resources to purchase activity a core bread-and-butter business for us and one that we think will again be the primary driver of mortgage revenue when the refi volume eventually tapers off.
Additionally we're also focused on building out channels and driving volume with better channel selection to maximize ROI and the longer-term return profile for this business.
So overall this marked another quarter of positively trending core line of business performance.
The diversity of our business mix has and will continue to benefit us as we go forward and I'm pleased with the heightened intensity level at which our leaders and teammates are operating focused on meeting our clients' needs and driving higher levels of return for our shareholders.
So Kris let me turn it back over to you and we'll take some questions.
Thanks Bill.
Wendy we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Wonder if you can give us more color on your -- possibly your 2013 margin outlook given your securities yields and loan yields you're seeing some downside reinvestment risk there but relatively more resilient than we thought this quarter.
So can you just give a little more color in terms of your outlook beyond the fourth quarter? Sure John.
Well as you know the big issue obviously is that the new loans coming on are coming on at lower going-on yields than the roll-off and securities continue to pay down.
We're being very careful with the way in which we reinvest our securities book.
Obviously we're not really getting paid given the flat yield curve that take a lot of duration risk.
And you saw that impact a little bit in the size of our securities book coming down a little bit this quarter.
But I think what you'll see for the whole industry as you look out if we stay in this lower for longer environment through next year I think you'll see the whole industry start to decrease margins probably in the sort of a few basis points per quarter every quarter just continuing to grind down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that guidance you have for the fourth quarter is that fair to assume that that's the pace of compression to expect going through '13 or could that accelerate at all just as your funding cost leverage gradually abates? It may accelerate it may decelerate too.
I don't know that it's a consistent every-quarter decline.
There is some variability quarter-to-quarter.
This quarter we did receive the benefit of a number of our higher-cost CDs rolling off and that's why our margin declined only 1 basis point overall.
So I think you look for some volatility with some quarters declining less and some quarters declining more.
But if you look out at the trend overall I'd look for it to be generally on the order of a few basis points a quarter.
Our next question is from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So when you think about the expense base now you have all of PPG in the run rate I'm seeing a core efficiency ratio of somewhere in the mid-60s.
So can you just talk a little bit more about how you plan on closing the gap to get below 60%? I know you highlighted that you're just getting started and clearly it's a big focus internally but can you talk about some of the levers that you still have on the expense side particularly if the revenue picture remains weak? And from there if you would assess the driver of reaching the targeted levels will we need to see more on the revenue side or the expense side from here to get there? Yes so to start with I think you've got it figured out.
Obviously this quarter's efficiency ratio is a little lower.
We were very clear internally that it wasn't mission accomplished.
If you think about our core expense base say over the last 6 quarters it's been fairly stable so call it sort of $1.5 billion sort of core expense base.
But the revenue sort of has gone from about $2.2 billion to about $2.4 billion.
So you could say one side of the coin was we'd expect to see more expense savings at this particular juncture.
But we've had a couple of our businesses mortgages and -- mortgage and CIB has been sort of 2 of the examples that we're going to invest in right now because we see good revenue opportunities.
So think about it sort of from that context.
So what's left I mean what are the opportunities? I mean the list is pretty significant.
We have a lot more to do in the consumer rationalization of our business spans and layers incentive efficiencies.
You saw some of the charges we took for real estate so we still have some other real estate opportunities.
Core process consolidation shared services.
I mean the list is actually fairly extensive.
And while I said PPG was the start I mean I meant that.
I mean it really sort of got the ball rolling down the hill.
I would call that maybe some of the more low-lying fruit.
Now we're going to get a little higher in the tree.
But there are significant opportunities.
Is it more expense or is it more revenue? A lot of that'll depend on where the market takes us.
If refinance activity continues like we think it will in Mortgage it'll be a little slower to get down to that efficiency ratio.
We continue to do what we've been able to do on the CIB side.
Similarly it'll take a little bit longer.
So I think it's -- and we've been very clear about saying it's the efficiency ratio versus just expense or just revenue initiatives.
And I'm confident that we're on the path.
I can't commit to the exact time line but I'm confident we're on the path.
And if you look into our line of businesses start looking at the efficiency improvements within those and I think they're pretty good leading indicators of where we're going as a total company.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then if I could just ask one follow-up as a follow-up to John's question.
When you think about -- you obviously said the NIMs coming down a couple of basis points a quarter but when you think about the trajectory for NII for 4Q and beyond how should we think about just given Aleem's comments on asset yield spreads and reinvestment yields should we expect that NII is going to come down at a similar pace or do you think we can actually see enough growth to offset some of the compression? Well I think for next year Ryan I would think about NII for the full year likely to be lower than the full year 2012.
Basically we've got the changes from the foregone dividend and Coca-Cola and the loan sales.
In Q2 recall we had a step-down in loan swap income.
So full year I would think of as being lower next year than this year.
There's some positives and negatives there.
On the positive side we are continuing to manage down our non-deposit maturity rates.
Obviously in the compressed yield environment on liabilities there's a decreasing opportunity there but we do have more CDs maturing.
We have about $7 billion of CDs maturing during the next 5 quarters between now and the end of next year.
And as those renew they will renew at lower yields.
And against that we're fighting against the challenging asset yield compression environment.
And as a reminder we will have another step-down as a result of swaps rolling off in Q2 next year.
So year-over-year I would think of NII coming down overall but we know we still have some levers to pull and we're working on those.
Our next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to talk a little bit about mortgage repurchase reps and warranties.
Could you give us a sense as to how you think your expenses are going to be running over the next several quarters? I think in September you said $5 million to $10 million a quarter.
Just wondering if that's still a good number or not.
Yes I think it is.
I think we said $10 million a quarter in September and we think that $10 million is still a reasonable number.
Small range around that probably sort of plus or minus $5 million.
But I think that's a good center for the overall number.
Research Division</strong> And does that represent -- does that include the increases in repurchase requests that came through in the quarter? Obviously they were up in the quarter.
Well the demands were actually down in the quarter Q3 versus Q2.
And I think they're down to the lowest level we've now seen in the last several quarters.
But yes it includes everything that we've seen so far and it includes the reserve that we need for new mortgages that we're putting on.
Research Division</strong> Right.
The pending repurchase requests were up though? Yes the pending repurchase requests were up but that's partly as a result of us being very deliberate around looking at every single file and making sure that we take the time necessary to try to cure every issue rather than acceding to a demand.
I think another way of saying it is really everything that we represented in terms of taking this reserve in September is as we thought it was or better and particularly as it relates to full file requests which is sort of that leading indicator they're probably even better than we thought they'd be.
In other words lower.
Our next question is from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just remind us what the swap impact on the NIM and the net interest income dollars will be? I guess it's 1Q to 2Q where there's the step-down that you referenced? There is another step-down in Q2 Matt.
I think we've got about $1 billion notional of swaps rolling off.
And so that's about $10 million or $15 million per quarter in NII at that time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately if we look at your credit-related costs they were down both year-over-year and linked quarter and that's actually better than what we've seen at a number of other banks that have had Q2 increases.
And just maybe wondering why there's some divergence maybe between you and the industry and it sounds like those costs will continue to come down from here.
We do expect those costs to continue to come down a little bit Matt.
I think maybe to be fair to the rest of the industry they've been a little slower in coming down here.
So I think this quarter we're catching up a little bit.
And you'll recall that in September we had guided some of those costs down by about $20 million per quarter for the end of the year and we achieved $15 million of that $20 million this quarter.
So perhaps a little bit faster than we had anticipated then but we do continue to expect those costs to continue to come down.
And as Matt we've said they'll continue to trend down quarter-to-quarter.
It's hard to tell exactly what's going to happen but I think it's safe to say that the trend will continue.
The slope of this quarter may have been unusually high.
Research Division</strong> So the $20 million per quarter decline that you had signaled related to the balance sheet repositioning is most of that in the run rate in the third quarter so we should take this run rate and take out $5 million to get to the minus $20 million then whatever else we'd assume for the rest of the pool is that the way to think about it? That's generally correct.
There's obviously going to be some volatility.
We're not going to be able to forecast these costs within $5 million on a quarterly basis but that's generally correct.
We expected to hit $20 million by year end.
We achieved a lot of that very quickly.
But after we hit the $20 million I would continue to expect those costs to move down next year.
Our next question is from Jefferson Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask you about the loan demand and that how one hand is talking about the slowing loan demand.
On the other you're talking about how the pipeline is strong.
Can you talk about the kind of what you're seeing there to -- for those comments to both jive together? Yes Jefferson and it is a bit of a dichotomy of different views.
But what we're seeing is some slowdown and I think that's not been inconsistent with sort of HA [ph] data on pricing.
But our pipelines are actually very good and they are as large or not larger than they've been in prior quarters.
The pull-through rate is just slower.
And we could all speculate as to why that might be.
I think there clearly is some pent-up demand.
When I'm out and about and talking to business owners and other CEOs what I hear is we're going to wait.
So we're encouraged by the fact that the pipeline's up.
We're encouraged by the fact that we're having increased higher-level dialogue with our clients but the pull-through rate almost has -- was slower this quarter.
No doubt about it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So if you think about the 2% average loan growth this quarter you think that should generally pick up or slow down or remain the same in the future? It's hard to speculate because we're sort of dealing with a bit of a new phenomenon here in that normally we could look at pipelines.
We could ascribe a pull-through rate of some consistency against those and be able to project that with a lot more consistency.
Today there's a little bit more of an unknown.
So while I'm optimistic overall in the sense that we're -- the pipelines are big and the activity and the dialogue I'm a little hesitant to predict exactly what's going to happen in the next quarter or 2.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow on the environmental expense question real quick.
So 2 of the most important lines within the operating losses and the credit and collection they were slightly higher quarter-to-quarter and taking your point that it's hard to think about quarter-to-quarter I just wanted to ask a more qualitative question.
What does it take for those 2 lines to start -- I know you're expecting that those 2 subcategories are going to improve but how long is the lag versus other credit improvement for operating losses and credit and collections specifically to really start moving down? Is there a trigger point where they just start to accelerate or is this a multi multiyear drag for them to meaningfully reduce? Well Ken I certainly hope it's not a multiyear drag.
I don't know that there's a trigger point that I could point you to but I think there are sort of several things that you could look at the improvements that we've made over the last couple of years particularly some of the actions that we took this quarter also.
The sale of some of our NPL loans the sale of the Ginnie Maes that should help also reduce some of those credit and collection costs going forward.
Those are very labor-intensive loans to attempt to collect and work on over time.
So I think -- we would think of that as a little bit of a trigger point.
And in operating losses there are a lot of numbers built into there -- built into that that includes operational losses that includes broad losses it includes items we've got in there to build up litigation reserves.
There are a lot of different numbers in there and I would look for that line to also start to come down relatively quickly as we start to think about 2013 now.
And in fairness it's not all these numbers and it's other numbers as well.
But I've been pretty clear in stating that we're going to be conservative in taking some of these costs down.
I mean this was a very expensive system to build.
We're really really good at it.
And so some of these hard costs and tracking this down we're going to probably lag a little bit.
And I think that's the prudent way to do it.
We don't want the trucks ahead of the gas line so to speak.
So we're going to be probably a little bit conservative in bringing these down.
And think about it a lot of the costs are related to this.
They just happened in the third quarter.
So we'll start seeing some of that run rate come through in the fourth quarter and moving forward.
I think Ken if you look at the run rate year-over-year I think last year our run rate was something like $800 million.
This year our run rate is considerably below that.
And I would expect next year our run rate will decline further.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then my second question Aleem just wondering if you can help us understand how the earning asset trends should look from here because period end was what $152.5 million versus $153.8 million average.
The timing of all the moving parts in the fourth quarter is a little tricky to understand.
Then you have some underlying growth.
I just wondered if you can give us kind of -- maybe even just a range of how you expect the earning asset base to trend in the fourth quarter? Well I think with the sales that we announced you think about that as being about $3 billion coming out of earning assets.
So start with that lower level.
And I think the answer Ken is going to be sort of very pipeline and economy dependent in the very short term.
If we can get the economy out of this malaise you would expect to see earning assets start to climb now from that lower level that we see.
But in the very short term the next quarter or 2 while we are -- while we do have some fairly strong pipeline it does feel like a lot of clients are being very cautious about adding new debt levels to their balance sheet and it's a bit of a challenge out there.
It's a bit of a fight every day as we look to try and service our clients and grow assets that we have from here.
I would look for growth.
I would look for a higher balance sheet.
But just to remember to start from that lower number after the sale this quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're saying that the $3 billion pretty much is the right average to take out of this quarter's number? I think on average that's fine.
Some of those sales already came out as I said early this quarter some will come out a little bit later in the quarter.
But on average that should be about right.
Our next question is from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess more of a conceptual question related to the mortgage business that's obviously doing very very well right now but one of the questions that I often get from investors is how confident you all are that you can take costs out of the Mortgage business once that business begins to normalize at some point next year and how that might affect your thinking on the efficiency ratio.
Yes I'll take a shot.
The expenses related to the Mortgage business sort of don't follow an exact quarter-to-quarter.
As I said in my comments not only sort of what we use what I'd call the traditional methods so as you see that decline you see normal expenses come down and they tend to lag a quarter or 2 depending on how much of the volume is purchased and how much is refinanced.
So obviously it'll lag more for refinanced and less for purchased.
But what we're doing is a fairly significant sort of redesign of the channels in the business as we're going through this.
One of the real silver linings behind HARP is where it really has afforded us the opportunity to build out our consumer direct channel.
And that channel as a percent of our business a year ago was pretty small.
It's about 10% of our business now and it is a much more efficient part of the structure.
So not only sort of do you have the traditional tools we're also going through a pretty as I said a redesign of the channel mix.
So I'm actually fairly confident when we come out of this we'll come out of this with a higher-margin business relative to how we entered this from the changes that we're making now.
Hey Matt I'd also add one more point and that is I'd also remind you that over the last little while we've spent several tens of millions of dollars around the consent order consulting costs around the independent workload review.
And as you look out to next year I would expect all of those costs to abate and that'll also provide a nice lift to the overall performance of the Mortgage business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just for my follow-up just a quick question for Aleem.
Aleem what percentage of the mortgage originations this quarter related to HARP? In total if you look at our total origination Matt it was about sort of 70-30 refi versus purchase.
And of the refi about 30% of the total refi was HARP.
So if you work that through about 20% of our total business this quarter was HARP.
Our next question is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> When you guys gave us the estimates on the core expenses of about $1.5 billion for the quarter what would your estimate be of the associated environmental cost or OREO cost in that number in this quarter? How would that compare to a more normalized number when we get out of the mess on credit? Well I think Matt -- Gerard if you take a look at that expense slide that we got 28 in the deck yes you get a sense of what the environmental costs have been within that number.
And as we said earlier that run rate is coming down pretty nicely from where it was last year and where it peaked.
And I would expect that to continue to come down.
If you think about a really normalized number I mean back in the day that line item for us had a run rate of about $200 million annually.
I don't think that we'll ever get back to that kind of a number but it might be reasonable to assume that that kind of a number from $200 million might double.
But even when it doubles it's 1/2 of the $800 million we ran at last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
The second question was you guys indicated that $400 million of the so-called Chapter 7 type loans that the OCC regulated banks have had to identify this quarter and put into nonperforming how much of the $400 million -- you mentioned what's performing TDR in your release but how much of the $400 million has already been reserved for? And if you are required to put the entire $400 million on nonperforming what type of provision would you have to take to build up that reserve? I'm not sure I could give you an answer to that one yet.
This guidance came out right at the end of the quarter and we were not subject to it so we're currently doing the analysis to see what the total looks like.
But at a higher level I think given that these are performing loans you would expect that the reserve against them would be very minimal to nonexistent.
And the idea that we would take them and put them into nonperforming may or may not have an impact on provisions.
We're still waiting for coordinated guidance across from all the agencies.
And obviously when we hear that we will take action immediately.
Our final question today is from Greg Ketron with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Aleem a question on mortgage repurchase.
If I -- I think I heard this right.
You had mentioned that you did see a uptick in requests on performing loans.
And if so how that might affect -- is that included already in the reserve that you've set up or would that change your thinking or approach on the mortgage repurchase reserve? Yes Greg.
Sorry maybe I wasn't clear on that.
It's not an uptick on the request in performing loans.
It's a percent of change.
So that overall the demands were down.
But out of that total decreasing number the percentage on loans that have never been 120 is going up.
So they're less delinquent and they're more recent and therefore contain a lower loss content than the demands on previous loans that we were getting.
Does that make more sense? Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
I just was thinking in terms of how that might impact or if there is any impact to the reserve that you've established today.
Any impact is positive as these have lower loss content and that was already included in the provision that we took in the quarter.
So I think the reserve that we have got now should be sufficient to cover everything that we're required to cover.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe a bigger picture question for you Bill.
We've seen a number of housing data points be very positive particularly in the Southeast in terms of home prices housing starts you name it it's all been a pretty steady stream of good data.
How does that impact SunTrust from a bigger picture standpoint in terms of demand maybe seeing Florida -- you've had a tremendous backlog in Florida maybe seeing that speed up.
And does that ultimately help lower these credit costs -- if this trajectory continues does that ultimately help lower the credit costs faster? I think actually the biggest tie to housing value increase and what it does for us is increasing consumer confidence.
I honestly think that's sort of the biggest tie if you can think about sort of where people are coming from this being their largest asset.
When that starts to change they look at their sort of as a general comment they're more deleveraged than they were before.
I think this just tries to unlock some of the consumer confidence.
We're still more tied to employment than housing values but that's also seeing some positive trajectory.
I mean take -- use Florida as an example.
While still above the national average the improvement in Florida and unemployment's gone from 10.6 to 8.7.
So the largest probably percent of improvement coupled with housing values I mean I think it's really a consumer confidence game in terms of the opportunity for us.
And we feel it.
Let me just make a quick comment before we wrap up the call today.
We've made significant progress in more favorably positioning the bank through -- for the future.
That's through specific actions we've taken during the quarter but really more broadly through the benefits of some of our strategic operating decisions.
We are building a more effective and efficient company not only through expense savings but also in the way that we're approaching revenue generation.
A significant opportunity exists to leverage the loyalty that we've built and our team has the tools and training they need to uncover more client needs and further deepen those relationships.
And that's not to say that the path ahead is not without its challenges.
But there is a high level of intensity across the organization around translating opportunity into results.
And I believe we're focusing that energy in areas that can best impact bottom line performance.
So with that said thank you for joining us today and please reach out to our Investor Relations team with any other questions you may have.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the SunTrust Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce Kris Dickson Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thanks Wendy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to SunTrust's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thanks for joining us.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call today.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Freeman our Chief Risk Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risk and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause the actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that out of the way I'll turn things over to Bill.
Okay.
Thanks Kris.
I'm going to begin this morning with a brief overview of the year and quarter then Aleem is going to give more details on the results and I'll wrap up the call with some perspective on our line of business performance.
SunTrust made significant progress during the year on several fronts.
Our core performance improved driven by higher revenue with stable expenses.
We also took definitive action to strengthen our balance sheet and improve our risk profile.
Credit quality has improved significantly and credit-related expenses are abating.
All of these translated into better bottom line performance and improvement in our efficiency ratio.
The solid core performance trends and earnings momentum we established earlier in the year continued throughout the fourth quarter and these are summarized on Slide 3.
Most notable this quarter was strong noninterest income driven by record investment banking quarter and continued mortgage strength reduced expenses and favorable deposit and credit trends.
These items along with the lower provision for credit losses and tax rate contributed to earnings per share of $0.65.
The diversity of our revenue stream continue to benefit us this quarter as the strength in noninterest income more than offset a net interest income decline due to the impact of our previously announced loan sales.
Adjusted expenses were lower from the prior quarter due to reduced compensation along with the continued drop in credit-related expenses.
Expenses were also down as compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
Now taking a look at the balance sheet.
Overall average performing loans were down modestly from the third quarter due to loan sales but growth in targeted categories particularly C&amp;I continued.
Compared to last year performing loans were up $4 billion or 3% again due to targeted loan growth driven by C&amp;I.
The favorable deposit mix shift continued with average DDA growth of 4% from the prior quarter and 16% from the prior year while higher cost time deposits were down 5% and 18% respectively.
From a credit perspective nonperforming loans declined 11% from the last quarter inclusive of the Chapter 7 bankruptcy related loan transfers that Aleem will detail shortly and NPLs are down nearly 50% from last year.
Our capital position continued to increase but our Tier 1 common ratio -- equity ratio estimated at 10% up about 20 basis points from last quarter.
So overall we made significant progress this year as we endeavored to improve our overall risk profile capitalize on revenue opportunities and improve our efficiency.
Now if you'll indulge me I'd like to take a brief moment to thank the SunTrust teammates for all they did in 2012.
We are united in our purpose of lighting the way to financial well being for our clients and communities and our continued focus towards delivering upon our performance promise to our shareholders.
So teammates thank you.
Now I'm going to turn it over to Aleem to walk you through the details and give you more clarity on the quarter's results.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
I'll begin with a review of the summary income statement on Slide 4.
First you will recall that our third quarter earnings per share of $1.98 benefited by $1.40 per share from the actions we announced in September.
Therefore the sequential quarter comparisons are somewhat skewed by the September transactions.
However I will provide transparency regarding the core trends on subsequent slides.
Looking at our bottom line our earnings per share this quarter increased to $0.65 up from an adjusted $0.58 in the third quarter and continuing the increased core earnings trajectory that we've delivered in every quarter of 2012.
As Bill noted the highlights of this quarter included strength in noninterest income continued credit quality improvements and lower noninterest expense.
These positive trends drove a strong finish to the year despite the negative impact to this quarter's earnings from the reclassification of consumer loans discharged from Chapter 7 bankruptcy.
Current quarter results also benefited from a low effective tax rate due to year end true-ups and audit settlements.
For the full year earnings per share were $3.59 or $2.19 after adjusting for the September announcement.
This adjusted amount was still more than double our 2011 earnings level driven by higher revenue a lower provision as a result of improved credit quality and the reduction in preferred dividends due to the redemption of TARP.
Let's begin a more detailed review of the quarterly trends starting on Slide 5.
Net interest income declined sequentially by $25 million or 2% primarily due to a reduction in earning assets from the loan sales we announced last quarter.
As a reminder those sales included $500 million of nonperforming loans which was substantially completed during the third quarter as well as about $2.5 billion combined of government-guaranteed student and mortgage loans the majority of which were delinquent.
As anticipated we completed the remaining sales of these loans during the fourth quarter.
The effect of these loan sales resulted in a decrease of approximately $15 million of the sequential quarter net interest income.
The remaining reduction was largely due to a 5 basis point decrease in loan yields and a 10 basis point compression of securities yields which were a result of the ongoing low rate environment.
This was partially offset by continued reductions in deposit rates as well as lower average balances and rates paid on long-term debt which collectively drove an 8 basis point decline in interest-bearing liability costs.
These same trends explain the 2 basis point decrease in the net interest margin.
Relative to the prior year net interest income declined by $48 million and the margin fell 10 basis points.
Loan income was down about $90 million as growth in the loan portfolio was offset by lower yields and a decline in commercial loan swap income.
Investment securities income declined by $60 million due to 3 primary reasons: the size of the portfolio was somewhat reduced reinvestment rates declined and the dividend on the Coca-Cola company stock was forgone after the third quarter transaction.
Partially offsetting the lower interest income was a reduction in interest expense of about $100 million driven by a favorable shift in the deposit mix lower deposit rates and a decline in long-term borrowing costs of greater than 45%.
As we look to the first quarter of 2013 the full impact of the loan sales will be in the run rate.
As I noted earlier the sales reduced fourth quarter net interest income by about $15 million.
Since they occurred throughout the fourth quarter we'll have some additional loan sale related net interest income decline in the first quarter of approximately $10 million.
On an interim basis we've utilized the loan sale proceeds to reduce short-term borrowings.
Over the coming months we'll evaluate options to redeploy these proceeds into higher returning alternatives which will help partially mitigate the net interest income impact.
With regard to the first quarter net interest margins we currently anticipate a decline on the order of mid-single digit basis points.
Slide 6 shows trends in noninterest income.
Reported noninterest income declined sequentially due to the third quarter gain from the Coca-Cola transaction.
However adjusted noninterest income increased by $272 million to its highest level in over 2 years.
The sequential quarter growth was driven by a $359 million reduction in the mortgage repurchase provision due to last quarter's increase in the mortgage repurchase reserve.
We also had a record quarter in investment banking income which was up $29 million sequentially and was driven by strong syndicated finance and bond origination fees.
Market conditions were conducive to debt financing and we continue to gain share in our corporate investment banking business.
Our mortgage production income remains strong overall with production volume again around the $8 billion mark this quarter split roughly 75:25 between refinance and purchase.
However we did experience some decline in margins from their unsustainably high third quarter levels.
This was not surprising as well as we saw some usual fourth quarter seasonality decline in loan applications.
Relative to the prior year adjusted noninterest income increased by $262 million.
Mortgage production income was up by over $300 million roughly $200 million of which was from a lower mortgage repurchase provision and $100 million from higher core production income.
Investment banking income also delivered strong growth up by $25 million again due to higher syndicated finance and bond origination activity.
These increases were partially offset by a $21 million decline in other income due primarily to losses recognized in the fourth quarter from Ginnie Mae loan sales which were incremental to the sales we announced last quarter.
Turning now to Slide 7 for a discussion of this quarter's trends in mortgage repurchases.
Repurchased demands declined which is consistent with the declining trend that we saw in full file requests in recent quarters.
This quarter's demands were the lowest level experienced in 6 quarters and the decline was most notable in 2007 originated loans which as you know has been the most troublesome vintage.
Pending demands also declined modestly due to an increase in the pace of resolution.
Focusing on the reserve in the bottom left portion of the page.
As expected our reserve declined following the increase we made throughout last quarter to reflect our estimate for incurred losses on the agreed 2009 GSE loans.
The ending reserve was $632 million and this quarter's provision of $12 million came in exactly on our previously stated expectations.
Similar to several other bank's experience Freddie Mac informed SunTrust that they plan to re-examine loans originated in 2004 and 2005 and they have already been making full file requests relating to these vintages.
However of our 2004 and '05 loans sold to the GSEs less than 15% were sold to Freddie Mac and we believe our existing reserve is already sufficient to cover any of their incremental demands relating to these years.
Let's move on to expenses on Slide 8.
Adjusted expenses declined $27 million from the prior quarter.
Employee compensation and benefits fell by $42 million driven by lower salaries due to a decline in the number of full-time equivalent employees from the third quarter a reduction in temporary labor costs and a one-time deferred compensation impact in the third quarter.
Credit-related costs also declined with other real estate and collection service expenses down a combined $29 million or over 35%.
Partially offsetting these declines were increases in outside processing as well as seasonally higher advertising expenses.
Relative to the prior year adjusted expenses were down $60 million or 4% driven by significant decline in credit-related expenses and operating losses.
These cyclically high items were at their lowest combined level in almost 3 years and we were pleased to have some real traction in their abatement over the course of 2012.
For the full year 2011 these costs were about $800 million excluding the accrual for the national mortgage servicing settlement.
In 2012 they declined to $650 million.
This year we expect further meaningful year-over-year declines in these costs.
Relative to the fourth quarter of last year these reductions in cyclical costs were partially offset by higher outside processing.
Reported employee compensation and benefits also increased due to the positive impact of onetime items last year.
However salaries declined $14 million due to a reduction in the number of full time equivalent employees.
As announced last week SunTrust and 9 other mortgage servicers entered into an agreement in principle with the Federal Reserve and the OCC regarding the independent foreclosure review.
SunTrust's cash portion of the settlement was $63 million.
$32 million of this was recognized during the fourth quarter which together with previous accruals fully captures our expected cash expense for this matter.
SunTrust's portion of the settlement also includes providing $100 million in relief to borrowers.
We expect the costs associated with this relief to be substantially absorbed via our existing allowance for loan losses and other activities.
As we look to the first quarter for noninterest expense I'll remind you that we will have the normal seasonal increase in employee benefits due to FICA and 401(k) resets which typically amounts to about $40 million.
Despite this increase we do not currently expect our overall noninterest expenses to increase as compared to the fourth quarter.
Switching gears to the balance sheet.
Average performing loans declined sequentially by $1.7 billion or 1%.
This decline was driven entirely by the aforementioned loan sales with guaranteed mortgage and student loans down by a combined $2.2 billion.
Excluding the impact of the sales loans were up modestly during the quarter.
C&amp;I increased 1% on an average balanced basis driven by asset-based lending not-for-profit and asset securitizations.
Growth in C&amp;I did pick up toward the end of the quarter and period end balances finished up 3% sequentially in part due to an increase in utilization rates.
Commercial real estate balances continued their decline this quarter.
However that was driven by our special assets division.
CRE production continues to improve and this is a business whose growth prospects we remain optimistic about for the future.
Relative to the prior year average performing loans were up $3.6 billion or 3%.
C&amp;I was again the driver up by over $4 billion or 9%.
Balanced growth came primarily from large corporate borrowers and was widespread across industry verticals.
Residential loans declined modestly as an increase in high credit quality non-guaranteed loans was offset by declines in home equity and guaranteed mortgages.
Conversely consumer loans increased by $1 billion or 6% primarily due to indirect auto but also from strong growth albeit from low basis in direct consumer and credit card.
A review of our credit trends begins on Slide 10.
Credit trends continued their multi-quarter and now multi-year improvement.
Delinquency ratios declined driven by a 23 basis point reduction in non-guaranteed residential mortgages which partially offset a modest increase in consumer loans due to normal seasonality.
Nonperforming assets on loans also improved both declining by 11% sequentially and driven by commercial loans.
This nonperforming loan improvement occurred despite the fourth quarter reclassification to nonperforming status of $232 million of mortgage and consumer loans discharged as a result of Chapter 7 bankruptcy.
Although the vast majority of these loans are current we elected to make this policy change in order to align our accounting with others in the industry who are adopting this treatment as a result of guidance issued by the OCC.
Partially offsetting the Chapter 7-related increase was the sale of an additional $160 million in nonperforming mortgage and CRE loans during the quarter.
These sales were incremental to those we announced as part of our third quarter strategic actions.
Net charge-offs declined by $113 million this quarter.
You'll recall the third quarter net charge-offs and loan loss provision included $172 million related to the nonperforming loan sales we announced in September and $65 million related to a junior lien policy change.
The current quarter included $79 million in net charge-offs and loan loss provision due to the post-Chapter 7 bankruptcy change and $39 million from the additional nonperforming loan sales I mentioned.
Adjusted for these policy changes in nonperforming loan sales net charge-offs were relatively stable sequentially.
In light of the ongoing improvement in credit quality the ratio of allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of loans declined by 4 basis points sequentially to 1.8%.
Excluding government guaranteed loans the ratio stood at 1.95% at quarter end.
SunTrust asset quality improved substantially throughout 2012 and was widespread across loan types.
Relative to year end 2011 delinquency ratios declined by approximately 20 basis points.
Nonperforming loans fell by almost 50% and net charge offs declined on a stated basis and were markedly lower on a core basis.
Key credit metrics for both commercial and consumer loans now approximate normalized levels while those for residential loans are still somewhat elevated by historical standards.
Consequently as we look into 2013 we expect the improvement in asset quality metrics to be primarily residential driven.
Focusing on the first quarter specifically we expect nonperforming loans to continue to decline.
Additionally core net charge-offs are anticipated to be stable to down from fourth quarter levels adjusted for the impacts of the Chapter 7 loan reclassification and nonperforming loan sales.
Let's take a look at our deposit performance.
Average client deposits increased by $2.6 billion or 2% from the prior quarter in part due to year end seasonality.
The favorable shift in the deposit mix continued as growth was driven entirely by lower cost accounts most notably DDA which was up $1.6 billion or 4%.
Money market and NOW accounts also increased while higher cost time deposits fell by 5%.
The story as compared to the prior year is a similar one.
Lower cost accounts increased over $6 billion led by a $5.4 billion or 16% increase in DDA.
Higher cost time deposits declined by over $3 billion or 18%.
As I mentioned earlier in the context of our net interest income discussion this mix shift together with the reduction in deposit rates paid has helped to mitigate some of the rate pressure that we and the industry have faced on the asset side.
Slide 12 provides information on our capital metrics.
Tier 1 common capital expanded by approximately $300 million and the Tier 1 common ratio again increased up to an estimated 10%.
Our estimate for the Basel III Tier 1 common ratio assuming that all the components of the Federal Reserves recent Notice of Proposed Rulemaking are implemented in their current form is 8.2%.
As shown at the bottom of the page the tangible common equity ratio and tangible book value per share both increased somewhat driven by increased earnings and partially offset by lower other comprehensive income.
With that I'll turn things back over to Bill to cover the last couple of slides.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem and before we move into Q&amp;A I want to point out some of the highlights from a segment perspective and that will start on Slide 13.
In Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management loan production was up 13% over the prior year and that was driven by good mix from home equity consumer direct and indirect auto.
Furthermore their favorable deposit trends continued as DDA grew 20% from the prior year.
Additionally we maintained our industry-leading loyalty and service in our branches which provides the path to help deepen our client relationships and meet more client needs.
We're also committed to operating more efficiently while expanding our penetration of existing relationships.
The fact that clients are increasingly utilizing self-service channels has provided the opportunity to make some changes to both our staffing model and retail branch network without compromising service levels.
Our wholesale business overall had a really strong year hitting record net income levels.
Net income is double what it was a year ago reflective of both improved operating performance and credit improvement.
Revenue was up 8% to $3.4 billion.
Capital markets revenue was up by more than 20% led by several corporate investment banking industry verticals notably energy media and communications but also as well as by leveraging our CIB product base and expertise to meet more needs of our core commercial clients.
Wholesale's year-over-year revenue growth was also driven by higher net interest income due to loan and deposit growth which were both up 7% year-over-year.
This revenue growth coupled with a year-over-year 4% decline in total expenses led a significant improvement from an efficiency standpoint with this segment's efficiency ratio declining from 65.3 in 2011 to 57.5 in 2012.
Furthermore strong performance drove the fourth quarter efficiency ratio slightly under 50%.
While mortgage banking reported a net loss for 2002 its core trends were much improved and the future prospects for this business are very sound.
Production volume was up $9 billion or nearly 40% and despite a higher repurchase provision 2012 revenue increased 42%.
Excluding the impact of the mortgage repurchase provision core origination income was up $573 million more than double what it was in 2011.
The elevated levels of refinance activity have certainly benefited the business in 2012.
While that is going to abate at some point and we may see some additional margin declines we do expect the current favorable mortgage market to remain certainly for the near term.
There are a lot more clients that can benefit from refinancing.
The purchase market is improving and so is the overall housing market.
Given our markets and business model I think we're uniquely well-positioned to benefit from this.
We're also positioning this business for the longer term.
For example we're continuing to devote resources to purchase activity which represented 23% of our fourth quarter production.
On the efficiency side we're focused on expanding our presence in lower-cost channels and optimizing our channel selection to maximize the long-term profile of this business.
We have a diverse business mix that benefit us and will continue to do so going forward.
Over the past year we saw the firming up of several core trends in our lines of businesses as we continue to grow while also improving efficiency.
If you turn to Slide 14 I think you can see some of these favorable trajectories.
Many positive trends emerged during 2012 with each quarter building up on the successes from the prior and combining to drive meaningful improvement in our bottom line.
The earnings improvement over this time frame was driven first by revenue gains specifically fee income and secondarily by ongoing credit improvement.
We're starting to see tangible evidence of the progress that we've been making in both revenue and expenses.
If you look back at the second quarter of 2011 which is when we really began our efforts in earnest to driving efficiency improvements.
Our revenue was about $2.2 billion per quarter and our expenses were above $1.5 billion.
Relative to those figures our core revenue in recent quarters is up about $100 million per quarter while our expenses have actually come down a bit.
So we're driving growth and positive operating leverage and this of course is improving the bottom line and our efficiency ratio which I think is really evident at the bottom of this page.
Now with that I'll turn it over to Kris and we'll start taking some questions.
Thanks Bill.
Wendy we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Kevin St.
Pierre with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Question on the credit-related expenses Slide 25 in the appendix if I look at those you had -- if we look at operating losses excluding your settlement charge seem to be down significantly to say $45 million a big decline in OREO expenses in the quarter.
Is that -- can we use that adjust for the settlement charge and make that a new base and expect a continued decline? Or how do we think about those expenses going forward? Kevin yes I think that this -- take a look at this number and we do expect to see continued improvement in this quarter as we get improvement over the year as we go through 2013.
If you look at the total you'll recall what we've been saying for a while is that we think 2011 was the peak in these costs at about $800 million per year.
And prior to going into the financial crisis we were running more like $200 million or $250 million a year.
After peaking at $800 million this year we're now down to $650 million.
I don't think we'll actually go back to that run rate of $200 million to $250 million before the financial crisis but we're headed down toward a much lower number from $650 million and we think we'll see some of those benefits in '13 again.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the actual net charge-offs have been bouncing around a bit based on the NPL sales and change in policy.
Your guidance or outlook for stable to down net charge-offs next quarter kind of sticking in this 90 basis point to 1% range any reason we shouldn't expect that those trend down significantly over 2013? Well that depends a little bit on the economy and how the economy goes in 2013.
But if you'll think about net charge-offs as sort of an adjusted number about $280 million last quarter and this quarter 3 and 4.
I think if you take that $280 million as the base of looking to Q1 you'd expect that number to be stable to down some.
Yes it's Tom Freeman.
I think as you continue to see delinquencies improve and the overall credit quality organization improve I think you're establishing a base now at the number Aleem was talking about.
And as long as delinquencies continue to improve I think you'll see charge-offs continue to improve over an extended period of time.
Our next question is from Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> C&amp;I lending we saw a lot of your competitors have released on a national basis more so on a regional basis see some very strong broad-based C&amp;I lending.
Just wondering is it -- are you seeing more activity in your markets on that front? Yes this is Bill and I think Aleem also pointed out what we really started seeing is actually that's building up a little bit towards the end of the quarter.
If you look at sort of our core commercial November was a lot better than October and December was a lot better than November.
So we started seeing some build there towards the end of the quarter.
So I'm pretty bullish on C&amp;I again sort of seeing the trends that we're looking at looking at the pipelines.
All that being said there is a little pull of uncertainty.
So while the pipelines continue to be strong our pull-through rates continue to be a little bit better.
Our drawdown rates actually have gone -- have been a little bit improved this quarter and that's actually different than actually the several prior 8 quarters.
I think if we can get a little relief for the safety valve we'll see C&amp;I take off fairly well.
Research Division</strong> And just a really quick follow-up on your mortgage banking side can -- do you disclose how much of your HARP is -- your production is HARP-related? Well it's 15% in the fourth quarter.
Paul just as a follow-up we've been running on HARP of the 75% of refi.
About 25% of the 75% has been HARP.
Research Division</strong> And is that declining or staying relatively stable because I know some people have mentioned that they burned through the most of their HARP eligible loans? Yes -- no the -- I mean every cloud has a silver lining.
I mean we have a HARP eligible environment in which we operate.
Ours has been fairly stable in that sort of 15% to 17% range here in the last couple of quarters.
And if you look out I mean we talked about this at the end of the quarter I mean we've got sort of 5x our quarterly run rate in terms of eligibility.
That can change housing prices increase eligibility changes and those kinds of things but we see a multi-quarter run rate still for us in HARP.
As a matter of fact we're intensifying our efforts on HARP.
Our next question is from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Bill can you provide some more commentary just on your outlook for the mortgage business particularly the past gain on sale spreads and just given how much HARP volume you still have that you alluded to? And I guess just secondly on the mortgage business are you seeing capacity coming back into the market and how are you expecting this to evolve over the next few quarters? Okay I'll try to get them all there Ryan.
If I miss one come back to me.
But in sort of how we look at the business overall I think if you think about for us specifically in terms of opportunity we're seeing our housing markets recover.
We have been I think doing the right things in keeping a lot of purchase capacity into our business.
You sort of think about a quarter of our business is purchase.
We've had a good history of that.
So as we start to see that market rebound we'll start to see more activity from there.
And as I've said before we've got 4x to 5x our quarterly run rate in HARP opportunity.
So I think we have more run rate there.
We're building more capacity I can say that.
So we're building more capacity into our system and we're also becoming a heck a lot of more efficient as I talk about.
So while we'll see -- yet we see some margin decline I'll talk about that in a minute.
Some of it's going to be offset by just the efficiency of our own operation.
That has a lot to do with channel selectivity and productivity and other things that we've been doing over the last year.
In terms of gain-on-sale margin the third quarter for us was really unusually high.
I mean we really reached some rarified air on gain on sale margin in the fourth quarter.
It was down probably about 15% or so.
Will we see continued gain on sale margin to be under a little bit of pressure I think so.
If I look at the first 2 weeks or 2.5 weeks of the year things are looking pretty good.
I mean our add volume really sort of jumped back up pretty significantly in January.
It fell off a lot in the last 2 weeks of the year which I think has a seasonal impact but jumped back pretty significantly.
So certainly for this -- what I can see in the short term I'm still pretty optimistic about our other opportunities in mortgage.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up as we think about later in the year or maybe even -- or as we move into 2014 can you talk about how much of the expense base in the mortgage business is variable? So if we were to get 15% say 15% to 20% decline in applications at some point what do you think the change in expenses would look like? Yes there certainly are variable costs.
They tend to lag by a quarter or so sort of depending on whether it's purchased or depending on whether it's refinanced in terms of the length of pull through rate and so I'm confident certainly based upon what we've done in the past and our ability to regulate our variable cost.
Ours is going to be unique also and that our fixed costs are coming down.
Our fixed costs on the credit side are actually coming down fairly significantly as well.
So if the market changes out in end of '13 end '14 I'm fairly confident we can react from a variable standpoint but you're also going to be seeing some of the fixed cost come down.
Our next question is from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe you could just provide a little more thoughts on the NIM kind of looking out for the rest of year.
I think you talked about mid-single-digit decline in the first quarter and there's always some seasonal quarks there.
But just as you think about the rest of the year maybe loan growth picking up a little bit how does all that kind of filter through into the net interest margin? Matt well we do expect to see some modest NIM compression throughout the full year as long as rates stay where they are.
So if we do stay in this for the long low-rate environment of course our maturing fixed-rate assets will be reinvested at lower rates and there is less capacity now for us to reprice on the liability side.
So we've actually been pretty successful until now on being able to reprice liabilities both in terms of long-term debt as well as deposits with the recent quarter us being able to match the 8 basis point decline in asset yields with an 8 basis point decline in liability cost.
I think that as we look out to '13 there will be less capacity for us to do that on the liability side as we're getting toward terminally low rates on liabilities.
If you look at year-over-year '12 relative to '11 our NIM was down 10 basis points full year to full year.
And as I think about '13 I don't see any reason or a substantial change from that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just separately I know there was some moving pieces in the loan buckets with some loan sales nonperforming sales but if we look at period end loan growth it was in aggregate just up a little bit.
Any thoughts on -- I mean commercial is good but net-net was up just a little bit.
Any thoughts on just loan growth this year and what it might take to get a pickup? Well I would expect loan growth to actually be positive this year.
As Bill pointed out we did see some nice increase in loan growth toward the end of 2012 and we're pretty optimistic about '13.
As you know we've clearly got the capacity.
We've got the capital to go.
We've got the liquidity to go and we're happy to service our client needs.
So any chance that we can get to deliver appropriate services to our clients we're going to be ready to be there for them and I do expect to see some loan growth from us in '13 and we'll need to do that to offset some of those NII declines that we'd be expecting otherwise.
And you're starting to see Matt some of the headwinds for us start to run off.
I mean think about sort of our high-risk portfolio which has been a headwind it's been coming down by sort of $0.5 billion a quarter.
Take CRE sort of like specifically maybe this will be a little bit of a microcosm as  our outstandings were down $1 billion over the course of the year.
That was primarily well almost exclusively from our sad part of our business.
Our production was about double that.
The current outstandings in that set are about $600 million.
So they're not going to run -- they're not going to have as much of that headwind going forward and we'll start to see the impacts of the production.
Same thing is true with home equity and I've talked with the production there.
So a lot of the headwinds we're starting to see now behind us and I think we'll start seeing more the benefits of the production.
Our next question is from John Pancari with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little more color on the decline in the comp expense in the quarter? How much -- what was the size of that deferred comp impact? And then also the $40 million seasonal increase in comp expense you expect for the first quarter is that going to be off of this lower base in the comp expense line coming out of this quarter? So the third quarter impact you're talking about was a $13 million item.
That was a vesting of accelerated benefits for a particular business line.
As we look forward now from here I do expect overall comp to be going down.
If you look at our total cost base half of it comes from comp and so that's in an area on which we're intensely focused and we're doing a lot to make sure that we align comp with performance in every one of our segments in every one of our functions.
I would expect as you look to '13 that overall comp is going to look better.
Particularly if you look at it less from a line item basis and more from an efficiency ratio perspective if we have the ability to add comp but at the same time add revenue we're always going to take that alternative.
So while we are focused on comp we're also more focused on the efficiency ratio and trying to get whatever benefits that we can get to deliver more to the bottom line that way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that $40 million in seasonality you expect for the first quarter of '13 should come off of this low base coming out of this quarter? Yes that $40 million is -- that's sort of a one quarter item first quarter of every year as FICA numbers go back up 401(k) plans all reset and the company contributes to our teammates' 401(k) plan primarily in the first quarter of every year.
But from then on yes that ought to reset that.
Yes that is not evident to change in our strategy or trajectory.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then secondly on the investment banking revenue can you just give us a little color what drove it again if you can give some indicated syndications? But also how sustainable more importantly that item should be in the coming quarters? The good news is it came from a lot of places.
I mean we talk about syndications but it also came from high-yield and high-grade.
It came from M&amp;A.
It came from our asset securitization parts of our business.
So the growth in the quarter really was the fact that a lot of cylinders hit versus one cylinder hit really well.
So I think it's a sustainable question.
Every quarter is going to be a little more volatile.
First quarter investment banking is typically not your best quarter.
But based upon sort of what we've seen the momentum we've built if you look at us on a multi-quarter basis I mean this has got really good momentum and it's very diverse and very deep.
John I wouldn't be surprised if we a saw slight decline in Q1 as we think maybe some of our Q1 business might have been pulled forward a little bit into Q4 as our clients tried to get ahead of year end on some transactions.
But outside that this is a business where we're growing substantially and we're growing market share well.
So overall I think this is a sustainable and growing and scalable business.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on just -- on the expense topic again.
So a quick confirmation when you guys are talking about expenses in the first quarter being no different than flat that's just the reported number $1.51 billion correct? That is exactly correct.
So you know we're expecting a $40 million increase in one line item but there are going to be enough offsets throughout but I think our total number will not go up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Well certainly you've got the $32 million settlement in there as well.
And that was going to be my second question is what else comes out of the run rate as you look forward? How much were you spending on quarterly consent order costs underneath the one-time settlement? We have been spending on the order of $10 million to $15 million on those consulting costs per quarter.
That number -- at least some of that will still exist in the first quarter.
It won't all come out but I think as you look out from partially Q1 and then all of it starting Q2 onward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- then to continue the conversation about environmental expenses and the trajectory post the first quarter what kind of line of sight can you give us on ongoing improvement environmental expenses and as well as progress you can make on your prior comments about taking -- moving the efficiency ratio? I think our efficiency ratio improvements we're working on improving that from sort of several line items not just that one.
Comp is obviously one.
Real estate cost is another.
We're working to become more efficient in the way we handle our real estate footprint.
We're working with several of our vendors and supplier partners to rationalize our use of some of their services and pricing there.
So I think there's several different types of line items that we're working on to try and bring our efficiency ratio down.
One of those areas will be some of these credit-related costs and after seeing that $150 million reduction in '12 versus '11 I think we ought to see in '13 a further reduction in that number and I wouldn't be surprised if that's an additional 8-figure reduction.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so if you put all that together is it fair to say that even after the first quarter kind of keeping it flat that we should see expenses continue to track down directionally just even if there's some underlying spending to the points you're making about how much tighter you're being on finding more costs to take out? I think the answer to that's yes but as -- obviously but as it gets to the credit related it's just as you get down to these numbers quarter-by-quarter it's just hard to make a commitment because -- and you've seen that trend while they're trending $800 million to $650 million and we think clearly at a lower run rate in '13.
It's just hard to commit quarter-by-quarter.
Our next question is from Jeffrey Harralson with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just want to do one quick follow-up on that expense line just to make sure I'm thinking about it right.
The -- you take the $1.51 billion and take out the 40 for ongoing quarters you're at $1.47 billion you have probably I don't know at some point anyway $60 million a quarter at least coming out in environmental types of costs and all that's probably offset by some core growth in there.
So maybe the base is I don't know if you want to think about $1.4 billion being a base but that's sort of the base that we're working off of x credit-related costs is that -- am I thinking about that generally correctly? That's your model Jeff.
I think that's an interesting one.
You might want to talk with Kris about how he sees that.
Our next question is from Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question.
Aleem you mentioned that you expect about 10 basis points of compression over the next 4 quarters.
So after the 5 basis points this quarter obviously it implies that it's pretty flat for the remaining of the year.
Does that include the impact of the swap continuing to roll off on the commercial book? Erika maybe I wasn't clear on that 10 basis points.
I was looking at that as a year-over-year number not a fourth quarter run rate number.
From '11 to '12 our overall NIM dropped 10 basis points and what I'm thinking is from '12 to '13 we might see that type of decline again as long as rates stay where they are.
If you look at the swap book we do have some swaps rolling off in Q2 and Q3 this year.
And as they roll off we're not able to replace those swap deals that might be in addition to the NIM decline we just talked about.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And could you give us a sense of how much that would impact if you can't replace those swaps? I think the amount of NII rolling off in Q2 and Q3 from the swaps Erika is on the order of about $25 million or $30 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just wanted to sneak one last one as a follow-up to Ryan's question.
You mentioned that your production volume on the mortgage side continues to be quite strong but you're seeing a little bit of softening as is everybody on the gain on sale margin.
If your mortgage banking revenues are trickling down because of gain on sale not because of production how much variable cost can come out in that scenario? Well I think when you look at our variable cost in that segment I think they're pretty similar to what I'm seeing around the rest of the industry.
Our variable costs are arranged somewhere between 25% and 40% of the total cost base in mortgage.
I'd look at that but I'd also remake Bill's point.
We're -- that mortgage segment for us is becoming increasingly efficient.
We're just running it better.
We're operating it better.
And as we're doing that our fixed costs are also declining as we're working through the set of improvements we're making.
Our final question is from Brian Foran with Autonomous.
Since I get 1 question it will have 7 parts.
Housing I was wondering if you could just touch on some of the trends you're seeing by market particularly in Georgia since it seems pretty clear Florida has already turned unless you disagree with that.
And then two if you think there's any meaningful impact from the new CFPB rules around servicing or if they're just codifying what you and others are already doing? Let me take housing first.
I think you said it I mean clearly Florida we're really seeing nice improvement and when I was asked this question 3 or 4 quarters ago we would have talked by zip code.
Then we would have talked by county and now we're really talking by markets and by state.
So we're really starting to see sort of a universal improvement.
And in some places like South Florida it's actually sort of fairly dramatic in terms of what we're seeing.
Georgia I think Atlanta being the primary part of Georgia we're starting to see again some improvement.
It's starting to ease back up.
Atlanta in fairness was lagging a little bit but now we're starting to see some of that increase.
It now is like by description more of a county by county kind of increase and I would assume that it would follow the same kind of trend that I talked about before.
Now the rest of the state is okay.
Pockets are better than others but the rest of the state's okay.
Some places Savannah and those kind of places are doing pretty well.
Other places are -- didn't go down as far and they won't come back as far.
As it relates to the CFPB and the servicing I think it really does and I think what you said is really right.
I mean we've been obviously anticipating this for quite a while and have put I think a lot of the infrastructure in place to make sure that we respond.
Might there be some small marginal expense related to that? Maybe.
But I think that's more of a small issue in that it really just does solidify some of the discussion.
And fortunately the investments we've been making have been extremely consistent with that announcement.
And just a quick comment before we wrap up the call today.
I really believe we've built a strong foundation from which we'll be able to continue to grow and leverage the momentum we've generated.
Our team is engaged.
We're starting to see meaningful progress in their efforts.
We're building a more effective and efficient company.
The intensity across this organization is real and it's coupled with the right focus and I think you're starting to see the real bottom line improvements.
And I look very forward to updating you on our progress in 2013 and thank you.
Thanks everybody for joining us.
If you have any further questions feel free to give the IR Department a call.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the SunTrust First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Kris Dickson Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to SunTrust's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thanks for joining us.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call today.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Freeman our Chief Risk Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
And with that I'll now turn it over to Bill.
Thanks Kris.
It's obviously impossible to start today's call without acknowledging the events in Boston and clearly our thoughts and prayers go out to that community this morning.
In our usual fashion I'll begin this morning with a brief overview of the quarter.
Then Aleem will provide more details on the results.
After that I'll come back to wrap up the call with some perspectives on our business segment performance.
Earnings per share for the quarter was $0.63 up substantially from $0.46 in the first quarter 2012.
Highlights this quarter included a significant reduction in expenses due to our concerted and ongoing efforts towards driving efficiency improvements as well as further contraction in our cyclically high cost.
All told expenses were down 12% from the first quarter of last year and at their lowest level in 3 years.
As a result our efficiency ratio improved by 5 percentage points year-over-year.
It was also down nearly 1.5 percentage points from the fourth quarter despite a sequential quarter decline in revenues.
Some of this revenue contraction was due to typical first quarter seasonal impacts and some of it was a result of mortgage revenue normalizing downward from the strong levels experienced last year.
Loans and deposits were both relatively stable while credit quality continued to improve with nonperforming loans declining 5% and 45% for the prior quarter and prior year respectively.
The first quarter net charge-off ratio of 76 basis points was at its lowest level in 5 years.
Lastly our capital position continued to improve with Tier 1 common ratio reaching an all-time high at an estimated 10.1%.
As you are aware the capital actions we submitted as part of this year's CCAR process were not objected to by the Federal Reserve.
This included increasing the return of capital to our shareholders in the forms of a higher common stock dividend and a share buyback.
In our upcoming meeting the board will consider a dividend increase to 10% per share -- $0.10 per share up from our current $0.05.
And we plan to complete our common stock buyback of up to $200 million by the first quarter of 2014.
We're obviously pleased that our capital position and improved earnings power enable us these actions.
Now with that I'll turn it over to Aleem to walk you through this quarter's results in more detail.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us in the context of all of the events occurring across our country.
I'll begin my comments today with summary observations on this quarter's key earnings drivers and then we'll delve deeper on subsequent slides.
Our earnings per share for the quarter were $0.63 up $0.17 per share from last year and continuing our trend of strong year-over-year earnings growth.
This was driven by the 12% decline in expenses that Bill mentioned as well as a 33% reduction in the provision for credit losses in light of ongoing asset quality improvement.
Lower net interest income was a partial offset.
Relative to the fourth quarter of last year pretax earnings were higher driven by declines in expenses and the provision for credit losses which more than offset lower sequential quarter revenue resulting in pretax earnings growth of $86 million.
However net income declined modestly and earnings per share fell $0.02 as this quarter's effective tax rate increased to a more normal 30% up from the 15% rate last quarter.
Let's take a more detailed review of the underlying trends starting on Slide 5.
Net interest income declined sequentially by $25 million or 2% primarily due to 2 fewer days in the current quarter.
The net interest margin contracted by 3 basis points as earning asset yield declined 6 basis points partially offset by modestly lower liability rates.
Relative to the prior year the net interest margin declined 16 basis points and net interest income was lower by $91 million or 7%.
This was due to $175 million reduction in interest income on earning assets with the primary drivers being the impact from the low-rate environment on loan and securities yields the partial roll-off of our commercial loan swap portfolio and the foregone dividend income on the Coca-Cola stock following our third quarter transaction.
Partially offsetting lower interest income was an $85 million decline in interest expense.
This was due to the favorable deposit mix shift lower rates paid and a significant reduction in long-term debt expense driven by a $2 billion average balance decline and a 91 basis point improvement in borrowing costs.
As we look to the second quarter of 2013 net interest income will benefit from an increase in day count though commercial loan swap income is expected to decline by $12 million due to scheduled swap maturities.
This decline in swap income equates to about 3 basis points of net interest margin which will be incremental to the ongoing core margin pressure we expect will continue in the second quarter.
Slide 6 shows trends in noninterest income.
As usual we have identified certain adjustment items and the details of those are included in the appendix.
Excluding these relatively minor adjustment items noninterest income was down by $125 million sequentially.
There were the usual seasonal reductions in certain categories though the largest driver of the decline was mortgage production income.
So let me spend a few moments there.
Mortgage production income was $159 million this quarter.
And this was down $82 million as compared to the prior quarter.
Lower gain on sale accounted for almost all of the variance and was driven by 2 factors.
First the spread between primary and secondary market rates compressed during the quarter.
You're aware that this spread was at historically wide levels in 2012 so we expected and planned for a decline this year.
That happened in fairly quick order during January and February before leveling off somewhat in March.
Second gain on sale was also impacted by less favorable secondary market execution.
The most notable example of this is that last year investors were paying premiums for mortgage pools that had favorable prepayment characteristics.
However these premiums declined notably in the first quarter as investors assessed the low absolute level of rates today versus their increasing expectation for higher rates in the future.
The origination fee component of mortgage production which totaled $61 million for the quarter was up $6 million sequentially driven by an 11% increase in production volume.
The other primary component of mortgage production income the mortgage repurchase provision was $14 million this quarter which was consistent with last quarter's level and in line with our prior guidance.
We have included the slide with quarterly mortgage repurchase trends in the appendix.
Overall repurchase activity continues to play out according to our expectations.
New demand increased this quarter due to an increased pace by the GSEs while the pending population declined due to even higher increased resolutions by the GSEs and SunTrust.
Meanwhile full file requests which as you know are the precursors to future demands declined by 20% from the fourth quarter.
Investment banking was the other primary driver of the sequential quarter noninterest income decline and it was lower by $44 million.
There were a few factors at work here.
Number one we were coming off a record fourth quarter.
Several clients also moved transactions which were originally slated for the first quarter of this year into the fourth quarter of last year amidst the fiscal cliff uncertainty.
This created a bit of a headwind for us in Q1 on top of the first quarter typically being the seasonal low point of the year.
All that said the outlook for our corporate and investment banking business remains strong and we do expect to see investment banking income increase in the second quarter.
Relative to last year adjusted noninterest income declined by $6 million.
Mortgage servicing income was lower due to a smaller servicing portfolio and less favorable hedge performance.
And trading and other noninterest income also declined.
These were all largely offset by higher mortgage production income due to a lower mortgage repurchase provision.
As we look to the second quarter we expect noninterest income to pick up led by higher investment banking income and the seasonal uptick in service charges.
As it relates to mortgage production we expect volume to remain strong which will support origination fees.
It's too early in the quarter to make predictions about gain on sale but spreads have been stable since March.
And we won't face the same headwinds as in the first quarter because the less favorable secondary market execution has now been absorbed into our run rate.
Let's now move to expenses on Slide 7.
The decline in expenses was the highlight of the quarter as we demonstrated traction in both our operating cost productions as well as the ongoing abatement of cyclically high items.
On a sequential quarter basis expenses were down by $147 million or 10%.
Approximately half of this decline was due to lower credit-related expenses and operating losses the details of which we break out for you in the appendix.
Operating losses were $38 million lower primarily due to the $32 million expense recognized last quarter associated with the independent foreclosure review.
Election expense declined by $21 million benefiting from the nonperforming loan sales that occurred late last year.
The remaining expense decline was broad based across expense categories.
A lone exception was employee compensation and benefits which was up by $21 million due to the approximate $35 million seasonal increase in benefit expense.
This was partially offset by a $20 million incentive compensation reduction associated with final payouts for 2012 performance.
Relative to the first quarter of last year expenses were down by 12% on a reported basis and 11% adjusted.
Credit-related expenses and operating losses declined by a combined $95 million or over 55%.
Reductions of $50 million in OREO expense and $21 million in operating losses were the largest drivers.
Employee compensation and benefits declined by $38 million and legal and consulting expenses were down $20 million the latter in part due to the elimination of certain expenses associated with the independent foreclosure review.
Overall we're pleased with our traction in driving operating costs and cyclical items lower.
The almost $150 million sequential quarter expense decline was clearly a major step-down in one quarter.
I will point out that a portion of this decline was aided by items that aren't likely to recur in the second quarter.
For example we won't have the favorable incentive compensation adjustment.
OREO expenses are unlikely to remain at 0 as they were this quarter and marketing and certain volume-related costs are expected to increase from their first quarter levels.
On the flip side benefits expenses are expected to decline due to their seasonal nature.
Net-net we expect to see a modest increase in core expenses in the second quarter albeit still well below the levels at which we were operating last year.
As you can see on Slide 8 we continue to make steady progress in lowering our efficiency ratio.
We show the ratio here on an adjusted basis and provide you the calculation details in the appendix.
The efficiency ratio improved by 4.6 and 2.2 percentage points from the prior year and the prior quarter respectively with the declines from both periods driven by lower expenses.
We had previously indicated that we expect the tangible efficiency ratio to be 65% plus or minus for 2013.
Based upon our first quarter's results we're more confident that it will come in below 65% and our focus continues to be on progressing toward our longer-term target of below 60%.
And we will update you regularly on our progress in this regard.
Turning to credit quality on Slide 9.
The ongoing improvement in asset quality trends continued this quarter.
As Bill noted the net charge-off ratio of 76 basis points was at its lowest level in 5 years.
Net charge-offs were down by 45% from last year driven by residential mortgages home equity and commercial real estate.
They also improved from the fourth quarter.
You'll recall that last quarter's net charge-offs were impacted by $118 million associated with the combined effects of the Chapter 7 bankruptcy reclassification and nonperforming loan sales.
After excluding those items this quarter's net charge-offs were still approximately 20% below fourth quarter's adjusted level.
The provision expense for the quarter was $212 million which was comparable to the fourth quarter's core level and only modestly below current quarter net charge-offs.
As such the allowance for loan and lease losses held relatively stable ending the quarter at 1.79% of loans.
Nonperforming loans and assets continued their favorable trends declining sequentially by 5% and 6% respectively and driven by residential mortgages.
NPAs and NPLs were down 45% from last year with the declines prevalent in most loan classes most notably in residential mortgages commercial real estate and commercial construction.
Delinquencies in the loan portfolio also continued to improve.
The early-stage delinquency ratio excluding government guaranteed loans was 41 basis points during the quarter which was 7 basis points better than at year end.
Overall we continue to be pleased with the positive trending of our asset quality.
We expect future improvements to be driven by residential loans as the commercial and consumer portfolios are already at or near normalized levels.
As we look to the second quarter specifically we expect net charge-offs to remain relatively stable within the context of an overall declining trend.
Turning to balance sheet trends on Slide 10.
Average performing loans declined modestly compared to the prior quarter.
You'll recall that late last year we sold about $2 billion of guaranteed student and mortgage loans.
Those sales occurred fairly evenly throughout the fourth quarter so they resulted in about $1 billion average balance decline in the first quarter.
Non-guaranteed mortgages and home equity also declined by about $800 million combined.
These declines were partially offset by $1.1 billion of C&amp;I growth due primarily to the average balance effects associated with the increased borrowing activity by a client in December as well as some ongoing growth in the portfolio during this quarter.
Relative to the prior year average performing loans were essentially stable.
Growth in targeted categories included C&amp;I which increased by $4.2 billion or 9% and indirect loans which were also up by 9% or $900 million.
This growth was offset by the guaranteed loan sales and declines in home equity and commercial real estate.
Turning to deposit performance.
Average client deposits were relatively stable as compared to the fourth quarter.
Growth in money market NOW and savings totaled $1.6 billion or 2% and this was offset by ongoing reductions at higher cost time deposits as well as the seasonal decline in DDA.
Relative to the prior year deposits were up another $1.8 billion or 1%.
However the mix shift remains the bigger story with lower cost balances up $5 billion or 5%.
This was driven primarily by a $2.7 billion or 8% DDA increase.
Concurrently higher cost time deposits declined by $3.2 billion or 18%.
Slide 12 provides information on our capital metrics.
Tier 1 common capital expanded by approximately $300 million and the Tier 1 common ratio again increased up to an estimated 10.1%.
Our estimate for the Basel III Tier 1 common ratio assuming that all the components of the Federal Reserve's Notice of Proposed Rulemaking are implemented in their current form is 8.2%.
As shown at the bottom of the page the tangible common equity ratio and tangible book value per share also increased both driven by higher shareholders' equity due to our current quarter's earnings.
I'll now turn things back over to Bill to cover our business segment performance.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem.
So -- and before we move into Q&amp;A what I thought I'd do is share some of the highlights from a line of business perspective.
We'll start with our Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management business.
So net income in the segment was up $43 million or 78% over last year driven by credit quality improvement and a reduction in noninterest expenses which more than offset some of the predicted lower revenue.
We also introduced a service to -- asset -- excuse me asset quality continued to improve most notably in home equity portfolio which drove a significant decline in our provision for credit losses.
Furthermore expenses were down 8% from last year.
Clients are increasingly using our self-service channels.
Mobile application sign-ons are up 300-plus percent.
ATM deposits are up almost 200% over the past 2 years.
This has given us the opportunity to make some changes to our staffing model and more recently to our retail branch network.
But I'll point out importantly that we're implementing these changes while also maintaining our industry-leading client loyalty.
We also have numerous initiatives underway to improve performance and we made progress on several fronts this quarter.
Consumer loan production was up year-over-year and our efforts to drive further growth included the first quarter launch of an online origination platform which targets super prime clients and a simplified home refinance product designed to generate new business.
We also introduced a service to attract new retail clients by making the process of switching banks much easier.
Oftentimes clients are reticent to change banks due to the arduous nature of the process and we've eliminated that deterrent with this new service and we're off to a good start.
Now let's take a closer look at the progress in our wholesale business this quarter.
On Slide 14 we see that our wholesale business delivered net income growth of 44% for the prior year.
Continued credit improvement in our CRE portfolio drove a substantial decrease in provision for credit losses.
Furthermore expenses were down 13% over last year.
These items helped offset lighter revenue for the quarter as modest growth and net interest income was offset primarily by lower trading revenue.
You'll notice that the efficiency ratio for this segment continued to improve.
We ended the quarter with a tangible efficiency ratio of 52% down 6 percentage points from last year.
I'll also point out that we had good loan growth and it was diversified across most of our industry segments.
Wholesale is a key segment for us and one that we intend to keep -- continue growing.
As such we've got several initiatives underway and I'll spend a moment articulating some of this progress.
We continue to grow lead relationships in our corporate investment banking business.
Since January of 2012 we've increased our lead syndicated relationships 18% to levels that are more than double what they were at the beginning of 2010.
We've had great talent expansion that continued this quarter with the hiring of key sector experts in some of our main industry verticals.
In the commercial line of business we saw a year-over-year growth in new business revenue per relationship manager and generated positive momentum in deepening client relationships.
Furthermore we saw our pipeline for commercial loans rebuild throughout the first quarter following a strong funding that occurred at the end of the fourth quarter.
A key component of growing our wholesale business is a multi-year strategy in Treasury &amp; Payments Solutions where we are improving products platforms and delivery channels in an effort to enhance the marketability and profitability of this product suite.
To that end during the first quarter we launched a new and improved small business online platform which introduced new features and improved online experience for over 200 000 existing clients.
In CRE loan balances grew sequentially and production was up nearly 50% from last year.
We also have a healthy pipeline to generate continued growth from here evidencing our growing momentum in client acquisition activity as our targeted new business approach matures.
Now let's take a look at mortgage.
Our mortgage business moved closer to profitability this quarter as our legacy issues continue to abate with ongoing improvements in credit quality and lower expenses.
As Aleem detailed we saw a decline in gain on sale this quarter off of the high levels we experienced last year.
Despite that decline the profitability on new originations is solid and we're continuing to position this business for long-term success.
We've added origination capacity to take advantage of the opportunities that the mortgage market affords opportunities which I think are particularly prevalent in our footprint which is HARP rich and has seen continued and widespread improvements in the housing market.
Our capacity additions have been concentrated in consumer direct which is a convenient channel for our clients as well as the most profitable for SunTrust.
This enabled us to increase our HARP 2.0 outbound calling efforts and we saw benefits from this with HARP applications up by about $450 million sequentially after falling slightly in the last 2 quarters.
Closed loan volume in consumer direct was more than double the prior year and it generated more than 15% of our first quarter applications.
Overall production volume this quarter was $8.8 billion the highest level since the third quarter of 2009.
While first quarter industry market share statistics aren't yet available I suspect that when they are they'll show that we gained share as our capacity additions enabled us to improve turn times on our application pipeline be more proactive in our outbound calling efforts and grow our correspondent channel.
We currently expect these factors as well as an improving purchase market to drive another strong quarter of production volume in the second quarter.
In sum our franchise offers a lot of potential.
We see meaningful opportunities in our business segments to leverage our distinct position within each and we prioritize initiatives to help us capitalize on those opportunities.
But most importantly we're seeing real evidence of the progress that we've been making.
Our core earning trends have been favorable and our credit quality has substantially improved.
I'm also pleased with the progress that we've made on our efficiency ratio and I can assure you the focus there remains high.
Concurrent with this we've had some tailwinds as we anticipate meaningful year-over-year improvements in our especially high cost -- our cyclically high cost and credit metrics.
We have the benefit of an improving housing markets and employment in our footprint as the southeast appears to be recovering at a faster pace than the rest of the country.
And our business mix provides diversity of revenue which I think is key for sustainable long-term growth.
Now with all that said Kris I'll turn it back over to you and we can take some Q&amp;A.
Thanks Bill.
Wendy we're ready to start the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little more color on loan demand in the quarter particularly around -- I know you mentioned the pipeline picked up but also the trend in commitments and line utilization as well on the commercial side? Yes the -- I mean you pointed out we really did see over the course of the quarter the pipeline starting to increase and refill from the fourth quarter.
Where we end the quarter is a pretty robust pipeline compared to what we've seen in the past so we feel good about that.
On the utilization the utilization is slightly higher this quarter than the trends but down from the fourth quarter.
So fourth quarter was obviously up in utilization but it is a little bit better than sort of the prior quarters' multi-quarters' average.
And then commitments are up slightly as well.
So part of the forward look is the pipeline's built utilization's okay and the -- we have seen an increase in commitments as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the environmental cost side can you talk to us a little bit more about the credit-related cost trend going from -- going forward from here? You saw a nice decline in those costs on the operating losses and the credit-related expenses and it seemed to imply in your prepared comments that we shouldn't expect material declines in a couple of those areas going forward.
So can you just kind of wrap it all together in terms of the overall outlook for environmental costs in the next several quarters? Maybe I'll take it a high level and then Aleem you can embellish with mine.
But we've -- remember we talked about setting a target for those costs or trying to talk about those costs in general sort of being in the $325 million range plus or minus.
And clearly the first quarter was below that.
And I think sort of similar to the comments on the efficiency ratio we feel just much more solid about that number on an ongoing basis.
As Aleem pointed out some costs like OREO being 0 they'll come back to some level.
Some level that'll be below where it was in the past.
Those costs now are primarily sort of CRE related.
We've sort of run through a lot of that so the backlog is not very substantial but you'll see that bumpy as it goes through.
Our collection expense is going to continue to grind down and we've seen that pretty consistently now and that will continue to be on a quarter-by-quarter grind-down basis.
Probably not as fast as we'd all hope because we've got some issues as you know in Florida and takes slower but I'm confident that we're on the right flight path of grinding those down.
Aleem I don't know if you want to add anything to that.
Sure.
So John yes we had -- you're right.
We've previously guided to $325 million sort of plus or minus $50 million for that line and I'm more confident that it's in the minus now.
So we're clearly on the right track.
Bill pointed out OREO.
Let me give you just a little color on OREO.
The reason it was 0 this quarter is we actually had some gains on sale that offset some of the regular activity there.
So wouldn't expect a 0 again but you clearly also wouldn't expect the sort of $50 million run rate-type number that you saw in the past.
And then on the operating cost number that can be lumpy right? In any given quarter we might get a regulatory assessment or a legal accrual or a specific operating loss.
That number can be lumpy up and down.
And in the fourth quarter we had an accrual in there which we lost this quarter.
So you're going to see some ups and downs but I think the $325 million minus guidance is probably the better place to think about this.
The next question is from Keith Murray with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Could you just walk me through the $119 million reduction in the mortgage repurchase reserve? You mentioned resolution activity.
Just what specifically was that? And could there be more coming down the pipeline? Yes.
Keith the mortgage repurchase reserve is -- the way we put that together quarter-by-quarter is we take a look at all the demands that we get coming in from the GSEs and we evaluate those by sort of delinquency rate severity vintage and model what we think our sort of total cost is going to be in the future.
We've actually provided I think some really good transparency in the past around our modeling process and how that number is put together.
Back in the third quarter we put in place a relatively high provision and raised the size of the reserve to what we thought would be sufficient to cover all of the repurchases from the GSEs for pre-2009 loans.
And now as we're going through resolution activity with the GSEs after making that large onetime provision and contribution to the reserve those resolutions are now drawing down on the reserve on a regular quarterly basis.
So I would expect to see the reserve continue to decline over time as we continue to resolve the GSE demands.
Research Division</strong> And then just a question when you're talking about the impact of the net interest margin from the swap income is there an offset from the $7 billion or so of CDs that mature this year? Is that baked into your thoughts there? Yes we -- yes but over the course of the next 3 quarters we've got about $4 billion of CDs maturing and we expect to get a little bit of benefit from that as some of those clients will probably not renew into ongoing run rate CDs but may keep their money a little bit shorter term.
But we also have about another $4 billion of CDs maturing in the first 3 quarters of next year.
And next year those CDs that are rolling off are actually at relatively high rates and we expect to get some benefit from that too.
So overall we are going to keep trying to grind down deposit rates and manage our liability costs but I don't expect to get much of a benefit from the CDs maturing this year more so next year.
Our next question is from Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask on the -- when you think about home prices and home price appreciation what are you thinking about in terms of how you model internally when you think about reserve release or provision? I mean how might that drive future reserve release? If you can hear me all right I've got a bit of cold so -- I don't have this deep a baritone.
It's Tom Freeman.
The -- we model losses on a zip code-by-zip code house-by-house kind of basis.
So we'll go into the individual zip codes.
We will take housing price appreciation include that into the modeling activity and as housing prices continue to increase then future losses we would expect would decline somewhat.
But it hasn't gotten so robust in terms of housing prices that we still don't have captured losses within the portfolio.
But it will mitigate somewhat but would have to rise fairly substantially really to have a significant impact on the release of the reserve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on loan growth some of your competitors have talked about seeing increasing competition no longer is on price but term and now structure.
Are you seeing that as well? Absolutely.
And I think -- and you can see it in the yields in the first quarter as compared to the fourth quarter.
This has been a sort of last 90 days of pretty aggressive market both on pricing as well as structure.
I don't think we're in sort of the red zone yet in terms of either one of those and they're certainly not back where they were sort of precrisis level but it is something that we're paying a lot of attention to.
We're probably more competitive on the pricing side than we are the structure side in terms of sort of where we choose to compete.
But clearly there has been a shift here in the last quarter.
Research Division</strong> Is that -- sorry it's a follow-up question to that.
Is that shift in the last quarter is that based on people -- sort of banks becoming desperate to deploy capital? Or is it a sense that the market's really turning and they want to be there and want to set their foothold now? Well I think it's sort of a supply and demand.
I mean there is not as much demand and there's a lot of supply.
So I think that just the basic economic forces are out there.
We obviously given our -- everybody's respective funding there's just a lot of capacity to add assets onto the balance sheet.
So I think that's more of it.
We'll have to see.
I mean if you look at sort of the last 3 years you sort of see the first 2 quarters have generally been slower in loan growth and the last 2 quarters have generally been better.
And so if that supply-and-demand equation changes we might see some leveling out in terms of spreads and structure.
Our next question is from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us some more color on the decline in the mortgage business how much of the impact was seasonal? And I know -- as you mentioned in your remarks Aleem I know it's hard to predict the path of gain-on-sale from here but do you expect to see a stabilizing around these levels? Or could we even see a bit of improvement as we enter the spring selling season? And it seems like most of the volume increase was correspondent.
Are you seeing an opportunity to get more aggressive in that area? As you said Ryan it's pretty hard to forecast the quarter from 2 weeks.
But if I try and this is a risky thing to do understand we did see a stabilizing in March on gain-on-sale spreads.
It looks like investors in MBS paper are once again coming back into the market and perhaps starting to pay up again for pools that have good prepayment characteristics.
So if you accept an extrapolation of 2 weeks for a full quarter it does look like gain-on-sale overall has stabilized yes.
And Ryan just also if we think then about the other part of your question on sort of the shift in the business -- again a couple of questions in there and I'll try to tackle all of them.
But the closed loan first quarter was about 80% refinance and about 20% purchase.
The application volume so I think go forward is about 70% refinance and about 30% purchase.
So we're starting to see a little bit of that shift.
I think part of it seasonal as you talked about.
You saw the purchase volumes are usually a little lower in the first quarter and you start to see it come back.
But I think more importantly for us it's really evidence of what we're seeing as a recovery in our markets.
I mean I think this is where we get the benefit.
And you know SunTrust well.
I mean we've always been a strong purchase-oriented mortgage business so this shift for us is not a 90-degree turn where we have to sort of redeploy different assets and different people.
Our loan officers as an example I mean they were -- our purchase experience with loan officers we were rated #1 by J.D.
Power.
So this isn't a new phenomenon for us and we're actually excited about the opportunity on purchase because I think it gives a good signal to what's happening in our markets.
You also asked about correspondent and correspondent's also always been a big part of our business.
So we've always had sort of a multi-pronged strategy to our business.
Correspondent was part of our growth.
The fact that we built capacity in our consumer direct to handle a lot of the HARP volume actually allowed us to handle more correspondent volume and do it on the kind of basis that they expect with good turnarounds and good product and high SLAs that we want to commit to with our correspondent business.
So I also do see that as a potential opportunity.
But again it's not new to us.
This is business that we've been in.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Given there's a lot now I'll just give you one quick follow-up.
Okay.
Did I get them all? Research Division</strong> You did.
You did.
Aleem you mentioned moderate increases in core expenses for 2Q and I know both you and Bill highlighted potential for cyclically high costs to continue to come down.
So can you give us the puts and takes of how you think about the entire expense base? Should we see core expense inflation at the same time that cyclically high costs are also coming down? So should we actually see the path of expenses continue to decline from here of the overall base? Well I think Ryan what we're really focused on sort of more than just the expense number in and of itself is the efficiency ratio.
So you're stepping back and looking at the company overall that's really what we try to focus on.
And to try to manage the efficiency ratio down you're seeing traction there this quarter but you're also seeing that we expect over the medium term to get to much lower efficiency ratios overall.
And those are tied to lots of initiatives.
We've heightened things like pay-for-performance standards.
We've tightened up a lot of the processes.
We've eliminated duplication.
And just day-to-day management of costs are much much tighter.
So in any one quarter -- and I think next quarter you might see a little bit of a move up in the expense line overall but overall I think if you think about expenses being tied to revenue and think about us managing the overall efficiency ratio down and managing the company better.
Our next question is from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if I missed it but did you talk about the core NIM outlook? You gave us obviously good detail on the swaps and just mentioned there's some underlying NIM pressure as we're seeing everywhere but did you talk about the magnitude of that core NIM pressure going forward? No I didn't specifically Matt.
As I think about NIM in the near term that there is going to be compression.
We do have some more assets rolling off.
This low-rate environment continues to affect us and as you pointed out we've got some swap roll-off coming up also.
If I think about what NIM looks like I think about sort of generally as we've guided before it's sort of a handful or so of basis points by quarter every quarter.
Some -- and not in a straight line but averaged out over time.
It's sort of a handful of basis points per quarter and then in Q2 an additional 3 basis point drag because of the swap roll-off.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sorry to try and box you in on this but what exactly is a handful? Are you talking like a few basis points or...
Well as I said it's hard to say Matt quarter-by-quarter.
But over time if you think about some kind of a number on an annual basis that might be -- I'm going to make this up now 20 basis points per year.
That translates to a handful per quarter on average.
But again don't take it quarter-by-quarter.
It's a long-term process.
The next question is from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question I guess on your capital priorities and you all mentioned the buyback and the increase in the dividend.
We estimate that that gets you to about a 25% total payout ratio this year.
How -- can you give us any glide path in terms of the timing potentially to get to a 60% to 80% payout ratio.
Is that potentially next year? Or is that further off in the future as you see things today? Well I hate to take a step back on this question but that's sort of -- a lot of that depends on the CCAR process.
You know how the process works and the guidance that all the banks received this year in the process I think was similar to the guidance we received last year.
Think about a dividend payout ratio not exceeding 30% and then on top of that buybacks starting to layer in.
And we're delighted to be able this year to be able to as a result of the process actually recommend to our board a dividend increase as well as the commencement of our buyback program.
So we're happy with how that went this year and over time we do expect to layer that in.
But the way that the timing works is really dependent on what the CCAR process looks like over the next year or 2 and how much regulators allow increased payouts.
Yes.
And I think I mean we clearly stated I mean this year was a shift.
I mean I think we -- you obviously saw what we did.
We spent a considerable amount of time de-risking for lack of better word our balance sheet building a lot of earnings momentum ending the year with a really high capital position.
But we stated early in the process that we were going to be conservative in the capital adds because we were shifting.
As we gain more confidence and we continue to build earnings momentum and capital and strength in our credit quality we'll get more on that path that you talked about.
But as Aleem said it's just hard year-to-year to sort of say where you're going to land because we've got an important process to go through.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess as my follow-up another relatively bigger picture question.
Bill you had mentioned some successes in moving the branch or the retail banking business towards more e-banking less sort of traditional focus on face-to-face transaction-oriented business.
I guess I'm curious as you think about the longer-term efficiency ratio target how much of that do you think is going to have to come from branch rationalization and what are the opportunities there over the next few years given your focus your greater focus on electronic banking.
Yes and we don't really think about that as a percent of the total efficiency ratio improvement so -- because all the pieces move together.
So I'd talk about that in terms of the efficiency side but I probably don't talk about as much about what's going on in the branch on the revenue side of the things that we're trying to increase as the branch turns less of a service center which is clearly happening.
I mean no doubt about that trend is underway but we're putting more emphasis on turning that branch into a sales center.
Our -- if you look at our -- we call it needs met.
You'd call it sales per but our needs met per unit is up about 25%.
So the things that we're doing to try to increase that penetration and increase the revenue side we're starting to see some legs on.
So a lot of that will depend on the success and the trajectory of that.
We also have a couple of new products that we've launched.
The Switch Kit I talk about it's an important piece.
So we're going to manage the efficiency ratio of that unit pretty tightly and it'll be the 2 components both the revenue side and the expense side.
The total program on branches is about 2% of our deposit base right now so -- and we're retaining -- our trend is we'd like to retain something like 90% to 95% of the deposit base and the client base.
We've got this significant advantage for us in that we've got pretty dense branch penetration in key markets.
So our experience to date is actually sort of well in excess of that so that will also depend on sort of how successful we are in retaining the deposits.
So I'm not dodging your question other than to say a lot of factors go into it.
And I think declaring the death of the branch would be way early.
I think that would be a mistake for anybody to sort of reach that conclusion that will tomorrow will be a digital bank and completely different from what we are today.
I just think these are trends that we're watching and making sure that we're reacting to appropriately.
And Matt I think that while we manage all of our distribution channels it's important to realize that they work in concert.
Our branches remain meaningful to many of our clients going forward across all segments.
And as we're investing in our virtual presence we're also continuing to invest in our physical presence.
It's not that we're only removing branches.
We continue to invest in branches and our physical presence where it makes sense but we try to combine both the physical nature of our business as well as the virtual nature.
The next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Aleem I was wondering if you can talk a little bit through some of the mix shift that you saw and you alluded to especially the movement it looks like of cash back into the securities portfolio.
Can you talk a little bit about just kind of what part of the quarter did you reinvest in? How much of that was in the run rate? And is there some benefit from that also as we look ahead? Ken are you asking about how smart we were and when we invested? Inc.
Research Division</strong> You could answer it that way.
We did put a little bit of money back into the securities book this quarter and we had generated some cash you'll recall in the third and fourth quarter and we were sitting on a fair bit of excess liquidity as a result of the loan sales.
So we did put some of that back to work.
If you look at the -- pick a curve -- a 10-year swap curve over the course of the first quarter you'll see that it rose over the course of the first couple of months sort of rose in March and then fell off again right at the end of the quarter.
Ken you'll be delighted to know that we invested in March not in January or February so we sort of caught the -- our investments were towards the higher end of yields and it was an opportunistic investment.
We saw the move up.
We thought it was a good time and we were able to spend money I think in the right place.
And just so you have these numbers that left our investment portfolio unrealized gain at about $0.75 billion at quarter end and left us with an unrealized gain on the swap book of about another $600 million also.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's all a net benefit but it still gets overpowered by the core compression that you alluded to earlier? Yes.
That's a long-term trend and we're like everybody else working against that as best as we can.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question is just about fees and aggregates.
You've talked through investment banking coming off of a really high quarter and we -- and obviously the mortgage stuff.
But is this a new base for mortgage banking -- I mean for fees overall? And what do you see as the growth drivers coming off of this level of fees? Well I think about fees overall across the company.
I think that we've got some opportunities to grow income in other places.
Our Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management business I think there are opportunities to grow that business overall and the service charges and card fees that come from that business as well as what we might be able to do in mortgage over time.
Yes remember in some of the businesses I mean we're actually ending sort of a negative trend.
So you think about us for sort of some of the card-related trends it was $300 million that are sort of running themselves through.
So we're sort of at the end of that cycle and starting on a more positive cycle.
And I talked about core sales per FTE per day being up products that we're introducing things that we're doing penetration of existing client base.
So I don't accept the fact that we've sort of set a new low bar for fees.
I see lots of opportunities in our franchise and virtually all the businesses that we're in for longer-term growth of the businesses particularly as we run through some of these negative tailwinds not the least of which was the economy and the markets in which we operate.
And we're clearly seeing those trend more positively so I see actually a lot of potential on the upside for fees long term.
Our final question today is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On housing I just wanted to understand -- you mentioned earlier that HPI is moving up and you think that it's accelerating in your footprint beyond what's going on in the rest of the country.
So maybe you can just help us understand how that is impacting your loan growth prospects not just for housing but also for other loan categories.
Is it faster and some of those faster recovery markets would be helpful to understand? And in addition could you give us a progress on the judicial backlog in Florida and how you see that trajecting? Yes maybe I'll make some sort of high-level comments and then we'll add to that however you want to.
But -- and it's hard to sort of pinpoint.
You get 5% increase in housing then it translates to X.
So the R-squared is actually sort of not that correlated to different things.
But if you think about sort of the what happens in the psychology of housing increases in our markets.
Some of our markets think Florida was at one time 40%-plus of the population on their home was underwater on their mortgage.
Well if you're underwater on your mortgage you're not going to invest in your house.
You're not going to buy a new dishwasher.
You're not going to buy a new car.
So all those things that go along with sort of the psychology of being underwater.
So part of it is you just feel more confidence that translates into those markets.
And as I said certainly R-squared's not perfect.
But we're seeing that and feeling that in some of our consumer activity some of our consumer production.
Home equity production is up.
I mean we're starting to see those kind of things that translate from an increase in home prices.
And then back to mortgage specifically you actually just create markets that didn't exist.
So purchase markets will start to come.
People feel better about investing in new home construction and those kinds of things will start to happen.
People will move to places that they wouldn't have moved to before because they feel like there's a brighter economy.
So it has a real positive impact across the franchise in lots of places.
It's just hard to sort of very specifically pinpoint where it is.
There was a follow-up question which [indiscernible] ...
Research Division</strong> Yes well follow-up is just if you could talk a little bit about how the backlog in Florida is trending in line with prior expectations.
Or is that at all moving a little bit more rapidly? And then if you could touch also on your outlook for CRE in your footprint as well as nationally.
Been hearing that you're expanding your CRE efforts into a nationwide effort.
Could you just give us some color on that if that's accurate? Yes.
The time line for foreclosure in Florida is about the same.
So we'd like that to be better but it's about the same.
And that's unfortunately a good time [ph].
The NPLs are actually down so we're putting less on top of the pipeline but the pipeline the things that are in there are taking about the same amount of time to run themselves through.
As it relates to what's going on in CRE I think we're sort of at an important inflection point where the runoff of the existing portfolio is about to be offset by the production in the upside.
And keep in mind we start off a pretty low base about $5 billion but we're -- I think I mentioned we had about a 50% increase in production.
So we're -- that runoff is about to stop and we're starting to see some of the increase in potential.
It'll take a while.
I mean that's not going to be a next quarter thing but in terms of long-term potential that's pretty positive.
Research Division</strong> Any expansion plans outside of just your own footprint in CRE? Oh yes.
Yes I mean we're viewing this as an opportunity nationally.
I mean we sort of look at a heat map across the country.
While most of our expansion will be -- have concentration in our particular -- a particular market as we do business with some of the national REITs and national homebuilders and sort of higher-quality well-capitalized companies that we're working with we won't be geographically bound by our own market.
I mean I think that's part of that key diversity strategy of our portfolio is actually not to be concentrated by product by geography as we really want to have a much more diversified portfolio going forward.
And Betsy you've seen us execute that successfully in our corporate investment banking business with a national footprint.
And our CRE business I think can capitalize well on that success.
I do want to come back for a moment to Matt O'Connor's question.
I'm getting concerned that you all are going to take my handful of basis points and extrapolate that out forever.
And obviously that's not going to be the case.
At some point fixed-rate assets will stop repricing downward and so I would really think about this as a handful of basis points this quarter plus 3 as opposed to assume less 20 basis points per year forever.
All right.
Well thanks everyone for joining us.
We really appreciate it.
And if you have any further questions feel free to give the Investor Relations department a call.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you.
This does conclude the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the SunTrust second quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn today's meeting over to Kris Dickson Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thanks Carolene and good morning everyone.
Welcome to SunTrust's second quarter earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call today.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Freeman our Chief Risk Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website at www.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
And with that I'll now turn things over to Bill.
Okay.
Thanks Kris.
I'm going to start this morning's call with a quick overview of the quarter and I'm going to pass it on to Aleem to provide details on the results.
I'm then going to come back and wrap up the call with some highlights from a business segment perspective where you'll see we generated continued positive momentum in our Consumer and Wholesale businesses but faced some headwinds in mortgage.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.68 and net income grew to $365 million.
Ongoing credit improvement coupled with continued expense discipline drove the earnings growth up 36% over last year.
On a sequential quarter basis both net interest and noninterest income were down modestly.
The net interest income decline was from the expected decrease in our commercial loan swap income.
The decline in noninterest income was driven by lower mortgage-related income.
However this was almost entirely offset by broad-based growth in other noninterest income categories most notably investment banking income and wealth management-related fees.
Our intensive and ongoing efforts to drive efficiency improvements produced a 10% reduction in noninterest expense from last year.
Core operating expenses continued to be well controlled this quarter though the more volatile cyclical costs increased.
This increase was something we expected coming off a low first quarter levels though its magnitude was higher than I care to see.
Overall we saw a 2% sequential quarter increase in total expenses and an increase in our efficiency ratio.
We still anticipate that these cyclical expenses will continue to trend down and our focus on achieving our efficiency ratio objectives remains high.
Average performing loans were up about $600 million during the quarter and the ongoing portfolio diversification efforts continued with targeted growth in both C&amp;I and commercial real estate loans.
The credit quality story continues to be a good one with nonperforming loans and net charge-offs hitting their lowest levels in over 5 years.
Nonperforming loans declined by over 50% from last year and this quarter's net charge-off ratio improved to 59 basis points.
Lastly our capital position continue to improve with our Tier 1 common ratio reaching new all-time high at an estimated 10.15%.
Consistent with our CCAR announcement we increased our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.05 to $0.10 per share during the quarter and we also commenced our share repurchase program buying back $50 million of our common stock during the quarter.
Overall for the quarter we demonstrated progress in our strategic initiatives to grow and diversify our business and our financial results continue to trend favorably.
While we see solid pipelines and much improved loan production our loan balance growth isn't quite yet what we'd like and near-term mortgage revenue is likely to slow.
However the improving operating environment and southeastern economy coupled with our enhanced focus and execution I believe bode well for SunTrust future opportunities.
And with that let me turn it over to Aleem to walk you through the quarter in more detail.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
I'll begin my comments today with summary observations on this quarter's key earnings drivers and then we'll delve deeper on subsequent slides.
Our profitability growth continued this quarter with earnings per share of $0.68 which was $0.05 more than last quarter and $0.18 higher than last year.
The sequential quarter increase was due to the ongoing improvement in credit quality which resulted in a lower provision for loan losses and this more than offset the modest revenue decline and expense increase.
Relative to last year the 36% increase in earnings per share was due to a lower provision for credit losses and a 10% decline in noninterest expense.
The latter of which was a result of our efficiency improvements and the abatement of cyclically high costs.
Lower net interest income due to the impact of the interest rate environment as well as declines in mortgage and trading revenue were partial offsets.
We'll review all of the underlying trend in more detail starting on Slide 5.
Net interest income declined sequentially by $9 million.
This was driven entirely by the $14 million reduction in commercial loan swap income partially offset by an additional business day in the current quarter and modestly higher average earning assets.
Consistent with our prior guidance the net interest margin declined 8 basis points.
The NIM compression resulted from the commercial loan swap income decline as well as the ongoing compression in earning asset yields due to the low-rate environment.
A modest reduction in deposit rates paid was a partial offset.
Relative to the prior year net interest income was $64 million lower and the net interest margin declined 14 basis points.
The primary drivers of both were lower asset yields a reduction in commercial loan swap income and the elimination of The Coca-Cola Company dividend.
These factors were partially offset by favorable shifts in the deposit mix lower deposit rates and the benefits from an over $3 billion reduction in our long-term debt.
The steepening in the yield curve over the course of the quarter obviously is topical.
So before we move on let's spend a minute there.
As you're all aware a steeper curve is beneficial to spread income for the banking industry.
Of course higher short-term rates in conjunction with a steeper curve would be even better but we have to start somewhere.
Before touching on the positives of the steeper curve let me first acknowledge a couple of the negatives both of which we'll discuss more on subsequent slides.
Higher rates are likely to lead to less mortgage refinance activity as well as a decline in accumulated other comprehensive income.
And we saw both of those occur this quarter.
That said I don't think many of us expected the refi boom to last too much longer.
And while the mark-to-market value on our investment portfolio was lower today the value of the entire balance sheet most notably deposits which obviously are not mark-to-market is considerably more.
If rates stay at their current levels it will take a little time before the positive benefits of the steeper curve evidence themselves in the earnings string.
For example as existing investment securities and mortgages provide cash flow over the coming quarters we'll reap the benefit by redeploying the proceeds at higher yields.
We're also staying agile and trying to be opportunistic in managing through the rate environment.
Specifically during the second quarter we issued 10-year debt early in the quarter when rates were low and locked in a very attractive coupon.
Late in the quarter after rates increased we added some received fixed pay floating commercial loan swaps and we expect this to aid net interest income in the near term to the tune of about $8 million per quarter.
All told as we look toward the coming quarters and assuming current rates hold we expect the steeper yield curve to help mitigate the declining trend in net interest margin as well as to provide an increasing benefit to net interest income over time.
With respect to our NIM outlook specifically for the back half of this year we anticipate a mid-single digit basis point decline in the third quarter followed by a more stable margin in Q4.
Moving on to Slide 6.
Noninterest income declined modestly from the prior quarter primarily due to lower mortgage-related revenue which was largely offset by broad-based increases in other categories.
I'll focus first on mortgage production income which was $133 million for the quarter and down $26 million sequentially.
The origination fee component of this income stream was about $60 million and stable to the prior quarter as closed loan volumes was similar to the strong levels in Q1.
However gain on sale revenue which you'll recall we book at rate lock declined due to the significant increase in mortgage rates.
Mortgage servicing income was $1 million for the quarter down $37 million sequentially and well below recent quarters.
A lower net hedge gain was the driver as rates were volatile during the quarter and the net hedge performance was essentially breakeven versus being a positive contributor to servicing income in recent quarters.
While mortgage revenue was down other fee income streams rebounded nicely from first quarter levels.
Most notable was investment banking income which was $93 million for the quarter and up $25 million sequentially driven by increased syndicated finance and high-yield bond fees.
Wealth Management-related revenue also increased with trust income and retail investment income up a combined $14 million due to improved market conditions and managed account growth.
Looking year-over-year noninterest income declined $82 million.
Mortgage servicing income fell $69 million driven by lower net hedge outperformance as well as from declines in the value of the MSR due to the higher collection of cash flows which is a result of the increase in refinance volume.
I will note that we provided a summary schedule in the appendix which gives you some additional clarity on the moving pieces within servicing income.
In general MSR net hedge income depends upon the rate environment with periods of low interest rate volatility such as we experienced over most of last year more likely to produce favorable results than during a more volatile period such as this quarter.
As it relates to the decay one partial benefit from a slowing refi market is that decay is expected to trend lower as refinance volume declines.
Trading income also declined on a year-over-year basis as the increase in rates during the current quarter yielded lower fixed income trading results.
On the flip side investment banking income was higher by almost 25% and mortgage production increased as the decline in the repurchase provision more than offset lower gain on sale revenue.
Touching briefly on mortgage repurchases we continued to have an increased pace of resolution activity this quarter on the part of both SunTrust and the GSEs.
You're probably aware that the FHFA has a published objective of completing rep and warranty demands on pre-conservatorship loan activity during 2013.
Likewise SunTrust is equally interested in working through the demands as quickly as possible.
This increased pace of resolution evidenced itself in the second quarter by a lower pending population and higher charge-offs as well as increased profile requests.
Meanwhile repurchase demands fell relative to first quarter levels.
Let's move on to expenses on Slide 7.
You'll recall that last quarter we had an over $70 million or 50% sequential quarter decline in our credit-related expenses and operating losses falling to levels that were below our normalized projections.
As expected these cyclical costs increased this quarter.
Although as Bill noted more than we would have liked and drove the $34 million or 2% increase in total noninterest expenses.
This increase was due entirely to a specific legal accrual recorded in the operating loss line item.
Over the past several years we and other banks have received various claims made by government agencies primarily around our precrisis mortgage origination and servicing activities a matter this quarter is also mortgage related.
And while it is not fully resolved based on the information we have at hand we believed it prudent to make an accrual this quarter for the estimated cost of resolution.
Collections expense also rose primarily due to an accelerated pace of default resolution.
Partially offsetting these increases were lower core operating costs including reductions in employee benefits expense due to seasonality.
Looking at year-over-year trends our efficiency improvement is evident in the $149 million or 10% noninterest expense decline.
Roughly half of this was due to lower core operating costs including compensation legal and consulting.
And the balance was due to the abatement of cyclical expenses.
Year-to-date our expenses were down over $300 million and prudent expense management remains an area of focus for Bill and our entire management team.
As you can see on Slide 8 while our efficiency ratio improved year-over-year it went the wrong direction sequentially due to the cyclical cost increase and the modest revenue decline.
While this is my least favorite slide this quarter we promised you and our SunTrust teammates transparency around this issue.
We remain committed to achieving an approximate 65% efficiency ratio in 2013 and to our long-term target of below 60%.
Turning to credit quality.
The notable improvement in our asset quality trends continued this quarter.
Net charge-offs which were at their lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2007 declined by about 50% from last year and 20% sequentially driven by the residential portfolio.
The improving housing market certainly contributed as we're benefiting from fewer delinquencies lower loss severities and higher prices upon disposition of foreclosed assets.
Concurrent with lower net charge-offs the provision expense has declined while the allowance for loan and lease losses has also come down albeit at a slower pace in recent quarters as the allowance ratio has reached a lower absolute level.
Similar to net charge-offs nonperforming loans also declined about 50% from last year and 20% sequentially.
Every loan category improved most notably residential loans.
Contributing to the sequential quarter decline was the return of about $220 million in Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans to accruing status.
You will recall that in the fourth quarter of last year we reclassified about $230 million of residential loans previously discharged from Chapter 7 bankruptcy to nonperforming.
While the preponderance of these loans had been current on their payments for some time the reclassification to nonaccruing status was made to be consistent with regulatory guidance around this topic.
Because these loans have now remained current for 6 months since the time they were moved to NPL the $220 million was reclassified back into performing loans this quarter.
This reclassification had no impact on our second quarter net charge-offs or loan loss provision.
And these Chapter 7-related loans will remain classified as accruing TDRs.
Lastly on this topic I'll point out that even excluding the impact of this reclassification nonperforming loans declined by 7% sequentially.
As we look to next quarter we anticipate that nonperforming loans will continue to trend lower and for net charge-offs to be relatively stable to their second quarter level.
Consistent with our comments in recent quarters we continue to expect future credit quality improvement to be led by residential loans as commercial and consumer category credit metrics already approximate normalized levels.
Turning to balance sheet trends on Slide 10.
Average performing loans increased sequentially by $600 million or about 0.5 percentage point.
C&amp;I was the largest contributor and commercial real estate was also up.
Bill will give you a little more color on both of these when he discusses our Wholesale segment results.
Most other loan categories were relatively stable to the prior quarter with the exception of continued takedowns in our government-guaranteed mortgage portfolio.
Relative to the prior year performing loans were down modestly.
Guaranteed student loans and guaranteed mortgages declined a combined $4 billion primarily due to the loan sales we executed late in 2012.
Offsetting this we had organic loan -- organic growth in C&amp;I of $3.7 billion or 7%.
Additionally consumer loans excluding guaranteed student loans were up $1.1 billion or about 9%.
Overall loan growth remains moderate though we continue to see some potential precursors to it improving most notably in commercial loan pipelines that remained at healthy levels during the quarter and gradual improvement in consumer and business confidence.
Turning now to deposits.
Average client deposits declined by about $1 billion this quarter as growth in DDA was more than offset by seasonal reductions in commercial client tax accounts as well as ongoing declines in time deposits.
Relative to the prior year deposits were up 1% though the underlying favorable shift in the deposit mix was the more notable story.
Lower cost deposits were up almost $4 billion with DDA the largest contributor growing by over $2 billion or 6%.
Concurrently higher cost time deposits were managed down by $3 billion or 17%.
This favorable shift in deposit mix helped drive the approximately 20 basis points or $43 million year-over-year reduction in interest-bearing deposit cost.
Slide 12 provides information on our capital metrics.
Tier 1 common capital again expanded this time by approximately $300 million and the Tier 1 common ratio was an estimated 10.15%.
Based upon our current interpretation of the final Basel III capital rules issued on July 2 we estimate our Basel III Tier 1 common ratio to be approximately 9.5%.
As shown at the bottom of the page the tangible common equity ratio and our tangible book value per share both declined modestly which was due to lower unrealized gains on our securities portfolio from the increase in interest rates during the quarter.
This was largely offset by higher retained earnings.
As Bill noted earlier we commenced our share repurchase program this quarter buying back $50 million of our common stock.
Per the capital plan we submitted in conjunction with the CCAR process we have the capacity and the intent to repurchase up to another $150 million through the first quarter of 2014.
With that I'll now turn things back over to Bill to cover our business segment performance.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem.
And I'll move to Slide 13.
Taking a look at our business from a segment basis reveals several favorable operating trends.
In our Consumer and Private Wealth Management businesses net income was up 21% over last year result of continued credit quality improvement and a 9% reduction in noninterest expenses due to changes in our staffing model and our branch network.
We've steadily improved the efficiency ratio in this business driving it down over 200 basis points from the last year to 65.4%.
We obviously continue -- we need to continue to focus here but we have good momentum behind us.
The loan balances were down from last year due to the fourth quarter student loan sales.
Consumers willingness to borrow seems to be improving.
We continue to see strong production across our consumer lending products with production volume up 16%.
Overall deposits were down 1% though DDA continued to increase and consumer time deposits were down 17% marking another quarter of favorable mix trends.
Now let's take a closer look at our Wholesale business this quarter.
Our Wholesale business had its second highest net income quarter ever and grew 37% over last year.
Ongoing improvement in credit quality drove a substantial decrease in the provision for credit losses as well as a reduction in OREO expenses.
A 10% expense decline from last year as well as higher net interest income helped drive down the efficiency ratio over 650 basis points to 52%.
The segment had solid loan growth as we continued to grow C&amp;I.
Growth was driven by our not-for-profit and government industry vertical and dealer businesses along with our large corporate lending areas most notably asset securitization our energy vertical and asset-based lending.
As you're aware Wholesale is an important business for us.
We've had a lot of success already in our strategic initiatives to grow its business and much of that continued this quarter.
Corporate investment banking turned another strong quarter with near-record net income.
Our efforts to develop lead relationships have resulted in a 20% increase from January of last year and more than double what they were at the beginning of 2010.
We're also gaining momentum on our efforts to grow targeted new businesses -- new business and commercial real estate.
After reaching an inflection point in the first quarter CRE was again profitable with further sequential growth and loan balances and marked production increases over last year.
We continue to develop our pipeline and believe we'll be successful in our efforts to drive further growth here.
Now let's take a look at mortgage.
As you heard in some of Aleem's comments our mortgage business was challenged this quarter.
Continued credit quality improvement helped shrink the overall net loss from last year.
However lower servicing and gain on sale revenue has increased and -- as well as increased cyclical cost drove a larger sequential quarter net loss.
This quarter's closed production volume was $9 billion which was the highest level since the third quarter of 2009.
That said as you're aware the state of affairs in the mortgage business changed a lot in the latter part of the quarter due to the increase in rates.
And we do expect refi volume to begin abating during the second half of the year.
Purchase volume on the other hand continues to gain momentum though obviously not nearly enough to offset the expected refi decline.
While overall volume in our mortgage segment is expected to decline let me provide a little perspective here.
Noninterest income on our mortgage segment was about $130 million this quarter which equated to 6% of SunTrust's total revenue.
And while mortgage fee income declined by about $65 million sequentially our business mix diversity helped mitigate this as our total revenue was relatively stable.
Furthermore ongoing credit quality improvement which also happens to be primarily mortgage related helped drive earnings growth this quarter.
So in summary considerable opportunity continues to remain across our markets.
We have targeted strategies to address these opportunities and are seeing meaningful progress towards our goal.
We remain focused on our priorities to grow profitably and improve our efficiency.
With that said Kris let me turn it back over to you and we can start taking some questions.
Thanks Bill.
Carolene we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question or comment comes from Paul Miller from FBR.
Research Division</strong> Real quick housekeeping question.
On your income statement where it says mortgage banking $133 million is that net of the provision? The repurchase provision for the quarter Paul? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes it is.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> So that $133 million is net so if that provision wasn't there it would be even closer to $200 million? Now the provision for the quarter -- the repurchase provision for the quarter was $15 million.
Research Division</strong> Oh $15 million.
I'm sorry yes.
So it would be closer to $133 million plus $15 million? Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you add some more color on your purchase volumes? Like are you guys increasing that dynamic by going after that product or is it just coming in the door? Because I know we've seen purchase volume up pretty strong across the space.
Yes we've always been a good purchase mortgage business.
And you certainly saw that mix substantially in the latter part of the quarter.
I mean our closed purchase volume in June was 40% of our business.
Of course it was down overall but it was 40% of our business.
Our absent purchase are up fairly substantially.
And if you look at us and think about some of the markets that we operate in and some of the recovery in those markets we're pretty bullish on what we see on the purchase side.
Now that being said and I said in my comments that's not enough to offset refi.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question is what percentage of your stuff is -- are HARP loans? Do you guys know that? In the quarter about 20% of our refi was HARP.
What you'll see is applications of HARP are down down fairly substantially which wouldn't be a surprise.
Our next question or comment is from Erika Penala from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Aleem I just wanted to ask you a question about the comments you made on your MSR hedging.
I guess and I apologize if this seems like a silly question but I always thought that when long rates went up then we could expect more hedge gains as you revalue your portfolio higher.
But you mentioned on the call or during your prepared remarks that it would continue to go down but decay less.
Am I misunderstanding that? Yes.
Erika yes a little bit.
The decay is a reduction to income.
If you take a look at the deck in the back of the new slide that we put in to try and help you.
If you take a look at Page 27 in the appendix and you'll see a line there called decay.
And that's a reduction to servicing income.
And as refis decline that decay ought to reduce.
That's what -- that's the point I was trying to make.
And so that ought to help servicing income over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And my follow-up question is on your gain on sale margin.
Could you help us think about as we forecast out how we should think about your purchase gain on sale your non-HARP refi gain on sale and your HARP gain on sale? Well we -- the gain on sale in general across those is relatively similar in terms of margins.
We don't have a higher -- we don't charge a higher rate for HARP for example versus other loans in general.
Where we get a slightly higher gain on HARP is because we put most HARP loans in through our least expensive channel consumer direct.
And so the lower expense for HARP loans leads to a sort of slightly higher gain on those loans.
I don't know if that gets to the point of your question.
But in general if you look at our margins across the board they're not that much higher in terms of rates charged for HARP relative to other loans.
Research Division</strong> So just to make sure I understand and I'll get back in the queue the mix shift shouldn't have an impact on your gain on sale margin going forward? It may have a little bit as if HARP declines and therefore we have less HARP to put through our least expensive channel that might have a slight negative impact on our overall gain on sale.
Well Erika let me also come back to a point I think you asked on your first question on MSR on the hedging activity.
We hedge our MSR out every day not just every quarter but every day.
And so the volatility in MSR is a volatility that we're generally not willing to take on a day-to-day and quarter-to-quarter basis because we treat those at fair value.
So if you think about MSR a little bit like a trading asset that's volatility we're not willing to absorb.
So we hedge that out.
If you again take a look at Page 27 what you'll see is that the write-up in MSR this quarter was almost perfectly offset by the hedge.
The hedge worked really well and if that's getting to your point about you were expecting to see a big gain from MSR that did in fact occur.
The asset did go up but the hedge worked very well to offset that.
Our next question or comment comes from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just questions on expenses.
There's a bunch of moving parts obviously and I just wanted to understand a couple of things.
First of all can you give us an update on -- you had previously said something about environmental moving back towards $325 plus or minus $50 million.
And obviously we're back up this quarter as expected to about a 500 run rate.
So can you just give us an understanding of do you expect to trend back down towards $325 million plus or minus $50 million? Or from what you see could we get distinctly better than that at some point? Well I think this quarter we did have a tick back up for a couple of reasons Ken.
Some of that was a little bit than we expected.
And I think last quarter we guided to a slight increase back up just because of the big step down we had in Q1.
And the Q1 number would have taken us to sort of well below that $325 million if you had annualized that.
But if you look at if you remove the 1 item the mortgage-related legal accrual item which goes into that -- and you can see some detail on this on Page 29 of our appendix.
If you remove that 1 item then if you annualize the first half of the year we're actually in line with that normalized level of $325 million plus or minus.
Research Division</strong> Well exactly.
And so if you're already there I would presume that there's still a very good amount to go from here or is there any reason why that wouldn't continue to improve meaningfully? Well I would hope it would decline some.
But a portion of that if you look again at Page 29 a portion of that is credit services.
And that portion is actually what we pay every quarter anyway just the ongoing cost of putting new loans on the books.
So that portion is not going to change very much.
OREO if you take a look at OREO costs you've seen in the first half of the year our OREO costs are a total of $1 million and that's not really going to be sustainable in the long term.
You would expect that to come up a little bit.
So while the other 2 components of our cyclical costs ought to come down some there will be some upward pressure from OREO.
In general I would expect this to trend down a little bit but I think that $325 million plus or minus is actually our attempt to give you some pretty good guidance.
Yes.
And remember sort of pre-crisis this number was sort of in the $200 million or $250 million kind of range and it got up to about the $700 million range.
So the $325 million was an attempt to try to figure out the $325 million plus or minus as you defined it was try to sort of figure out what's the new normal.
I don't think the new normal will be pre-crisis.
But clearly we're trending down and I think the way Aleem described it sort of more annualized in the first half seems to be that we're tracking towards what we talked about.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
And then my second question is just about the mortgage business.
And you guys are doing a really good job on the comp and benefits side adjusting.
I'm just wondering how much have you already adjusted with your mortgage capacity versus how much you could -- you still have to adjust here relative to the ongoing changes in the origination environment.
So again kind of what's already been adjusted to versus how much can you adjust further? Let me take a crack at that.
As you mentioned there is about 20% of the variable cost which are in the categories you primarily talked about which are compensation and then just sort of when you think about sort of normal kind of cost of appraisals and those things that are just highly variable to activity.
Now they do lag a little bit because of the lock and close.
We booked a gain at -- book the gain at lock and we pay the comp at close so it's got a little bit of lag.
But the 20% sort of happens.
I mean that's part of the system.
We made a conscious decision as we were building up -- and seeing what we had in the refi side as we built up this time we took about 25% to 30% of our cost and essentially let's call it outsourced it for lack of a better word and we created more variability.
So that cost in the past would have been more fixed cost on our books.
It's now more of a variable cost.
So several weeks ago literally the day I think when we started to see what was going on with rates we started putting contingency plans in place to not only get those variable costs down some of the fixed costs we converted to variable and then putting plans in place to figure out what the actual fixed cost as well have to -- have to come down.
And those plans are already in place.
I mean we've already punched the button.
I guess if I were trying to summarize sort of how to think about it if you think about sort of the new mortgage takes all the legacy out at the higher gain on sale we were originating the mortgage at about a 50% efficiency ratio to sort of think about that at a high level.
Now with sort of the changes in trying to -- with the lag and everything else our goal will be and I'm fairly confident we can see a path to this we'll continue to originate mortgages in a way that is accretive to our current efficiency ratio.
Maybe does that help? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess if you'd wrap it all together just on the expense comments can expenses continue to come down from here just in absolute terms? Total expenses or mortgage related? Research Division</strong> Total.
Yes total.
So we were operating sort of at a total expense level sort of at $1.5 billion kind of handle to it.
It now has a $1.3 billion handle to it and that feels a lot better.
So I have no intention of us going backwards from that standpoint.
And we've committed to an efficiency ratio of 65%.
And long term we've committed to efficiency ratio of 60%.
So some combination of revenue and expense relativity is going to get us to that 60% efficiency ratio.
So if we stay in this low-revenue environment we're going to lower our expenses.
Hopefully with the initiatives that we've seen changes in the rates increase in NII we'll be able to have some revenue component to add as well.
Ken when you think about what our expenses were last year or the year before we were running at $6.2 billion in annualized expenses.
If you look at where we've come in this year we're running about $5.6 billion in annualized expenses.
So we've taken $600 million of expenses out of the system so far but we haven't stopped.
There are going to be other opportunities.
We're looking at other things.
The focus of this management team remains intense.
And also that's sort of a natural.
As expenses are coming down they get annualized and actualized.
So as they come down they tend to have a natural momentum.
Our next question or comment comes from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just first maybe a question on the margin.
Given the fact that the swap roll-off is no longer a headwind for the next couple of quarters and Aleem you mentioned reinvestment yields are improving I understand that we're going to be down a couple of basis points next quarter and then we should stabilize for 4Q.
Can you just help us understand what the path may be beyond 4Q? Has the rate environment improved enough such that reinvesting yields are greater and you can -- and we can now see some more stability to the margin? And I have a follow-up.
Well that's sort of a tough question Ryan.
There's a little bit of a crystal ball in here.
I think the rate move that we saw was certainly nice that the industry certainly needed it.
So thank you Mr.
Bernanke.
However what the industry really needs is move up in short-term rates to take us back to the profitability levels that we enjoyed before the crisis.
And while this is great and this will certainly help mitigate the overall decline in margin for the industry and for SunTrust it's -- all this is is a steep -- a somewhat steepening of the curve.
We're certainly not back to normalized rate levels.
And when you think about where the industry's net exposure is along the curve it's generally much shorter as an industry than 10 years.
So this is going to help somewhat.
It's not going to be what we need to take us back to much higher net interest margin levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Aleem if I could just add 1 follow-up.
Just related to the swaps.
I think the release mentioned that you did add some swaps in the quarter.
Can you just remind us what the duration of the swap book is? And I think also according to the 10-Q it says when rates rise I think 200 basis points we should see NII rise 5.3%.
Does that number take into account the impact of swaps rolling off? And if not what would your asset sensitivity look like without that? Well our asset sensitivity -- let me start with our asset sensitivity at the end of the second quarter is currently 1.3% and that's based on 100-basis-point parallel shift.
So that's an instantaneous 100-basis-point parallel shift and how much our NII will go up as a result.
The swap book duration at the end of the second quarter is 2.5 years.
And the way the balance sheet is structured we become more asset-sensitive every month naturally unless we do anything.
So unless we take action we're structured to become more asset-sensitive every month.
As the swaps roll off over the course of the next 2.5 years and some of them obviously are before that you'll see us becoming more asset-sensitive over time.
Our next question or comment is from Gerard Cassidy from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I may have missed it but can you give us some color on your Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III increased very nicely in the quarter? And we saw that the risk weighted asset number fell which was a driving factor.
What drove the risk-weighted assets down? Under the Basel III calculations Gerard? LLC Research Division</strong> That's correct.
The new rules have changed pretty substantially from the previous proposal.
And the effect of the new rules is for some that there were -- in the previous proposal there were multiple tiers of risk weightings for mortgages including 1 tier that was up to 200%.
The new rules basically put all mortgages into 2 tiers 50% and 100%.
And as a result doing sort of normal mortgages for normal clients doesn't require us to put up additional capital for regular mortgages as well as for home equity.
And that's a big benefit for our portfolio.
We also received additional benefits for our CRE exposure.
I think what you ought to see is across of the industry you ought to see regional banks do better as a result of the new rule than money center banks.
You ought to see regional banks do better than investment banks.
And you want to see banks that have mortgage exposures do better than banks that don't have mortgage exposures.
Relatively.
Relatively.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Great.
And the second question is coming back to the environmental cost where you guys have indicated that around that $325 million is the new norm down from $700 million but up from I think you said 2.25 or 2.50.
What's preventing the environmental cost from -- when we get to a normalized state and you can pick whenever that is it may be a couple of years from now but what prevents the environmental cost from actually getting back to the way they were pre-crisis? Well I think one of the things that I'm concerned about in general is as a country as an industry have we trained consumers that it's okay to not repay debt? And is there going to be a higher incidence of default over time in the future than there has been in the past? That is one of the things I'm concerned about and that's one of the things that's holding me back from saying that we're going to get back to the world that we once had.
And I think if you also just -- some of this well may also be our natural conservatism.
So there may be some factor in there but if you think about the cost of things.
So think about the cost of collection and credit services under a different regulatory environment.
And the requirements to meet different and more stringent standards there's just some additional cost for that.
Now how much that is I don't think we also know.
That hasn't leveled out yet.
But the only the reason we say it's more than previous is there just really is embedded increased different cost of compliance that didn't exist before.
Cost of service is likely to be higher as Bill says...
It's going to be.
And there are likely to be higher set of repurchase demands from the GSE in the future than there have been in the past and a longer duration.
And now it also takes longer to resolve default and other issues than it used to.
So Gerard I think directionally you're right.
But I'm not sure that we'll get back to that type of a number.
Our next question or comment is from Brian Foran from Autonomous.
I guess given the payout ratio this year I know it's early to talk about next year's CCAR but just remind us you will be accreting capital lapse and a big change in the balance sheet growth outlook.
And maybe kind of looking at a 10%-ish Basel III ratio next year.
How are you thinking about the priorities beyond organic growth which I'm sure is the first priority both now and in the future? You're right.
Organic growth is absolutely #1.
You're also right it's early to talk about CCAR.
But if what you're asking Brian is a CCAR question...
I guess maybe I shouldn't have mentioned CCAR just more the capital waterfall now that 6 months ago we wouldn't have necessarily had you in the excess capital bucket.
Now we've got you in a pretty big excess capital bucket at least on our numbers.
And just remind us of what your waterfall is beyond that organic growth between dividends buybacks acquisitions all that kind of good stuff? Acquisitions aren't really making the list that's pretty low down.
Organic growth is #1 meeting our clients' needs is always #1 for SunTrust.
Beyond that to the extent that we'll be able to grow dividend and buyback and return capital to our shareholders obviously that's going to be high on our list.
And by the way we're delighted to be able to start to do that this quarter for the first time in 6 or 7 years.
So we're pretty happy about being on this side of the line.
Never say never for acquisitions I guess but we've got so much opportunity Brian to run our company better and become more efficient to focus on our clients and just do more business.
That's really what we're focused on.
And then just maybe 1 follow-up on the swaps not to overkill the issue.
But what's the reasoning -- so swaps versus MBS or swaps versus securities I mean the reasoning to add swaps is it just more efficient from a balance sheet perspective? Or does that do other things for you as well? One of the things it does is that it's quick.
When -- I said earlier that we're opportunistic in the way we did this and we were able to add $2 billion in swaps right at the end of the quarter very quickly as rates moved up.
So these swaps are efficient from a transactional perspective both going in and going out.
So that's helpful.
They don't also affect earnings in a one-time way on the outlook.
We sell securities and take a gain that gain shows up immediately and then requires an adjustment by everybody.
Whereas if we exited swaps the gain in the swap just accretes in the income over the original life of the swap and so it doesn't require a lot of sort of extra adjustments.
I guess one other point is that they are a really good hedge in the balance sheet for our commercial loans.
Our next question or comment is from Marty Mosby from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Aleem I wanted to walk through the mortgage banking segment income statement.
You're showing a $76 million loss in the quarter.
And what I was trying to do is think of as you talked about the production coming down you've already kind of like you said you do have locks so you've already got a lot of the gain on sale margin compression in there.
But I think there's 3 other moving pieces that will potentially more than bring this to a breakeven.
I think you've got the $72 million legal matter in this segment because that would be real estate-related.
You've got the $28 million of incremental collection cost and you also have suppressed servicing profitability as your like you said decay goes back to where it was.
Even if you have your hedge about 0 or breakeven your decay should improve by about $20 million.
So in my mind I'm just trying to map the $76 million to at least to break even in the short run and these 3 moving pieces seem to kind of get me there.
I just wanted to see what you thought about that.
Marty I think you got the direction right but the numbers perhaps not exactly right.
That legal matter wasn't as high as the $76 million.
We referenced the legal matter as being sort of the primary driver for our overall increase in expenses which were up $34 million.
So the legal matter I would think about it in that context rather than the $76 million.
The increase in operational expenses credit expenses was about 18.
And I think you've mentioned a higher number just now.
And over time yes I think directionally you're also right on servicing.
And servicing income ought to also come back will also come back over time as we start to get less volatility again and rates will help and as decays come down.
So directionally I think you're right on every one of those pieces.
But the numbers you mentioned seem a little high to me.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow up on the servicing side.
When you look at your net hedge performance it's been favorable.
And you mentioned the volatility being the driver of the negative that you saw going from -- what's been a $30 million to $40 million net positive down to about breakeven.
Are you using forward commitments and is that mainly why you end up with a little more the volatility matter than if you were using interest rate swaps which don't typically be -- aren't as related to the volatility in the marketplace.
So I just was wondering if we do see rates leveling back out could even the net hedge performance improve from where it's at right now? Marty I would think about it this way.
MSR as an asset are inherently negatively convexed.
So within MSR we're naturally short volatility.
So the hedging process requires that we buy volatility or offset that short volatility position.
And it's cheaper to do that in any quarter when there is less volatility in the market.
So and that's been the case as we have seen for the last year or so.
This quarter obviously there was a lot of rate volatility in the market.
And so just the cost of buying back that short volatility position went up.
If as you say we head back to a more normal rate environment -- and it sort of doesn't really matter if it's going up or down as long as it's not volatile the hedge ought to start to perform -- the outperformance we've had in the hedge ought to start to come back yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just out of curiosity the product you're using to get that convexity is a forward commitment? Is that -- what's the product you're using to hedge here? We've got some forwards we've got futures we've got swaps we've got securities and we have options.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would swaps be a smaller part of that? I'm just trying to -- because typically the swaps don't have the convexity and don't relate to the volatility is what I'm trying to get at.
You're exactly right.
When we use swaps we're using that for a duration hedge not really a convexity hedge.
And it's more options and forwards that will help us on the convexity side.
And our last question comes from Matt Burnell from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Aleem I just wanted to ask a question from Page 25 of the supplement and the Corporate and Other page where you say where you lay out your interest income interest rate sensitivity.
It looks like it's down by a bit more than half from the first quarter numbers that you put on the same page.
And I guess I'm just curious if you can give a little color as to what's going on there? And how you're thinking about how that might change over the course of the next 3 to 6 months? Well Matt I think that's another crystal ball question.
That depends on exactly what rates do how steep the curve gets and whether short rates move at all.
But in general our asset sensitivity increases by -- and I'm going to round here but it's about 0.1/10 of 1% per month.
So it will naturally go up unless we do something.
What we did do in this quarter is we added some of those swaps.
So the swaps that we added reduced our asset sensitivity some but they also added $8 million a quarter to our interest income.
And on Page 24 of the deck when you look at the new swap income forecast you'll see that that's flattened out pretty considerably now right into the middle of next year.
So we added some surety as we took advantage of the higher rates that we saw in the second quarter and that did make us a little bit less asset-sensitive in the short term.
But that asset sensitivity will come back while we've added NII.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me ask a question about the non-mortgage lending business if I can.
Bill you mentioned your increased level of confidence about commercial lending and potential loan growth in the second half of the year.
Could you give us a little more color as to why you're feeling more confident about that? And are there any specific regions or products within C&amp;I that are particularly fertile areas for loan growth? Yes and I don't want to get over my skis on confidence but I want to talk about the things that we do see.
And if you sort of look at -- one of the bigger things that we look at as I look at it are our commercial pipeline.
Our commercial pipeline was about equal to what it was at the end of the first quarter.
But that's about 60% ahead of where it was at the end of 2012.
So we're built -- so we're building a pipeline that's positive.
In terms of the places where we've seen to date good activity in the commercial side our not-for-profit business has been really good.
On the CIB side our energy business I'm really happy to see things like -- that we've invested in like asset-based lending are starting to click in and provide some more activity.
And then related to the consumer side production is up and we saw -- I don't -- maybe it's an inflection point but we saw an inflection point on home equity that that sort of finally stabilized.
Remember we have sort of been in a fully attriting mode on home equity over the last quarter that sort of has stabilized.
And production in home equity is really really good.
So it's mainly production and pipeline kind of things that I see and those are all offset against continued deleveraging and other activities.
And then the final is CRE.
And albeit off a smaller base it's about $5 billion base.
I mean similar there we hit an inflection point already.
So at the last quarter we hit an inflection point.
We're now starting to be in a growth mode.
And production there in the -- I guess primarily the institutional side has been good.
From a region-by-region perspective it's pretty evenly distributed but we are seeing parts of our markets take Florida probably as the largest example of the most recovery in the shortest period of time which make us more optimistic as we see sort of state unemployment rates again particularly in areas that were way down like Florida which are now way up and trending ahead of national numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> One of your competitors mentioned continued conservatism in the mid-market and small business sector.
Is that consistent with what you're seeing as well? You mean from the client perspective continued conservatism? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think that's accurate.
They continue to have a lot of cash while there's lots of dialogue and conversation.
But I think conservatism in that group as defined is an accurate statement.
Thanks everyone for joining us today and we appreciate it.
If you have any further questions certainly feel free to give the IR department a call.
Otherwise have a great weekend.
That concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the SunTrust Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn today's meeting over to Ankur Vyas Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to SunTrust's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call and thanks for joining us.
My name is Ankur Vyas and I'm taking over the Investor Relations role from Kris Dickson.
I look forward to meeting many of you over the coming quarters and years.
In addition to the press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during the call today.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and CEO; Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call today we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and our website www.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third party.
The only authorized live and archived webcast are located on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Ankur and welcome to the team.
One of the first things you learn as CEO is how important the IR role is and I want to take this opportunity to publicly and personally thank Kris Dickson for his leadership.
As many of you know he's continuing his great career in SunTrust in our commercial real estate area.
So Kris thank you.
Now as usual I'll start this morning's call with a quick overview of the quarter.
Then I'm going to pass it to Aleem to provide details on the results.
I'll return to wrap up with business segment highlights and some of our good core trends.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.33 on net income of $179 million.
As you know we had some large items that impacted this quarter particularly related to the resolution of key mortgage matters.
Where appropriate we'll speak about results excluding these items to make the underlying core operating story clear.
I set an objective this year to get as many legacy issues behind us as possible on the best terms available.
As you know there have been discussions happening on these legacy mortgage matters for months and in some cases years.
Dialogue with the respective parties increased this quarter which enabled us to resolve a number of key items.
These included: first reaching agreements with the U.S.
government to settle claims regarding originations practices related to FHA-insured loans and SunTrust portion of the national mortgage servicing settlement; and secondly resolution of GSE mortgage repurchase claims as we reached agreements with both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac regarding the outstanding and potential repurchase obligations.
Separately we completed an expansive review of our servicing advanced practices which led to an allowance increase.
During the quarter we also completed our previously disclosed reorganization of certain subsidiaries which netted a tax benefit.
It was important to get these key legacy mortgage-related matters behind us.
Doing so helps us reduce uncertainty in the business and improves our overall risk profile.
Ultimately and most importantly it enables us to increase our focus on the future of the company and the opportunities we see in all of our businesses.
Excluding these items earnings per share was $0.66 this quarter and we had the continuation of noble core operating trends such as steady loan growth expense reductions and further credit quality improvement which helped offset a significant drop in mortgage revenue.
So looking more closely at core results.
Net interest income was substantially unchanged relative to the previous quarter.
The continued low interest rate environment drove 6 basis points of net interest margin compression though earning asset growth helped to offset this impact.
The sequential decline in adjusted noninterest income was primarily driven by lower mortgage production income due to both production and gain-on-sale margin.
Conversely investment banking had another strong quarter.
Wealth management fees were up and mortgage servicing income as expected recovered somewhat from last quarter's low level.
We continue our intensive focus on expense management in our ongoing efforts to drive efficiency improvements.
Adjusted expenses declined and this marks the third consecutive quarter where we kept them below $1.4 billion.
Overall core expenses trended down from both the prior quarter and prior year.
But given the mortgage revenue headwinds we're above our efficiency ratio targets.
I'm viewing the mortgage revenue challenge as more permanent and we'll have to adjust our expense base accordingly both in this business and across the company.
Average performing loans increased $1.6 billion on a sequential quarter basis with growth across several loan portfolios and average client deposits were stable compared to the prior quarter with the continuation of the favorable mix to lower cost deposits.
The credit quality story continue to be a good one with nonperforming loans and net charge-offs hitting new 6-year lows.
Nonperforming loans declined by 9% from last quarter and 40% from last year and this quarter's net charge-off ratio improved to 47 basis points.
Lastly our capital position remained solid with Tier 1 common estimated to be 9.9% on a Basel I basis and 9.7% on a Basel III basis.
We're certainly pleased that the government shutdown has concluded and that the debt ceiling prices has been averted.
Our hope is the government can reach a partisan agreement on ways to permanently close the budget gap.
This is a fragile but very real recovery predicated on consumer and business confidence.
Now I'll pass it on to Aleem to give you some more detail on the results.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us this morning.
I'd like to also have my personal thanks to Kris for his time as Head of IR.
As many of you will appreciate Kris is moving on to a revenue-generating role for the company and that'll be helpful.
And while we'll miss him I'm sure you'll all enjoy working with Ankur in the future.
As Bill indicated there were a number of significant items that impacted this quarter's results.
So before we delve into our normal review of operating performance I'll spend some time providing a bit more detail on these items that we preannounced last week.
First we signed agreements in principle with the government to settle 2 legacy mortgage-related matters: FHA-related originations and the national mortgage servicing settlement.
The FHA-related settlement covers claims arising from loans originated from January 2006 through March 2012.
Mortgage servicing settlement represents SunTrust's portion of the broader national settlement that was agreed to by the larger banks in 2012.
The settlement of these 2 matters was the primary component of the $323 million of specific operating losses we incurred this quarter.
As indicated last week after these charges we do not expect the effects of these agreements to have a material impact on future financial results.
Secondly we resolved the Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae repurchase matters.
These resolutions resulted in an incremental $63 million mortgage repurchase provision this quarter as the population of loans that were included in these 2 agreements was broader than considered in our existing mortgage repurchase reserve.
The next item I'll cover is the reserve increase for servicing advances.
By way of background servicing advances are payments we make when the loan becomes delinquent.
For example taxes and insurance property maintenance legal and in some cases principal and interest.
We recouped the majority of advances on loan service for others when the loan is ultimately resolved and cash flow is collected on the defaulted loan.
The reimbursement criteria and repayment risk for servicing advances will depend on the investor type and will vary significantly with the lowest recoverability on portfolio loans and the highest recoverability on agency servicing.
This quarter we completed an extensive review of our servicing advance practice including operational processes and methodologies employed in estimating loss exposure.
Separately we also completed the -- a sale of a $1 billion in UPB of predominantly delinquent MSRs this quarter.
Based upon the completion of the review and the MSR sale we determined that we needed to increase the allowance for unrecoverable advances resulting in a $96 million impact to collection servicing expense.
Lastly as previously disclosed we completed the taxable reorganization of certain subsidiaries which resulted in the recognition of a tax benefit.
This was partially negated by 2 smaller items.
The net impact of all these items was a $113 million reduction in this quarter's provision for income taxes.
Combined the preannounced items negatively impacted third quarter earnings by $179 million after tax or $0.33 per share.
Turning to Slide 5 I'll provide some summary observations on this quarter's key core earnings drivers and then we'll delve deeper on subsequent slides.
As Bill noted earlier where appropriate I'll refer to earnings trends excluding the items that significantly impacted this quarter as well as the third quarter of last year.
On an adjusted basis our earnings per share this quarter was $0.66 which was $0.02 lower than the last quarter and $0.08 higher than last year.
Sequential quarter decrease was due largely to lower mortgage production income which was partially offset by a lower loan loss provision and reduced noninterest expenses.
Compared to last year core earnings per share increased 14% as reductions in adjusted noninterest expense and the loan loss provision more than offset declines in net interest income and mortgage-related revenues.
We'll review all the underlying trends in more details starting on Slide 6.
Consistent with our guidance last quarter the net interest margin declined 6 basis points sequentially as earning asset yields compressed 7 basis points due to the continued low interest rate environment partially offset by a 2-basis-point reduction in deposit rates.
Net interest income declined sequentially by $2 million as the lower net interest margin was largely offset by higher average earning assets and an additional day this quarter.
Relative to the third quarter of 2012 net interest income was $61 million lower and the net interest margin declined 19 basis points.
The primary drivers of both were lower asset yields the impact of last year's loan sales and a reduction in commercial loan swap income partially offset by favorable shifts in the deposit mix lower deposit rates and reduction in long-term debt balances and costs.
Looking forward we expect the net interest margin to again decline in the fourth quarter albeit at a slower pace relative to the decline we experienced this quarter.
Moving on to Slide 7.
Adjusted noninterest income declined $112 million from the previous quarter primarily driven by lower mortgage production income.
Reported mortgage production income was a negative $10 million this quarter.
Excluding the $63 million impact of the repurchase settlements mortgage production income declined sequentially from $133 million to $53 million.
Gain on sale was the primary driver of the decline due to lower locked volume associated with the 45% sequential drop in mortgage applications.
Gain-on-sale margins compressed during the quarter due to industry competition and the impact that higher interest rates have on post-lock activity particularly during the first part of the quarter.
Origination fees also declined sequentially from $59 million to $44 million in light of the decline in closed loan volume.
Mortgage servicing income increased $10 million sequentially due to lower decay in the MSR asset which is a result of lower refinance volume due to higher interest rates.
As a reminder the decay on the MSR asset is recorded as loans closed and therefore we would expect servicing income to again increase in the fourth quarter as close refinance volume further declines.
Investment banking had another strong quarter as revenues increased sequentially due to incrementally higher M&amp;A and equity-related revenues.
Wealth management also continued its steady growth as a result of solid market conditions and deepening client relationships.
Other noninterest income declined as a result of a $37 million write-down on a portfolio leasing assets due to an updated assessment of residual values.
Trading income declined by $16 million on a reported basis primarily due to a $14 million change in our fair value debt marks.
Core client trading activity was stable sequentially albeit weaker than normal given market uncertainty.
Looking year-over-year adjusted noninterest income improved $14 million as reductions in core mortgage-related revenues were more than offset by a lower mortgage repurchase provisions and solid growth in investment banking and wealth management-related fees.
As we look to the fourth quarter we anticipate core mortgage production income to remain under pressure in light of the slowdown in refinance volume and a typical seasonal decline in purchase activity.
Conversely we expect mortgage servicing income to increase and we expect investment banking income to have another strong quarter.
Let's now move to expenses on Slide 8.
Core noninterest expense increased $346 million from the previous quarter driven entirely by the actions we highlighted in last week's 8-K.
On an adjusted basis expenses declined by $73 million sequentially.
Compensation and benefits expense was the largest component of the decline down $55 million from the previous quarter.
$37 million of this is related to previously accrued incentive expenses which we reversed in light of our net financial performance this quarter.
While this accrual reversal won't repeat itself in the fourth quarter it does demonstrate our pay-for-performance commitment.
As usual we have provided you detail on our cyclical costs in the appendix.
Due to this quarter's resolution of the legacy legal matters and the increase in the mortgage servicing advance allowance cyclical costs increased substantially on a reported basis.
However excluding these significant items our cyclical costs were $75 million.
Looking at year-over-year trends our reported noninterest expense was fairly flat.
However excluding the impacts of the specific actions we took in the third quarter of 2012 and the third quarter of 2013 adjusted noninterest expense declined 14%.
This was driven by widespread reductions in core operating expense categories as well as the abatement of adjusted cyclical expenses.
This also marks the third consecutive quarter that our expenses on an adjusted basis were below $1.4 billion whereas you'll recall we had been previously operating at about $1.55 billion quarterly run rate.
We have made progress in becoming a more efficient organization and prudent expense management remains an area of focus for all of our teammates.
As you can see on Slide 9 our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio was flat relative to the previous quarter bringing the year-to-date adjusted tangible efficiency ratio to 65.5%.
This keeps us on target toward our interim goal of approximately 65% for the year.
And more importantly we remain firmly committed to achieving our long-term target of below 60%.
Turning to credit quality.
Asset quality continue to improve this quarter with the net charge-off ratio declining from 59 basis points to 47 basis points sequentially.
It is now at its lowest level since the third quarter of 2007.
Nonperforming loans were also lower declining 9% sequentially and 40% year-over-year.
Improvement in asset quality has been largely driven by positive trends in our residential portfolios.
The improving housing market continues to drive lower residential delinquencies lower loss severities and higher prices upon disposition of foreclosed assets.
Concurrent with lower net charge-offs and overall improving asset quality metrics provision expense declined $51 million sequentially and the allowance for loan and lease loss ratio fell 8 basis points.
As we look toward next quarter we anticipate that nonperforming loans will continue to trend lower and for net charge-offs to be relatively stable to the third quarter level.
Consistent with our comments in recent quarters we continue to expect future credit quality improvement to be led by residential loans as commercial and consumer credit metrics are already at or below normalized levels.
Turning to balance sheet trends on Slide 11.
Average performing loans increased sequentially by $1.6 billion or about 1.3%.
which is the highest sequential quarter loan growth we have experienced since the first quarter of 2012.
Growth was broad-based though principally driven by commercial real estate and non-guaranteed residential mortgages.
CRE loans were up 8% sequentially due to expanded relationships with clients in our footprints growth in our institutional business and success in our REIT platform.
Non-guaranteed residential mortgages grew primarily due to the addition of high-quality jumbo mortgages.
Most other loan categories were stable or modestly positive relative to the prior quarter.
With the exception of continued paydowns in our government-guaranteed mortgage portfolio.
Relative to the prior year performing loans were down modestly as core growth in C&amp;I and consumer portfolios was offset by targeted reductions in our guaranteed portfolios.
C&amp;I loans were up $2.7 billion or 5% most notably from growth in not-for-profit and government and most CIB industry verticals.
Consumer loans excluding guaranteed student loans were up $900 million or 6%.
Guaranteed student and mortgage loans declined approximately $4 billion combined relative to the previous year primarily due to the loan sales we executed late in 2012.
While loan growth improved this quarter we would still characterize it as modest overall.
However our commercial loan pipelines continue to increase and overall economic indicators in our markets are also improving.
Turning now to deposit performance.
Average client deposits were flat relative to the previous quarter as growth in money market accounts was offset by modest declines across other deposit product categories.
Relative to the prior year deposits were up 1% though the underlying favorable shift in the deposit mix is the more notable event.
Lower cost deposits were up $3.5 billion driven by growth across all categories.
Concurrently higher-cost time deposits were down by $2 billion.
This favorable shift in deposit mix helped drive down interest-bearing deposit cost by 12 basis points year-over-year.
Slide 13 provides information on our capital metrics.
Tier 1 common capital expanded by approximately $100 million and our Tier 1 common ratio was just under 10%.
The sequential quarter decline in our Tier 1 common ratio was due to an updated risk weighting for certain unused lending commitments for corporate clients.
This revision did not impact the estimated Basel III common ratio which we estimate grew to 9.7%.
As shown at the bottom of the page our tangible common equity ratio and tangible book value per share both increased modestly given growth and retained earnings.
We also continued our share repurchase program this quarter buying back $50 million of our common stock.
Per the capital plan we submitted in conjunction with the CCAR process we have the capacity and the intent to repurchase up to another $100 million through the first quarter of 2014.
With that I'll now turn things back over to Bill to cover our business segment performance.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem and I'll start on Slide 14 which highlights several core operating trends that continued in our business segments this quarter.
In our consumer banking and private wealth management business net income growth was driven by meaningfully efficiency improvements ongoing credit improvement particularly in our home equity book and higher noninterest income driven by growth in wealth management.
In addition you'll recall that the third quarter of last year had elevated provision levels due to our junior lien policy change which accelerated the timeframe for charging off these loans.
Overall revenue was relatively stable to the prior year as the decline in net interest income due to the $2 billion loan sale in 2012 was mostly offset by solid growth in our wealth management business.
We've seen growth in fee income due to increased fixed annuity sales which benefited from higher rates and strong growth in our managed account business.
We've steadily improved the tangible efficiency ratio in this segment driving it on down over 5 percentage points in the last year to 64.4%.
We've made meaningful progress in our efforts to better align our branch network and staffing models with evolving client preferences.
This is translated into an 8% reduction in our branches from last year.
Going forward we do expect additional net reductions in our branch network however the overall rate of decline will slow.
Loan balances were down from last year due to the fourth quarter student loan sales but we continue to see solid organic loan growth.
Consumer loan production was up 6% year-over-year.
And if you exclude the student lending portfolio production was up 14%.
Overall deposits were up 1% with a continued favorable mix shift that drove further declines in rate paid.
Let's take a little bit closer look on our wholesale business.
Wholesale had another strong quarter overall.
However results were affected by the leasing write-down we discussed earlier which in addition to weaker trading income drove our 6% decline in revenue.
Net interest income was up $17 million or 4% as the business produced solid loan growth.
Investment banking income was up 19% year-over-year driven incrementally by growth in M&amp;A and equity-related revenue.
Loans grew 6% this quarter driven by our not-for-profit and government industry vertical core CRE and our large corporate lending areas most notably asset securitization asset-based lending and our energy vertical.
We feel good about our pipeline which was solid across most of our wholesale businesses.
Utilization rates remain stubbornly low at approximately 30%.
So that too I think represents an opportunity looking ahead.
Ongoing improvement in credit quality helped drive a decrease in the provision for credit losses though provision expense in the third quarter of last year was elevated due to the charge-off associated with the CRE nonperforming loan sales.
Wholesale has been and should continue to be a growth engine for SunTrust.
We're very well positioned to compete and have a lot more runway in each of our key lines of business.
Now let's look at mortgage.
The big topic this quarter with respect to the mortgage business was obviously the resolution of key certain mortgage matters.
While the resolution is important these items along with the servicing allowance increases contributed $344 million of the $405 million loss.
Excluding them the mortgage business lost $61 million which was a modest improvement from the previous quarter as lower expenses and improving credit quality offset the decline in mortgage production income.
Now with that said having a lower loss is simply just not the objective.
We're beginning to implement aggressive policies and rightsizing our mortgage business both as a result of continuing resolution of legacy matters and as a response to the current origination environment.
We intend to reduce our mortgage staff by 20% which translates to roughly 800 full-time equivalents.
These are tough decisions given the impact the team makes but it positions us with a chassis that better reflects our decisions and the current environment.
In the fourth quarter we anticipate overall production volume will continue to decline given the normal seasonality and the sharp falloff in the third quarter application activity.
To put this quarter in perspective our quarterly mortgage revenues excluding the mortgage repurchase provision declined by approximately $300 million year-over-year.
Despite this our adjusted consolidated earnings were up 14% which I think speaks to our business diversity efficiency efforts and improving credit profile.
So in summary I think there are plenty of opportunity that exist across our businesses.
We've had some tailwinds and we've certainly had some headwinds but we put a number of the legacy issues behind us and can now more fully focus on the future.
We remain convinced that our strategic priorities to generate profitable growth and become an even more efficient company are the right direction for SunTrust and will continue to augment our positive core operating momentum.
So with that Ankur let me turn it back over to you and we can start taking some questions.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
Karen we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question or comment comes from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess a question relating to expenses.
First from a high level Bill you mentioned needing to adjust expenses in both mortgage and across the company.
I assume when you guys did PPG you did a deep dive across the company.
So just trying to get a sense of where should we expect to see more costs coming out over the next couple of quarters.
And just related to that the efficiency has been flat over the last 2 quarters.
And with mortgage still under pressure and the margin falling just how should we think about your ability to continue to bring down the efficiency ratio over the next couple of quarters? Okay thanks.
Good question.
Let's sort of start with the mortgage piece and maybe I can sort of put some numbers around that.
We talked about the FTE decrease related to again not only the decision we made to sell delinquent servicing but also sort of just recognizing that I think we're in sort of a permanently different environment that's much more production-oriented versus refinance-oriented.
If you put some numbers around I think by the end of the the first quarter or start of the second quarter all things being equal which I guess things are always not equal but all things being equal that would be about a $50 million run rate as it relates to mortgage specifically on those decisions -- yes quarterly.
We then -- I talked about at the last conference a review the we're undertaking based on some structural changes we made in our company to really look at about $1.5 billion worth of let's call them operations cost for lack of better description in all of our segment areas.
We have a significant effort underway there.
They would be in things like consolidation of lending areas looking more to our call centers the kinds of things that we would do to not only make ourselves more efficient and client responsive but I think just we've got some significant opportunities.
Then continuation of more actualizing and annualizing the decisions that we've already made as it relates to our branch network.
Remember we sort of see that come in slowly over time and we'll continue to see that show up in our numbers.
Then it's everything.
And I think as Aleem noted and I think if you ask anyone in SunTrust what their commitment was to efficiency they'd tell you and it's everything.
It's real estate compression it's core expense saves it's increasing productivity of teammates.
So it's a pretty wide range of activities supplemented by some specific things including mortgage and the operations review.
As it relates to the long-term efficiency goal as I said I mean I think we have sort of a permanent loss in top line revenue for mortgage but we also said we're not giving up on our 60% efficiency ratio.
So I think that's -- we may have extended the goal a little bit but we're not backing off that goal.
And I would expect to see continued improvement in our efficiency ratio next year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess just one unrelated question for Aleem.
Aleem charge-offs continue to come down nicely and yes I know you're saying flat for next quarter.
But resi is obviously still elevated at 82 basis points and that's probably the biggest area of improvement from here.
So can you give us a sense of how you're thinking about the trajectory of that? How low do you think that can eventually go and what are you thinking in terms of the timing? All right.
When you look at the components of charge-offs overall and consumer overall you look at sort of the non-resi component of that book and that's already at pretty low levels.
The resi component probably has a little bit of a way to go.
When you look at wholesale wholesale charge-offs are again already at pretty low levels.
So as you noted in the question the opportunity mostly sits at mortgage.
And mortgage charge-offs do still have a way to go but it's unlikely they're ever going to get to sort of the bottom that we saw in the '05-'06 level.
I would expect that charge-offs will continue to trend better over the next little while.
At 47 basis points for the company overall we're sort of within our cyclical operating range that we expect over a cycle of 40 to 70.
But as the quality of origination since 2009 has been so strong it's not unreasonable to assume that charge-offs will continue to come down as the high-quality origination plays out in our book in our next little while.
So I would expect charge-offs to continue to trend down and -- over the next little while.
Our next question or comment is from Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
And we're not getting a response from her.
We'll go to our next question.
Our next question or comment comes from John Pancari from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Given your color you gave us on expenses can you just help us think about how we should think about total expense levels over the next several quarters here? Given we saw some good declines in the environmental costs and I know you're pushing these programs you mentioned Bill but how should we think about where total expense levels can trend over the next couple of quarters? Well John let me start off with that.
I think there are sort of several components to total expenses.
If you look at comp you can see this quarter we made a difference on comp.
Bill talked about some of the initiatives that we've got and changes that are going to happen in mortgage the annualization of previous programs as they kick in.
We've also got other programs going on in terms of managing our occupancy costs manage other operating and back-office costs.
And then of course we still have opportunity left I think in our cyclical costs.
And if you remember 2 years ago those were $700 million rounded.
Last year they rounded to $600 million.
This year if you annualize our first 3 quarters that number is down to $360 million and we've guided to that number coming down on an annualized basis to below $325 million.
So I think we've got opportunities still in a lot of expense categories to continue to manage those down.
One of the minor hit ones we're going to face again that as we go through some of these programs we'll probably have some one-offs.
To cut long-term expenses there might be some minor charges one-offs to get those programs in place.
But I would be looking for next year's overall expenses to be better than this year's overall expenses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And has there been any determination of the potential savings on that $1.5 billion that you're evaluating in the back-office costs? Yes.
John we're sort of in full diagnosis phase on that right now.
So you should assume we -- I wouldn't talk about it unless I thought there were some significant savings as it relates to that but we really haven't sort of finalized numbers run rate and timing on that yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly I just want to get a little bit of color on your thoughts around the margin.
The loan yields pulled back quite a bit this quarter down about 11 basis points.
It seems a bit high.
So I just want to get an idea of how you're thinking about where that can trend and what that means for the magnitude of the margin compression that you expect.
Well I think next quarter we do expect a little bit more margin compression John but overall smaller than we saw this quarter.
As you saw this quarter we saw 6.
Next quarter anticipate that to be smaller.
Looking out into next year obviously we've got some headwinds and tailwinds.
We've had 30 years of interest rate declines and interest rate increase since June.
This is going to offset that immediately right? So we've got games being played on both sides here.
On the negative side even with the steepened yield curve we will see probably a little bit more asset yield compression feeding in as the long-term assets roll off and late next year as some of the swap book rolls off a little bit also.
On the positive side that starts to make us more asset sensitive in mid-to-late '14 as short-term rates ought to start to go up and we start to take advantage of that.
And we continue to be able to manage our non-maturity deposit rates down.
Obviously they're getting down to very low levels.
It's difficult to do that from here but we were able to do -- get another couple of basis points out of that this quarter and hopefully we'll be able to continue to manage that further.
And then as we get higher short- and long-term rates that ought to benefit our portfolio as we re-invest our portfolio at higher rates going forward.
Our next question or comment is from Erik Najarian from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just my first question is a follow-up on the expense levels over the next few quarters.
If I take the $1.324 billion core that you posted this quarter add back the $37 million comp accrual but take out the $50 million in quarterly expense is the message there that all else being equal you could enter second quarter of '14 with a run rate of $1.31 billion? Is that a good starting point for us to think about? I think that's about the right type of starting point Erika.
Obviously there are going to be lots of puts and takes.
And as Bill was careful to say that's all else being equal.
But all else being equal that's the kind of starting point we'd be looking for.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I think the overall message and maybe the simple answer is down.
I mean the expenses are going to be down in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess making it simpler to use your words and taking a step back how much does your -- does the mortgage headwind delay the long-term efficiency goal of below 60% if at all? And I guess I'm wondering it sounds like you're very optimistic about some of the expenses that you could extract outside of credit-related op costs.
So as we think about the timing of when you're achieving that below 60% goal is this something that we could potentially see by 2015? And if so is the message there that you can get there through expense mostly expense cuts? Erika I think we're going to get part of the way there through expense cuts.
I don't actually think that it'll just be expenses alone that get us there.
When we set that 60% target you recall that was a couple of years ago and our revenue base was higher then and the 60% then was sort of all being equal.
Revenue has fallen since then given what's happened in the mortgage market.
So we're going to work to decrease the size of our chassis.
We're going to work hard to become more efficient and bring lower expenses to the table.
But at end of the day I think we'll need some revenue growth to help us get there.
Now we are seeing revenue growth and revenue opportunities in many of our businesses.
As Bill said earlier you saw how our performance has improved in consumer and private wealth.
You saw the increase in the bottom line in our wholesale business and the opportunities there that we have in the CRE in core commercial and in CIB.
Our challenge on revenue has been mortgage but we're working to make that up across our other businesses.
And if we get any kind of a tailwind at all on rates that'll make a big difference.
Our next question or comment is from Matt O'Connor from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the expenses for next year you're saying they're going to be down versus this year.
You're obviously excluding the big one-offs this quarter right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately on credit.
As we think about the reserve ratio over time any thoughts on where that might settle out? Well I guess Matt if charge-offs continue to come down and the quality of the portfolio continues to go up the ratio may trend down a little bit but that's true for the ratio.
But when you think about it in dollars remember we're also expecting loan growth.
So as we get loan growth that might inhibit the decline in dollars of allowance.
Our next question is from Paul Miller from FBR.
Research Division</strong> Guys going back to the charges you took over the quarter especially the one referring to the loan servicing and advance revaluation what drove that? Was that driven by the regulators or by just internal concerns that the -- there's a -- about those advances? That was completely internal.
We went through a sort of long and extensive review of our overall servicing advances.
And servicing advances are sort of pretty complex topic that depend very much on the type of bank and sort of the type of investors that you have.
So after going through the -- that review overall we've decided that that we needed to increase the size of the allowance we had against all of these advances.
And just a little bit of color the reserves we had previously worked for aged advances and we changed our methodology to take a look at the percentage of the entire balance of advances.
And that's what -- and the change in that is what drove the increase in the allowance.
Research Division</strong> And then what other -- is there any other -- because a couple of companies have the Department of Justice looking at FHA loans.
Is there other issues? It looks like you solved your problems with Fannie and Freddie but are there other things out there that could pop up with other litigation charges down the road? Well remember in this settlement of national service standards it was -- it was combined with the FHA origination settlement with DOJ.
So those actually for us were put together which is actually sort of a key component of what we were -- of what we're wanting to accomplish because they are at the end of the day fairly interrelated and we didn't want to get in a situation where we were bifurcating those 2 potential settlements.
As we disclosed in the second quarter we do have an investigation into the administration of our HAMP program.
We don't really have anything new to report on that.
As you can imagine we're cooperating fully and we'll see where that one progresses.
But as far as the big ones that we -- that are more common and that we know about we're comfortable that we've reached the right conclusions on those.
Research Division</strong> And what about the FHFA suit on securities? Are you included in that lawsuit? No we're not.
Our next question or comment is from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I want to just come back up to the top line where we were talking about the outlook for efficiency and understanding that you're very compelled to 60% and that it may take a little bit longer.
But obviously there's some top line challenges you need to overcome as well with NII and mortgage et cetera.
So can you talk about the outlook for revenue growth next year? What pockets might you have to help fill the gaps from some of those more overt top line challenges? Yes.
Let me sort of just maybe start us.
And I'm actually glad you asked the question because we've been so focused on the expense side of the efficiency ratio recognizing that the real juice is on the revenue side.
And although we have the mortgage headwinds we also have a lot of tailwinds which we talked about in our core businesses.
And maybe just -- let me just sort of hit on a few of those without giving sort of specific revenue guidance.
But if you go down sort of our consumer and private wealth side we're really seeing good momentum on the private wealth side.
That is a result of both market conditions but more importantly sort of meeting more client needs.
Our penetration there is up.
Our referrals from our branch network through our retail investment income side is really on a really solid trend.
So we're starting to see sort of good momentum in all those areas.
And the core productivity in our branch network it's up about 40%.
If you translate that into however you'd want to measure that that's sort of sales per FTE per day kind of thing.
Productivity is up up significantly.
As you know that's a battleship so that takes a long time for that to manifest itself in terms of revenue but we're really seeing the sort of the core productivity.
Wholesale side you've seen the good growth we've had on CIB.
I mean we've been at sort of a 15% CAGR for the last few years.
While I'm not projecting that necessarily we do have a lot of really good momentum continuing in that business.
CRE has officially made the turn.
That business now is in sort of full growth mode and albeit over a smaller base.
As an increment of growth we see significant opportunities on that side.
And then on our sort of core commercial and business banking side again we're seeing the same kind of things in terms of productivity improvements and pipelines and those kind of activities.
So I'm actually pretty confident in a lot of our sort of core businesses and the measures that I look at sort of the day-to-day dashboard of what we're doing from a productivity and production capability.
Research Division</strong> Great Bill.
And then second question on just on NII and your balance sheet your balance sheet mix.
Obviously we know there's a little bit of NIM pressure still out there and then the eventual swap rundowns but you had good loan growth.
It seems like you're remixing a little bit on the -- from the CDs into lower costs and then securities into loans.
Can you talk about earning asset mix and whether you think earning assets growth can offset the lingering NIM compression next year? That's what we're working toward.
We're -- I think we had a pretty good succes in that as you saw this quarter with the balance sheet increase helping to substantially offset most of the NIM decline.
And next year as the economy recovers and as general conditions get better we are actually targeting more loan growth.
Research Division</strong> And what about securities reinvestments? Do you guys have any capacity to also build on that side or would you rather just see it remix into loans? Well our first priority would be to do more business with clients.
So to the extent that we've got excess liquidity we're able to put that to work with -- into sort of real client business.
That would be the first priority.
To the extent that we don't get that I like the overall mix of securities in our book today.
And we'll generally keep the securities book at the kind of mix that you see today albeit with a steeper curve now starting to provide some opportunities to invest at higher rates than we saw a few months ago.
Our next question comes from Gerard Cassidy from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Regarding your Tier 1 common levels under Basel III I recognize you haven't been told nor have the other regional banks been told what your final Tier 1 common ratio has to be like our large-money center banks Citi and JPMorgan which of course are 9.5%.
They have given us -- they expect to carry their Tier 1 common between 10% and 10.5% so about 100 basis points above what they're required.
What kind of buffer do you expect to carry above your requirement once you get that requirement? That's a great question Gerard and as you say we don't exactly know yet.
But what we do know in Basel III terms of course is that we're going to have to be at a minimum of 7%.
On top of the 7% there may or may not be some type of a SIFI buffer.
And on top of that we'll have to carry our own buffer just to make sure we don't go through their buffer.
So when you put all of those things together if you look out sort of long term where would I expect the company to be running in terms of overall capital levels when we're actually managing our capital ratios ourselves I'd probably put a number on that that starts with an 8% but that'd be long term.
And I wouldn't expect that when you look at us today at 9.7% that we'd be able to reduce that number much in the near term.
LLC Research Division</strong> Speaking of that should we expect -- obviously last year you had a low combined return of capital number as percentage of your earnings relative to some of your peers that went through CCAR with you.
Should we expect this year's number in 2014 to be greater than what you guys asked for last year? The way that I've tried to address that clearly we don't know what the inputs are yet so you're always hesitant about giving an answer to output until you know what the input is.
But the way that I've tried to address that is to say last year we were very clear upfront that we were going to have a conservative bias to how we approach the CCAR process.
And I think everyone sort of understood why and we did and we did that successfully.
We won't have the same conservative bias as we enter into this year's CCAR process.
And beyond that I don't want to sort of get into any specifics until we just have more inputs.
And Gerard we're expecting those inputs to arrive within the next 4 weeks.
Our last question or comment comes from Matt Burnell from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess a question about commercial real estate and the growth there.
Jim you were clearly pretty enthusiastic about the deal you signed recently with the Met.
I guess I'm curious as to -- if there were any effects of that deal included in the above-average growth in CRE portfolio this quarter.
And what should we expect to see over the next couple of quarters from that transaction possibly hitting the balance sheet? Yes I think it was a part of our growth and sort of incremental part of our growth.
But that's a relatively new relationship and we're building it out as we go.
But it wouldn't sort of be the driver necessarily of our growth.
The good news is we're sort of hitting on all cylinders and that's one cylinder.
So our REIT business our institutional sort of what's going on in sort of our markets in terms of multi-family office and thus we're sort of starting from a low base.
And so we're sort of seeing all cylinders hitting at this particular point.
We're up 35% since the end of last year 10.5% this quarter at around $5.5 billion.
So I just think you're going to continue to see good growth in the CRE portfolio and a lot of that also has to do with -- that the run-off's effectively over.
I mean keep in mind we were running that 35% growth was against $1.2 billion $1.3 billion or so in paydowns.
So we're sort of -- we're starting to see that abate and we'll see real growth.
On the -- again on the MetLife thing it's been a positive driver to date but it will not be the exclusive driver.
It is just one of many cylinders.
All right great.
This concludes our call.
Thank you for -- to everyone for joining us today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact the Investor Relations department.
That concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
Welcome to the SunTrust Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Our conference is being recorded and if you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Ankur Vyas Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may proceed.
Thank you Jill.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us.
In addition to today's press release we've also provided a presentation that cover the topics we plan to address during our call.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website www.suntrust.com.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations section of the website.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and CEO; and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website at www.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Ankur.
So I'll begin this morning with a brief overview of the quarter before turning the call over to Aleem for more details on our results.
I'll then wrap up with a review of our segment performance and a 2013 total year recap.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.77 on net income of $413 million.
Excluding the significant items that impacted the third quarter earnings per share grew 16% on a sequential quarter basis.
We generated modest revenue growth as net interest income increased slightly from the prior quarter due to loan growth and adjusted noninterest income improved in part due to increases in mortgage servicing and trading income.
Expenses increased $53 million sequentially after adjusting for the significant third quarter items.
This was primarily the result of higher employee compensation and benefits expense due to an abnormally low third quarter in which we explicitly reduced incentive compensation.
In the fourth quarter it was accrued at a more normal level.
Operating losses on an adjusted basis were also higher this quarter over last.
Expenses however were down 9% from the fourth quarter of last year as a result of our continued expense management focus coupled with declines in cyclical costs.
Average performing loans continued on a positive trend increasing $3.1 billion to 3% over last quarter with growth across several loan portfolios.
And average client deposits were up 1% compared to the prior quarter with the continuation of the favorable mix shift.
Credit quality continued to improve with nonperforming loans and net charge-offs hitting new 6-year lows.
Nonperforming loans declined 6% from last quarter and 37% from last year.
And this quarter's net charge-off ratio improved to 40 basis points.
Lastly our capital position remained solid with Tier 1 common estimated to be 9.8% on a Basel I basis and 9.6% on a Basel III basis.
So now let me turn it over to Aleem for more details.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining our fourth quarter call.
Before I begin my review of this quarter let me remind you that our third quarter EPS was negatively impacted by $0.33 due to the closure of several legacy mortgage and related matters.
In addition our third quarter of 2012 EPS was positively impacted by $1.40 due to the actions we announced in September of that year.
Both of these actions skew sequential quarter and annual comparisons.
Therefore I will focus on core trends where applicable.
As Bill said earnings per share this quarter was $0.77 which was $0.16 -- 16% higher than adjusted EPS in the previous quarter and 18% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012.
The sequential quarter increase was due to increased revenue and a beneficial effective tax rate which more than offset higher adjusted noninterest expense.
The effective tax rate this quarter was caused by certain discrete year-end items.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 earnings improved due to lower loan-loss provision and lower noninterest expense partially offset by lower mortgage production income and net interest income.
For the full year adjusted earnings per share increased 25% to $2.74.
This growth was driven by lower loan-loss provision and lower noninterest expense which more than offset declines in mortgage-related revenues and net interest income.
We'll review the underlying trends in more detail starting on Slide 5.
Net interest income and the net interest margin were generally stable relative to the prior quarter.
The net interest margin improved 1 basis point as higher securities yields and slightly lower deposit rates offset a 4 basis point decline in loan yields.
Securities yields increased 18 basis points due to slower premium amortization on mortgage-backed securities given the increase in market interest rates.
Higher securities yields were the driver of net interest margin being modestly higher than our previous guidance.
Net interest income increased $7 million sequentially primarily due to solid loan growth offsetting the decline in loan yields.
Relative to the fourth quarter of 2012 net interest income was $29 million lower and the net interest margin declined 16 basis points.
The primary drivers of both were lower loan yields and a reduction in commercial loan swap income which were partially offset by lower deposit rates and a favorable shift in the deposit mix.
Net interest income benefited from higher average earning assets.
Looking forward and assuming current rate expectations do occur we expect the net interest margin to decline for the full year 2014 compared to the full year 2013 albeit at a lower rate relative to the decline we experienced this year.
The primary driver of this decline will be a further compression in loan yields due to the continued low short-term interest rate environment partially offset by the benefits of a steepening curve.
With regard to net interest income we would anticipate year-over-year improvements assuming loan growth continues.
However with respect to the first quarter there are 2 fewer days which all things being equal has the impact of reducing net interest income by $10 million to $15 million.
Moving on to Slide 6.
Adjusted noninterest income increased $64 million from the previous quarter due to the lease financing impairment we recognized in Q3 in addition to higher mortgage servicing and trading income.
Excluding the impact of the repurchase settlements in the previous quarter mortgage production income declined sequentially from $53 million to $31 million.
This was principally driven by a decline in origination fees from $44 million to $23 million as a result of the approximate 50% decline in closed loan volume.
Mortgage servicing income however increased 26 -- $27 million sequentially primarily due to lower decay in the MSR asset which is largely the result of lower refinance activity.
Trading income also increased by $24 million this quarter which was driven by improvement in client-related trading revenues alongside $14 million in combined mark-to-market gains on fair value of debts and the valuation of certain illiquid securities.
Client-related trading income rose as improved market conditions increased activity amongst our fixed income product client base.
Investment banking had another strong quarter though revenues were slightly lower on a sequential basis as a drop in fixed income origination revenue was partially offset by higher M&amp;A and equity-related fees.
Retail investment services continued its positive trend resulting from fixed annuity sales and managed account growth.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 adjusted noninterest income declined $193 million primarily due to lower mortgage production income as a result of both lower gain-on-sale margins and lower production volume.
This was partially offset by solid improvement in wealth management-related revenues.
Let's move to expenses on Slide 7.
Reported noninterest expense decreased $366 million from the previous quarter driven entirely by the expenses associated with the third quarter legacy mortgage matters.
On an adjusted basis expenses increased $53 million sequentially.
Compensation and benefits expense increased $41 million as a result of the $37 million reduction in incentive compensation in the third quarter.
Operating losses also increased $15 million on an adjusted basis due to mortgage-related regulatory and legal expenses incurred this quarter.
Overall as we observe on Slide 20 in the Appendix our cyclical costs were $352 million for the full year excluding the noted items from third quarter.
This represents a significant decline from the $655 million we incurred in 2012.
For 2014 we expect modest additional declines in aggregate cyclical costs though the operating loss component can be volatile as evidenced by the quarterly trends we saw this year.
Looking at year-over-year I'm pleased with our Q4 noninterest expense reduction of 9% which was driven by widespread reductions in core operating expense categories as well as the abatement of cyclical costs.
As we look to the first quarter we currently anticipate approximately $50 million in higher 401(k) and FICA expenses and slightly higher medical benefits-related expenses to drive the normal seasonal increase in employee benefits and compensation expenses.
As you can see on Slide 8 our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio was slightly higher relative to the previous quarter bringing the year-to-date adjusted tangible efficiency ratio to 65.8%.
This represents over 6 percentage points of improvement relative to 2011 and 3.5 percentage points of improvement relative to 2012.
We are disappointed that we did not meet our goal of approximately 65% for the full year and we remain solidly focused on becoming a more efficient operator across all of our businesses.
As we look to 2014 our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio target is less than 64%.
Future progress on the efficiency ratio will be more challenging relative to the achievements over the previous 2 years.
However we remain firmly committed to delivering on our long-term objective of less than 60%.
Turning to credit quality.
Asset quality continued to improve this quarter with the net charge-off ratio declining from 47 basis points to 40 basis points sequentially.
Nonperforming loans were also lower declining 6% sequentially and 37% year-over-year.
These improvements in asset quality drove a 7 basis point decline in the allowance for loan and lease-loss ratio.
Recent improvements in asset quality continue to be driven by the stronger housing market through lower residential delinquencies lower loss severities and higher prices upon disposition of foreclosed assets.
The loan-loss provision increased $6 million sequentially as the solid loan growth offset the improvements in asset quality.
As we look to 2014 we expect further but moderating improvements in asset quality primarily driven by residential loans.
However as we experienced this quarter positive loan growth may offset future asset quality improvements and thus impact sequential changes in the loan-loss provision.
Turning to balance sheet trends.
Average performing loans increased by $3.1 billion or about 3% which is the highest sequential quarter loan growth we have delivered since the first quarter 2012.
End-of-period performing loans grew $3.6 billion as the result of a strong December.
Growth was broad-based across most portfolios though principally driven by C&amp;I CRE and nonguaranteed residential mortgage.
C&amp;I loan growth was driven by the not-for-profit and government business the commercial dealer group and broad-based growth across most CIB industry verticals.
Average CRE loans were up 10% sequentially due to extended relationships with clients in our footprint growth in our institutional business and success in our REIT platform.
Nonguaranteed residential mortgages grew primarily due to the addition of high-quality jumbo mortgages to our portfolio.
Lastly consumer loan balances were also up modestly with growth across most portfolios.
Relative to the prior year average performing loans increased $4.7 billion driven by targeted growth in our C&amp;I and CRE portfolios.
Overall loan growth was solid this quarter as the investments we had made in many of our businesses continued to bear fruit and the economic indicators in our markets continued to improve.
Let's take a look at deposits on Slide 11.
Average client deposits were up 1% sequentially as growth in low-cost deposits primarily NOW accounts offset modest declines in higher-cost time deposits.
Relative to the prior year deposits were essentially flat although the underlying favorable shift in the deposit mix is the more notable event.
This favorable shift in deposit mix helped drive down interest-bearing deposit costs by 8 basis points year-over-year.
Slide 12 provides information on our capital metrics.
Tier 1 common capital expanded by approximately $300 million as a result of growth in retained earnings.
Our key capital ratios were generally stable as growth in the numerator was offset by the loan growth we delivered this quarter.
In addition tangible book value per share increased 3% due to the growth in total equity.
Pursuant to our 2013 capital plan we have now completed our $200 million stock buyback program.
Later this quarter we will be notified of the results of our 2014 CCAR submission.
And we will provide you more information on future capital returns at that time.
With that I'll now turn things back over to Bill to cover our business segment performance and provide a recap of the full year.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem and I'll start on Slide 13.
We saw the continuation of several core operating trends in our business segments this quarter.
In our consumer banking and private wealth management business significant net income growth was driven by ongoing credit and expense improvements.
Noninterest income declined modestly from the same quarter last year partially due to a onetime gain related to the student loan sales in the fourth quarter of last year.
However we experienced solid growth of 8% in wealth management-related revenues.
Expenses were down 8% partially the result of a more efficient branch network and staffing model as we reduced our number of branches by 7% over last year.
We made meaningful progress in our efforts to better align our distribution channels with evolving client preferences.
Going forward we do expect additional net reductions in our branch network.
However the overall rate of decline in 2014 will slow when compared to 2013.
Furthermore provision for credit losses decreased meaningfully as credit quality improved almost entirely driven by home equity given the improving housing market.
We've steadily improved the tangible efficiency ratio in this segment driving it down approximately 350 basis points in the last year to 67.1%.
Average loan balances were flat from last year due to the fourth quarter student loan sales though we continue to see solid organic loan production particularly in home equity consumer card consumer direct and auto.
Consumer loan production was up 8% year-over-year.
Taking a look at 2013 in aggregate net income was up 88% driven by solid progress and our expense management efforts along with our aforementioned credit quality improvements.
Furthermore similar to the quarter-to-quarter results we generated 8% growth in consumer lending and 5% growth in wealth management-related revenues.
Let's take a closer look at our wholesale business.
Wholesale had a strong quarter with record net income of $259 million continuing its positive momentum.
Net interest income increased 4% due to solid loan and deposit growth.
However noninterest income declined primarily as a result of a onetime trading-related benefit and record investment banking income in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The declines in noninterest income were the primary driver of the increase in the efficiency ratio when compared to the prior year.
Average loans grew $4.7 billion or 9% with further growth in core CRE our not-for-profit and government business our commercial dealer group and our large corporate lending areas most notably asset securitization asset-based lending and our energy and health care verticals.
Overall our pipelines continued to be healthy and have demonstrated year-over-year growth.
And while wholesale loan yields compressed in the fourth quarter it was at a slower pace than we've previously been experiencing.
Wholesale has been a growth driver and should continue to provide solid performance for us in 2014.
2013 marked a record year for investment banking income.
And it's important to note that the revenue mix here is increasingly diverse.
CRE also continues to grow across our 4 main target areas.
Our wholesale business is very well positioned to compete and we have meaningful runway in each of our key lines of business.
Let's look at mortgage.
The net loss in mortgage this quarter was stable through the same quarter last year as revenue declines were offset by lower provision expense as credit quality improved along with other expense reductions due to the abatement of cyclical cost and our efforts to right-size this business.
Taking a closer look at revenue noninterest income was negatively impacted by the decline in mortgage production volume and gain-on-sale margins.
Servicing income also decreased modestly year-over-year given the lower net hedge performance and increased sequentially given the lower decay in the MSR asset.
So looking ahead we continue to expect growth in purchase market originations though it will not offset the significant decline in refinance activity we experienced this past year.
Expenses were down 21% compared to the same quarter last year.
We continue to make good progress here.
You'll recall in the third quarter we outlined our intent to reduce core expenses by approximately $50 million a quarter from the third quarter core run rate or about 20%.
We should begin to see this come fully into the run rate in the second quarter.
So in summary we're taking the actions we believe are necessary to return this business to profitability.
We'll continue to be responsive to changes in the evolving operating environment and the opportunities within our markets.
So before we get into the Q&amp;A though I'd like to take a step back and look at our corporate performance maybe in aggregate for the year.
During the course of 2013 SunTrust made meaningful progress in several key areas.
This progress is reflected in the 25% growth in adjusted earnings per share over the prior year.
Bottom line gains were driven by a notable 12% decline in adjusted noninterest expense both as a result of better expense management and the decline in cyclical costs.
Further significant credit quality improvement with net charge-offs declining 60% and nonperforming loans down 37% drove marked year-over-year reductions in our provision for credit losses.
From a revenue perspective we had a considerable mortgage income headwind.
Production in servicing income were down significantly as market conditions changed quickly during the year.
In addition net interest expense -- net interest income declined 5% over the past year due to continued low-rate environment.
Despite a very challenging year for revenue we were able to reduce our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio 350 basis points to 65.8%.
However as Aleem noted we fell short of our target of 65% for the year given the rapid decline in mortgage revenues.
We are still managing to a sub 60% efficiency ratio.
And as Aleem articulated we'll continue to make progress towards that long-term goal in 2014 with the expectation that we'll be below 64% for the full year.
Further to reduce uncertainty and improve our overall risk profile it was important to get key legacy mortgage-related matters behind us as quickly as practical.
And we're able to do much of that during 2013 allowing us to more firmly focus on the future of the company and the opportunities we see across all of our businesses.
The considerable progress we've made thus far to improve the efficiency of our business reduce our overall risk profile and deliver improved bottom line performance has translated into better returns for our shareholders.
The bottom line is that we're building a more effective and efficient company.
I believe we have a strong chassis from which we'll be able to generate further momentum as we look to 2014 and beyond.
So before we begin the Q&amp;A I'd like to take a moment to thank our teammates for all that they've done and continue to do to transform our company.
We are unified in our purpose of lighting the way to financial well-being for our clients and our ongoing drive toward delivering improved performance for our shareholders.
So teammates thank you.
Well Ankur let me turn it back over to you and we'll start the Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thank you Bill.
And Jill we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] We have our first question it's from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can we start off with the new efficiency goal for 2014? I think it looks better than some of us were expecting.
Can you just give us a little bit more clarity in terms of what you're expecting for revenue growth particularly fee income? And then on the expense side I know you're going through the review of the $1.5 billion of expenses.
Can you give us a sense of what you're including in your efficiency guidance for that? Sure Ryan.
Well let me take a crack at that.
For overall revenue as we look at 2014 we actually see several opportunities.
First of all on net interest income with the loan growth that we've delivered and with the momentum that we ended the year on I think that if we continue to be able to deliver that kind of loan growth I would expect it to more than offset the margin decline over the course of the year.
So I'm looking to actually higher net income in -- net interest income in '14 as a result of loan growth.
I think in fee income we've got lots of opportunities in various areas of the company.
And you saw some of that show up in Q4 in our consumer and private wealth business and in the improvements that I think we can continue to deliver in CIB.
So I'm looking for growth in fee income in those areas.
In terms of expenses for the year you look back at what -- where we were and you remember we used to have a quarterly expense run rate overall that was always in the sort of $1.5 billion $1.55 billion range.
For '13 what we're able to do is get that number down into the $1.3 billion range.
And I like that number a lot better.
So as I look into '14 I would think that our expense run rate in 2014 is going to continue to start with a sort of a $1.3 billion number on a quarterly run rate basis.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Thanks for the clarity Aleem.
And if I could just ask one other question just in terms of credit your charge-offs are coming down nicely but resi is still elevated at 75 basis points.
I know you recently noted at our conference that losses on the last 4 years' vintages were 2.5 basis points.
So can you just give us a sense of over what timeframe do you think you can get losses in that book down to that sort of a level? And just when I think about the reserve from here at 4x annual charge-offs and you made comments about needing to provide for growth how do we think about the interplay between charge-offs continuing to come down but needing to provide for new loan growth? Yes I'll take it.
It's Tom Freeman.
So I think if you take a look our focus right now is we still have half our portfolio which are older vintages half our portfolio which are newer vintages.
The older vintages continued to show improvement in their performance over time.
I would think that that improvement will continue over the next couple of years.
I think the noted improvement in the home equities is generally when the home equities had defaulted we took a 100% loss on the home equities.
That is abating.
And in fact as housing prices begin to rally our loss characteristics are significantly better than that.
And just to be really clear an expectation that we're going to have 2.5 basis point loss profile on that portfolio I would think is unreasonably optimistic.
But I think the balance will continue to show some improvement over the next year especially in those 2 areas.
And that's it.
Ryan if you think about where we were overall our over the cycle range for charge-offs what we're expecting is in the 40 to 70 basis point range.
We're now down at the very bottom end of that range.
Given the quality of portfolio today I wouldn't be surprised that we dip below the bottom end of that range temporarily which is a nice place to be.
But also given the solid loan growth that is starting to show up now I wouldn't be surprised if provisions exceed charge-offs as we look forward.
Our next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Bryan in for Ken Usdin.
In the fourth quarter the efficiency ratio was 66.8% and you guys talked about some of the first quarter headwinds like the increased benefits expense and the impact of day count NII.
So it just seems like to go from close to 67% down to 64% for the full year '14 is pretty aggressive.
You guys talked about the NII being up and the fees potentially growing.
But what specifically outside of mortgage costs can you do on the expense side to bring the expense base down and hit that 64% ratio? Ken we've got several things that we're working on outside the mortgage costs but let's not dismiss the mortgage costs immediately.
That's going to be significant.
I think we talked about last quarter the idea that we're -- as we're rightsizing that business we'll be able to take $50 million a quarter out of the run rate on the expense base.
And that's what we're expecting for the full year.
In 1 quarter I don't think we're going to get to our target in 1 quarter.
And it's as you pointed out it's a challenging target.
We're not making this easy on ourselves or our teammates.
But along with mortgage we've also talked about our overall ops transformation our focus on core infrastructure core operations and thinking that we're going to be able to extract efficiencies from that business.
And in addition we're still making changes in our overall footprint and corporate real estate.
And I think we'll be able to take dollars out of that space also.
Let me give you one quick example.
This weekend we're moving over 100 teammates in our greater Washington area out of 2 separate buildings and 3 separate floors into sort of 1 common space where they're going to be able to actually work together become more effective in the way in which we cover both the business and the personal needs of our corporate client base.
But alongside with doing that and making our teammates more productive we're going to be taking $100 000 a month out of their space bill out of the rent that we're going to be paying and that starts next month.
So there are lots of opportunities like that that were focusing on along the way along with continued dialogue with our suppliers and working with them in partnership to bring down our overall external costs.
This is Bill.
I think it's important and you noted it.
I mean it will be bumpy.
This isn't -- we're going to be on a trend towards this efficiency ratio and quarter-to-quarter we'll be bumpy.
But I feel confident that we've got the infrastructure in place the momentum on both the expense and the revenue side.
This is a combination of both to get us there by the end of the year barring anything highly unusual.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how should we think about the RidgeWorth sale that's expected to close in the third quarter of '14? What sort of revenue give-ups should we be expecting and how much impact should that have on expenses? Actually right now we're thinking that we'll close it in the second quarter not the third quarter.
And if you think about sort of the bottom line benefit of RidgeWorth as we said in the press release when we announced the transaction RidgeWorth contributed about $25 million to the bottom line during the first 3 quarters of 2012.
So that gives you a sense of the run rate overall coming out of RidgeWorth.
And it was sort of slightly decretive to the corporate efficiency ratio.
Yes.
And I think given our commitment on the efficiency ratio and given this is a second quarter item it's a smaller transaction total this is not the driver of our getting to the efficiency ratio.
It's just one small element in fairness.
Our next question is from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The commercial real estate had some nice growth quarter-to-quarter.
And obviously it's still off of a relatively small number.
But could you just talk a bit about the opportunity there? I think you signed a deal with a big insurance company to help source some loans.
So what's the opportunity I guess both on the lending side and then if there's any fee revenues that could be generated from that arrangement? Yes.
I mean we've been talking now for several quarters that we sort of turned that inflection point in commercial real estate where now we're really starting to see core growth.
And as you said albeit on a small basis the growth is actually pretty significant and an appreciable part of our total growth.
And it's -- the good news is it's very diverse.
It's sort of from our REIT investments it's from the things we do in geography in multifamily in retail office industrial sort of depending on where any one of those individual markets have opportunity in our institutional market.
So it's very diverse in terms of our growth.
The deal with MetLife is an important part but not the only part.
It represents something like 7% of our total portfolio.
So it's what I consider to be maybe 1 of the cylinders of an 8-cylinder engine versus the primary cylinder.
And fee business is something that we are driving.
I think of our commercial real estate business more like a CIB vertical.
So just like we've built up the talent and the capability on the loan origination side similarly we built up the talent and the capability on the fee-generating side.
So in the last quarter we participated in a lot of deals led a few related to both equity and debt in the commercial real estate side.
And 12 months ago that number would have been 0.
So pretty dramatic improvement on both sides.
Research Division</strong> And then just in terms of how big you're willing to let commercial real estate get it's about $5 billion right now.
How should we think about relative to your overall balance sheet? Understanding that some of these deals can be chunky how big are you willing to let that get? Yes.
It's a good question.
And basically what I tell the teams is "Keep growing and I'll tell you when to stop." Because right now I don't think we're going to run up short-term against the limit.
And the way that we're growing the business from diversity in both the size geography types of business I'm not worried about the kind of things that you see in terms of concentration.
So I think we're going to let it run a little bit here the next couple of years and then we'll sort of see where we get to from a total portfolio size.
The good news is other parts of our business are growing as well.
So its percent of the pie will also be determined by how big the pie gets.
Our next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Back -- sorry to go back to the expenses again here but on the -- real just quickly on the other expense line can you just give us a little bit of color there on what drove the number in the quarter? I think it stayed around similar to last quarter's levels which I thought were also elevated.
So I'm just wondering if that other expense item can come down.
And then also on the expense side in terms of your efficiency target just wondering if it's still fair to assume that half of the improvement in the efficiency ratio over time here should come from the expenses and while half could come from the top line.
I think we had a couple of items that went into that other expense line this quarter that might be a little bit lumpy.
And one of those was the point that Bill made in his opening remarks and my point about we had operating and legal costs this quarter that were mortgage-related.
So we had an item in there that raised that number slightly higher.
But if you think about 2014 overall there are several numbers in there several items within that line item that we are focused on that we are attempting to bring down and that I'm optimistic we're going to be able to work on over the course of the year to bring the overall cost down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the efficiency ratio target just if you can give us a little bit of color of how much of that could come from expense reduction and then how much would come from revenue.
Yes.
I think the chart we did in the investor presentation hopefully gives a good example of that and where it actually comes from by business.
So for example on the mortgage side 3/4 we sort of did Harvey Balls and 3/4 of the effort there will be the expense side.
So that will be a lot expense-driven relative to revenue.
Wholesale on the other side will be much more revenue than expense-driven.
I mean it already operates at a fairly good efficiency ratio and then in the consumer and private wealth more balanced.
On the private wealth side more on the revenue side.
And on the sort of the core retail side we still will have some expense opportunities and some revenue.
So it's a little more balanced than we've been in the past.
And you saw some evidence of that I think in the fourth quarter.
Our next question is from Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My first question is a follow-up to Ryan's line of questioning.
Aleem you mentioned that you're going to start with a $1.3 billion handle on expenses for next -- for this year.
And I appreciate that there's going to be some fluctuation quarter-to-quarter particularly with seasonality and the timing of the mortgage cost coming out.
So as I think about modeling for 2014 is $5.2 billion a fair sort of starting point as I think about your expense base for this year for the full year? Erika I think what I said was that I expect the number to start with a $1.3 billion overall for the year.
So yes there might be some lumpiness quarter-to-quarter.
But I think what I expect is that that number will have a $1.3 billion every quarter not necessarily as a starting point.
And somewhere in that range I think is where we'll end up.
And of course it's revenue-based.
So if we do get some revenue increases that will have some expense implications also.
I mean we're really managing to the efficiency ratio.
And I think we're going to monitor closely sort of where we are on the revenue side and where we are on the expense side and adjust accordingly when we have the ability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up on that we appreciate the margin and the NII guidance.
I'm just wondering could we look forward to the margin bottoming in 2014? Or is sort of the -- is there additional pressure from 2015 simply from the swap income continuing to roll off? Well I think that depends on your view of rates overall.
If the curve continues to steepen from here or we get the rate rises that we may get as a result of the Fed's easing coming off in '15 that's certainly going to help the margin from thereon.
As you know the way we're structured is we'll benefit much more as a company given our balance sheet structure if short rates start to go up.
And if the Fed does start to bring short rates up in '15 that will really help us from a net interest income perspective given the way our balance sheet is structured now.
Additionally your point about the swap income rolling off Erika as that happens at the end of '14 and into '15 we will start to get much more asset-sensitive.
And if short rates start to move up in '15 as we currently think they might that will benefit us considerably at that point.
Our next question is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys share with us -- when you look at your Tier 1 common ratio now at about 9.6% and if you say regional banks like your own are required to carry 7% obviously you're going to want to carry a cushion above that.
Philosophically in the future because I think return of capital is going to be important for valuations where do you guys think you want to keep your Tier 1 common ratio if you're required again to have a 7% number plus some cushion? Well I guess first of all the first question Gerard is how big is that cushion.
And as you know we're still -- the industry is still looking for some guidance from the regulators as to what that G-SIB and domestic SIFI cushion is going to be.
So if you start with 7% as you're starting with to begin with you add some type of SIFI cushion on top of that a SIFI requirement on top of that.
I'm not sure exactly yet what that's going to be.
But looking at where the overall G-SIB requirements are that kind of number might be on the order of 50 to 75 basis points.
And then of course our board is going to want to make sure that we have a cushion on top of that to make sure that we don't fall south of the regulatory required number.
So at the end of the day if you put all those together having a number that starts with an 8% overall I don't think is unfair.
But where we sit within that and what type of additional cushion we're going to have on top of that at this point is still a little bit unclear.
LLC Research Division</strong> There hasn't -- it doesn't seem to be much discussion lately of the domestic SIFI number.
Obviously SLR [ph] has taken over.
But are you guys still hearing from the regulators that there is going to be a domestic SIFI buffer? At this point Gerard I just don't know.
Obviously they've started at the global level with the G-SIBs.
But to the extent that they decide there's going to be a domestic SIFI number given the size of our company I could envision a day where they say all banks above $50 billion in assets are structurally important.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then philosophically once you get to the desired levels and you are maybe above what you think is you need could you guys conceptually -- or assuming the regulators would allow it would you ever consider giving back 100% of your earnings in a form of obviously dividends and share repurchases? Well the first and best use of our capital I think is using it by doing client business.
So to the extent that we're able to grow our business and meet more client needs that will be the first call in our capital.
I'm actually pretty happy with this quarter and the way in which we were able to use 0.1% of our overall capital ratio to grow client business and do real loans.
So that would be the first call in our business.
If we aren't able to get client growth and real growth then we'll look at other opportunities to deploy that capital.
But hopefully that's not the number one thing we're going to look at.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second just follow-up question on your commercial real estate business the success that you're having obviously we know about the residential markets have recovered or are recovering.
What do you guys see in the commercial real estate whether it's office buildings suburban office or industrial space? In your footprint is there meaningful improvement in those markets like we're seeing in residential markets? Yes.
I think it's by market.
You would see an individual one of those segments improving and we'll look at it by market.
And we're not limited to just our geography.
I mean this is going to -- this is a business that has a lot of diversity.
So if you look within our geography and you look nationally multifamily has certainly been one of those areas that has responded more quickly.
But in certain places we're already worried about some overheating.
And in those areas we'll not be as aggressive as we'll be in other areas.
Office and industrial probably a little bit ahead.
Retail is probably slow particularly in our markets.
I think you have to say existing centers are doing better so that's good news.
But you don't see a lot of new retail yet.
I think that will be probably the last one to come back.
Our next question comes from Christopher Marinac with FIG Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill and Aleem I was curious on the issue of loan paydowns and to what extent that could be a positive influencer to loan growth in 2014.
Loan paydowns Chris? Help me understand your question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paydowns payoffs of loans as you look to the portfolio.
Real slowing.
Slowing? Yes well that started to show up in Q4.
We started to see that with the increase in rates both our direct clients and then also through the securities portfolio as paydowns slowed the effects of that as you saw in our margin was actually to reduce the premium amortization in the securities book.
And as the duration of our assets extended a little bit the benefit of that was an increase in yield and an increase in overall income.
So as one driver of our overall growth in assets and growth in loans that was certainly one of them.
Yes.
And I think you see that on the loan side of that most acutely in the home equity portfolio.
It's about a $14 billion portfolio for that that has been attriting pretty consistently and that's reaching an inflection point.
And actually the production of home equity has been good to exceptionally good.
We'll start to see some more organic growth as that attrition stops.
Our next question comes from Brian Foran with Autonomous.
On mortgage volumes I guess one of the things I'm scratching my head on is you guys were down by about I think it was 50% linked quarter.
The MBA has down 25% or so linked quarter.
But if I look at Chase if I look at BofA if I look at Wells they're all down roughly the same as you.
I mean I think the range is 38% to 52%.
So I mean is there some evidence of a big transfer of market share to small banks and nonbanks? Or are we all just working off the wrong market size? And if it's the latter is there any evidence of -- does it feel like some volume was just pushed from 4Q to 1Q because the holidays and stuff like? Or does it just feel like maybe the market was estimated too big? No.
I think let me try to take a shot at this.
If you look at us and you saw some of the amount of refinance we had in our portfolio this is really sort of a refinance backlog in the second quarter.
If you look at us in the third quarter you'd sort of say we were higher.
So those questions would have come the other way so you guys looked like you were higher than everybody else.
And now that's sort of run its course.
That's sort of run itself through.
And so you see that as a comparison then about a little bit higher third quarter to the little bit lower fourth quarter in terms of decrease in production.
I think on the market share issue it's actually the opposite of what you suggested.
We're seeing -- we look at that fairly carefully.
And in the places where we want to maintain and the places where we want to grow our market share I feel actually fairly good about that.
And in our markets going forward we see that purchase market coming back.
This is always the hardest on time to talk about it because you're in that first quarter and it's way down always down when it's a traditional cyclical market.
The second third quarters can be as high as double of what they are when you start the year.
But the traditional purchase market I think sort of plays into our brand.
We've been a traditional purchase bank.
We don't have to reintroduce ourselves to realtors.
We don't have to reintroduce ourselves to centers of influence.
This is a business that we've done well before and we have maintained to grow our market share.
That's very helpful.
On kind of some of the profitability goals clearly the focus right now is getting to where you want to be on efficiency.
If I'm reading the proxy right which is a big if it seems like a 1% ROA is a pretty important goal in 2015 for some of the incentive plans.
And I wonder if you could just talk about as you look beyond this efficiency push is it going to be more of an ROA focus from kind of 2015 and beyond? Is 1% kind of what you're thinking of as a normal level or just a stepping stone? And I guess within that does the 1% in your view require a change in the environment better growth higher rates? Or is 1% an ROA that you think you can get to over time even if we stay in this very low-rate sluggish environment? Yes.
I mean I think you read the proxy correctly.
And the -- we talk a lot about the efficiency ratio but I don't want you to think that's sort of the exclusive North Star.
I mean we are managing the company to be great stewards of the assets.
And you've seen as we talk about the efficiency ratio you've also seen the improvement in the ROA not the least of which was this quarter sort of significant improvement in ROA.
And that's been pretty consistent across this pattern.
So while I put that hard stake in the efficiency ratio I can assure you that it is consistent I believe with also growing the ROA of the business in the way that we're accomplishing the efficiency ratio target.
So I think we have a business that over several years can be a north of 1% ROA business.
And clearly that line was put in the sand.
I don't think it's totally rate-dependent.
But certainly rates over that period would expedite the ability to get to that goal.
And our last question will come from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Aleem I want to talk to you a little about your repositioning of the balance sheet allowing the swaps to run off.
Can you give us a feel for the magnitude of the increase in asset sensitivity you're trying to accomplish and kind of what are the parameters that would make you want to stop doing -- create more of a balanced approach if you thought the rate increase was going to be later? Marty that's a great question.
Let me just step back and look back a little bit.
The way we got here is that over the last few years coming into this we've been more liability-sensitive.
And as short-term rates were declining as rates were declining overall being liability-sensitive looking back looks like it was the right thing to do.
Over the last 18 months or so I'd characterize our position really as being more generally neutral.
We've turned from being liability-sensitive to slightly liability-sensitive to being essentially neutral to now being slightly asset-sensitive but within a neutral band.
So we're preparing for a move in rates but I don't think it's going to occur immediately.
We saw the curve steepen and we saw long-term rates go up but we really haven't seen short-term rates go up at all.
And I don't expect Marty that short-term rates are going to move up in 2014 at all.
So we're not preparing ourselves to get significantly asset-sensitive this year.
If it happens that's great.
We're slightly positioned and we will benefit from that.
But I'm actually not expecting that in '14.
So what we're doing is we're turning the balance sheet slightly and over time to prepare for a secular change.
And if in 2015 the Fed acts and starts to move up short-term rates we'll be prepared for that when that happens.
And the big benefit I think will come both in the rate move and in the way we're structured in '15.
But I wouldn't expect to see much of a change in our overall structure in '14 or much of a change in short-term rates either.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Bill as we're seeing the loan growth starting to kind of pick up the side effect of that is what we're seeing in investment banking revenues and the fee income.
So as the economy takes hold we are looking at a different competitive environment.
So I just thought if you could talk a little bit about how you think the benefit as you're hitting each year's sequential records in investment banking because it's kind of volatile and lumpy so it's hard to kind of depend on it.
But over time you should see the benefit of being able to play a bigger part in that market.
I feel like you've asked and answered the question.
But I'll take a swing because I think your supposition is exactly right.
And it's predicated as you know about our businesses that we're building an investment banking business not separate from our franchise but attached to our franchise.
So the asset growth is very much tied into the fee growth.
And although it's lumpy if you look at the last 3 quarters investment banking revenue was above $90 million for 3 quarters.
I can remember not too many years ago that was the annual production in that business.
So tied into the ROA question earlier is these things are linked.
We really -- we look at every asset we put on the books and we look at its fee opportunity.
And certainly in the commercial and up category it's tied in to the investment banking opportunity as a big part of that discussion and dialogue.
LLC Research Division</strong> And how would you just characterize the change in the competitive environment that gives you this opportunity? Well I mean it's very competitive.
So I don't want to pull any punches on the competitiveness of the environment.
I think just from our perspective the skill and the capability and the talent that we've been building over the last 5 years is just starting to pay dividends.
So it's selective it's opportunistic and I think unique to some of the skill and the capabilities that we've built over the last several years.
All right.
This concludes our call.
Thank you to everyone for joining us today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact the Investor Relations department.
That does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you all for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great rest of your day.
Welcome to the SunTrust First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion of today's conference.
(Operator Instructions) This call is being recorded if you have any objections you may disconnect.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Ankur Vyas Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
In addition to today's press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules are available on our website <a href="http://www.suntrust.com" rel="nofollow">www.suntrust.com</a>.
This information can be accessed by going to the Investor Relations' section of the website.
I know some of you had some trouble accessing the IR portion of our website this morning; we're looking to resolve it as soon as possible.
In the meantime however you could access the deck and the press release which has been filed as an 8-K with the SEC.
With me today among other members of our Executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures in talking about the company's performance.
You can find a reconciliation of these measures to GAAP in our press release and on our website at www.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third-parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Ankur.
Good morning everyone.
In typical fashion I will begin this morning with a brief overview of the quarter and then turn it over to Aleem for details on the results.
I'll then spend some time reviewing our performance at the business segment level.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.73 on net income to common of $393 million.
This represents a 16% increase from the first quarter of last year.
We had solid performance in several areas including strong loan growth effective expense management and further improved asset quality.
Revenue was seasonally lower relative to prior quarter and down versus the prior year due to the marked decline in mortgage refinance activity that began last summer.
Looking at the component parts net interest income and margin were down slightly relative to the fourth quarter and non-interest income was seasonally lower.
A more telling story I think emerges when you look at the year-over-year results.
We generated solid growth across most of our non-interest income categories notably in investment banking and wealth management where we've made incremental investments to help drive growth.
The exception is the decline in refinance activity which impacted our mortgage production income.
Expenses were relatively stable to the fourth quarter with reductions in most categories offsetting the seasonal increase in personnel expense.
This was the combined result of our concerted effort toward driving efficiency improvements as well as further contraction in our cyclical costs.
Average performing loans increased 2% sequentially driven by targeted growth within our C&amp;I commercial real estate and consumer portfolios.
Average client deposits were up 1% compared to the prior quarter with the favorable mix shift continuing.
Credit quality continues to improve; non-performing loans were down 5% from the prior quarter and 37% from last year; the net charge-off ratio declined five basis points from the prior quarter to 35 basis points.
Lastly our capital position remains solid with Tier-1 common estimated to be 9.9% on a Basel I basis and 9.7% for Basel III.
As you're aware the capital plan we submitted as part of this year's CCAR process was not objected to by the Federal Reserve.
This included increasing the return of capital to our shareholders in the form of a higher quarterly stock dividend from $0.10 to $0.20 per share and the repurchase of up to $450 million worth of our stock during the upcoming four quarters.
We're obviously pleased that our capital position and improved earnings enabled these actions.
We generated solid momentum in our businesses but some of it is masked by broader industry headwinds including the persistently low rate environment and a rapid decline in home refinance activity.
However our markets are exhibiting favorable macroeconomic trends and housing continues to improve.
Furthermore we're continuing to make targeted investments in our businesses to drive growth as we move beyond the challenging revenue environment.
So let me turn it over to Aleem.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody.
And thank you for joining us this morning.
Earnings per share this quarter were $0.73 which was 16% higher than EPS in the prior year and $0.04 lower compared to the prior quarter.
The sequential quarter decrease was driven by lower revenue primarily due to the lower day count negatively impact net interest income and the normal non-interest income seasonality given lower transaction volumes in certain fee categories in the first quarter.
The year-over-year 16% increase was driven by reductions in provision and credit-related expenses which were partially offset by a significant drop in mortgage production income.
In addition the lower effective tax rate this quarter which was favorably impacted by certain discrete items also contributed to the year-over-year EPS increase.
Let's review the underlying trends in more detail starting on slide five.
Both net interest income and the net interest margin declined slightly compared to the prior quarter.
Net interest margin was down one basis point due to continued loan yield compression.
And net interest income declined $8 million primarily as a consequence of having two fewer days in the first quarter.
Compared to the first quarter of 2013 net interest income and net interest margin were both negatively impacted by declining loan yields and lower commercial loan swap income partially offset by higher securities yields and lower deposit costs.
In addition net interest income benefited from the 7% average performing loan growth experienced over the past year.
Looking forward we would expect the net interest margin to decline further throughout 2014 primarily due to compression in loan yields and lower commercial loan swap income.
We continue to expect full year 2014 net interest margin to decline compared to 2013 albeit at a modestly slower pace than the 2013 versus 2012 decline.
You will recall that as our commercial loan swaps mature we become more asset sensitive which is a conscious design of our balance sheet management strategy over the medium term.
Moving on to slide six adjusted non-interest income was lower by $18 million primarily driven by normal seasonal fee income trends between the fourth and first quarter.
Service charges for deposits declined $10 million sequentially primarily due to seasonality and fewer business days in the first quarter as well as lower incidence rates.
Investment banking income had a strong quarter though revenues were down modestly from the high level of deal activity that occurred in the fourth quarter.
Compared to the first quarter of 2013 investment banking revenues were up $20 million due to growth across a number of product areas.
Trading income was down $8 million sequentially though entirely driven by a $13 million increase in mark-to-market losses on our fair value debt.
Excluding the impact of fair value items core trading income was essentially flat.
Mortgage servicing income increased $16 million relative to the prior quarter due to lower decay in the MSR asset which was the result of lower refinance activity and positive net hedge performance.
Mortgage production income increased $12 million sequentially due to a lower mortgage repurchase provision and higher fair value gains which were partially offset by lower origination fees.
Gain on sale was generally stable as slightly higher margins offset slightly lower LOC volume.
Retail investment services continued its positive trend resulting from our ongoing focus on meeting more clients' wealth and investment needs.
However other non-interest income declined $17 million sequentially as a result of gains realized on certain asset sales in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Compared to the first quarter of last year adjusted non-interest income fell $86 million primarily due to lower mortgage production income which resulted from both lower gain on sale margins and lower production volume.
Excluding mortgage production income we had solid year-over-year growth in noninterest income due to increases in investment banking wealth management and mortgage servicing.
Let's move to expenses on slide seven.
Reported non-interest expense was generally stable compared to the prior quarter and prior year.
Personnel expense increased $77 million sequentially primarily driven by the anticipated seasonal increase in benefits expense and FICA-related costs.
Cyclical costs improved both sequentially and compared to the prior year primarily driven by lower expenses associated with legacy mortgage and legal matters and continued improvements in the overall asset quality of our loan portfolio.
We would not anticipate further improvements in cyclical costs for first quarter levels particularly given the current low levels of OREO and credit services cost.
Other expense categories generally experienced modest reductions when compared to the prior quarter.
We incurred a $36 million charge this quarter related to the impairment of certain legacy affordable housing assets.
This charge has no impact to our core affordable housing and community development business which continues to grow and invest within the communities we serve.
In addition this quarter we adopted new accounting guidance ASU 2014-01 that resulted in the amortization of certain affordable housing investments moving from the non-interest expense line to the tax line.
This adoption has no impact to bottom line net income or earnings per share and prior periods have been restated accordingly.
As you can see on slide eight our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio improved slightly relative to the fourth quarter as the reduction in adjusted expenses more than offset the modest revenue decline.
We continue to target an adjusted tangible efficiency ratio of less than 64% for 2014 and this quarter's performance is supportive of that goal.
Our long term efficiency ratio target continues to be below 60%.
Turning to credit quality on slide nine.
Asset quality continued to improve this quarter with the net charge-off ratio declining from 40 basis points to 35 basis points.
Non-performing loans were also lower improving by 5% sequentially and 37% year-over-year.
Both the declines in net charge-offs and non-performing loans were driven by improvements in the residential mortgage and home equity portfolio.
The improvement in asset quality also drove slight declines in the allowance and the allowance for loan and lease loss ratio.
The loan loss provision was generally stable as improvements in asset quality were offset by loan growth in the quarter.
Going forward we would expect continued but modest improvements in non-performing loans primarily driven by the residential portfolio.
We also would expect net charge-offs in the residential portfolio to drift modestly lower in the near-term.
However commercial and consumer net charge-offs are already at or below normal levels.
In addition as we have experienced in the past two quarters positive loan growth may offset future asset quality improvement and does impact sequential changes in the loan-loss provision.
Turning to balance sheet trends on slide 10.
Average performing loans increased by $2.9 billion or about 2%.
Growth was broad-based across most portfolios but principally driven by C&amp;I CRE and Consumer.
C&amp;I loan growth was driven by the commercial auto dealer growth the corporate banking expansion initiatives we began last year and broad-based growth across most CIB industry verticals.
Average CRE loans were up 11% sequentially due to growth in our institutional business success in our REIT platform and the portfolio acquisition.
Lastly average consumer loans were also up modestly given growth in our indirect auto credit card and LightStream businesses which were partially offset by a slight decline in our home equity portfolio.
Relative to the prior year average performing loans increased $8.2 billion or 7% driven by broad-based growth across most portfolios.
We're doing our part to support our clients and grow the economy.
Overall loan growth was solid this quarter as we continue to execute across targeted growth initiatives and the economic indicators in our markets continue to improve.
Turning to deposit performance.
Average client deposits were up 1% compared to the prior quarter and the first quarter of 2013 as growth in low-cost deposits was partially offset by a lower amount of high cost time deposits.
This continued favorable shift in deposit mix helped move interest-bearing deposit costs down by one and six basis points respectively compared to the prior quarter and prior year.
Slide 12 provides an update on our capital position.
Tier 1 common equity expanded by approximately $300 million as a result of growth in retained earnings.
Our key capital ratios increased slightly as the growth in retained earnings more than offset our loan growth.
In addition tangible book value per share increased 3% from the prior quarter also due to growth in retained earnings.
As Bill noted the Federal Reserve did not object to the capital plan we submitted in conjunction with the 2014 CCAR process.
Capital plan includes a share buyback program of up to $450 million over the coming year and increases our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.10 to $0.20 subject to Board approval.
With that I'll now turn things back over to Bill to cover our business segment performance.
Jr.</strong> Okay.
Thanks Aleem.
The core operating momentum generated in each of our business segments helped drive the overall solid corporate results we discussed this morning.
I'll start with consumer banking and private wealth management business where net income was up 14% over last year.
Strong retail investment income growth more than offset decline from service charges.
In addition provision for credit losses decreased meaningfully as credit quality improved driven by home equity given the improved housing market.
Further consumer loan production was up 17% over last year which helped offset legacy asset runoff.
We made a lot of progress in this business over the last several quarters.
We've significantly increased our investment in digital to meet our client needs and this has helped us to create a more efficient branch network and staffing model.
Going forward you can expect continued rationalization with additional net reductions in our branch network; however at a slower rate than what we accomplished over the past couple of years particularly given the importance of a branch and client acquisition and account opening.
We're also making investments to grow revenue in this business.
For example we've made investments most notably in talent in our wealth management related businesses to help us meet more of our client needs wealth and investment needs.
We've seen good early returns here with wealth management related non-interest income in this segment up 10% year-over-year.
Low interest rates and consumer fee environment continue to place challenges on revenue growth; however we feel good about the long-term overall momentum we're generating in this business.
Now let's take our closer look at a wholesale.
Our wholesale business is affected by seasonality when comparing the current quarter to the fourth specifically our investment banking business.
The strong operating trends are evident when you look at results compared to last year.
Pre-tax income excluding the $36 million affordable housing impairment was up 10% year-over-year.
Non-interest income grew 5% over the prior year primarily driven by investment banking wherein we had strong growth in our syndications M&amp;A advisory and equity related businesses.
Net interest income increased 4% due to robust loan and deposit growth.
Now this growth was partially offset by continuing declines in loan yields.
The pace of wholesale loan growth continued as average loans grew $2.6 billion or 5% from last quarter.
Loan growth was broad-based led by further growth in CRE and our commercial dealer group along with our large corporate lending areas most notably our energy and financial technology verticals.
Overall our pipelines continue to be healthy giving us confidence on wholesale loan growth prospects in 2014.
Competition however remains high which may lead to ongoing pricing pressure for us and the industry.
We continue to make investments in the business to better meet an array of our clients' needs and augment our capabilities.
A recent example is our acquisition of an advisory company to the energy business where we will now be able to complement our existing corporate finance capabilities with their underlying assets expertise.
Looking at the remainder of 2014 we are optimistic about the prospects of our Wholesale business as we improved share and better leverage the full platform of our product capabilities for more of our client base.
Now let's take a look at mortgage.
In October of last year we outlined our intent to reduce core expenses by approximately $50 million a quarter or 20% by the second quarter of this year.
We're pleased to report that we've achieved this objective one quarter early and doing so help drive the bottom line performance of our Mortgage business into the black.
Taking a closer look at revenue non-interest income was up sequentially with both servicing income and production income expanding.
Origination volume was down but that was offset by a lower mortgage repurchase provision our fair value gains and increased servicing income.
All-in gain on sale margins were generally stable compared to prior quarter.
And as I said on the expense side we were successful on our cost-saving efforts and that along with lower cyclical cost drove a 27% sequential decline in expenses.
Provision declines continued given the ongoing improvement in the credit quality of the residential mortgage portfolio which also helped drive improved performance in this business.
Returning the Mortgage segment to profitability was a step in the right direction but we know we have more to do to generate sustained profitability.
On a near term basis we anticipate an increase in production volume as we enter the spring/summer selling season and inventory in some of our markets is tight and that could delay some of the recovery.
So net-net we are positive about the direction we are taking our businesses and their ability to generate profitable growth particularly as the operating environment for the industry improves and we are able to more fully realize the returns on the targeted investments that we've been making.
So Ankur let me turn it back over to you to begin the Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thanks Bill.
Jane we're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
As we do so I'd like to ask the participants to please limit yourself to one primary question and one follow-up in order that we can accommodate as many of you as possible today.
Hey good morning guys.
Jr.</strong> Morning Ryan.
Good morning Ryan.
When I think about the expense base it clearly came in better than I think a lot of us would have expected.
So when we look out how much of the $77 million of the incentive comp was seasonal i.e.
how much that to you expect to leave the run rate in 2Q? As you think about just the trajectory of the expense base over the remainder of the year I know you guys are doing 1.5 billion review with the back office do you think expenses should continue to trend lower? Should we see a downward bias from here? Ryan it's Aleem.
Why don't I start that off with the first piece? The $77 million increase wasn't all the incentive comp that was total comp.
And the majority of that when you look at salaries salaries were the same quarter-over-quarter.
A good portion of that actually resulted from employee benefits.
For example our FICA taxes went up by $35 million this quarter and that's typically just a Q1 event and rolls back after that.
So I would expect a good portion of that $77 million to roll back into the bottom line starting in Q2.
However when we think about our total performance we actually don't think about dollar expenses alone we think about them in the context of our overall efficiency ratio.
And if we do get revenue growth I wouldn't be surprised to see some expense increase come along with our revenue growth.
But as you know we are focused very much on that efficiency ratio.
Our adjusted number as you saw was 64.9% in the first quarter.
For us to get to our target of under 64% this year we are going to have to continue to fight to bring that down.
So in the context of our overall efficiency I would think about our expenses declining as a percentage of revenue for the remainder of the year.
Got it.
And just in terms of getting to below the 64% as you think about the components of that will more of that need to come from the revenue side relative to the expense from here? I guess related to that Bill I know it is still early days in terms of thinking out to next year.
But clearly there is a big falloff from the commercial loan swap income as we think into next year.
Can we continue to see efficiency improvement in light of the revenue headwind that you'll have next year? Jr.</strong> Yeah let me sort of start with this year maybe sort of embellish a little bit on what Aleem was saying is and focus again continuing to be on that efficiency ratio and the components of revenue expense.
I think we outlined sort of in each of our business as you probably have a little bit of a different focus.
Now for example in Wholesale we're just trying to generalize you know about three quarters of our focus is on revenue and about a quarter is on the expense side and mortgage would sort of be the counter opposite of that and the consumer and private wealth would sort of be more equally balanced.
So in each of our businesses and everything that we're doing we're trying to reach that right balance of making the investments recognizing that revenues going to have to be a bigger part of this going forward but also recognizing that we still have some expense opportunities.
And you see that manifest itself for example in the Mortgage side of this quarter.
Looking out to next year what I would say is we're not backing off our guidance to getting to below 60% efficiency ratio.
That will obviously be dictated by time but I am very confident that we'll have an environment that we can achieve that.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Hi Matt.
Just following up on the revenue question as we think about net interest income dollars from here should we expect them to grow? I know you mentioned the NIM will continue to be under pressure but what about the net interest income dollars? Well I think we've been able to show a little bit of that over the last couple of quarters Matt as our net interest income dollars have been sort of generally stable despite a declining NIM overall.
So we've been able to get some good loan growth over the last few quarters.
We're seeing slightly improved confidence amongst our clients.
We're able to do more client business over the last few quarters.
So if that continues and we continue to get that loan growth then yes I am looking to see net interest income dollars start to grow with loan growth more than offsetting the effect of declining NIM.
Jr.</strong> And Matt right now as it relates to sort of a future loan growth I mean your crystal ball is short by nature but our pipelines continue to be healthy I mean they are up 10% of where they were last year.
Our unfunded availability is up by more than that.
So some of the leading indicators as it relates to loan growth continue to be good.
Okay.
And then just separately as we think about the cyclical costs or the environmental expenses you said they wouldn't come down from this level but obviously the roughly $170 million annualizes well below your $325 million target? Can we stay relatively close to these levels or how should we think about the trajectory of those environmental costs? Well I think overall when you look at the composition of these costs some of these costs are made up of things like their credit services and OREO.
Credit services is down because mortgage production is down.
That's the biggest component of that piece.
So that will follow where mortgage production goes.
OREO overall is down about as low as it can be.
I think it was pretty close to zero for the year last year.
So over time you would expect that that's going to drift up a little bit but collection services will probably drift down a little bit.
So when I look at the composition of that number and you are right we had additional -- we had guided some time ago to a number that would be below $325 million annualized we're now about half of that number on an annualized basis.
I don't see it going much lower than here Matt.
Okay.
But it sounds like ex-higher mortgage production which should lead to higher revenue if that occurs if we take out the credit services piece the other two might net itself out? Those two components I think will net themselves out.
There is the fourth component to that piece of course which is operating losses and operating losses are lumpy and somewhat out of our control.
So excluding those exogenous shocks I think then your premise is correct.
Okay.
That was helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Guys I want to just follow-up on the path of net interest income and asset sensitivity to your points about -- obviously we know about this step down next year.
So can you talk us through first of all as we get through next year does the path continue to run down through the year on the slide you show the average? And then how do we know when you are at that point where you are comfortable with the magnitude of how asset sensitive the balance sheet ends up post that runoff? Well I think our comfort with our level of asset sensitivity ken will depend a little bit on the interest rate environment or primarily on the interest rate environment at that time.
We had set up a structure for asset sensitivity that allowed us to become more asset sensitive as we thought that time was going to be right for the economy to start to grow once again.
Looking at that general structure I still think we sort of generally have that right and we are becoming more asset sensitive just about the right time when most people expect rates are going to start to go up.
So we'll adjust that over time as we have continued to do but as we adjust it and we'll be adjusting it based on what we think the economy looks like and the path of rates looks like at that time.
Does that make sense? Yeah.
And then to the second question just about your goal that you would set out for next year and Bill to your point earlier about potentially reaching 60% efficiency ratio next year.
Again just to elaborate if you could just about the balance of needing to see revenue growth versus needing to see cost reduction in terms of you are seeing out that far out what gives you the confidence? What pieces give you the confidence that you can see unfolding? Jr.</strong> I want to make sure that I didn't say 60% next year.
So that's our long-term goal and my confidence still remains that we've got right plans in place and infrastructure and management focus and business and environment that we can get there.
But the length of time and when we get there is going to be economic dependent and somewhat interest rate dependent.
As I have said before we're highlighting the focus in each of our businesses related to sort of overall expense focus and overall revenue focus and it's just got to continue to be a balance.
And hopefully we have articulated the fact that we've got a lot of intensity and investment on the revenue side and we have got good momentum on there.
But very similarly continued focus on the expense side and again hopefully highlighted by this quarter.
When we started this endeavor on the expense side our quarterly expense run rate was about $1 billion -- a little over $1.5 billion and now we are sort of hovering at a number that's a little bit below $1.4 billion.
So we are getting sort of a permanent structure and I would expect that net of revenue investments that will continue to track down.
Very good.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wanted to get a little more detail in terms of your thinking about future commercial real estate growth that was as you mentioned augmented little bit by an acquisition in the quarter but even excluding that it looked relatively strong.
Just trying to get a better sense as to where you're seeing strength and potentially what markets or what products might be areas that you think are getting a little overheated? Jr.</strong> Yes I mean the good news is that it's pretty broad-based.
So that's a good news and we had a chance to really think through our commercial real estate strategy going forward the focus was to have a very diversified portfolio not only from a product set but also from a geographic set.
So that was -- that's what we said out and we're seeing that.
So while we've seen some office expansion as an example that's one of the opportunities that's been in larger cities with sort of good underlying prospects we've seen growth in the REIT side we've seen growth in the institutional side and we're starting to see within our own markets which is positive.
We're starting to see some of that recovery in virtually all categories multifamily industrial little less office retail clearly on the bottom of that food group in terms of recovery.
So it's pretty broad-based.
In terms of what's soft we look at that from a let's call it a heat-map perspective.
So while we may be investing in multifamily in some of our markets and other of our markets we wouldn't be.
Office sort of very similar industrial very similar and as I mentioned earlier probably the one that's lagging probably more universally is retail and we'll be cautious about that coming out of the cycle.
Sure.
Understood.
Then Aleem I guess a question for you on the mortgage expenses.
Obviously you met your $50 million cost reduction target a bit early but if I look at the numbers in terms of the Mortgage business unit it looks like core expenses there were down about 21% quarter-over-quarter.
Sorry costs were down 27%.
Originations were down little over 20%.
But on a year-over-year basis originations were down about 65% with costs down 30%.
I guess my point is or my question is are there further opportunities for rightsizing the fixed cost in that business? Or do you think you are pretty much where you need to be? That's a good question Matt thank you.
We've actually I think taken -- obviously the variable costs have been coming out over time with a little bit of a lag and you've been seeing that.
As you know we've been working hard to take fixed costs out of the system also.
We've taken a lot of those out but I think we still have some additional opportunities to take out fixed costs out of the system.
Although from here at this level obviously there is less opportunity for us to take more out.
We do have some plans.
We do have some other things that we're working on and over the course of the remainder of this year we'll be trying to take out fixed cost little by little out of that system.
Thanks for taking my question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just ask you a hypothetical.
If -- let's say for argument sake revenue stayed flat sequentially next quarter could the expense run rate go below $1.3 billion? Well that's a tough question.
We've been thinking about our expense rate Keith in the context of a number that starts with a $1.3 billion somewhere between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion.
As Bill said a minute ago if you look at 2011 2012 we are running about $1.550 billion we are now about $1.350 billion.
So we've taken $200 million a quarter out of our run rate and we think we've taken about as much out as we can that's not to say we can't find individual opportunities from here and we are going to be continuing to do that.
I would be thinking about if revenues stay exactly where they are that our expense base would still start with a $1.3 billion.
Now perhaps it would be lower in that range but it would start with a $1.3 billion.
Jr.</strong> Remember maybe sort of -- you gave a quarter hypothetical I mean remember we are sort of in a seasonally low as it relates to a lot of our businesses.
So remember investment banking for the first quarter was seasonally low so we'd expect that to be better in the second quarter.
Mortgage clearly is seasonally low we'd expect the spring season to sort of get up and going and expect some increases there.
And then low day count on the Consumer side which won't be the same thing in the quarter.
But I would say sort of broadly and the reason we are talking so much about the efficiency ratio and if we see revenues staying flat for a really really long period of time then we are going to continue to drive down on the expense side.
I mean we're just would not throwing in the towel on this long-term objective in our business model of getting to sub-60% efficiency ratio.
Fair enough.
And then it looks like your fees to average loan service for others jumped a bit this quarter.
Just curious what drove that and how high can that fee go? Fees you mean in the mortgage side? In the mortgage business yeah it looked like you went to 21 bps from 14 bps.
I wouldn't expect that to go much higher from here.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
And good morning everyone.
Jr.</strong> Good morning.
Just had a follow-up question around the strong commercial real estate loan growth you've been generating.
And I wanted to take a step back and think about what type of ROEs you are generating now really relative to the peak of 2009 2010 also to the value of sort of pre-crisis 2007.
How do you think about that? And maybe even comment on differences in funding costs NIE and credit cost expectations? Well Craig let me start that off.
Overall when I think about our ROEs and -- well perhaps I should start with ROAs in that business.
ROAs overall I think are a little bit lower than we would like them to be now.
And that's a function of all of the liquidity and all of the competition that exists for that business.
And when I talk about ROAs I'm talking about that in the context of just the loan -- just on balance sheet business.
What we're trying to do is supplement ROEs overall by doing other business with those clients and trying to make those relationships not just lending relationships but doing some of the other business that they need and having SunTrust become one of their financial services suppliers across a broad variety of products.
So I think we're starting out in that business as we are growing with lower ROAs than I would like from pure lending.
But we're working to supplement the overall ROEs with additional business.
Jr.</strong> And maybe if you sort of drew a comparison to the past of that is we didn't have a capital markets capability in CRE in the past.
So I like to think about this business as basically thinking about it like an industry vertical within our corporate investment banking businesses.
And we have a lot of investment that we have made on both the debt and equity side in addition to investments we have made on the treasury management side.
So our ability to generate ROA and ROE in addition to the loan product we just have the capability now that we just didn't have before.
So it's sort of a fundamentally different business.
Thanks.
And just a follow-up here.
With your portfolio loan yield now in the Siri book of 2.93% I'm just wondering what was the loan yield on the new business generated in the first quarter.
And if you have any commentary around LTVs or terms that would be helpful too.
Jr.</strong> Well I think when we look at loan yields overall we sort of segregate that business-by-business.
So when you are looking at the wholesale business in the wholesale business new loans that were coming on within CIB and up at sort of the top end of our client base are coming on with a two handle.
And then down into the commercial and business banking space those loans that are coming on are coming on now with a 3 handle.
And then if you look at the LTVs to the portfolios where that's most relevant sort of the consumer portfolio and the commercial real estate portfolio when you think about them on the consumer side I mean the credit quality continues to be really good.
The LTVs are pretty consistently positive so we haven't seen significant really any deterioration on the consumer side.
And then on the commercial real estate side Aleem's comment was right I mean we're frustrated by some of the pricing that's out there but the structure stayed okay.
And similarly we haven't seen sort of massive change in LTV in that portfolio.
All right great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Hi thanks very much.
So a quick follow-up on the LTVs for CRE is up.
Should we assume you're running at about like 65% to 70%? It depends on the -- its Tom Freeman it depends on the individual products set.
In the institutional area I think it's better than that.
In the individual project finance probably in the 70% range is about right in construction loan probably a little higher than that.
Okay.
And better means like lower right? It does to me.
I just want to make sure.
Okay.
And then just my other question was on the LCR we've heard from a couple of other institutions this quarter around what they are kind of triangulating to and how long it's going to take to get there? Just wondering if you can give us a sense to where you are today and what kind of cushion you think you need to run with and how long it takes to get there.
And does it have any indication for NIM or asset sensitivity as you transition towards where you need to be? Well I wish I knew exactly where we did need to be we are waiting on those final rules.
But we're moving now.
We're already transitioning rather than waiting for the final rules to come out.
We'll have -- we'll be above where we need to be by year end.
I'd say we're not quite today where we need to be but by the time the rules come out and by the time they become effective December 31 this year we'll be running at above 80%.
We're determining what kind of cushion we need to have and that probably we'll need to be running at about a 10% cushion above that number.
So I wouldn't be surprised to see us and the industry have some kind of cushion and I would be thinking about that in the context of 10% or so soon after year-end.
Okay.
Where ever you are today relative to the 80% to 90% that you are expecting to be at is embedded in the NIM guidance that you gave us and the asset sensitivity? Jr.</strong> Yes it is.
It's embedded in NIM guidance and in NII guidance.
There is going to be a NIM cost there will be an NII cost to do this but we've incorporated that within the guidance we've already given.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Morning.
Morning Mike.
Just trying to figure out which trend I should be extrapolating here if I look at the quarter-over-quarter trend fourth quarter to first quarter the efficiency ratio improved from 66% to 65% you got the mortgage savings the efficiency improved even while absorbing the seasonal comp increase you beat consensus that all looks good.
If I look at the year-over-year trends it doesn't look so good and that's where the -- it looks like the efficiency ratio got worse in aggregate and in wholesale and consumer the comp ratio went higher revenues to employee went lower.
So which trend is more important the quarterly trend or the year-over-year trend? And what gives you confidence that you'll meet your efficiency target of 64% or less this year when it was higher in the first quarter than that? And maybe if you could just give us some detail how much fixed cost savings do you have left and give us any ballpark how much you investing for revenue growth? Any other concrete ins and outs would be helpful.
Mike I think that was about seven questions but let me see if I can take a crack at that.
I think you've done well in describing a complex business.
We're a good-sized company it's a complex business in a complex area and trying to extrapolate out of a single quarter or even a single year may not give you a really good indication of where the company is headed if you try and do a straight line extrapolation.
But maybe you think about it in this context if you are thinking about the efficiency ratio where are we headed and how can we get there.
Over the last couple of years as we've said earlier we've been very focused on expense management.
Taking $200 million of quarter out of our expense base clearly has been sort of the right thing to do and it has moved us toward this path of improved efficiency overall.
From here where we need to get to is perhaps a more balanced approach and as we think about the remainder of the year and into next year we'll continue to focus on expense cuts.
We do have some additional fixed cost that we're looking at now and that I think we'll be able to take out of the system over the course of the next year or two.
But that alone isn't going to be enough.
We are also focused on revenue growth and revenue growth across a wide variety of businesses.
We're looking at revenue growth in our consumer and private wealth business and we've got several initiatives there.
Bill has talked some about the revenue growth that we're expecting in our wholesale business and with the overall improvement in the economy and stabilization in housing prices perhaps we're going to be able to start to see some more revenue growth from here in the purchase market in mortgage rather than relying as much as we have in the past on the refund market.
So with all of those things coming into place we do think that for the rest of this year we are going to continue to be able to improve our efficiency ratio and keep grinding that down to hit our target for this year.
Jr.</strong> Yeah Mike Bill.
Maybe the easiest way to say it is this quarter's efficiency ratio was ahead of where we thought we would be internally on our path to 64% so maybe sort of given all the puts and takes that we know and that we put in into that forecast.
We talked a little bit about Wholesale Banking and some of the investments that we're making and some of the revenue per FTE.
As you well know we're continuing to invest in that business.
We feel good about it.
Part of that revenue to FTE our expansion has to do with some of the expansion we're doing in our national Corporate Banking expansion with offices in Dallas Chicago San Francisco.
And as you know that takes a while to build up and you've got the investment ahead of that but similar to what I said about the efficiency ratio it's also ahead of where we thought we'd be.
So we're seeing a good progress there.
Then just one follow-up.
I heard during the call saying that some of the improvement is economic dependent interest rate dependent macro dependent.
So even though you're ahead of where you thought you'd be in Wholesale and the efficiency overall if the economy or interest rates the macro environment doesn't pan out as you expect now do you still think you can get below the 64% ratio? Jr.</strong> Yeah I think just on the short-term basis on the 64% I mean we're not projecting massive increase in rates GDP jumping to 5% or whatever.
We're assuming that that's the environment that we're in.
That we're in a 2% to 3% GDP.
We're in a low rate environment and we don't see a material short-term change.
Most of those comments I think related to the overall long-term goal of getting to 60%.
I think that's where it's a bit more macro dependent whereas this year is a bit more micro dependent.
All right.
Thank you.
Good morning.
First question just in response to what we're talking about inefficiency ratio you showed on that page.
I don't think the first quarter of '13 was adjusted for the positive accrual you had in incentives last year.
You did take out the affordable housing in this quarter of this year but I don't think the expense that you had a benefit from in last year was adjusted in that lower efficiency ratio? Marty you are 100% correct.
You are exactly right and you see that on the efficiency ratio page you also see that later when you look at the Wholesale Bank page and the expense base there where that number was adjusted down one-time at the first quarter of '13.
You are 100% correct.
Thank you.
So I think when you adjust that then you would see the efficiency improving year-over-year as well as sequentially? That's the -- just the Bill's comments that when we look at Q1 this year we feel pretty good we're I think slightly ahead of our plan for the year and we think we're on a really good trajectory for the remainder of this year to achieve our target.
Other thing Aleem if you can just take couple of minutes the swap income reduction is a big issue for everybody kind of thinking into next year.
I just thought if we could compartmentalize that a little bit better so if you say we're going to lose $67 million going for $102 million down to $35 million just for mathematic and just kind of thought process what if you replaced those swaps today.
How much of the $67 million could you actually replace at the current rate today at current market? Well Marty I probably wouldn't want to replace those swaps with other swaps because the whole plan of swaps is actually designed to make us more asset sensitive in the future which is exactly where we'd like to be.
Right.
I'm not saying you'd want to actually do that.
I was just trying to compartmentalize the $67 million into two pieces.
One is one that it's really related to you becoming more asset sensitive well that's a decision that you give out because you are making that decision.
And then the second part is how much more asset sensitive are you becoming giving up that $67 million or 100 basis points.
So we give up this we are getting this that's what I'm trying to build that trade off.
Okay right.
So if you think -- let's think about it this way.
We ended the quarter with asset sensitivity rate of about 2.3% so if we get a 100 basis point increase in rates now 2.3% of sort of $5 billion odd in net interest income per year will get us about $115 million a year back.
And then as the swaps roll off as we become more asset sensitive then you to think about that in context of every billion dollars that rolls off in the swaps.
If you go back and look at our K we've shown you what the roll off schedule looks like for swaps over the next couple of years.
Every billion dollars gets us about 0.2% more asset sensitive.
So by the time we get to 2015 and 2016 all things being equal you could see a path where we are twice as asset sensitive than as we are today.
So in that sense you'd be giving up out $67 million to benefit by let's say $120 million about twice -- almost twice as much? Something like that.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Yeah if we get to 100 basis point parallel increase.
We have time for one more question.
Jane? Thank you.
Our final question comes from John Pancari with Evercore.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Morning John.
Just on the granularity a little bit here on the expenses.
The other expenses were particularly low in the quarter even adjusting for the low income housing credit adjustment and also the processing itself were significantly lower than we had thought.
So I just want to see if you can give us an idea of the run rate to expect in those areas.
Well I think we're looking at sort of general an overall run rate across the board.
One of the reasons expenses might be down in one area is we've got an increase in another area.
So rather than focusing on the line by line issue John if you think about the total number from here on to the rest of the year I do think that we are in generally the right band for expenses.
And I would expect that if we don't get revenue increases we'd see the overall expense base stay around this level sort of low 1.3%.
But as Bill said a few minutes ago we are looking to get some revenue growth between now and the end of the year.
And our challenge and what we are going to be working on doing for the remainder of the year is taking that revenue growth in but still managing the expense base tightly in order to keep the efficiency ratio still moving downward.
Jr.</strong> And there is just a lot of good efficiency things within that other expense category.
And it will fluctuate up and down but core we are more -- we are doing things more efficiently that show up there.
Okay.
So given that and given your comments that you're tracking ahead of your 64% target at this point no -- is there no decision at this point to potentially lower that target? Well I think for '14 we have set the target.
And -- let's be clear it's not an easy target.
This is we are working hard to get there.
We are going to continue to work hard to get there this year but that's a target for this year.
And once we achieve it we are going to be setting ourselves a higher bar for next year and you already know what our medium term target is which is substantially more difficult than where we are now.
Okay.
Great.
And then lastly just one other thing on the swap income I know you just gave good color about that you probably wouldn't replace the additional swaps.
But any other activities either in the bond book or elsewhere outside of natural asset sensitivity that you could do to offset or to replace that foregone income? Jr.</strong> Well we have been taking actions.
In the first quarter we did take some actions in our on balance sheet portfolio and we also did take some actions actually in the swap book in our off balance sheet portfolio.
If you look at the total of those books now we're running at about an overall duration between those books at a little bit over three years.
And I feel actually feel pretty comfortable with that kind of a number I wouldn't want to be extending that out much more from here thinking about where rates are very likely to go over the next couple of years.
So our overall focus to grow income is going to be less in the on and off balance sheet securities portfolios and it's going to be much more in doing client business and growing both low and fee income with clients.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
All right.
Jane this concludes our call.
Thanks to everyone for joining us today.
If you have further questions please feel free to contact the IR department.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the SunTrust Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Ankur Vyas Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us.
In addition to today's press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules can be accessed within the Investor Relations section of our website www.suntrust.com.
With me today among other members of our Executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures when talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website www.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Ankur.
So usual I'll begin this morning with a brief overview of the quarter and then turn it over to Aleem for details on the consolidated results.
I'll then wrap up my comments by reviewing our performance at the business segment level.
Reported earnings per share for the quarter was $0.72 on net income to common on 387 million.
Earnings per share were negatively impacted by certain non-core items this quarter primarily the resolution of the HAMP investigation which was partially offset by the sale of RidgeWorth our asset management subsidiary.
We'll discuss both of these items in further detail later in the presentation.
And where appropriate we'll discuss our financial results on an adjusted basis to make sure the underlying core story is more clear.
The net impact of these items was a negative $0.09.
And excluding them earnings per share were $0.81 or net income to common of $436 million.
This represented 19% growth in EPS compared to the second quarter of 2013 and was also 11% higher than the previous quarter.
Our results this quarter reflected solid performance across a number of key areas including continued broad-based loan growth good deposit growth increased non-interest income and strong asset quality performance.
Adjusted revenue increased 3% over the prior quarter and was relatively unchanged from prior year.
Looking at the component parts net interest income was relatively flat as the benefit of loan growth was offset by a decline in loan yields.
Adjusted non-interest income increased $66 million relative to the prior quarter with solid growth across a number of fee income categories most notably in investment banking.
Compared to the prior year adjusted non-interest income was relatively unchanged as higher investment banking and retail investment income negated the decline in mortgage related income.
Adjusted expenses were slightly higher than the first quarter as the seasonal decline in personnel expenses was offset by modest increases in certain cost categories and higher operating losses.
Compared to the prior year adjusted expenses were down 4% due to a decline in cyclical cost and our continued focus on overall disciplined expense management.
Maybe more importantly our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio declined 130 basis points sequentially and 230 basis points compared to the prior year.
The sequential process reflected the solid revenue momentum we generated this quarter which is we've said before will become an increasingly important component of achieving our efficiency ratio goals.
Our performance this quarter brings our year-to-date adjusted tangible efficiency ratio to 64.2%.
And while this keeps us on track to achieve our better than 64% goal for the full year it certainly does not reduce our focus on executing the revenue and expense initiatives throughout the company.
Average performing loans increased 2% sequentially driven by growth in our C&amp;I commercial real estate and consumer portfolios.
In particular I'm pleased with the breadth of our loan growth as it's across many industry verticals lines of businesses and geographies.
This is the result of our concerted efforts to better diversify our business mix.
Average client deposits were also up 2% compared to the prior quarter with a favorable mixed shift towards lower-cost deposits continuing.
Our credit quality performance continues to be on a positive trend.
Non-performing loans declined 3% from the prior quarter and 21% from last year while the net charge-off ratio remained steady at 35 basis points.
We also completed some modest balance sheet management actions this quarter in order to reduce risk improve the liquidity and increase long-term returns.
Aleem will cover the details of these actions later in the presentation.
Finally our capital position remains solid with tier 1 common estimated to be 9.7% on both the Basil I and Basil III basis.
Our recap we achieved core operating momentum across each of our businesses while maintaining strong fundamentals in the form of our asset quality and capital position.
Completing the sale of RidgeWorth and resolving key legacy mortgage matters allows us to more firmly focus our efforts on expanding and deepening our client relationships and improving the profitability of our company.
I'll turn it over to Aleem to provide some more details.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Before we delve into our normal review of operating performance I'll quickly review the significant items that impacted this quarter's results.
First we completed the sale of RidgeWorth which resulted in a $105 million pre-tax gains which is modestly higher than the amount we advised when we announced the transaction.
Second we reached a definitive agreement with the government to resolve claims related to SunTrust Mortgage's administration of HAMP which resulted in a $204 million pre-tax charge.
And lastly we recorded a $25 million net benefit related to the progression of certain previously disclosed legacy mortgage matters.
Excluding the impact of these three items which in aggregate were negative $0.09 per share earnings per share were $0.81 which as Bill said was 19% higher than the prior year and 11% higher than Q1 of this year.
The year-over-year increase was driven by growth in investment banking income higher mortgage servicing income given lower refinance activity and improved asset quality which benefited both the provision expense and our adjusted cyclical costs.
These positive trends more than offset an $81 million decline in mortgage production income.
The sequential quarter earnings increase was driven by broad-based growth across most non-interest income categories and a decline in the provision expense due to improved asset quality which more than offset a return to a more normal effective tax rate this quarter.
We'll now review the underlying trends in more detail starting on Slide 5.
Net interest income was generally stable relative to the prior quarter as solid loan growth was balanced by loan yield compression.
Net interest margin declined 8 basis points primarily due to a 7 basis point decline in loan yields.
The decline in loan yields was most notable in our C&amp;I book though we also felt this in our non-guaranteed residential mortgage and indirect auto portfolios.
The drivers of our loan yield compression are a mix shift as wholesale banking is growing at a faster rate than the rest of the portfolio and continued competition in our markets and businesses.
While loan yields in the wholesale segment are typically lower this is an isolated view that does not capture non-interest income and deposit revenue.
Our focus is on meeting the full suite of our clients' needs and maintaining a disciplined view of entire relationship returns.
Securities yields declined 10 basis points sequentially due to a combination of lower reinvestment yields and higher premium amortization in the quarter as MBS cash flows increased.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 net interest income was also relatively flat as the aforementioned combination of loan growth and loan yield compression neutralized each other.
Net interest margin declined 14 basis points compared to the prior year primarily driven by lower loan yields though modestly offset by lower deposit costs and higher securities yields.
Looking forward we would expect full year 2014 net interest margin to decline compared to 2013 albeit at a slightly lower pace than the decline from 2012 to 2013 which was 16 basis points.
This is primarily due to continued compression in loan yields and lower commercial loan swap income.
You will recall that as our commercial loan swaps mature over the next few years we become more asset sensitive which is a conscious design of our balance sheet management strategy over the medium term.
Moving to Slide 6 adjusted non-interest income increased $66 million from the prior quarter driven by broad-based growth across most fee income categories.
Investment banking was the notable driver of growth up $31 million sequentially with strong client-driven momentum across most products and businesses.
Mortgage production income increased $9 million sequentially or 21% as closed loan production increased 31% and gain on sale margins declined slightly.
Mortgage servicing income declined $9 million sequentially due to higher decay of the MSR asset a result of increased prepayment speeds during the quarter.
Retail investment services continued its positive trends resulting from our ongoing focus on meeting more clients' wealth and investment needs.
Trust and investment management income declined $14 million sequentially driven entirely by the loss of RidgeWorth's revenue stream during June.
For the five months ended May 31st RidgeWorth contributed approximately $20 million to SunTrust's pre-tax income.
Service charges for deposits increased $5 million sequentially primarily driven by normal seasonal patterns between the first and second quarters.
Card fees were also up $6 million or 8% as our clients are increasingly seeing the value proposition of the SunTrust card offering.
Other non-interest income excluding the sale of RidgeWorth increased $27 million sequentially primarily driven by a $19 million gain from the sale of government guaranteed mortgage loans the details of which I will cover on Slide 10.
Compared to the second quarter of last year adjusted non-interest income was flat as growth in mortgage servicing investment banking and retail investment services counteracted the lower mortgage production income.
Let's now move on to expenses on Slide 7.
Adjusted non-interest expense increased $17 million relative to the prior quarter and declined $49 million relative to the prior year.
Personnel expense declined $37 million sequentially primarily driven by the anticipated seasonal decrease in 401(k) and FICA related costs.
This decline was offset by $11 million in higher outside processing and software costs and $5 million in marketing expenses both of which are typically lower in the first quarter.
In addition other non-interest expense excluding the $36 million legacy affordable housing impairment in the first quarter increased $24 million driven by higher legal and consulting fees alongside of certain discrete asset write-downs.
Lastly adjusted cyclical costs increased $21 million sequentially primarily driven by an increase in operating losses which as we have stated in the past can be variable.
Excluding operating losses we would not expect significant variability in cyclical costs going forward.
Compared to the prior year adjusted non-interest expense declined $49 million which was primarily driven by lower cyclical costs and our continued focus on expense management partially offset by higher personnel expenses which is primarily the result of targeted hiring and revenue producing positions.
As you can see on Slide 8 and as Bill mentioned our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio improved 63.6% from 64.9% in the prior quarter as the revenue growth we delivered in the quarter was greater than the modest increase in adjusted expenses.
This brings our year-to-date adjusted tangible efficiency ratio to 64.2%.
We will need to continue to execute on our revenue and expense plans to achieve our less than 64% target for the full year 2014.
Our long-term efficiency ratio target continues to be below 60%.
Turning to credit quality on Slide 9 asset quality metrics remained favorable this quarter though sequential quarter improvements continued to moderate.
Non-performing loans declined 3% sequentially and 21% year-over-year driven primarily by continued improvements in the residential loan portfolio.
The net charge-off ratio remained at 35 basis points.
We sold $149 million of accruing TDRs this quarter that further enhance our asset quality position.
The financial impact of the TDR sale included $10 million in net charge-offs a $16 million reduction in the allowance and therefore a $6 million reduction to the lower mass provision.
While the TDR sale will not materially change our reported asset quality metrics it will have a modest positive benefit on certain rating agencies and regulatory calculations.
Improvements in asset quality and the TDR sale were the drivers of a $37 million sequential decline in the allowance a 3 basis point reduction in the allowance ratio and a $29 million decline in the provision for credit losses.
Going forward we would expect continued but modest improvements in non-performing loans primarily driven by the residential portfolio.
We would also expect net charge-offs in the residential portfolio to drift modestly lower in the near term.
However commercial and consumer net charge-offs are already at or below normal levels and will at some point revert to the mean.
Over the near term we would expect the allowance to remain generally stable as any asset quality improvements may be counterbalanced by loan growth.
And as a result the loan loss provision should roughly approximate net charge-offs.
However as you know the ultimate level of reserves will be determined based on our rigorous review processes.
Turning to balance sheet trends on Slide 10 average performing loans increased $2.3 billion or 2%.
Growth was driven by the C&amp;I CRE and consumer portfolios and partially offset by a slight decline in the residential portfolio.
C&amp;I loan growth was broad based and driven by the commercial auto dealer group alongside increases across most CIB industry verticals.
CRE loans were up 8% sequentially due to growth in our institutional business success in our REIT platform and a portfolio acquisition.
Consumer loans were also up modestly given growth in our consumer direct indirect auto and credit card portfolios.
Average residential loans declined approximately $600 million driven by legacy asset run-off and the impact of targeted balance sheet management actions.
We sold $325 million of government-guaranteed mortgages this quarter which resulted in the aforementioned $19 million gain reported in other income.
We also sold $149 million of accruing TDRs which I previously discussed.
In addition we transferred $2.1 billion of government-guaranteed mortgages to loans held for sale in anticipation of selling those loans during the third quarter.
We currently plan on reinvesting the proceeds of the government-guaranteed mortgage loan sales into high-quality liquid securities that are compliant with the forthcoming LCR requirements.
We expect the resulting balance sheet profile to be revenue-neutral and LCR-positive.
Pro forma for these actions we expect to be substantially compliant with the proposed LCR rules issued last year.
Relative to the prior year average performing loans increased $9.8 billion or 8% driven by broad-based growth across most portfolios.
We continue to do our part to support our clients and to help grow [ph] the income.
Turning now to deposit performance average client deposits were up 2% compared to the prior quarter and 3% compared to the second quarter of 2013 as solid growth in low-cost deposits was partially offset by timed deposit run-off in particular maturities of our higher-cost CDs.
This continued favorable shift in deposit mix helped move interest-bearing deposit costs down by 2 basis points and 6 basis points respectively compared to the prior quarter and prior year.
Slide 12 provides an update on our capital position.
Tier 1 common equity expanded by approximately $300 million as a result of growth in retained earnings while the estimated Basil III common equity tier 1 ratio stayed stable at 9.7%.
Tangible book value per share increased 3% from the prior quarter and a full 10% compared to the prior year due to the growth in retained earnings and higher AOCI.
During the period we increased our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.10 to $0.20 per our previously approved capital plan.
In addition we repurchased $83 million in common stock which was modestly lower than originally planned given guidance the industry received from the Federal Reserve in the second quarter.
This guidance limits a bank holding company's ability to make capital distributions to the extent but its capital issuances including employee share-based compensation are less than the amount indicated in its submitted capital plan.
Given this new guidance and our forecast for employee-related share-based compensation our gross four quarter buyback program will be approximately $50 million lower than the $450 million maximum in our original capital plan.
The net share dilution impact from this change is immaterial.
With that I'll now turn things back over to Bill to cover the business segment performance.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem.
The core operating momentum generated in each of our business segments helped drive the overall solid quarter corporate results we've discussed this morning.
And our consumer banking and private wealth management business net income was up 7% compared to the prior quarter and prior year.
The momentum in this business is improving in both non-interest income and from lending activity.
I'm pleased with the growth in retail investment income as it's evidence of the partnership between our Premier Banker's branch managers and financial advisors all centered around better serving the savings and investment needs of our branch-based clients.
Card fees are also up due to higher purchase volume related to clients' increased utilization of our credit card product.
Our focus in these areas is particularly important given the pressures on more traditional consumer banking related fee income sources.
Consumer loan production was strong this quarter up 18% year-over-year driven mainly by growth in our credit card and LightStream businesses.
This growth however continues to be muted by run-off in our home equity portfolio.
Provision for credit losses declined both sequentially and year-over-year driven by continued improvement in the asset quality of our home equity portfolio.
Expenses were up 6% in this segment compared to the prior year driven primarily by targeted investments in revenue-generation positions particularly in the wealth and investment side of the business in addition to some smaller discrete charges incurred in the current quarter all of which are focused on improving the long-term efficiency ratio.
We continue to make progress in this segment.
Our investments in technology and people combined with early efficiency initiatives and continued credit improvement are tracking positively against the impact of low rate environment.
Now let's take a closer look at our wholesale business.
Our wholesale business posted a very strong quarter with net income up 7% year-over-year and 21% sequentially.
In particular we delivered a record performance in investment banking fees which was the primary driver of the notable non-interest income growth during the quarter.
Our performance here is reflective of consistent investments we've made in CIB over the past few years.
The recent success can be attributed to expanding product capabilities as M&amp;A and equity related revenues in particular were more accretive to our overall capital markets product performance.
We're also doing a better job of serving our corporate and commercial banking clients' capital markets needs which is evidence of our improving client reach.
Net interest income increased 6% year-over-year due to good loan growth and deposit growth.
The continuing declines in loan yields counterbalanced some of this growth.
Wholesale loan growth momentum continued as average loans grew 4% sequentially and 15% year-over-year.
Loan growth was broad based led by CRE commercial auto dealer corporate banking expansion activities and CIB's asset securitization and energy practice groups.
Deposit growth was also solid with increases across each line of business.
Our pipeline has also increased this quarter which is normally a good predictor of wholesale loan growth prospects that are for the remainder of the year.
Competition however remains tough which may lead to ongoing pricing pressure.
Our focus will remain on serving our clients financing the growth needs while ensuring we earn an appropriate overall relationship return.
We continue to invest in our wholesale business to broaden our client base and better serve their needs.
We've opened offices outside our traditional regional markets and are pleased with our progress thus far in our ability to attract talent and business.
More broadly we're optimistic about the growth and profitability outlook of this segment.
Now moving on to mortgage as we previously disclosed we resolved certain key legacy mortgage matters this quarter.
First we announced definitive agreements with the government to resolve FHA related origination matters alongside the national mortgage servicing settlement.
Secondly as discussed earlier we entered into a settlement agreement regarding our administration of the HAMP modification program.
These agreements resulted in significant cost but settling them was the right course of action for our shareholders team mates communities and clients.
Excluding the impact of legacy mortgage matters this quarter mortgage banking net income increased 17% sequentially.
Getting this business to a level of sustained profitability is an important goal and this quarter's performance is another step in that direction.
Taking a closer look at revenue non-interest income increased sequentially as higher production income and the gain on sale of guaranteed mortgage loans more than offset the decline in servicing income.
Total closed loan volume increased 31% sequentially driven by increased purchase originations associated with the spring and summer selling season.
Adjusted expenses were stable sequentially a solid accomplishment that reflects the continued focus on our cost saving efforts which neutralized the higher cost typically associated with improved production.
Provision declines continued given the ongoing improvement in the credit quality of the residential mortgage portfolio.
The mortgage market continues to improve albeit at a lower rate than we and the industry had initially expected at the beginning of the year.
The market continues to be supportive by good overall affordability though inventory level's building activity in the amount of first time home buying continued to dampen broader mortgage origination volumes.
With the resolution of additional legacy mortgage matters this quarter we can further sharpen our focus on meeting more of our client needs and generating sustained profitability in the mortgage segment.
So in summary this quarter's consolidated performance reflected solid momentum across each of our businesses particularly on the revenue side.
Our markets are exhibiting favorable macroeconomic trends and housing continues to improve.
Our clients from consumers to small business to corporate feel increasingly positive about their prospects and we continue to invest in our team mates and businesses to ensure we can light the way to their financial wellbeing.
Ankur I'll turn it back over to you for Q&amp;A.
Thanks.
Wendy we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
As we do so I'd like to ask the participants to please limit yourself to one primary question and one follow-up in order that we can accommodate as many of you as possible today.
(Operator Instructions) The first question today is from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Just if I can start on the efficiency ratio as we think about the back half of the year and into 2015 I guess first for the second half I know you guys were looking at $1.5 billion worth of expenses.
While it doesn't sound like you're going to be giving us formal cost targets there is there any of that in the current run rate and should we expect to see another step-down in costs from that program? And then second I know you're probably not ready to give us 2015 guidance at this point but can you just talk about what you think some of the key levers are going to be for you to make efficiency improvement in 2015 just given the $235 million-or-so fall-off from swap income? Most importantly what we're continuing to focus on is our below-64% efficiency ratio for this year.
And I think we made some good progress this quarter.
As we highlighted we're going to start reaching inflection points where we want revenue to be a larger component of that efficiency ratio.
Achievement in this quarter was while maybe not the inflection point maybe good evidence of the starting of an inflection point.
As it relates to the ops costs that we've talked sort of $1.5 billion that we're underway I mean we have roughly 100 different specific projects against all of those opportunities.
And they're in the type of areas you'd expect ATM consolidation of how we process call centers lending centers vendor relationships check image and branches.
The list sort of goes on and on as they're set up to up to 100 different things.
The reason that we've been careful about assigning a number to that I think is probably evidence in this quarter because we're going to make sure that we continue to also make the investments long term and our ability to achieve the revenue that we need.
So I feel good about where we are on the ops cost.
How much of that will actually manifest itself in '14 will really be dependent on sort of how we look at our additional investments on the revenue side.
So let me come back to the expense point just for a moment.
Part of your question was will we see another step-down.
And I think the answer to there is generally no.
We saw the big step-down already and that was from 2012 to 2013.
And you saw what we did then was take a full 13% out of our expense base between sort of '11 and '12 rate now into the '13 and '14 rate.
So the big step-down in costs I think has already happened.
In the near term as I look at our overall expense base we're managing it within that sort of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion level quarterly and that of course is revenue dependent.
If revenue stays where it is or falls you'd see that number come off a little.
If revenue moves up considerably you'd see that expense number probably move up to where the top end of that range.
And I think you saw a little bit of that this quarter when revenue is this quarter up about $60 million and expense is up about $20 million.
So that kind of a ratio that's a trade we'd take any day to continue to grow our improvement in efficiency and continue to get the efficiency ratio down.
As you heard Bill say that's what we're really focused on becoming a more effective more efficient company and a little bit less orientation toward the exact expense number.
And if I can ask one follow-up more longer-term when we think about your asset sensitivity I know we've spent a lot of time talking about the impact of the swap roll-off over time.
However when I look at Slide 9 you've done a lot to improve the deposit base and you highlighted that in the prepared remarks.
And we've heard peers talking about a pretty wide range in terms of potential outflows.
So just can you remind us in your plus-3.2% what you're assuming for both outflows and deposit betas? I think on my math you were at about a 60% beta last cycle.
However given some of the improvements that you've made in the base I would expect that to be lower this time.
So any color you can provide there would be helpful.
Yeah of course it's really difficult to say because it depends very much on exactly how the rate cycle changes how rates move whether it's more long rates or more short rates or whether they go in parallel what the economy looks like at that time.
Having said all of that when we think about it and we think about the last time around and what could happen this time it seems to me that we're going to see deposit betas mostly for the industry in that sort of 40% to 70%.
To your 60% number I think is dead on.
But I would also say that given the enormous amount of liquidity there is in the system that deposits rates probably lag somewhat as overall rates go up that there's probably no need for deposit rates to move up quickly as overall rates move up.
And so I think this time could be a little bit different as we think about what betas look like just because there is so much more liquidity overall in the system this time.
And Ryan I think you're accurate to point out all the change in the construct of our deposit base as well.
I mean on deposits now are less than 15% of our total deposit base.
So there has been a lot of change.
And as you can imagine deposit betas is a rich discussion that we have maybe daily in the company.
The next question is from John Pancari with Evercore.
This is Steve Moss for John.
Regarding loan growth here you guys sounded a bit more optimistic in terms of the overall balance sheet trends.
Should we look for a pickup here with regard to loan growth? And then the second part I did notice that the commercial real estate loan growth did slow.
Wondering if you could give some color on those dynamics? I mean this was a very good loan growth quarter.
We indicated that we're optimistic about pipeline and things that we see.
But I want to be careful about sort of taking this quarter and extrapolating it long term because it was a very very particularly good quarter.
As it relates to CRE it's going to just be bumpy on the way up.
It's up 42% sort of year-over-year.
So any one individual quarter based on something we might do off a smaller base is going to be a little bumpy.
So I still feel very good about CRE.
I feel very good about the track we're on quality of the assets that we're adding and the long-term opportunity.
I haven't changed my view on that a bit related to this quarter.
The next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
My first question is just about net interest income.
It looks like Aleem to your point about the core compression you're kind of running in place on a core NII basis if I take out the hedge benefit.
And noting your slide with the updated data can you talk us through whether or not it's reasonable to expect core net interest income to grow from here? And with the loan growth can you see any acceleration in core growth or will the core NIM compression keep you kind of just running flat for now? I think you almost gave up the answer right in your question.
Obviously NII is overall very loan growth dependent.
As we look at loan growth and as we look at a continued grind downward in NIM we are expecting and we hope to be able to deliver NII that does continue to grow year-over-year.
The full year this year we're expecting and we hope we will be able to sell more than last year.
But as you said in your question it is loan growth dependent.
Our frontline team mates have been able to deliver a very steady nice loan growth to us so far this year.
And if we can continue that we are looking to see NII continue to move up and offset that decline in margins.
Is it fair to say that that's a trend that you could expect next year because I know it's early to give explicit guidance on next year? But the swap roll-off looking to be about $240 million or so next year do you think you can also produce NII dollars growth on a reported basis as you get into '15 as well? Well that's what we're going to be working hard to do.
Obviously again very economy dependent.
But if the economy does continue to grow the way we expect and we're able to meet more client needs across more of our footprint in all of our segments then that's what we're going to be targeting.
Just my follow-up on that will just be then on the NIM on the core you mentioned all-in NIM being down a little bit less than this year.
But do you see the core NIM stabilizing any time soon from that loan yield compression or is there just until rates go up a kind of continued drip in the NIM? Ken that's a really good question.
I think there is a continued drip in the NIM for now.
But if you assume that rates don't fall anymore from where they are today I do think NIMs will start to stabilize in 2015.
They will grind down between now and then.
But assuming overall rates don't fall anymore between now and then I think we will see stabilization next year.
We always tend to delink NII and non-interest income and I think they need to be better linked.
I mean you can see the focus that we've had on building out our fee capability probably CIB and investment banking or the most notable examples of that but they're linked.
So we see good growth in C&amp;I loan growth.
It's under a lot of margin pressure.
But you can also say we're driving a lot more fee income off that loan base.
Our average fee is up about 30% year-over-year.
So our effectiveness and sort of moving from that right side to that left side and being more impactful for what we can do for clients those two things are linked.
I think it's important to maybe think about them together.
The next question is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
Your capital is obviously very strong.
And when you came through the CCAR I think your capital was reduced by less than 200 basis points during that process.
What's your guys' view on what's a comfortable tier 1 common ratio that you want to get to once we finally get through these CCARs and everybody knows what to expect in a year or two? I think over time we're getting more and more clarity on this as the regulatory view and the industry view converges.
I'll tell you I don't think we have perfect clarity today but I'm feeling better about where we are today relative to where we were a couple of years ago.
If I think about where I think we'll end up you've got to start with the regulatory numbers you have to start with 7.
Add on a sort of potential SIFI buffer whatever you think that will be.
And then we'll have our own internal board that buffer on top of that of course because we never want to go through the SIFI buffer.
So you put all those together and it's a number that starts with an 8 and that's a little bit more clarity than I'd say we had a couple of years ago.
I don't think I can tell you today whether it's a low-8 or a high-8 but I think it starts with an 8.
And then it depends on how the stress test change over time.
I think we're getting more and more visibility into the CCAR process the nature of those tests and the effect that those tests are going to have on the industry overall and on us.
But having said all that it's 9-somewhere today.
So over the medium term whatever the medium term is I would be looking for a stability in the short term and a decline in the medium term toward some number that starts with an 8-somewhere.
You guys mentioned on the call about the margin coming down a bit due to a greater presence of the wholesale portfolio getting larger.
What's causing the C&amp;I loans in your average yield table where the yield in the C&amp;I loans was down a fair amount? Is it just competition or what's causing the yield compression in the C&amp;I loan portion of the loan book? Well overall there're two points that you referenced Gerard.
One is that our overall portfolio mix is changing.
You'll recall that going into the financial crisis we were very much oriented toward residential mortgage but perhaps overly concentrated in that product line.
And over the last several years we've been working hard to optimize the mix within our balance sheet become more diversified.
One of the effects of becoming more diversified and reducing the sort of future risking as in volatility of our earnings is that as wholesale grows as a component of our overall mix wholesale yields are a little bit lower than retail and consumer yields.
But that's one of the things that's bringing margin down a little bit.
The other thing is just the sheer amount of competition in the C&amp;I space overall.
And as overall margins decline in that space that's affecting us too.
One thing you might want to look at that might help you is if you look for example that BBB bond spreads and look at how they've changed over time you'll see that quarter-over-quarter BBB bond spreads dropped 18 basis points Q1 to Q2.
That's kind of the space in which a lot of regional banks play in when it comes to meeting corporate client needs.
So that's one of the things that's affecting us.
The next question is from Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Can I go back and talk about the RPL to TDR sales? You said in the prepared remarks that you sold about $149 million.
Did you take a loss on that? I can't find it in the documents.
Did you take a loss or a gain on that sale? Maybe here is the way to think about that Paul.
We took a charge of $10 million on that sale.
However we already had $16 million in reserves that were specifically identified to that portfolio.
So the net effect of everything was actually a $6 million reduction in our provision expense for this quarter.
You have about close to $2.6 billion of this stuff sitting on your balance sheet still because right now we're hearing that the pricing for RPLs is very competitive.
Is there plans to sell some more of that down? Well we've got a pretty good experience this quarter.
The net effect of that sale was $6 million reduction in our provision expense and an improvement in some of our credit agency and regulatory metrics.
So pricing is good.
We're set well.
We've got a good experience.
We don't have immediate plans to sell any more right now.
But what we learned the last quarter I think was helpful as we think about our overall balance sheet profile as we look into next year.
I know there's different prices for stuff that's been current for 24 months versus current for 12 months and stuff like that.
I was just interested in what type of stuff you sold? I'm sure Ankur and team would be happy to talk with you.
The next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Could you elaborate more on Robinson Humphrey? You said you had record investment banking fees.
It looks like the revenues grew twice the pace of the five big banks.
Just give some color on maybe the mix.
You mentioned equities and mergers if you can mention the net income ROE.
It seems like it's over half of wholesale.
So more disclosure would certainly be appreciated.
And then lastly you mentioned your capital ratio should start with an 8 whereas the largest investment banking players have capital ratios that start with at least a 9.
So are you looking to maybe price more competitively? The 9 might work well for the large investment banks sort of the Wall Street banks.
That's really not us.
We're a main street bank and the business that we do in our corporate investment banking set of businesses is really very much aimed at meeting client needs.
So given the size of our business and given how vanilla it is relative to some of the more complex businesses that you might be used to covering the overall capital ratio for us in the context of mix against the rest of our portfolio the consumer business the private wealth business the mortgage businesswe think makes much more sense for us to be in the 8 level rather than the 9 level.
And then Mike I'll also talk about the fees side of the business.
And as you know this is an area that we've been investing in starting with the acquisition of the institutional business of Robinson Humphrey but making sort of continued and steady investments in virtually all parts of that business.
The bulk of that let's call it 60% to 70% would be in the syndication high-yield bond origination investment-grade bond origination tax exempt bond origination so to think about as the traditional debt part of the business and that's just continued to track up sort of consistently every quarter rationalized for every quarter.
And then what we talk about is just more kick in on the M&amp;A part of the business more kick in on the equity part of the business.
So instead of an eight-cylinder engine hitting on six cylinders hard all eight cylinders are now starting to pump pretty aggressively.
Relative to the others I mean you sort of think about one of the big differences is think about the trading component.
So our trading business is very issuer-driven and it was down about 6%.
Others were down obviously multiples of that in the larger course.
So that might explain a little bit of the difference.
And again ours is just reflective of continued investment continued slogging it out adding good talent high receptivity from our clients.
I think they have been very receptive to a middle market investment banking business with capital.
And I assume this is what you mean when you say grow revenues per every dollar of expense to improve your efficiency ratio.
I think I missed your guidance for 2015 or maybe you didn't give it.
So 2015 efficiency ratio it was 63.6% in the second quarter.
Where do you think that will be in 2015? Mike we haven't actually given guidance yet for 2015.
We'll do so as we get closer around the end of the year.
Is it safe to assume that it would be below 64% since that's your target for 2014 or will the run-off of swap revenues push that back higher? Mike we want to get better every year.
We intend to become a more efficient company every year with a long-term target of below 60%.
So directionally it's safe to assume it will be down.
Our final question today is from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
Actually it's Jason Harbes from Matt's team.
So just want to follow-up on loan growth.
I mean it looks like your loan growth was best-in-class this quarter but you sounded a little bit less optimistic looking into the second half.
Just kind of wondering is that a function of the transfer of the guaranteed mortgages or are you seeing any signs of softening across any of your markets? Let me be clear.
I didn't mean to be less optimistic.
I just want to be careful about annualizing the quarter too many times.
Based on what we see with pipelines what we see from our clients utilization rates are being slightly up.
Our availability being up as well as growth being up I don't have the reason to be other than optimistic about where we are from a loan growth standpoint.
Jason I appreciate you pointing out the $2 billion sale.
Obviously that will affect our total loans.
But as I said earlier that $2 billion moves into securities and you expect the lower effect on the revenue to be immaterial.
I guess my follow-up would be are you seeing any more or greater strength in the Florida market versus some of your other markets any other noteworthy differences? I think in the past Bill you've talked about the Florida market being higher beta and the economy down there does seem to be outperforming.
So just curious if you can give us any update there.
I'd say universally we feel better about what's going on in the Florida market.
Housing is certainly stronger virtually across every market and some markets very very good.
Our commercial activity in Florida is also good.
Some of our top performing commercial units are in Florida.
Our consumer business like I've said before never really had the fall-off but it continues to be sort of consistent with the rest of the company.
All the data we see on Florida and the time I spent there is positive.
Tourism industry is sort of going gang busters.
Net in migration back in to the state at a pretty high clip.
Very good business environment you've seen some corporate headquarters move to Florida.
So I think we're actually seeing the other side of that beta right now.
All right.
Thanks everyone.
Wendy this concludes our call.
Thanks to everyone for joining the call today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact the IR department.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the SunTrust Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now Ill turn the call over to Ankur Vyas Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thanks Christine.
Good morning and welcome to our third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us.
In addition to today's press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during the call.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules can be accessed at investors.suntrust.com.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures when talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website investors.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Ankur.
As usual I'll begin this morning with a brief overview of the quarter and then Im going to turn it over to Aleem for details on the results.
So following Aleems comments I'll wrap up our prepared remarks by reviewing our performance at the business segment level.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $1.06 on net income to common of $563 million.
However as previously disclosed we recognized $130 million discrete tax benefit which we returned to shareholders through a one-time share buyback.
Excluding this gain earnings per share were $0.81 on net income to common of $433 million.
Our adjusted results were in line with the previous quarter and up 23% from last year reflecting solid loan and deposit growth further efficiency improvements and continued strong asset quality performance all of which helped mitigate the impact of the persistent low rate environment.
Our adjusted revenue was up 3% year-over-year but declined 3% from last quarter.
The sequential decline was primarily a result of our investment banking business rolling off record results in the second quarter and the loss of some investment management income due to the sale of RidgeWorth.
Net interest income was generally stable relative to both periods as solid loan growth mitigated spread compression.
With regard to non-interest income as we said before several of our fee-oriented businesses are subject to some seasonality.
With that in mind I believe our year-to-date fee income performance tells a more accurate story of how weve been able to leverage our investment to these businesses to drive more consistent execution and deepen client relationships.
Our non-interest income excluding the impact from RidgeWorth and mortgage-related revenues was up 7% year-to-date with meaningful improvement in investment banking retail investment services and traditional private wealth.
These positive trends combined with higher mortgage service and income helped offset the 60% year-to-date decline in core mortgage production related fees.
Expenses declined relative to both periods previous quarter and the prior year and notably our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio was 61.9% for the quarter.
That brings our year-to-date ratio to 63.5% and keeps us on clear track to deliver on our 2014 sub-64% efficiency ratio commitment.
Our performance this quarter demonstrates our continued focus on efficiency improvement and importantly our steady progress towards our long-term target is evidence of our methodical transformation to a more efficiency conscious culture across the company.
So looking at the balance sheet period-end loan balances increased 2% sequentially led by growth in C&amp;I traditional CRE and our consumer direct portfolio.
However average performing loans were flat as a result of the $2 billion guaranteed residential mortgage loan sale this quarter.
Average client deposits grew 1% relative to last quarter with favorable mix shift continuing.
Weve built positive and broad-based momentum across our lending platforms and are focused on ensuring our deposit growth keeps pace.
Our credit quality performance continues to be strong and in the quarter we were able to further improve the overall asset quality of the balance sheet through targeted non-performing asset reductions.
As a result NPLs declined 15% sequentially and net charge-offs ticked up slightly to 39 basis points.
Finally our capital position continues to be strong and was relatively unchanged from last quarter with Tier 1 Common estimated to be 9.7% on a Basel III basis.
So with that as a quick overview Ill turn it over to Aleem to provide some more detail on the results.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody.
Were glad you are able to join us at our slightly later start time this morning and we are pleased to be able to accommodate those of you who needed to watch Thursday Night Football last night.
Earnings per share this quarter were $1.06 and included in that result is a $0.25 benefit that we recognized upon the completion of a tax authority exempt.
Excluding the impact of this benefit adjusted earnings per share were $0.81 which was in line with the previous quarter and 23% higher than the third quarter of last year.
The year-over-year increase was driven by 3% adjusted revenue growth as a result of higher mortgage servicing income a gain on sale of mortgage loans which I will discuss later and slightly higher net interest income.
A 3% reduction in adjusted expenses also contributed to the year-over-year improvement as we continued to execute on our efficiency initiatives and benefited from lower cyclical costs.
These positive trends more than offset the $45 million year-over-year decline in trust and investment management income resulting from the sale of RidgeWorth.
Sequentially earnings per share were flat as the decline in non-interest income and modestly higher provision expense were offset by a 5% reduction in adjusted expenses.
Lastly adjusted year-to-date earnings are up 19% compared to the previous year.
A solid balance sheet and fee income growth lower expenses and improved asset quality have more than offset the $205 million reduction in core mortgage production income and 14 basis point net interest margin compression during that same time frame.
Well now review the underlying trends in more detail starting on slide 5.
Net interest income was generally stable relative to the prior quarter and prior year as loan growth negated loan yield compression.
Net interest margin declined 8 basis points sequentially primarily due to a 7 basis point decline in loan yields.
The decline in loan yields was most notable in our C&amp;I book though we also felt this to a lesser degree in our commercial real estate and indirect auto portfolios.
The drivers of our loan yield compression are mix shift as wholesale is growing at a faster rate than the rest of the portfolio and continued competition in our markets and businesses.
While loan yields in the wholesale segment are typically lower C&amp;I business often brings with it additional non-interest income and deposit revenue.
Our intent is to meet the full suite of our clients needs and maintain a disciplined focus on entire relationship returns.
Securities yields declined 9 basis points sequentially primarily due to higher prepayments as MBS cash flows increased into our investment portfolio.
On a year-over-year basis net interest income was relatively flat as solid 6% earning asset growth neutralized the 16 basis points of margin compression.
Overall the net interest margin has declined in 2014 more than we had anticipated at the beginning of the year.
As commercial loan growth has been stronger than expected and yields continue to compress.
Looking forward we expect fourth quarter net interest margins to decline approximately 3 to 6 basis points from the current level primarily driven by lower commercial loan swap income.
We have been and will continue to carefully manage our overall balance sheet duration and utilization in light of the continued low interest rate environment while also being cognizant of controlling interest rate risk in advance of what we expect will eventually be higher interest rate.
Moving on to slide 6 adjusted non-interest income declined $72 million from the prior quarter driven primarily by lower investment banking income and the loss of investment management income from RidgeWorth.
Investment banking declined due to the strong performance in the prior quarter seasonally lower client activity this quarter and transaction timing.
Year-to-date investment banking income is up 14% with syndicated finance M&amp;A and equity offerings being the primary drivers of growth.
Trust and investment management income was down $23 million sequentially however RidgeWorth represented $31 million of the decline.
And our core private wealth business grew $8 million.
Mortgage production income was down $7 million quarter-over-quarter as gain on sale margins declined slightly.
Closed loan production increased 11% while applications declined 4% reflecting the return to more normal seasonal patterns in the mortgage business.
Retail investment services and card fees continue to be on a positive track as the result of our ongoing focus on meeting more clients needs.
In addition service charges for deposits increased $9 million partially driven by seasonal trends.
Other non-interest income excluding the gain on sale of RidgeWorth declined $13 million as a $41 million gain related to the $2 billion sale of government guaranteed mortgages was negated by a $49 million impairment of a leasing portfolio due to market-driven declines in residual values of certain assets.
Lastly we incurred $9 million of net securities losses in the quarter due to a minor repositioning of the investment portfolio.
Compared to the third quarter of last year adjusted non-interest income increased $40 million driven by higher mortgage servicing income.
Finally to echo Bills previous comment year-to-date non-interest income ex RidgeWorth and mortgage-related revenues was up 7% year-over-year which reflects the positive momentum we are creating in our CIB business as well as retail investment services core private wealth and credit card.
Moving on to expenses adjusted non-interest expense declined $71 million or 5% relative to the prior quarter.
Personnel expense was down $33 million sequentially driven by the sale of RidgeWorth a reduction in FTEs and lower benefits costs.
In addition other non-interest expense declined by $36 million in part due to severance and other costs in the prior quarter.
Adjusted cyclical costs declined $13 million from the prior quarter primarily driven by lower operating losses which as you know can be highly variable.
Going forward we do not anticipate cyclical costs to be a meaningful driver of changes in our expense base with the exception of occasional volatility in operating losses.
Compared to the prior year adjusted non-interest expense was down $44 million or 3% driven by lower cyclical costs and broad-based reductions across most expense categories as a result of ongoing efficiency initiatives.
These reductions were partially offset by higher personnel expenses due primarily to an incentive accrual reduction booked in the third quarter of last year.
As you can see on slide 8 our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio improved to 61.9% from 63.6% in the prior quarter as the $71 million decline in adjusted expenses offset the sequential revenue decline.
This brings our year-to-date adjusted tangible efficiency ratio to 63.5% a full 150 basis points lower than the same period last year despite an approximately $200 million decline in core mortgage production income.
We are on track to meet our commitment to an efficiency ratio of better than 64% for the full-year 2014 and we continue to make progress toward our long-term target of sub-60%.
Turning to asset quality on slide 9 our credit quality performance has been strong and we took proactive steps to make even further improvements in the third quarter.
Non-performing loans declined 15% sequentially and 27% year-over-year driven primarily by targeted reductions in the residential loan portfolio.
We took a small additional charge-off and moved $53 million of non-performing mortgage loans to held-for-sale status in anticipation of a sale in the fourth quarter.
Despite the substantial 15% reduction in the non-performing loan portfolio the net charge-off ratio increased only modestly to 39 basis points reflective of continued strong core performance within the loan portfolio.
The improvements in asset quality led to a $35 million decline in the allowance and 6 basis point reduction in the allowance ratio while the provision expense increased $20 million sequentially given the modest increase in net charge-offs.
Over the near term we expect further though moderating declines in non-performing loans primarily driven by the residential portfolio.
We also expect our loan loss provision expense to be fairly stable over the next few quarters in line with our results for the past five quarters as continued strong asset quality may offset positive loan growth.
However as you all are well aware the ultimate level of reserves and provision expense will be determined by future economic conditions and our rigorous quarterly review processing.
Turning to balance sheet trends on slide 10 period-end loan growth was up 2% sequentially.
We view the period-end comparison as a more accurate picture of our core loan growth in the quarter as it removes the impact of the $2 billion loan transferred to held-for-sale last quarter.
Growth was driven by the C&amp;I CRE and consumer portfolios and was partially offset by a slight decline in the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios.
C&amp;I loan growth was broad based and driven by not-for-profit and government clients alongside increases across almost all CIB industry verticals.
CRE momentum continued this quarter due to growth in our institutional business success in our REIT platform and a small portfolio acquisition.
Consumer loans were also up nicely given growth in our consumer direct indirect and credit card portfolios.
We are pleased with our progress this quarter and believe that its consistent with our multi-year effort to optimize the balance sheet and add diversification by growing high-quality commercial and consumer loans.
During the quarter we completed the $2 billion government guaranteed residential mortgage loan sale and recorded a corresponding $41 million pre-tax gain.
The proceeds of the sale were reinvested into level-one high-quality liquid securities to help us meet the liquidity coverage ratio requirements.
As of September 30 our liquidity coverage ratio already surpasses the January 1 2016 90% requirement.
Therefore we expect any further actions we take regarding the LCR will not be material to our earnings or balance sheet profile.
On a year-over-year basis average performing loans increased $8.3 billion or 7% driven by broad-based growth across most portfolios.
This performance is reflective of our execution of certain growth initiatives alongside generally improving economic conditions in our markets.
Turning now to deposit performance average client deposits were up approximately $2 billion or 1% compared to the prior quarter and 4% compared to the prior year as good growth and low cost deposits was partially offset by time deposit run-off.
This continued favorable shift in the deposit mix helped reduce interest-bearing deposit costs by 2 and 6 basis points compared to the prior quarter and prior year respectively.
Slide 12 provides an update on our capital position.
Common Equity Tier 1 expanded by approximately $250 million as a result of growth in retained earnings while the estimated Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 ratio remained stable at 9.7%.
Tangible book value per share increased 2% from the prior quarter and a full 11% compared to the prior year due to growth in retained earnings.
During the quarter we purchased $215 million in common stock which includes the $130 million one-time buyback we completed upon receiving a non-objection from the Federal Reserve.
In addition we anticipate repurchasing approximately $230 million of stock over the next two quarters.
Lastly Id like to highlight the credit rating upgrade we received from Standard &amp; Poors this week which acknowledged the actions we have taken as an organization to substantially improve our asset quality position increase our capital ratios and enhance our profitability profile over the last several years.
With that Ill now turn things back over to Bill to cover our business segment performance.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem.
On a segment basis we continue to make progress balancing expense discipline with the opportunities to continue to invest for future growth.
So go to slide 13 in our consumer and private wealth segment this quarter we saw solid returns on our recent investments and continued to show good revenue momentum both in our wealth management and lending-related businesses.
Looking at the numbers net income grew 17% sequentially but was down 5% year-over-year as a result of higher provision and expenses.
The combination of moderating asset quality improvement and incremental balance sheet growth drove the higher provision and higher expense base reflected increased hiring related to revenue-generating positions in addition to elevated environmental operating losses.
Relative to both periods continued revenue momentum was a key driver of our performance as revenues were up 3% sequentially and year-over-year.
The growth was balanced between net interest income and fee income the latter of which saw positive trends in trust and investment management retail investment services and deposit fees.
Consumer loan production was up 23% year-over-year led by continued momentum in our consumer direct credit card and indirect auto portfolios which more than offset the run-off in home equity and guaranteed student loans.
Our success in consumer direct and credit card in particular demonstrates our focus on driving growth in higher risk-adjusted return businesses.
The growth in the consumer direct portfolio has been driven by distinct lending platforms we have developed that are efficient high-end customer satisfaction and a good credit quality with average FICO scores north of 750.
Average client deposits were up 1% sequentially reflecting our enhanced focus on meeting more of our clients deposit needs.
We expect more recent investments in technology such as the digital banking platform and SummitView our well-received financial planning and account aggregation tools to further improve our deposit gathering capabilities.
The big picture we continue to focus on investing in digital improving our deposit momentum and driving revenue growth opportunities to help offset headwinds associated with the prolonged low rate environment.
Expense discipline however is also a key contributor to achieving our strategic objectives in this segment and we continue to balance cost reduction opportunities with prudent investments for further growth.
Our wholesale segment continues to be a key growth engine for the company and although there are a few puts and takes to the numbers this quarter the core trends remained strong.
Looking at the numbers on an adjusted basis net income was up 5% sequentially and 23% year-over-year driven by continued revenue momentum and strong asset quality.
Adjusted revenue declined slightly from last quarter but grew 5% relative to the prior year.
Net interest income was up relative to both periods driven by loan and deposit growth but this was partially offset by decline in loan yields.
Non-interest income particularly investment banking and trading income accounted for the sequential decline as this business is subject to quarterly fluctuations based on transaction timings and market conditions.
On a year-to-date basis investment banking income was up 14% and trading income was up 12% reflecting the investments weve made in talent and capabilities and our increasing market share.
Average loan balances grew 4% from the prior quarter led by broad-based growth throughout wholesales client segments most notably as Aleem noted the energy practice group not-for-profit and government group and CRE.
In addition we benefited from solid growth in our asset securitization and asset-based lending products and our national corporate banking expansion continue to gain traction.
Loan yields remain under pressure constraining our margin in this segment.
However as weve said before we take a holistic view of our client relationships with deposit and fee generation also playing a role in our risk-adjusted returns.
And in that light year-to-date deposits are up 10% and capital market related fee income is up 13%.
Across the platform our markets remain competitive but our wholesale value proposition continues to be well received by clients.
Where we choose to compete we continue to win share.
Lower loan yields will continue to be a challenge and were working hard to mitigate that impact by being more disciplined about utilization of the balance sheet in addition to continuing to expand our fee income and deposit opportunities particularly with our commercial clients.
So looking forward our investment banking backlog and lending pipelines are healthy and we remain bullish on the overall growth and profitability outlook for this segment.
Our mortgage segment continued to show steady progress quarter-to-quarter.
This was the third consecutive quarter of core profitability for this segment with adjusted net income of $18 million which was down sequentially due to lower production revenue and a gain-on-sale of loans in the prior quarter along with higher charge-offs associated with the aforementioned targeted reductions in our NPL portfolio.
A key driver of our improved profitability in this business has been strong expense discipline evidenced by an 11% sequential and a 34% year-over-year reduction in our core cost base.
The revenue environment here remains challenging with industry origination volumes 15% lower than what I think we all expected at the beginning of the year and roughly 50% lower than the 10-year average prior to 2014.
While the market is supported by good overall affordability lower inventory levels building activity and the amount of first-time home-buying continue to dampen total origination volumes.
So for our part we continue to invest and performing mortgage servicing as we both have the capability and capacity to grow this business.
In the quarter we added approximately $4 billion to our servicing portfolio through a combination of outright purchases and agency loan production.
Looking forward we expect to settle and transfer approximately $10 billion of additional servicing over the coming couple of quarters.
In addition I want to highlight our progress on the efficiency side as the mortgage segment has been a large hurdle in achieving our overall corporate efficiency goals.
In the quarter our adjusted efficiency ratio improved further to just over 70% which is in stark contrast to previous years where the business was running well north of a 100%.
Our steady progress reflects our strategy of carefully managing our expense base improving our risk profile particularly until the origination activity begins to normalize.
So before I wrap up Id like to give a brief mention of our announcement last month regarding the naming of the new ballpark for the Atlanta Braves which is set to open in 2017.
This is part of a mixed use year-round facility that will feature office residential and retail development and its a unique opportunity to improve our brand recognition both regionally and nationally.
So to summarize the quarter our performance demonstrated solid momentum across each of our businesses with a mix of revenue momentum in certain areas combined with good expense discipline in others the net of which was further improvement in our overall efficiency.
The economies in our markets continue to track positively and were committed to investing in our teammates and businesses such that were delivering on our purpose of lighting the way to financial well being for our clients our communities and our shareholders.
So with that said let me turn it back over to you Ankur for Q&amp;A.
Great.
Christine were now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
As we do so Id like to ask all the participants to please limit yourselves to one primary question and one follow-up so that we can accommodate as many of you as possible today.
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
You may ask your question.
Aleem I just wonder if you could -- you guys had a great expense result this quarter certainly helped by RidgeWorth.
You had been talking about a 1.3 1.4 type range.
Certainly this number puts you below it from here.
And Bill I heard your point about getting below the 64% for the year but just relative to that really good expense print and then expectations going forward are we in a new range or was this an anomaly?  I think its a little bit of both Ken.
This is a little bit of an anomaly which sort of demonstrates how were working hard to make sure that we really improve the overall efficiency ratio of the company.
If you think about quarters where weve had revenue growth youve seen some expense growth.
In the quarter now where you saw some revenue decline you saw an expense decline.
Now it wont always track that way.
We cant guarantee a 100% correlation but in general were really trying to pull the levers we think are appropriate to match the opportunities that we see in our markets.
Having said that I do think that the 1.3 to 1.4 range that I had referenced in the past I could probably tighten that up a little bit Id probably start thinking about that next year as perhaps in the 1.3 to 1.35 range bring that top-end down a little as the expense efforts that weve been working on over the last several years are actually paying off.
Okay and my follow-up just then so in the third quarter itself the seasonal declines off of investment banking what points would you make that were kind of better than normal I guess would be the question?  If you are talking about investment banking I would think about the third quarter as being sort of typically a lighter quarter in investment banking anyway and we did see some transactions move timing from third quarter to fourth quarter.
As we think about investment banking now looking at the fourth quarter were feeling pretty good.
Our pipeline right now was looking pretty strong.
Im not really sure what any actions would result as a result of this weeks market actions but coming into this week I think were feeling pretty good about how the fourth quarter is going to look for that business.
The next question comes from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
You may ask your question.
Just on the topic of loan growth yours remains pretty good versus peers and I guess I'm looking at the year-over-year and thinking about ex some of the sales you had running maybe around 8%.
Some of your peers have talked about pulling back a bit just as pricing has compressed and some areas like leverage lending may not be as appealing as it was before.
So just your thoughts on the competitive landscape and do you think you can continue to outgrow the overall industry going forward?  Matt weve seen good opportunities which I think are reflective of a number of things.
One is various investments that weve made in our business and the capacity that weve built ranging from industry verticals to national corporate expansion to CRE.
Our markets regional markets I think are performing better.
So I think thats somewhat reflective also of whats happening.
Weve got capacity in areas like CRE where we started from a much smaller base so weve got capacity to grow in that business.
I would say similarly to what others have said as you know were going to be cautious and smart and where we see deals that dont make sense were certainly backing away from.
But weve also built a lot of fee-generating capabilities such that on a deal-by-deal basis we may be able to rate rock a little bit better because weve got an ability to put more fees over that opportunity and as you continue to see our improving return were going to want to keep a high focus on that.
Okay.
And then just separately as we think about the net interest margin beyond the fourth quarter there were some disclosures in the appendix on the swap income being higher than what you had disclosed I think last quarter.
Of course loan spreads I think are directionally still coming in and rates are an unknown.
Just any thoughts on where the NIM might bottom as we look out beyond 4Q?  Yes Matt.
If I think about what 2015 might look like and given what weve seen in the markets so far its a little early to say for all of 15 but as a general range if I think about where 2015 might go on NIM Id be thinking about it perhaps full-year NIM on the order of 290 plus or minus with some risks and opportunities on either side of that depending on commercial loan spread compression how the interest rate environment does overall what the Fed decides to do and of course what we do in terms of swaps and Ill remind you on swaps all these are are turning floating rate loans into fixed-rate loans.
So thats all they do and we generate new floating rate loans every quarter.
So in the context of the overall macroeconomic environment as were thinking about our balance sheet duration if we have certain duration targets well be needing to put some swaps on every quarter just to match the new floating rate loans that are coming on.
So youve seen us take actions in the past several quarters on that book.
I wouldnt really think about that book as being a thing by itself NII by itself.
It really - the swap activities that we have are just in order to use derivative products to manage our overall interest rate risk profile and the duration of our balance sheet and the actions that weve taken have helped to grow NII and as long as we continue to get loan growth well continue to be doing more of that.
And the 290 thought for the full year on average would that include any impact from higher short-term interest rates?  Actually our forecast right now Matt is that we wont get a short-term rate increase in 2015.
Weve been thinking that for a little while with our anticipated first rate rise coming in early 16 and we continue to have that view.
The next question comes from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
You may ask your question.
Just as a follow-up to that question can you maybe run us through the changes that you made to the swap portfolio how does it change the maturity profile what does it do to the rate sensitivity and how far does the duration extend beyond 2015?  Yes Ryan the new swaps that weve put on in the quarter again were done essentially to match what were seeing in our commercial loan book and we added a few billion dollars of sort of three and four year swaps.
It doesnt really change the duration profile of the swap book much.
If you think about our overall swap book we had a duration there in that three to four year range anyway.
So it doesnt change the profile there and it had the effect of adding sort of $10 million to $12 million or so per quarter in net interest income starting in 2015 starting in Q1 2015.
Got it.
And then maybe for Bill when I think about the progress that you guys have made on the efficiency ratio so you're below 62% for this quarter.
You've added some swaps to reduce some of the NII headwind that you have as you move into next year.
So I guess you guys have obviously committed to having continued improvement but I'm just trying to think about the magnitude.
I know there are some puts and takes on a quarterly basis but can we think about this as a good starting point for 2015 or is there too much seasonality in the business that we should think about more as a year-over-year change?  I think there is too much seasonality to sort of pick one quarter a high or low and say thats the starting point for future.
Were averaging 63.5% for the year.
Im confident and barring anything crazy and [indiscernible] got you rethinking about anything crazy but Im confident well be under 64% for the year and well as the end of the year progresses and we start to think about next year well give more guidance as to the efficiency ratio for 2015 but suffice it to say it will be below 64%.
So were going to continue to trend down thats the commitment weve made.
The speed at which we commit to trend down will be dependent upon a lot of things not the least of which is interest rate environment and our expectations of an interest rate increase on the short-term side but the net is were going to continue to on average trend down.
The next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
You may ask your question.
Hey I just wanted to dig in a little bit into the expansion that you've been announcing and executing on recently in the commercial space Chicago Boston Dallas et cetera.
Get a sense as to A how you are finding it.
I know it's small dollars but just wanted to get a sense of that what else is on the docket to expand and how those expansions have been doing relative to plan in terms of revenue growth et cetera?  I think you accurately pointed sort of small now but relative to plan were tracking ahead of where we were relative to plan.
A couple of banks Ive been really pleased with the quality of the talent that weve been able to attract for those offices.
So its a good confirmation that people like our platform they like what were doing and they want to be a part of it.
So that is probably maybe exceeded my expectations and they were really high to start with.
In terms of the business that were attracting similarly I think weve been real pleased with the quality of what were putting on.
As you said it will sort of start slower it will tend to be -- start a little more asset side and then fee income will follow so that will be a sequence that will be pretty natural in that progress.
But everything were seeing to-date I feel good about and were tracking ahead of where we thought we were internally both from a talent side asset growth side and most importantly returns side.
And how are you getting into the new clients? I mean obviously assets first.
So maybe you could speak to the pricing versus structure type of debate that's out there.
I think were leading with advice so were leading with advice and knowledge and were not leading with pricing and structure.
Price and structure is somewhat market dependent but were leading with advice and so the way were getting into clients and attracting new situations is bring in the knowledge base that weve developed from our industry verticals the product capacity that weve developed on our platform and adding an additional bank to situations.
Were not always starting on the left side.
Youre going to start on the right side and work your way to the left.
But its really leading with advice and skill versus price and structure.
Can I just ask one bigger picture follow-up is energy -- energy industry has been an important driver of CapEx spend in the U.S.
obviously and in some of the institutions loan growth in C&amp;I and/or sometimes in CRE but I just wanted to get a sense with oil now priced where it is do you see any potential pullback in that and if so if there are other industries that you see an opportunity for expansion of things like CapEx?  I mean thats clearly one that were watching.
The good news is that energy has been a good part of our growth but its not sort of the only part of our growth.
This quarter actually was quite good on the energy side but its one that were going to watch and be careful about and the pundits are sort of all over the place on how much additional capital will be there but our portfolio is good so I feel positive about that where we are.
Might it have slower growth in the next several quarters relative to last few quarters possibly but thats not sort of the only driver for us.
And the fee income side I view this as potential.
I mean anytime you have little volatility I think if you are on the advice business youve got more opportunities on the fee side.
Betsy I think there is a little geopolitical aspect to this also as center of energy production in the world moves from the Middle East into the U.S.
were poised well to be able to take advantage of that and we continue to have optimism about the energy sector overall.
Okay no that's helpful.
Just interesting as the breakeven points come down just wondering if you're seeing any pullback near term on reinvestment but it sounds like at this stage not.
So I appreciate the color.
I think its too early to tell right now.
The next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore.
You may ask your question.
I want to see if you could give us more color on the other expense line in the third quarter just how we should think about that.
It pulled back pretty materially here and I know you had cited some discretionary items that drove that.
So I wanted to get an idea about could that balance or could that line item spring back next quarter just given the volatility of the items involved? Thanks.
John I dont know if Id use the word spring back but I do think that we had a couple of items in Q2 that make the Q3 number look like its dropped off.
We did have a couple of discretionary items that showed up in Q2.
Having said that I would expect as I think about next year assuming revenue stays above where it is that we would see expenses in that sort of $1.3 billion to $1.35 billion range.
If revenue falls well be pulling on expense levers to maintain efficiency and if revenue goes up then you might us - we might see expenses moving up towards the top end of that range but as sort of a rough guidance for a range I would think $1.3 billion to $1.35 billion looks right now for me to be a fair number for quarterly expenses next year.
Okay all right.
And then on that point can you just give us a little bit of detail on the expected impact to your pension expense for 2015 if rates remain where they are currently?  Our pension expense is actually right now negative because were running a fully-funded pension plan.
So we happen to be in relatively good shape relative to I think the industry and Corporate America overall.
I would expect if yields drop that you might see that the benefit we get from the plan come off a little and remember that our plan overall was frozen.
So given the frozen plan were running were a little bit less sensitive to rates overall than perhaps others you would see.
Okay all right.
And then one last very quick one.
I wanted to see if you can give us the amount of loans currently tied up in the MetLife JV that you initiated last year and what are the current yields in that portfolio?  The total amount of loans that weve got is in the sort of $600 million to $700 million range and I dont have a yield number off the top of my head but I would think about that whole structure as being not just yield driven but also giving us the opportunity to talk with those clients provide them expertise and start to incorporate those clients into our overall capital markets activities and help them in other parts of their requirements besides just providing funding.
I think just to talk about that as a percent of our portfolio its a small percent of portfolio.
This was an important relationship to add diversity both geographic and product to our portfolio.
These are very very high quality lower ROA absolutely than the balance of our portfolio but the balance of our portfolio combined with this is tracking to be accretive to our ROA objectives.
The next question comes from Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
You may ask your question.
So thanks for the color on sort of the tough mortgage revenue environment.
However a few of your peers have started to talk about just in the few days a pickup in refi applications and I was wondering if you could help us get a sense on what the upside to price could be to your production income if rates do stay this low through the end of the year?  Yes Erika one robin doesnt make a spring category.
The last two days have been really good.
Our locked volume and app volume was up 80% in two days so very significant.
I dont know if thats going to continue.
I think well have to sort of see things settle out a little bit but I think you are accurate in pointing out that the risk is to the upside and how significant that upside will be.
Im not ready to quantify at this point.
So weve got a couple of weeks under our belt and we are starting to see some normal activity but certainly the early couple of days were really positive reads in the way that youd expect.
Will this be refinanced boomlet? I dont know.
Certainly a lot more conversation well look at our portfolio well determine how much marketing we want to do and how much spreads you have between whats in the portfolio and where current rates are and I think weve got good math and good diagnostics around that and well figure it out.
But I think the risk is to the upside but Im not sort of ready to commit to what that is yet till we get into a little bit more.
And my second question is just a quick follow-up.
On slide 19 thank you for providing us the swap schedule.
I just wanted to ask a couple of things.
One is that I assume that also includes the swaps that were recently put on in terms of your quarterly average four count for 2015 and as we think about how that tracks on a quarterly basis is it $50 million each quarter or is there sort of more significant drop-offs that we should consider as we think about the quarterly earnings trajectory for next year?  Erika that number does include all of our actions through the end of the quarter through the end of the third quarter and $50 million as a quarterly average is sort of roughly stable.
So not exactly youve got a few million swing here between one quarter and the next but $50 million on average is a good and rough stable number for now.
Again I would remind you weve taken actions every quarter.
If you go back and look at this slide for the last several quarters you see that number going up consistently quarter after quarter.
So as long as we see opportunities and we continue to grow corporate lending we will be required to add a few more swaps just in order to manage within our overall duration requirements set by our asset liability committee.
The next question comes from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
You may ask your question.
Hi going back to efficiency how much does the run-off of the swap portfolio hurt the efficiency ratio next year? And what I'm trying to get to is if you take your $1.3 billion $1.35 billion quarterly expense guidance off of this quarter's revenues of $2 billion 1.3 billion times divided by 2 billion is a 64% efficiency ratio implied and if you take the higher end of your guidance 1.35 billion that's a 66% efficiency ratio based solely on this quarter's revenue.
So that guidance implies 64% to 66% based on the quarter but you said it should be lower than 64% next year.
I just want to make sure I understand how you're thinking about this.
And one other follow-up you were at 62% this quarter and you're saying you'll be below 64% next year.
So I just don't want to get too excited about the linked-quarter efficiency improvement if your guidance is for it to back up a little bit.
Thank you Mike.
I appreciate you not getting too excited about one quarter.
One quarter really isnt - any one quarter no matter whether its good or bad really isnt telling about sort of overall trends.
However youll recall at the start of this year in January when we gave guidance on efficiency ratio for this year and we said it would be below 64% there was a little skepticism out there that wed be able to achieve that.
Weve worked hard.
Weve done what we can on revenues.
Weve done what we can with clients.
Weve done what we can with expenses in order to achieve the number we committed to for this year and right now we think were on track to achieve the below-64% for this year.
As we get to next year well set guidance for next year and our trend has been and our objective has been to continue to improve.
So as we develop what we think a good forecast is for next year well give you guidance in January as to what we think the efficiency ratio target for us ought to be next year what we ought to be held accountable to and well try to make that a more efficient target than we have this year and I would look for us to try to continue to improve this over time.
We look forward to the fourth-quarter guidance.
One follow-up one real simple question even with the headwind from the run-off of the swap revenues do you think that the efficiency in 2015 can be better than it is in 2014?  Today if you are asking me for a yes or no answer might be my answer will have to be yes.
I think we can continue to make SunTrust a more efficient company over time.
Mike to confirm two yeses on that make sure I pile in on that but thats not to say its not going to be hard.
This is a grind and this is lots of at this point pennies and nickels on the revenue side pennies and nickels on the expense side and a complete grind but the objective as we sit here right now is for 2015 to be lower than 2014.
And Mike you pointed out its a $200 million revenue headwind were facing next year.
So thats going to require us to work really hard to achieve that new target.
And in fairness thats about equal to the revenue headwind we faced in mortgage in 2014 sort of coming into this year.
We were able to overcome that.
So thats part of our confidence.
Christine we have time for one more question.
Thank you.
The last question comes from Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
You may ask your question.
Thank you.
Let's go back to that $200 million earnings hit from the swaps as you have already kind of given into the fact that you're adding some swaps here recently with growth.
But as you've pushed your horizon for the rise in interest rates and the Fed funds rate not until 2016 and as we've seen in the long end of the curve it's flattening so we don't really feel like even when rates go up you are going to see the long end go up too much.
So re-rolling the swaps doesn't seem like a lot of risk if we're talking about such a benign interest rate rise over the next couple of years.
So I know when you first talked about rolling them off you thought rates were going up in 15.
So is your attitude towards doing those things changing at this point?  I dont know that Id say Marty that our attitude overall is changing.
Our ALCO meets regularly and sets for the company what we think are prudent interest rate risk targets and an overall duration for the balance sheet and within that we try to manage our rate risk within the guidelines set by ALCO to maximize both current income as well as market value of equity of the whole company.
So we are looking at this regularly we are looking at it monthly.
Were taking advantage of either big changes in client behavior or changes in market behavior wherever we can and I think youve seen us over time demonstrate a little bit of an aptitude toward being able to do this well and as we continue to see opportunities and as our client business continues to grow well be taking advantage of both of those to manage our rate risk in total one component of which is this book.
Just one follow-up to that.
How much in short-term rate rise do you need in your sense to breakeven to letting the swaps roll off? So is it 50 basis points 100 basis points 200 basis points? How much do you need to refill that hole?  Our overall asset sensitivity as a company is 3.9%.
So if we get 100 basis point parallel shift in rates youd see our net interest income climb by approximately 4% and thats going to be about the kind of number that you see as a headwind for us next year.
Got you.
So the 100 basis points is what you're looking for to make up for what you're losing here?  At this time.
All right.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes our call.
Thanks for joining us today and if you have any further questions please feel free to contact the Investor Relations department.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the SunTrust Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call and thank you for standing by.
At this time all participant lines are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion of todays conference.
[Operator Instructions] Todays conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
And now Ill turn the call over to Ankur Vyas Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you you may begin.
Thank you Brad.
Good morning and welcome to SunTrust fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
In addition to today's press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules can be accessed at investors.suntrust.com.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures when talking about the Company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website investors.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Ankur.
I'll begin this morning with a high level overview of the quarter and then Ill turn it over to Aleem to discuss the results in more detail.
Following Aleems comments I'll review our performance at the segment level and wrap up with my perspectives on 2014 as a whole.
Throughout the year we made significant progress on several fronts continue to expense discipline and further improvement in credit quality help to offset the impact of the sustained low rate environment on revenues and translated into core earnings growth and lower adjusted tangible efficiency ratio.
Our performance in the fourth quarter continued that momentum.
Reported earnings per share for the quarter were $0.72 on net income of common of $378 million.
This quarters results included a $145 million legal provision to both resolve and reserve for legacy mortgage matters.
We remain focused on resolving these matters in a prudent fashion and this quarters accrual was another step in the right direction.
Excluding the legal provision adjusted earnings per share were $0.88 up 9% sequentially and 14% year-over-year.
Total revenue was up modestly relative to the prior quarter.
Net interest income was essentially flat as it has been in prior quarters with solid loan and deposit growth offset by continued margin compression.
Non-interest income was up 2% sequentially driven primarily by higher mortgage related income and good performance in investment banking.
Adjusted expenses were generally stable to the prior quarter however down a full 7% compared to the prior year driven by continued expense reduction efforts lower cyclical cost and the sale of RidgeWorth.
Importantly for the full year we reduced our expense base from 2013 as adjusted expenses were down nearly $200 million or 4% year-over-year.
Accordingly we met our efficiency ratio goal with an adjusted tangible efficiency ratio of 63% for the year well below the target we set at the beginning of the year.
Given our out performance in 2014 and the real revenue headwinds we faced in 2015 further progress in the short-term becomes much more challenging.
However we are committed to delivering further efficiency improvement this year albeit modest to stay on track to achieve our primary long-term goal of a sub-60 efficiency ratio.
Moving to the balance sheet average performing loans were up 2% on a sequential basis and 6% year-over-year with continued momentum in C&amp;I commercial real estate and consumer.
Deposit growth improved this quarter up 4% sequentially and 7% compared to the prior year.
A portion of this growth is seasonal and temporary in nature but our core growth initiatives are gaining momentum driven by better execution and enhanced capabilities.
Our credit quality continue to improve with NPLs down 17% and net charge-offs declining 11 basis points compared to the third quarter both reaching new multi-year lows while improving economic conditions have played a role in our strong asset quality performance this is also was the result of significant actions weve taken over the past several years to both de-risk and diversify our balance sheet and improve the quality of our production.
Finally our capital position continues to be strong and was relatively unchanged from the previous quarter with Tier 1 common estimated to be 9.7% on our Basel III basis.
So with that let me turn it over to Aleem to provide some more details on the financials.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us as we wrap up 2014 and look forward to 2015.
Before I begin my review of this quarter Ill remind you that our 2013 and 2014 reported results are impacted by certain non-core items the details of which are included in the appendix of our earnings presentations and release.
These items can skew both quarterly and annual comparisons and therefore I will primarily focus on adjusted results to make the core trends more clear.
Earnings per share in the fourth quarter were $0.72 including a $145 million legal provision related to previously disclosed legacy mortgage matters which reflects increase legal reserves and the final settlement of a specific matter.
This legal accrual was recorded as we made further progress on certain matters in the fourth quarter accordingly based on what we know today we would expect our reasonably possible legal losses in excess of reserves to decline by a roughly similar amount.
Excluding the impact of this provision adjusted earnings per share were $0.88 which were 9% higher than the prior quarter and 14% higher than the fourth quarter of last year.
The sequential increase was driven by higher non-interest income a lower provision for credit losses and a slightly lower effective tax rate.
Compared to the fourth quarter of last year earnings growth was driven by a 7% reduction in adjusted expenses higher mortgage-related revenue and a lower provision expense which together more than offset the loss of income from RidgeWorth.
For the full year adjusted earnings per share increased 18% compared to 2013 as solid balance sheet growth lower expenses and improved asset quality more than offset a reduction in mortgage production income and a 17 basis point decline in the net interest margin.
Lets review the underlying trends in more detail starting on Slide 5.
Net interest income was stable relative to the prior quarter as solid loan growth offset the effective margin compression.
Net interest margin declined 7 basis points due to the decline in commercial loan swap income and lower securities yields which resulted from higher premium amortization as MBS cash flows increased.
Core C&amp;I loan yields excluding swap income were relatively stable compared to the prior quarter.
However we expect further compression in this asset class given the competitive landscape and low interest rate environment.
As we have said before loan yields in the wholesale segment are typically lower however the C&amp;I business often brings with it additional non-interest income and deposit revenue opportunities.
Our intent is to meet the full suite of our clients needs and therefore maintain a disciplined focus on overall returns.
On a year-over-year basis net interest income was also stable as 8% average earning asset growth offset the 24 basis points of margin compression.
Looking at the full year net interest margin declined more than we had anticipated at the beginning of last year as wholesale banking loan growth was stronger than expected and yields continued to compress.
In addition the yield curve flattened significantly in 2014 with ten-year rates declining 80 to 90 basis points from already low levels.
Looking forward we expect first quarter net interest margin to decline approximately seven to nine basis points from the current level driven primarily by lower commercial loan swap income.
In addition all things being equal net interest income will decline by approximately $50 million from the fourth quarter to the first quarter given lower commercial loan swap income and too fewer days coming up.
We have been and will continue to carefully manage the usage and duration of our overall balance sheet in light of the continued low interest rate environment.
While also being cognizant of controlling interest rate risk in advance of what we expect will eventually be higher interest rates.
Moving on to slide six adjusted non-interest income increased $9 million from the prior quarter driven primarily by higher investment banking and mortgage related income.
Investment banking income increased $21 million due to higher syndicated finance and M&amp;A revenues.
Mortgage production income increased $16 million on improved gain on sale margins and high refinance activity both as a result of lower rates in the quarter.
Mortgage servicing income increased $8 million sequentially as a result of a larger servicing portfolio and higher seasonal payment activity in the fourth quarter.
Trust and investment management income was down $9 million compared to the prior quarter driven primarily by certain seasonal and nonrecurring fees earned in the third quarter.
In addition service charges for deposits declined $7 million again largely driven by seasonal trends.
Lastly we incurred $5 million of net securities losses in the quarter resulting from a minor repositioning of the investment portfolio.
Compared to the fourth quarter of last year adjusted non-interest income decreased $15 million due to the loss of RidgeWorth fee income partially offset by an increase in mortgage related revenue.
Finally full year non-interest income excluding this gain on sale of RidgeWorth and its associated revenues was up 4% year-over-year which reflects the positive momentum were creating in our CIB business as well as retail investment services private wealth and credit card.
Moving to Slide 7 adjusted non-interest expense which excludes the impact of the legal provision was stable to the prior quarter.
Personnel expense was down $60 million sequentially driven primarily by lower accruals on certain incentive and medical costs.
While quarterly incentive and benefits costs can be variable for the full year incentive compensation increased due to improved business performance in 2014 consistent with our pay-for-performance philosophy.
Outside processing and software costs increased $22 million due to higher utilization of third party services in addition to normal quarterly variability.
Other non-interest expense increased $26 million due primarily the higher legal and consulting costs in the fourth quarter.
Adjusted cyclical costs were stable to the prior quarter and down $32 million relative to the prior year.
Going forward we do not anticipate these costs to be a meaningful driver of changes in our expense base with the exception of occasional variability in operating losses.
Compared to the fourth quarter of last year adjusted non-interest expense was down 7% driven by a combination of our efficiency efforts lower cyclical costs and the sale of RidgeWorth.
For the full year adjusted expenses were down 4% compared to 2013 and a full 14% compared to 2011.
As we look to the first quarter we currently anticipate personnel expenses to increase by approximately $100 million due to the typical increase in 401(k) and 5(k) expenses and also will return to more normal accrual rates on incentive and benefits costs.
Bigger picture on an annual basis we do not expect core expenses to decline from the 2014 level given our revenue goals.
However our main focus is on the efficiency ratio and thus we will calibrate our expense base against the revenue environment.
As you can see on Slide 8 our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio improved to 61.4% from 61.9% in the prior quarter as we delivered both modest revenue growth and a slight decline in adjusted expenses.
Our full year adjusted tangible efficiency ratio was 63%.
230 basis points lower than 2013 despite the significant headwinds from lower mortgage volumes and declining net interest margin.
In 2015 our goal is to slightly improve upon last years 63% adjusted tangible efficiency ratio.
As Bill noted earlier progress in 2015 will be significantly more difficult than 2014 for a few reasons.
First were excepting commercial loan swap income to decline by $185 million which represents a 150 basis point headwind to our efficiency ratio.
Second as discussed on the previous slide our core expenses have declined significantly over the past few years and we do not anticipate further declines.
And lastly having achieved a better than projected result in 2014 we are now starting from a lower base than previously expected.
Irrespective of the short-term trajectory we remain firmly committed to our long-term target of sub-60% and achieving this important objective will be a key driver of delivering additional value to our shareholders.
Turning to credit quality on Slide 9 our asset quality performance continues to be strong nonperforming loans declined another 17% sequentially.
In small part due to a transfer of $38 million of nonperforming loans to help our sales status but largely due to outflows that continue to exceed inflows.
This significant reduction in the nonperforming loan portfolio was achieved in conjunction with the net charge-off ratio declining 11 basis points reflective of continued strong core performance within the loan portfolio along side modestly higher recoveries in the fourth quarter.
Our allowance for credit losses declined to $20 million sequentially that the continued improvement in the overall asset quality more than offset a reserve build in the wholesale banking segment to address uncertainty in the energy sector.
While our energy and utilities clients are important to our overall CIB business they represent only 3.5% of our loan portfolio with 70% of the book in the utilities and power midstream and downstream sectors which are not as meaningfully impacted the commodity price volatility.
Total provision expense decreased $19 million sequentially due to lower net charge-offs partially offset by the lower reserve release.
Over the near-term we expect further the moderating declines in nonperforming loans primarily driven by the residential portfolio.
Net charge-off ratios are unlikely to sustain themselves that these levels over the long-term that we are not expecting a significant increase in 2015 relative to 2014.
We also expect our loan loss provision expense in 2015 to be fairly stable to 2014.
However the ultimate level of reserves and provision expense will be determine by our rigorous quarterly review processes which are informed by trends in our loan portfolio combined with a view on future economic conditions.
Turning to balance sheet trends on Slide 10 average performing loan growth was up 2% sequentially driven by continued momentum in our C&amp;I CRE and consumer portfolios partially offset by continued declines in the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios.
C&amp;I loan growth was broad based and driven by both our corporate and commercial banking clients.
CRE momentum continued this quarter due to growth in both our institutional and regional businesses.
Consumer loans were also higher due to growth in our consumer direct credit card and indirect portfolios.
During the quarter we sold $800 million of loans and transferred another $1.1 billion of loans to help our sales status.
The net gain or loss on the sales and transfers was immaterial.
Collectively these transactions were part of our strategy to optimize our balance sheet and improve returns and going forward we will continue to opportunistically evaluate loan sales to further this strategy.
On a year-over-year basis average performing loans increased $8 billion or 6% driven by broad based growth across most portfolios.
End-of-period loans increased to the lower rate of $5.6 billion or 4% compared to the prior year as we conducted approximately $4 billion of loan sales in the second half of 2014.
Our solid loan production performance reflects our execution of targeted growth incentives alongside generally improving economic conditions in our markets.
Turning to deposit performance average client deposits were up $4.7 billion or 4% compared to the prior quarter and 7% compared to the prior year driven by improved and broad based growth across all of our lines of business.
While a portion of this growth is seasonal and will decline in the first quarter the majority of the growth is core and reflects both investments we have made in client-facing platforms such as SummitView and our treasury and payment solutions offering and our overall increased focus on meeting more of our clients deposits needs.
Rates paid on deposits were stable sequentially and declined by 4 basis points compared to the prior year.
Slide 12 provides an update on our capital position.
Common Equity Tier 1 expanded by approximately $200 million during the quarter as a result of growth in retained earnings while the estimated Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 ratio remain relatively stable at 9.7% due to balance sheet growth.
Tangible book value per share increased 2% from the prior quarter and a full 10% compared to the prior year due primarily the growth in retained earnings.
During the quarter we issued $500 million of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock as part of a longer term process to optimize the mix between common and non-common Tier-1 capital.
We also repurchased $110 million of common stock.
The cumulative actions weve taken to improve our risk and earnings profile combined with our strong capital and liquidity levels should help us to further increase capital returns to shareholders.
We submitted our 2015 capital plan earlier this month and well have more to report on this matter in March.
Lastly as of year-end our liquidity coverage ratio continues to exceed the January 1 2016 90% requirement.
With that Ill now turn things back over to Bill to cover our business segment performance.
Great thanks Aleem.
And Ill draw your attention to Slide 13.
In Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management we continue to make progress on our core growth initiative while holding a lot on expenses.
Looking at the numbers net income declined 5% sequentially but was up 13% year-over-year.
The sequential decline was driven primarily by higher provision expense due to some moderating asset quality improvement.
Total revenue was essentially flat compared to the third quarter but was up 3% year-over-year.
Net interest income increased relative to both prior periods driven by continued growth in loans and deposits.
Non-interest income was down sequentially due to seasonally higher income and certain nonrecurring fees earned in the third quarter.
Year-over-year non-interest income was up 3% driven by growth in Wealth Management related income and card fees.
Average loans were up half a percentage point on a sequential basis with double digit growth and consumer direct partially offset by continued run-off in the home equity portfolio and certain loan sales during the quarter.
Average deposits grew 3% sequentially reflecting our increased focus on meeting more of clients deposit needs particular in our affluent high-net worth businesses.
Turning to the full year results net income was up 7% driven by higher revenue and lower provision partially offset by higher expenses.
Total revenue increased 2% driven primarily by 6% growth in Wealth Management related fees which reflects our increased investment in people tools technology to better meet our client needs.
These investments were the primary drivers of growth and expenses year-over-year.
The full year results in this business demonstrate good execution of the core strategic initiatives weve outlined in the past.
Improving Wealth Management related income enhancing the growth and returns of our consumer lending portfolio and making critical investments in talent and technology.
Heading in 2015 we want to continue our core revenue momentum.
However expense discipline will also remain important as we continue to balance cost reduction opportunities with selective investments for growth.
Turning to Slide 14 in our wholesale business wholesale banking remains a key growth engine for the company and we continue that momentum in the business for the fourth quarter.
While net income declined due to an increased provision expense revenue increase compared to the prior quarter and prior year.
Net interest income was up 5% sequentially and 11% compared to the fourth quarter of last year driven by broad-based loan and deposit growth.
Adjusted non-interest income declined 5% sequentially and 10% year-over-year due to lower trading income and structured finance related fees.
These trends were partially offset by higher investment banking revenue and particularly good performance given the market volatility in the fourth quarter.
Average loan balances were up 5% when compared to the prior quarter with growth across the entire platform wed growth in almost all of our CIB verticals in addition to the momentum and core commercial real estate national corporate banking and our specialty commercial groups in particular auto dealer and not-for-profit and government.
Loan yields remained under pressure constraining our margin however as weve said before our risk adjusted return hurdles incorporate the entire client relationship which also includes deposits and fee income generation.
For the full year client deposits increased 10% and capital markets related fees were up 9%.
Looking in our full year results adjusted net income increased 10% driven by solid revenue growth and lower provision fees were up modestly as lower trading and leasing income combined with the exit of a legacy affordable housing partnership were more than offset by 13% growth and investment banking income.
Our full year investment banking performance reflects broad-based growth with record our new record results across debt and equity capital markets and M&amp;A.
The success of our platform reflects our continued investment and talent to both expand and diversify our capabilities.
This year we have been able to leverage our one team approach to better deliver our capital markets capability to not only our larger corporate client base but also our core commercial banking and commercial real estate clients and thats a value proposition thats increasingly well received.
Looking forward our pipelines remain healthy and I am confident that the wholesale organization has the momentum to drive further growth in 2015.
Shifting to mortgage adjusted net income in the mortgage segment increased $38 million on a sequential basis driven by growth and fee income and lower provision.
In particular production related income was up $16 million due to higher volume and gain on sale margins as a result of lower interest rates.
Servicing related income was up $9 million due to the recent servicing acquisitions and a seasonal increase in payments.
Adjusted expenses were up 12% sequentially due in part to the increased plan activity of the quarter.
For the full year mortgage delivered core profitability driven by 35% reduction in core expenses.
Revenue declined modestly as growth and net interest income was more than offset by decline in fee income.
Core mortgage production income declined 47% year-over-year however mortgage servicing income more than doubled driven mainly by lower prepayments in the servicing portfolio in 2014.
The adjusted tangible efficiency ratio declined from triple digits in 2013 to 74% in 2014.
Over the past year our core mortgage business demonstrated significant improvement this progress was driven by a lot of heavy lifting to normalize our cost base and improve our risk profile.
Most of that is now complete and optimistic will be able to more firmly focus on the core strategies in place to meet more client needs drive higher revenue and deliver incremental efficiency improvement.
Now before we begin the Q&amp;A part of the call I would like to take a moment to highlight our accomplishments during the year.
So coming into 2014 we faced several meaningful revenue headwinds namely the end of the mortgage refi boom and the ongoing impact of prolong low rate environment on net interest margin.
However we remained focus on the commitments we made our stakeholders and we delivered on those goals.
For our clients we increased investments in people and enhance capabilities to better anticipate and serve their needs.
For our teammates we invested more in training and opportunities to improve their own financial well being.
For our local communities we continue to support economic growth through purposeful investments active partnerships and volunteer commitments.
Our 2014 United Way campaign was the most successful in the companys history with teammates donating nearly $6.5 million and for our shareholders we delivered strong efficiency performance and a significant improvement in asset quality the result of which was 18% earnings growth and a 10 basis point improvement in ROI.
In addition we more than doubled our capital return.
Separately we were able to resolve several outstanding legacy mortgage matters and this quarters legal provision expenses in another important step in that process.
And then finally for all the teammates on this call I would like to thank them for what they have done and continue to do to transform our company.
We are unified in our purpose of lighting the way to financial well being for our clients and our communities and in our ongoing drive for delivering improved performance for our shareholders.
So teammates thank you.
And Ankur let me turn that back over to you.
Okay thanks Bill.
Brad we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
As we do so Id like to ask the participants to please limit yourselves to one primary question and one follow-up so that we can accommodate as many of you as possible today.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Matt OConnor of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Hi Matt.
I was wondering if you could elaborate on the strategy of trying to optimize the balance sheet by some of the loans that you are selling or moving to held-for-sale or just the kind of approach you are taking in terms of the criteria to evaluate the loans.
Certainly Matt.
I guess the first criteria is whether these are single service clients or theyre sort of multi-product clients and to the extent that they are single service clients that makes these loans more eligible for loans that we might be willing to sell.
The second criteria is financial we are looking at the overall return on that relationship and on that transaction and for lower ROA loans those are the ones that we would tend to look at first.
So in the context of our overall strategy which is the optimizing the entire balance sheet looking at the risk profile of those loans and our balance sheet think of this as sort of a continuation of the approach weve actually taken over the last couple of years that continue to grow in terms of meeting all of our clients needs and also improve the financial performance and returns of the company.
And then I guess segueing into just net interest income overall you gave pretty explicit guidance for 1Q but as we think about all the moving pieces including some potential loan sales and obviously lower rates here how would you think about the trajectory off of the 1Q level for the rest of 2015? Well for net interest income overall as I think about the year I think we are going to be treading water around that $1.2 billion type number we continue to add terrific new business we continue to grow the balance sheet with both new loans and getting deeper with our current clients but the rate environment just continues to grind down and offset all of the benefits.
So I think for a while we are just going to be treading water around that $1.2 billion level.
I mean just last follow-up you talked about plans to grow revenue in your prepared comments so obviously if net interest income is relatively flat you are counting on fees which categories or businesses do you think will be the key drivers? Yes Matt the good news is weve been making investments so this is not sort of starting from sort of a flat surface and the places where weve been making investments and we're seeing the results and Ill name them sort of not necessarily in order but sort of go around the horn what you have obviously seen continued progress in the investment banking part of our business and weve added more capability there but weve also expanded that reach within our company so weve seen now much more expanded fee generating capability out of our commercial business and out of our commercial real estate business the investments weve made in corporate banking sort of around the country you are starting to now see some of the fee generation that comes from that.
So there are lots of momentum builders in that business.
Everything on the private wealth side has continued to have momentum were up about 6% there weve continued to invest in people weve continued to invest in technology we're sort of net in hiring mode in that business but weve also done things like put premier bankers in our branches and they are going to really help weve given them a lot more data and a lot more analytics and they are really going to help us mine what we have as an already sort of bias to the affluent in our retail system and we're going to mine that better.
And then mortgage so and its great to mention mortgage on the positive side we're going to see some movement there weve already seen here the first couple of days some refi activity I would love to extrapolate the next two days across the rest of the year Im not sure we can do that but we're starting to see some activity not only in the refinance side but just sort of the core basic business in our retail markets as our markets improve.
So there are a number of things I mean those are sort of just three but there are a number of things that we're investing in and credit card would be another on the smaller side in terms of fee generation.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Ryan.
Good morning Ryan.
Aleem I just wanted to make sure I got the message correct on expenses; I think this is now the second straight quarter.
We did see expenses come below the 1.3 level; I think you averaged around 1.3 for the year.
Given the fact that I know there are some seasonal elements to it does the 1.3 to 1.35 level still hold and the reason I ask it sounds like the revenue environment is marginally more challenging at this point in time so I just want to get a sense of where you would expect expenses to fall out for the full year? Yes Ryan I do think that full year expenses as I look at them today are going to be in that sort of $5.2 billion to $5.3 billion range for the year.
But clearly as you point out if they are revenue dependent and the revenue environment could move us out of that range either higher or lower and obviously as we look at overall expenses were focused very much on the efficiency ratio.
So as we think about what the revenue environment will be and how we adjust expenses against that revenue environment if you start off with a core expectation between $5.2 billion and $5.3 billion.
And then think about we will adjust we will calibrate that as revenues go up or down.
Thinking about Q1 in this context Q1 probably is up towards the top end of the quarterly range as a result of the normal seasonal effects.
Got it.
And then just putting all the guidance together do you still expect to grow earnings in 2015 from the 3.24 level? We are going to be targeting continued improvement at the Company.
So whether that is efficiency ratio whether thats earnings whether thats returns we want to continue to make this company better over time.
Got it.
I figure I had to take a shot.
And I guess lastly Bill you talked about 3.5% energy exposure but can you just give us a sense of energy exposure for the overall bank both from a lending perspective and from a fee income perspective.
How is what weve seen happen to energy prices impacting capital markets? And then from a consumer perspective are you starting to see the benefits of lower gas prices showing up in both consumer spending and willingness to borrow? Yes sure Ill try to hit all of those.
I think Aleem outlined the portfolio its about 3.5% of the portfolio and about 70% of that portfolio is really not significantly related to falling oil prices think about 50% of portfolio is utility.
So that sort of suffered a large part as midstream thats just the transporting of oil from one place to another that is not as impacted by prices as a much lower exposure and the E&amp;P side and the oil field services side.
From a capital markets perspective and really also loan growth perspective I mean energy has been an important part of what we do we dont want to under mine that but its been sort of less than 10% of our loan growth.
And the fee part of the business has been pretty consistent over the last several years.
So this is not something thats been disproportionately part of the fee income business.
Did some of the fee business in the fourth quarter that was energy related not happen yes that would be accurate and high yield markets sort of tightened up will some of that happen this year maybe.
I think actually were pretty well positioned you remember we made a small acquisition of a company called Lantana which is in the advice business and while I think once sort of things level add a little bit probably sort to the later part of this year I think youre going to see a lot of activity actually in the energy side as people sort of reset and think about their structure.
As it relates to the consumer side I mean I think you sort of hit it accurately I mean relative to given the fact that were not in a lot of the geographic markets that are going to be impacted more by a fall in oil prices well our consumers will see sort of that increase in tax refund equivalent of fall in oil prices.
Have we seen it yet I mean it might be too early I mean Ive looked closely at spending numbers and a credit card numbers and those kinds of things while theyre marginally up its might be a little bit early to sort of see the total impact of that but I have to believe that over the course of the year well see the most positive side for us arching much more towards the consumer side than the risk on the energy side.
Ryan Id also point out that the vast majority of our corporate and commercial clients are in our footprint and theyre going to also benefit from the drop in energy prices.
So weve got this clear differentiation between energy and consumer but even within the corporate and commercial base our overall client base ought to do better with lower energy prices.
Our next question will come from John Pancari of Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Hi John.
On the expense side on the comp expense sorry if youve already commented on it but just want to get a little more color on the decline in the comp expense the drivers of it and how sustainable that decline is is it all related to the efforts youve been doing on the headcount side and the efficiencies and should we borrowing any typical seasonality should we use this as a new base? Now let John its a little bit above its a little bit of we continue to get more efficient but in addition we also had a reversal of some incentive accruals and actually for the year our medical costs came in lower than we were expecting our experience on that side ended that being a little bit better.
So some of the benefit in the fourth quarter was a result of those and as I said earlier if I think about total comp expense I would increase that in Q1 about a $100 million relative to Q4 some of that for normal FICA/401K seasonality and some of that just because were starting from the lower number in the fourth quarter.
Okay thank you.
Sorry I have to repeat that.
And then on the commercial loan growth in the quarter just want to get some additional detail behind the drivers of the growth and then also your expectation around the C&amp;I portfolio growth in coming quarters? The good news John thats really really broad based I mean we really saw - if you look at sort of the total year virtually every vertical that were involved in on the C&amp;I space group so some in obviously different paces but it reflects the diversity of our business mix the investments that weve made it was fairly universal it wasnt sort of in anyone particular place.
We did see a little uptick in utilization I dont want to sort of overplay that because quarter-to-quarter it can go up and down but this quarter was up and up little more than we have seen in previous quarters.
I think on balance thats a good thing hopefully that reflects sort of more of that investment capital type of horn but it was very broad based.
Our next question will come from Mike Mayo of CLSA.
Your line is open.
Hi can you talk more about the efficiency if you striped out the known headwinds with the swaps how much would you expect the core efficiency ratio to improve in 2015 and if we had to identify three of the reasons for the [indiscernible] efficiency what are you most focused on? Well Mike I think were most focused on growing fee income and meeting more of our clients needs across everyone of our segments as well as connecting clients better across our businesses.
So I think we have got as Bill pointed out earlier lots of opportunity in that space to continue to do better and the growth in that space along with a no lessening in our expense discipline I think will allow us to continue to improve our efficiency ratio in 2015 relative to where we ended up in 2014.
Yes I think its - I dont want anyone to think we are hedging it all on our commitment to our expense discipline that commitment is in place weve created a lot of really positive momentum it continues.
What we are balancing is the investment opportunity so as we continue to achieve efficiency and expense saves I want to make sure that we're also investing for the future and thats a delicate balance of walking and as Aleem mentioned well calibrate.
So well calibrate what's happening on the revenue side to the expense side that always does have work quarter-for-quarter and we're committed to continue to improve on the efficiency ratio.
Mike I dont want to make light of how hard this is going to be this is really hard in 2014 we had $200 million of revenue headwinds we fought our way through that and got better.
In 2015 we're going to have another $200 million of revenue headwinds.
So after doing it once it gets harder to do it again but we understand the task in front of us and we're going to be working hard to achieve it.
I mean the reason I asked the question again I mean your efficiency ratio was 61.9 in the third quarter 61.4 in the fourth quarter and your guidance which certainly is appreciated is for under 63%.
So you are kind of already there.
So on a headline basis it might be tough for us to figure out some of the ins and outs or can you break it out or? Well I think thats an easy math.
Yes you have always have a seasonal impact.
Yes.
Clearly what happens from the - just on the FICA and reset loan I mean you have a significant reset in the first quarter so there always is some seasonal impact and of course we're catching us at the best part of that seasonal impact.
Yes and dont forget the revenue headwind that starts now that starts in 2015 relative to the 2014 on the swaps.
So we loved being able to deliver numbers that were 61 Mike but we're starting 2015 in the tougher place.
Our next question will come from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks good morning.
Good morning Ken.
Aleem I was wondering this quarter you didnt make many adjustments to that swap income portfolio ladder and just given where rates have gone and it changes - the macro view of when this head might move how inclined are you to continue to continue to add to swaps in the future on top of what you have had done in the past.
Yes I think we continue to look at that very actively Ken through our ALCO process as you know we're continuing to do new loans or continue to grow the business and those come on the majority of those loans come on floating so deciding whether to fix them or not is sort of part of overall balance sheet strategy and we did do a little bit in the fourth quarter nothing overly substantial on that side but well continue to manage the overall balance sheet duration and continue to be opportunistic to the extent that we can.
And if there are large moves one way or the other well consider that in our overall balance sheet strategy.
In the fourth quarter we had some small action in addition you saw the securities loss that was basically moving Level 2 HQLA into Level 1 to make sure that we continue to stay compliant under the LCR.
So there are few of these sorts of minor little actions going on back and forth but as we go through 2015 if there are opportunities that makes sense from a risk versus return trade off well continue to take those.
Okay got it and a follow-up on the curve just can you give us a flush out of context of where and how that the low ten-year affects your portfolio or not relative to peers in terms of if we stay here and the lower than expected or hope for ten-year what parts of the portfolio should we be mindful off? Yes.
Well I dont know how it would affect us relative to peer but when you look at us specifically the ten-year rate affects us in a couple of ways.
Number one it affects us in terms of mortgage rates and mortgages that we put in our portfolio.
Typically were putting $200 million to $250 million a month of jumbo mortgages within our portfolio and those are split some fixed some floating or some fixed some arent and the other place of the ten-year rate affects us is in the investment portfolio and as the rate drops that mortgage-backed securities we have in our investment portfolio tend to prepay a little bit faster and we reinvest that cash at slightly lower rates.
So with a dramatic drop in rates such as weve seen we would get probably a little bit more public awareness a little bit more publicity and some of that will happen a little bit faster.
The offset to that from a NIM and net interest income perspective of course is increased refis and increased fee income in the mortgage business that Im hope will act to completely offset the drop in net interest income from lower rates.
Our next question comes from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
I was wondering about just on the credit outlook Aleem I think you said you kind of expect to maybe bounce around the charge-off level you are at now is that maybe 30 basis points kind of in that ballpark is that what you are thinking about? Well I think for full year 2014 John; we ended up around 34 basis points 35 basis points.
Okay.
And were expecting a substantial move from that.
Remember our through the cycle expectation for charge-offs is 40 to 70 obviously were at a very strong point in the cycle.
Weve been below the bottom end of our range and our current expectation is that well stay around that kind of a number in 2015.
Okay and I think you said the same thing for the actual provision dollars as well? Thats exactly right.
As we look at it today with what we know today we would expect provision in 2015 to be right around where it was at 2014 obviously that change is quarter-to-quarter as we review our portfolio and economic conditions but as we look at it today Id expect it to be right around the same kind of level.
Our next question comes from Terry McEvoy of Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks good morning.
Good morning.
In the past youve talked about a CRE heat map of the country could you just maybe discuss areas of strength in the fourth quarter in where you see the best growth opportunities in 2015? Sure.
When we think about sort of CRE if I would think about the portfolio maybe almost in some kind of sequence office multifamily warehouse industrial and retail probably in that order sort of as a global basis.
Office for us primarily concentrated top markets and top spaces so its more about credit enhancement and positive part.
And in large markets it has tended to perform well and be part of the growth.
On the multifamily side its a little spottier and fairness I mean there is some markets that we do a lot of work with some markets where the absorption balance is just right.
Globally its still okay but their pockets were weve gone from green to yellow in our map.
And we are probably pulling back in a couple of places in multifamily.
Warehouse and industrial is sort of just of waiting I mean I think thats coming back more slowly and we see selective pockets for us part of whats happening with the east coast ports opportunities we are starting to see that kind of investments so you see some of the challenges with the west coast ports you see the investments that have been made on the east coast.
So there has been a lot of development and discussion and dialogue and I think were really well positioned long-term there.
Retail is just - this would be a long time before it comes back I mean I think thats in a slower place thats not where we have our primary emphasis.
And then just as a follow-up the increase in the provision within wholesale banking in the prepared remarks you talked about taking a look at the energy portfolio could you just maybe expand specifically on what you did in terms of a stress testing and the analysis around the potential risk there that contributed to that small uptick.
Yes Terry we actually looked at our energy exposure from a bottoms up perspective weve been going through the names obviously this started in about mid December or so as the market move started to steepen.
We looked at our largest energy exposures accessed each one from a bottoms up perspective that process is on going and we also looked at our overall exposure from a qualitative perspective and decided that while it didnt look like quantitatively we needed to make an adjustment it would be prudent and appropriate for us to do so.
So the increase in provision is in that context we havent seen any stress amongst any of our clients in that portfolio so far its still early but we havent seen any yet but were just trying to do the prudent thing and get ahead of what looks to be like a big move globally.
Brad we have time for one more question I believe.
Thank you sir.
Our last question comes from Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen just a couple of questions on mortgage.
I noticed that production in the quarter was up about 20% year-over-year I guess Im just curious if you could give us a little more color on your outlook for that business particularly in the wake of what have been some far more attractive mortgage rates throughout most of your footprint over the last few weeks and any guesses as to how long that may last? Yes sequentially were up about 4% from third and the fourth quarter was - refi was about 40% to 50% so it really wasnt sort of the big refi part yet thats fairly consistent with where we were so we had seen sort of some core parts of our business.
Now that been said applications are completely different applications are 60% 70% plus kind of refi the first couple of weeks in January.
Particularly last few days have actually been quite good and so we are seeing the potential there.
What I really like is where its coming from so as you know we invested in our consumer direct business so to think more online our core retail business.
So its coming from our markets were keeping our correspondent business sort of at about 50% so where it was at the fourth quarter and so where it is now.
So its coming in our higher margin areas and we're able to balance that.
I want to be careful about over projecting you can get excited about a couple of weeks and you can extrapolate numbers and get some big numbers as a result of that but I feel good about where its coming from I feel good about how we're positioned to take advantage of it and the last few days have been very good people have responded.
As you would imagine the denominator let's say for total refinance is smaller I mean just as you continue to go through a declining rate cycle that happens but those that are eligible seem to be active.
Then Matt I would add to that as you know we're a very good efficient and effective servicer and weve been adding to our servicing portfolio over the course of the year if you look at sort of end of 2013 to end of 2014 weve added about $9 billion to our servicing portfolio and thats generating a nice increase in servicing income for us as we take advantage of our competitive advantage.
And it is a good discussion too related to the efficiency ratio so for example if this heats up a little more than we think.
It could be slightly dilutive to our efficiency ratio and accretive to our earnings and well make that trade right now.
So thats a good trade for us to make.
Just staying on the theme of fee revenues just curious as to your outlook in the first quarter and if you have visibility a little further than that that would be helpful for the capital markets business.
That obviously was quite a good performer.
This quarter has been pretty good in the second half of 2014.
Just curious given all the vitality in the markets right now what your outlook might be for the first quarter or first half in investment banking capital markets? Yes since you stretched it to the first half that will make it a little easier because there is some volatility and certain markets are more active than others and clients are coming back and so reevaluating where they stand and what they want to do but based on our pipeline they look great our pipeline sort of continue that same momentum that weve had in the past.
I just think by quarter-by-quarter its going to look potentially a little bit different but based upon the investments weve made which I talked about earlier the pipeline the diversity of our mix and some parts that are actually starting small that have a much larger opportunity to growth I dont have any reason to be anything less than optimistic.
I think we're going to continue on the same phase its just going to be tricky quarter-by-quarter.
Brad this concludes our call.
Thanks to everyone for joining us today and if you have any further questions please feel free to contact the IR department.
Thank you for your participation on today's conference call.
At this time all parties may disconnect.
Welcome to the SunTrust First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants are in a listen-only mode for the duration of today's conference which is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Now I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Ankur Vyas Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our SunTrust first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
In addition to today's press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules can be accessed at investors.suntrust.com.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our Web site.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures when talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our Web site investors.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our Web site.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Ankur and good morning everyone.
I'll begin with a brief overview of the quarter and then turn it over to Aleem for some additional details.
Following Aleem's comments I'll wrap up our prepared remarks by reviewing our performance at the business segment level and then of course we will take some Q&amp;A.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.78 on net income to common of $411 million.
That was up 7% per share relative to a year ago.
Overall this quarter results were solid with good performance in certain areas including continued expense discipline higher mortgage and capital markets related income strong credit quality and further deposit growth momentum.
These favorable trends helped to counter act the decline in a net interest margin over the past year.
Total revenue declined compared to both prior quarter and prior year entirely due to the lower net interest income much of which was anticipated as the prolonged low interest rate environment continues to pressure asset yields.
Partially offsetting this was an improvement in non-interest income driven by an increase in mortgage and capital markets related revenue.
Current quarter expenses were relatively stable to the adjusted level in the fourth quarter as seasonally higher personnel costs were offset by reductions in most other operating expense categories though portion of these declines were seasonal or non-recurring in nature.
More importantly expenses were down 3% from the prior year adjusted level as a result of continued expense management efforts lower operating costs -- lower operating losses and the sale of RidgeWorth.
The combination of these revenue and expense trends resulted in an adjustable tangible efficiency ratio of 64.4% for the current quarter slightly below the first quarter of last year.
As we noted in January year-over-year improvements in 2015 will be less than last year as we continue to work towards our goal of being sub-63 for the full year.
Average performing loans were stable sequentially due in part to loan sale activity in the prior quarter and elevated pay down activity in the current quarter but also due to our strategic focus on overall returns.
While we remain confident in our loan production capacity and improving the economic conditions in our markets and businesses our focus on returns will remain high and may impact ultimate on balance sheet loan growth.
Average client deposits were up 3% compared to the prior quarter with broad-based growth across consumer private wealth and wholesale businesses.
Our core growth initiatives are gaining momentum driven by improved focus better execution and enhanced capabilities.
Asset quality continues to be an area of strength.
Non-performing loans were down 3% from prior quarter and 34% from prior year.
The net charge-off ratio was 30 basis points relatively stable to the prior quarter and year.
Our capital position improved with our common equity Tier 1 ratio estimated to be 9.8% on a Basel III fully phased-in basis.
Also tangible book value per share continues to steadily increase up 2% sequentially and 10% compared to the prior year.
Lastly our capital plan that we submitted as part of this year's CCAR process received no objection by the Federal Reserve.
Our common stock dividend will increase 20% subject to Board approval and we will repurchase $875 million worth of common stock over the coming five quarters which is 55% higher than our previous share buyback authorization.
We're pleased that our strong capital position improved earnings power and reduced risk profile enabled this positive outcome for our shareholders.
So to recap year-over-year trends; net interest income declined most of which was related to the anticipated step-down in the commercial loan swap income non-interest income trends are solid and it more than offset the loss of RidgeWorth revenues.
And lastly expenses continued to be well-managed and asset quality is strong both of which played an important role in mitigating the pressure on the margin and thus keeping us on an overall positive trajectory.
So with that as overview let me turn it over to Aleem to provide some more details.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us this morning.
I'll begin my comments on Slide 4.
Earnings per share in the first quarter were $0.78 which was $0.10 lower than the fourth quarter on an adjusted basis and $0.05 or 7% higher than the first quarter of last year.
The sequential decline was driven by lower net interest income and seasonally higher compensation expenses and was partially offset by higher mortgage-related income and lower provision expense.
Compared to the first quarter of last year EPS growth was driven by the continued expense discipline a lower provision expense and higher mortgage and capital markets related revenue which together more than offset the decline in net interest income and the return to a more normal tax rate.
In addition certain discrete recoveries which I will discuss later also contributed to the solid year-over-year EPS growth.
We'll now review the underlying trends in more detail starting on Slide 5.
Net interest income declined $73 million relative to the prior quarter primarily driven by the anticipated decline in commercial loan swap income and two fewer days but also impacted by higher premium amortization expense in the securities portfolio.
Net interest margin declined 13 basis points primarily due to lower swap income and the higher premium amortization expense but also due to continued core margin pressure as a result of the low interest rate and competitive environment.
Relative to the guidance we provided in January the higher premium amortization expense negatively impacted NIM more than we had anticipated as ten-year rates declined another 30 basis points sequentially.
Conversely mortgage-related revenues benefited from the decline in rates which I will discuss later.
Core C&amp;I loan yields excluding swap income declined seven basis points as new production yields continued to be lower than portfolio yields.
We remain focused on ensuring that we both meet the full suite of our wholesale clients' needs and also our own internal requirements.
When we cannot achieve this we will look to either exit the lending relationship via targeted loan sales as we've done in the past couple of quarters or simply not participate during future renewal opportunities.
On a year-over-year basis net interest income declined $64 million primarily driven by the same factors as the sequential drivers but partially mitigated by 7% average earning asset growth.
Looking forward and all else equal we expect second quarter net interest margin to decline approximately two to four basis points from the first quarter level driven primarily by lower C&amp;I loan yields.
We have been and will continue to carefully manage the usage and duration of our overall balance sheet in light of the continued low interest rate environment while also being cognizant of controlling interest rate risk in advance of what we expect will eventually be higher interest rates.
Moving on to Slide 6 adjusted non-interest income increased $9 million from the prior quarter primarily driven by higher mortgage production and trading income which offset seasonal declines in other non-interest income categories.
Mortgage production income increased $22 million due to higher production volume as a result of elevated refinance activity and improved gain on sale margins.
On the other hand mortgage servicing income declined to $10 million as the K expense increased given the first quarter decline in market rates.
Investment banking income declined $12 million sequentially largely due to typical patterns of client activity between the fourth and first quarter.
However the $97 million in investment banking income this quarter is a record for a first quarter with particular strength in investment grade debt and equity capital markets businesses.
Trading income increased $15 million as a result of both higher client activity levels and the negative valuation adjustments in the prior quarter.
Service charges for the deposits and card fees were collectively down $13 million due both to fewer days in the quarter and reduced incidence rates.
Other non-interest income was higher almost entirely due to an $18 million pre-tax gain recognized upon the sale of legacy affordable housing properties.
As you'll recall we recognized an impairment last year when we made the decision to exit these properties.
Market values are now higher and those sales are now largely complete.
Compared to the first quarter of last year adjusted non-interest income increased $12 million as higher production income and capital markets related revenue more than offset the loss of RidgeWorth income.
Moving on to expenses adjusted non-interest expense increased $16 million relative to prior quarter.
Personnel expense increased a $100 million sequentially as a result of typical first quarter FICO and 401k costs as well as the return to more normal levels and incentives and benefit accruals.
Outside processing and software costs declined $17 million as the fourth quarter had elevated expenses mostly due to normal timing patterns of rendering service and costs associated with replacing specific software.
Marketing and customer development expense also declined $16 million due to typical seasonality.
Other non-interest expense declined $35 million due to higher legal and consulting costs in the fourth quarter; alongside $17 million of discreet recoveries realized in the first quarter.
Operating losses declined $15 million on an adjusted basis in part due to recoveries of previously recorded mortgage-related losses.
Compared to the first quarter of last year adjusted non-interest expense was down 3% driven by a combination of the sale of RidgeWorth discreet recoveries in the current quarter and our continued overall discipline around expense management.
As you can see on Slide 8 our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio was 64.4% in the first quarter 50 basis points better than last year.
We delivered this improvement despite the expected $50 million step-down in commercial loan swap income as adjusted expenses were lower by 3%.
As we have noted before improvement in 2015 will be more challenging given our significant progress last year in addition to lower commercial loan swap income this year.
However our performance this quarter demonstrates solid progress towards our goal.
We continue to remain focused on the efficiency ratio and our goal of being below 63% for the full year and as such we will continue to exhibit strong expense discipline in light of the current revenue environment.
Turning to Slide 9; our asset quality performance continues to be strong non-performing loans declined 3% sequentially and are down 34% compared to the prior year.
The net charge-off ratio was 30 basis points in the first quarter stable with previous quarterly levels as charge-offs continue to stay low.
However recoveries were lower than the run rate experienced in 2014.
With respect to our energy portfolio we have not seen any meaningful delinquencies or defaults.
During the quarter we updated credit ratings resulting in some migration and we expect that to be ongoing which is why we have proactively built reserves for this portfolio.
Our allowance for loan and lease losses and provision expense declined $44 million and $19 million respectively compared to the previous quarter.
These reductions were driven by the continued improvement in asset quality combined with the lower loan growth during the quarter.
Over the near term we expect further though moderating declines in non-performing loans primarily driven by the residential portfolio.
Net charge-off ratios are likely to remain within the 30 to 40 basis point range in the near term though any given quarter may be impacted by discreet items particularly driven to those low overall net charge-off rates.
We now expect full year 2015 provision expense to be below full year 2014 expense as asset quality continues to improve which s modestly better than our previous guidance.
As you know the ultimate level of reserves and provision expense will be determined by our rigorous quarterly review process which is informed by trends in our loan portfolio combined with a view on future economic conditions.
Let's turn to the balance sheet.
Average performing loans were stable relative to last quarter as a result of loan sale activity in the prior quarter and elevated pay downs in the first quarter in addition to lower production as a result of our continued focus on returns.
C&amp;I loan growth while somewhat slower was positive and broad based driven by our corporate commercial and small business clients.
Consumer direct loans were also nicely higher given continued growth in our LightStream business and GreenSky partnership.
As you'll recall we sold $2 billion of loans in the prior quarter which impacted sequential average growth rates.
In addition we moved approximately $400 million of loans to held-for-sale in the current quarter which modestly impacted end of period growth.
On a year-over-year basis average performing loans increased $5.1 billion or 4% driven by broad-based growth across most portfolios outside of the residential guaranteed student and indirect auto portfolios where the declines are consistent with our balance sheet optimization goals of better diversification and higher returns.
Going forward we continue to seek opportunities to help finance our clients' growth plans particularly given the solid economic conditions in our markets.
We will also continue to keep the high focus on improving returns and ensuring new business exceeds our cost of capital.
Turning to deposit performance; average client deposits were up $3.6 billion or 3% compared to the prior quarter and 9% compared to the prior year driven by broad-based growth across all of our lines of business.
We're pleased with the momentum on the deposit front.
Our success here reflects our overall focus on meeting our clients' deposits and payment needs supplemented by investment in client-facing platforms and people across both our consumer and private wealth and wholesale segments.
Rates paid on deposits were stable sequentially and declined by three basis points compared to the prior year.
Slide 12 provides an update on our capital position.
Common equity Tier 1 expanded by approximately $200 million during the quarter as a result of growth in retained earnings while the Basel III common equity tier 1 ratio estimated on a fully phased-in basis increased to 9.8%.
Tangible book value per share increased 2% from the prior quarter and a full 10% compared to the prior year due primarily to growth in retained earnings.
As Bill noted the Federal Reserve did not object to the capital plan we submitted in conjunction with the 2015 CCAR process.
The capital plan includes the share buyback program of up to $875 million over the coming five quarters which will be conducted relatively evenly on a quarterly basis in addition to a 20% increase in our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.20 to $0.24 subject to Board approval.
Lastly our liquidity coverage ratio continued to exceed the January 1 2016 requirement of 90%.
With that I'll now turn things back over to Bill to cover our business segment performance.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem.
And I'll start on our Slide 13.
In our consumer and private wealth management segment revenues were up 2% compared to the prior year due predominantly the higher net interest income.
Average loans have been relatively flat however we've had solid growth in our higher return portfolios such as consumer direct and credit cards which has offset the intentional reductions we've made in the indirect auto and guaranteed student portfolios.
This shift in portfolio mix is consistent with our overall strategy to improve returns across the company.
Also contributing to the increase in net interest income was 7% year-over-year deposit growth.
Our improvements in deposit growth can be attributed to a more relentless focus supplemented by additional teammate investment particularly in our mass affluent high net worth segment and better technology with our SummitView platform being one of the notable examples.
Non-interest income declined 6% compared to the prior quarter largely due to seasonal declines in service charges and card fees.
Compared to the prior year non-interest income was essentially flat.
While retail investment income growth diminished a bit the quality of this income line is improving as a higher percentage is related to client assets under management versus more transaction-based revenue.
Growing wealth management related income overall continues to be a strategic priority.
Expenses were up 2% compared to the prior year largely due to increased outside processing costs and certain discrete non-recurring charges.
Staff expenses remained relatively flat as ongoing efficiency savings offset continued investments associated with the revenue growth initiatives.
Lastly despite solid 4% year-over-year growth and pre-provision net revenue net income was down 3% as provision expense increased due to moderating asset quality improvements.
However overall asset quality continues to be very strong in this segment.
So to recap this is a difficult operating environment for this business as you know but we're generating good core momentum for the long-term.
In the near term continued expense discipline will be important to help combat the revenue pressures associated with low interest rates and consumer service charges.
Turning to whole sale whole sale banking continues to be a key growth engine for the company.
Looking at the numbers on an adjusted basis net income was up 18% year-over-year driven by solid revenue growth and further asset quality improvement.
Adjusted revenue grew 8% relative to the prior year.
Net interest income was up 9% driven by broad-based loan and deposit growth though this was partially offset by a decline in loan spreads.
Loan growth was 2% sequentially and 15% year-over-year driven by growth across most of our client segments.
However given the competitive environments and continued low rate environment C&amp;I production yields continued to be pressured and as such we reduced growth or sold loans in the areas that are not meeting our long-term return hurdles.
Deposits were up 4% sequentially and 12% year-over-year and the success here can be attributed to enhancements and our treasury and payment product offerings along with the success of our liquidity specialist hires both allowing us to uncover and meet more of our wholesale clients deposit meets.
Adjusted non-interest income was up 6% over the prior year driven by higher investment banking and trading revenue reflecting the investments that we've made in talent and capabilities to increase our market share.
Authentications and leverage finance volumes were down year-over-year investment grade debt and equity capital markets at record quarters and overall as Aleem mentioned this was our best first quarter for investment banking income.
This overall performance is a testament to the enhanced diversity of our platform both by product and industry and as a result of the continuous investments we've made in the business.
Going forward we're focused on leveraging investments in SunTrust Robinson Humphrey to better meet the capital markets and advisory needs of our commercial banking CRE and private wealth clients.
Adjusted non-interest expense was higher year-over-year largely due to the investments in CIB; however this business continues to have an efficiency ratio which is very accretive to the overall company.
Overall we continue to believe that our wholesale banking business is highly differentiated and our value proposition continues to be very well received by clients.
Lower loan yields will continue to be a challenge and we're working hard to mitigate that impact by being more selective about utilization of the balance sheet in addition to continue to expand our fee income and deposit opportunities.
Looking forward our clients remain confident our investment banking backlog and loan and deposit pipelines are healthy and we remain bullish on the overall growth and profitability outlook for the segment.
Now moving to the mortgage segment where we had another good quarter.
Adjusted net income was stable to the prior quarter but up 42 million over the prior year.
Our expense base continues to decline while our risk profile is improving both of which are key components of our strategy in this business.
In addition a strong refinance environment boosted production income in the first quarter.
Getting into the details revenues were up 8% year-over-year driven primarily by higher mortgage production income as a result of a 64% increase in production volume and higher gain on sale margins.
Compared to the prior quarter revenues were basically flat.
The higher production income was offset by higher decay in the servicing portfolio and lower spreads on the loan portfolio a reflection of natural hedge within the business.
While mortgage production volume was up 8% sequentially application volume was up 48% which should support elevated levels of production income into the near term.
The current refinance environment will abate when rates begin to rise however we expect purchase volume and our operating market will continue to strength given overall economic conditions.
Our expectation is supported by purchase volume and applications being up 16% and 30% respectively year-over-year.
Adjusted expenses were down 5% sequentially and year-over-year despite higher revenue primarily due to declines in operating losses and another cyclical cause.
Additionally asset quality continues to improve with delinquencies non-performers and net charge-offs continuing on a declining trend.
So to summarize the quarter for the overall company we had a solid momentum across each of our businesses which help mitigate the impact of the persistently low interest rate environment on our net interest margin.
Our focus on returns will remain a priority and the capacity we build throughout the company should help us to continue and deliver profitable growth.
In addition we're mindful of the intense expense discipline required to operate in this environment and improve our efficiency ratio.
This expense discipline will also be important to help fund continued growth investments many of which are already yielding positive results so that we can continue to deliver long-term value for our clients and our shareholders.
Now with that let me turn it back over to you Ankur.
Thank you Bill.
Arlene we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
As we do so I'd like to ask the participants to please limit yourself to one primary question and one follow-up so that we can accommodate as many of you as possible today.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Sir your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Ken.
You've now had the third solid quarter of expense control under $1.3 billion and clearly there was that $17 million recovery and you also mentioned the operating losses were much lower.
I was wondering as you look out now have you gotten us down to a sub 1.3 quarterly expense run rate and if not what are the upward pressures that we would see from here? Yes Ken this is Bill.
As you pointed out we've been operating clearly at the low end of a range we established which was sort of a $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion.
And I think we will continue in that lower end of our range and I think a $1.3 billion subject to some variation is honing in on more of the right number given where we are in this environment.
Ken you know how focused we are on the efficiency ratio and if you do the math when you look at the decline in revenues and so what the revenue environment looks like for us to hit our efficiency ratio targets we'll have to keep a tight lid on expenses and therefore the bottom end of that range looks more likely relative to the size of the full range we had previously given.
Okay.
And Aleem my follow-up just on a comment youd made last quarter you had been talking previously about running also in the 1.2 billion-ish on NII.
This quarter it looks like you started a little bit below that maybe partly because of day count but kind of a same follow-up just where we kind of also stuck at this sub 1.2 level just given where we are in the rate environment for now? Well I think yes the day count was an issue this quarter Ken and also the premium amortization this quarter on the securities portfolio was an issue just given the big lurch down in rates that we got this quarter 30 basis points on the ten-year.
So I think if you take those two things out and I think about what NII looks like over the course of the remainder of the year you know what we've been actually very successful in holding NII stable despite declining margins for many quarters until we got to this quarter we got to step-down this quarter because of the decline in swap income but from here I would think that we are -- if this isn't the trough in NII then this is very close to the trough.
Okay got it.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from John McDonald from Bernstein.
Sir your line is open.
Yes hi good morning.
I was wondering on the mortgage side the production revenues as you noted were quite strong on both volume and margins.
I was wondering if you could offer any color on the timing of the volume pick-up was that steady throughout the quarter was it sporadic based on where rates were? And then on the gain on sale margins any numerical context you could offer for how strong your gain on sale margins have been and what's been driving that? And do think you can hold these gain on sale margins here? Hi John.
Yes I think that we saw that decline in rates early in the quarter and that helped us on mortgage revenue overall and production volumes were generally steady throughout the quarter.
Margins picked up a little bit early in the quarter and sort of I think held relatively steady also fairly throughout the quarter.
So if rates are where they are then I would expect this to continue for a while but also the refi benefit I think continues to decline a little just given how many of our clients have already refied.
And over time the benefit we expect to see from an improving economy is actually our clients moving more and more toward a purchase market and we are looking forward to seeing that happen.
Okay.
Yes I'm more excited about the purchase opportunity going forward.
I mean the refi thing with service in [decay] [ph] it sort of tends to even itself out a little bit.
So I mean the real long-term sustainable growth comes from purchase.
And what we're seeing maybe its unique to our markets but we're seeing really good activity on the purchase side.
Okay thanks.
And a follow-up just to Ken's question Aleem in terms of the premium amortization do you get that all back one-for-one if the ten-year climbs back and your outlook for the second quarter the two to four basis points of margin does that assume any recapture of the premium amortization you lost this quarter? If rates climb we'll get some of it back.
We probably won't get it all back on a one-for-one basis John but we're not anticipating a major rate hike in the next quarter or two.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt O'Connor from Deutsche Bank.
Sir your line is open.
Hi good morning.
This is Rob Placet from Matt's team.
First question just on investment banking revenues continued to be strong there.
I was just curios if you could provide an outlook on a full year basis what we should expect there? Well we don't tend to provide a full year outlook as it relates to that particular line but that being said given what we see right now in pipelines given what we see in activity what were feeling from our clients we continue to feel really good about that business.
It's got quarter-to-quarter type fluctuations.
But if you do sort of a straight line for us over multi-quarter you're seeing a continued improvement and given the investments we've made there the receptivity from our clients I don't see a reason that wouldn't continue.
Okay great.
And then just similar question on deposit service charges; they were a bit weaker than I think we were expecting so I was just curious if you can provide an outlook on that line time? Yes.
They were a little bit lower primarily again we had two fewer days this quarter as well as we're seeing changes in client behavior.
Our clients are consolidating accounts and they're looking to try to find ways of avoiding fees.
And we're working with them to do that.
We're educating our clients on what they can do.
And we think that over the long run that's going to help our overall client relationships and help build the franchise.
So if I look at deposit service charges over the remaining part of the year they will be driven a little by client behavior but I think we're looking for ways to try and work with our clients.
And this is not going to be an overall growth area for the company but we are looking to try and find ways to work with our clients and help them manage their exposure and we think that will help our relationships in the long-term.
They're obviously inversely related to deposit growth.
We've seen really good deposit growth in not only new account acquisition but just increase in balances and individual accounts.
Okay thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
All right.
Can you tell me little bit about the loan growth you saw this quarter where the slowdown came from particularly on the commercial side which is where I think you have one of your slowest quarters in a while just how big were the elevated pay downs in the quarter? Yes I'll take that Ryan.
C&amp;I was up about 2% this quarter overall.
In most of our core verticals we continue to see some pretty good growth.
Some exceptions to that particularly in areas where we've been focused on returns equipment leasing would be one of those.
Some of that's involved with the loan sale of some muni assets that we just didn't see being as strategic long-term as we wanted.
CRE was flat this quarter.
That was mainly from pay downs and that sort of is a two-edge sword.
I mean the one edge is it reduces the growth a little bit but the other edge is it's a nice confirmation of our business.
So we got pay downs from construction activity and investor demand being very good.
So the things that we're financing are very financeable in the secondary market.
So that's positive.
I think going forward on the C&amp;I side I mean we continue to be positive.
I think the pay downs were probably a little higher this quarter than certainly than we've seen in the past.
Production engines will continue to be positive might not be at the same level as last year but it continues to grow.
Got it.
Aleem you noted two to four basis points of NIM pressure in the second quarter; just given the focus on relationship pricing clearly seen are you still under pressure? Do you think that two to four is going to be a good run rate option any changes to the swap portfolio to the remainder of the year? Or could we actually see the pressure start to ease like I said just given the focus on getting better pricing across your customer base? Well I think that's a question about sort of economy and markets.
And if the economic growth picks up and I think that amount of decline will decline.
But if we stay as we are all else equal I would think that kind of a margin decline two or three basis points a quarter is about sort of a kind of grind down that we would continue to see given run-offs and new production over the remainder of the year.
Got it.
Thanks for taking my question.
Our next question comes from Erika Najarian from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Erica.
My first question is actually a follow-up to Ryan's question so throughout your prepared remarks you mentioned several times that you continue to want to keep your return hurdle tied you think about balance sheet growth and you also noted that C&amp;I loan growth may not be as strong as last year at the same time wholesale banking continues to be strong and your particular market are also quite strong.
As we think about loan growth for the balance of the year compared to last year and we mix all of those together could you still have accelerating loan growth despite some of what you've pointed out? Well Erica yes I think we can have good loan growth in our markets.
You know the markets we are in where we've got great opportunity.
We've certainly put a lot of investment in great talent that we've been fortunate enough to bring in over the last couple of years.
I think that's going to help us on the loan growth side.
But to your question about returns I think along with loan growth and net interest income of course is fee income.
And I think our strategy around being able to grow non-interest income from bad client base to whom we provide a value proposition that they like I think we've been able to demonstrate that we've been able to deliver that and it gives a testament to the talent we brought in.
And our investment banking results this quarter I think demonstrate that strategy is working well for us.
And I think there is no putting breaks on the production engines.
We'll continue to fire on all cylinders in making sure that we are seeing the kind of opportunities we want to see.
One of the big trade-offs in the overall balances are in the consumer private loan side and I really like the trade.
Our consumer direct business was up about 9% and our indirect was down about 8% and I like that trade.
It's more client-related business it's higher margin business and continued sort of equal credit quality.
So I think that kind of trade on the balance sheet particularly as it relates to consumer side is something that we'll continue to be focused on.
Understood.
And just for my second question taking a step back; M&amp;A is a bigger topic with bank investors today than even a quarter ago given your level of excess capital and the environment being challenging for all banks do you see yourself as a potential acquirer over the next 12 to 18 months? And how has that mindset perhaps changed versus let's say a year ago? Well I think the continued investment right now is in our business.
The bank that we like the most is SunTrust.
We've got third biggest retail operation in our markets the fourth largest mortgage company.
We've got great momentum in our investment banking operations.
So we are going to continue to invest in those things funded by some of the expense savings and opportunities that we are creating.
I presume without the green light if we wanted to do something on the M&amp;A side where we think about things that are potentially accretive to a really strong franchise yes but those are not a lot of them.
So 12 and 18 months is a long time.
Our focus right now continues to be highly and mostly focused on SunTrust.
Got it.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Betsy.
Just couple of quick follow-ups; one was on the loan sales this that you did this quarter did you slice them [ph]? I'm sorry Betsy.
I didn't hear the Did you slice how much the loan sales were? I'm just wondering what the growth was ex the loan sales.
All right.
We sold $2 billion towards the end of Q4.
And in Q1 we moved another $400 million into held-for-sale.
And then I'm just also wondering is are you through that process? Is there more to come? How you're making decision which ones to sell relative value on the risk adjusted margins just to bring [ph] but how far along in the process you're? You're exactly right.
We're looking for relative value.
We're looking for lower ROA or ROE loans.
We're also looking for loans that as Bill said earlier are more in the indirect space loans where we don't have a client relationship with that client.
We refined loans that fit those categories.
We'd rather put our capital to work for clients where we do have a relationship and where we get returns to hit our hurdle rates.
And so just that basic question is that are you pretty much donor or this is ongoing which you expect a type of level of loan sales that happen on a quarterly basis? We're doing an ongoing research Betsy.
And if we find portfolios of loans that fit our sale category then we'll be continuing to look for exit on those loans and put our money to work where we think it actually makes more sense.
If you go back over the last couple of years I think you'll see sort of us on a pretty steady basis moving lower ROA assets out of our balance sheet not to somebody else's.
Okay and the follow-up is just on the impact of some of the regulatory rules around; leverage lending and I know you have a very strong business there.
Maybe you could speak to how you see that shaking out especially as energy has pulled back a bit in terms of need for funding? Yes I think you're certainly seeing some shake out of the market.
That's not the biggest driver of our income going forward.
It has been a driver.
I think we've participated in a very thoughtful way that's very consistent with our strategy of being highly diversified and both inter and intra parts of our portfolio.
I think overall it's positive.
Overall I think we're seeing a little bit of a pull back to what we've seen a couple of quarters ago and I think overall for business in general that's a positive and it will be a positive for us.
Okay thanks.
Our next question comes from John Pancari from Evercore ISI.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
I just wanted to get a little more color on what all the detail that you gave around loan growth and the pay down etcetera and what that means for overall growth in coming quarters? I know there's been some questions about it on the call already but is it fair to assume that you're going to be in a growth rate in the mid single-digit as you have been in prior quarters or are the pay downs and some of your selectivity and what you're putting on the balance sheet could that weigh on it near term or we could be looking at low single-digits? Yes I think John the important part is we're going to grow in the areas that we want to continue to grow at.
And they have been growing.
If we look at areas like core commercial and our corporate banking business and as I said virtually all of our verticals we were seeing real growth.
We would expect that to continue.
That's been offset a little bit this quarter maybe uniquely by higher pay downs in the CRE sides which we discussed which again sort of on balance I view as positive in terms of the confirmation of our business model and then also with the decision that we made in the fourth quarter relative to particular loan sales.
So trust me as I said earlier we're not putting brakes on loan growth.
I mean we'll continue to be very positive about the businesses we're in.
We're very positive about the markets we're in and continue to see opportunities in that area.
And much of what we're doing is meeting our hurdle requirements and a lot of it's meeting our hurdle requirements because of the investments we've made on the fee-based side.
The fact that we have come a long way from a spread-only business we're able to generate a lot more income of the commitments that we make on the asset side.
So we continue to feel good about the capacity to generate loan growth in this company and I think the first quarter is just a little bit above an aberration in the sense of pay downs and then fourth quarter loan sales that are all culminating in one particular quarter.
John if you go back last year you'd see that we were putting on about $2.5 billion of organic loan growth every quarter.
And if you wanted to continue to generate that given the strength of our production engines I'm sure we could easily do that.
The issue is at what returns.
And given our focus on overall returns I don't think that we will choose to grow loans at the same rate that we were last quarter; certainly not the rate of Q1 '15 but probably somewhere in the middle between where we were this quarter and where we were last year.
I'm sorry Aleem you just said versus fourth quarter last year? Well all of last year we were putting on an average of about $2.5 billion of loan growth per quarter.
Yes okay.
All right.
And then my follow-ups in the expense side; thanks for the detail around the overall $1.3 billion level.
In getting there I just wanted to get a little bit more color on the different components specifically operating losses obviously came in lower than expected.
The outside processing and software costs also lower and then I know credit and collection was lower and that was part of your other classification.
So for those types of items all fair to assume they stay low and they're the main drivers of your confidence around this $1.3 billion? Yes there was a little benefit in operating losses this quarter.
That was sort of little bit of a one-off but overall we're focused on every one of those lines we continue to work with our teammates across the company around improving overall efficiency ratio finding dollars of expenses that we can cut in those contexts.
We've talked in the past about all of our various strategies all of the things that we're focused on to continue to manage expenses and grow efficiency.
And we talk less about those now but that doesn't mean that had gone away.
We continue to focus on that and I expect that we'll continue to do that over the remainder of the year John.
Yes John you mentioned a few line items which are somewhat cyclical by nature.
And I think continuing the trends that we're on we should overall maybe not quarter-to-quarter but overall see those continue to go down as the quality of our portfolio improves.
But then as Aleem pointed out there is everything else.
This is the core way we run our business.
I mean lots of focus on operations costs looking at lending centers call centers technology infrastructure end-to-end focus and virtually all of our businesses corporate real estate consolidation use the third-party the vendor management the list goes on.
We're highly focused on more than two or three lines that relates improving that expense line.
But we also noted the focus is on the efficiency ratio because we're all fantastic so we're sort of in the "Save a dollar invest a dollar " kind of mood right now because we see lots of opportunities to continue to invest in our company for long-terms growth.
And we're going to be careful about hitting that right balance of not cutting in to the sort of the core revenue capacity opportunity in our company; again which I think are significant long-term.
Yes got it.
Thank you.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Matt Burnell from Wells Fargo.
Sir your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Actually it's Jason Harbes from Matt's team.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning guys.
So yes first question is just on the swaps.
Looks like you upgraded the guidance by about 10% for the full year.
Just curious what's driving that and what your appetite would be to purchase additional swaps within the context of rates potentially rising later this year.
Well I'm not sure rates will rise later this year.
But yes as you noted we did add a little bit more into that portfolio.
But remember how many we had rolled off in the first quarter and given the way that our portfolio looks structurally and if we did nothing at all 60% of our overall loans would be floating rates.
We continue to want to add swaps to move some of that portfolio to what looks like fixed rates.
And as a result of the swaps that we have on the book now we're more like 50-50.
We've got what I think today is a nice balanced that prepares us to be asset sensitive for some point in the future.
I'm not so sure that point in the future is going to be soon i.e.
in the next few months but I think is you look at 2016 and '17 our investors are going to want us to be asset sensitive and I think swap structure and overall structural rate book allows us to be nicely asset sensitive at that point.
And I think Aleem mentioned that we mentioned in January coming into this year we geared our planning process.
I'm not thinking about a rate increase.
So when we talk about efficiency ratio we talk about the things that we have control of we're assuming we're going to be in a low rate environment.
Now if that changes we obviously get the benefit of that and we're obviously positioned for that long-term but I would not dependant on a rate increase for example to hit our sub63 efficiency ratio.
Okay that's very helpful.
And then to switch over for my follow-up on the credit card business looks like you're making nice progress there.
Can you comment specifically on what you're seeing there and maybe share any insights into the appetite of your customers to revolve balances? Yes.
It is part of that; a direct portfolio that were seeing grow on our consumer side and we're actually very pleased with what we seeing on the credit card side.
Not only way we're putting more cards and everybody's wallet was actually being on that track now pretty consistently for about 12 to 18 months.
But as you point out we're actually now starting to see utilization.
So some of the things that we're doing to activate that with different campaigns and process that we're running to making sure that we've got reward programs and et cetera that are highly competitive and we're just seeing clients starting to shift that is their overall usage to a more fulsome relationship that they have with SunTrust versus maybe a single relationship they have with somebody else with the cards in their wallets.
So I'm hopeful that trend will continue and I like the momentum we've established.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Gerard Cassidy from RBC.
Sir your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can you share with us on your ability to purchase up to $875 million now of your common shares between the second quarter 2015 and 2016? Is that going to be a straight line even amount per quarter or will it be variable? And plus if some opportunity came up to buy stock more aggressively if it's not in your CCAR plan can you still do it or do you have to apply to the regulators to say that you want to do it? </strong> I'll answer your second question first.
Overall program is regulated quite rigorously.
So if we wanted to make dramatic changes I'm sure we would be having a conversation.
And coming to your first question I expect that to be relatively even over the five-quarter period and the first quarter of this year we repurchased a $115 million of stock.
And I'm pleased with the increase over the next few quarters that was not objected too and I'm glad that we'll be able to bring that stock in.
Coming back to your Tier 1 common ratio which is very strong at 9.8% first what are you comfortable at running at? And second I know this is putting the cart before the horse but for next year's CCAR program if you feel you have excess capital what is the possibility or probability that you'd ask for -- to buy back more than your current earnings which American Express for example did this year? Well I like what we were able to do this year Gerard; we took our overall payout ratio from the 50% range up to the 70% range.
So that was nice to be able to do.
And given the context of continued loan growth we would need to retain some level of capital in order to be able to support the loan growth that we are going to get this year.
As I look forward to where we think we can be at some point in the future I do think like you that 9.8% overall and remember this is on a fully phased-in basis.
That's probably more than we'll need and I would hope that over the course of the medium term that the regulators would allow the industry to be able to shrink capital level overall.
If I think about where we could end up in that type of environment I think that we would likely end up as some kind of ratio below nine; something that starts with an eight probably seems like it would be certainly adequate for the need that we have as a company to support our client needs and be able to withstand the rigorous CCAR stress test.
Thank you.
I appreciate the answers Aleem.
Thank you.
Aleem we have time for one more question.
Our last question comes from Geoffrey Elliott from Autonomous Research.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning.
A couple of questions on fee income; firstly on mortgage I'm getting a sense that you're gaining share there and if so how are you doing it? Yes I think maybe the -- if we sort of think about it on a global basis or national basis I think our marks up is just better.
We are seeing we are covering our markets particularly on the purchase side.
So on a national type basis I would presume that we'd be gaining share because I think our economy is gaining share in our markets relative to the total economy.
So I think the answer to that is probably yes.
And we continue to add LOMs [ph] to our platform.
I mean we like what we're doing we're optimistic about the future.
We like the way our business is operating.
So we will continue to make those types of investments but just overall I think our markets are just better.
And we will continue to invest in technology in the platform.
And as we continue to do that we make it easier and easier for our clients to do business with us and for our teammates to support those clients.
So that past investments I think is paying off in terms of client delight with our products.
And then in the release you touched on a slowdown in syndicated finance activity and you mentioned leverage lending being a little bit lighter.
What do you think is behind that? Is it demand? Is it regulators getting tougher is it something else? I think a little bit of that is just seasonality Q1 versus Q4.
It's a little bit of a standard thing that clients move ahead in Q4 perhaps late in the year to close our transactions.
So I think a little bit of that is seasonality but I think we were able to more than offset that decline in that space with growth in other aspects of our investment banking business that allowed us to generate the results that we got this quarter.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Okay thanks everyone.
This concludes our call.
Thank you for joining us today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact the Investor Relations department.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Participants may disconnect at this time.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome to the SunTrust Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Todays conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now Id like to turn over the call to Ankur Vyas Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning.
And welcome to SunTrust second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us.
In addition to today's press release we've also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules can be accessed at investors.suntrust.com.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures when talking about the company's performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website investors.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Ankur and good morning everyone.
I'll begin with a brief overview of the quarter and then I am going to turn over to Aleem for some additional details.
Following Aleem's comments I'll review our performance at the business segment level.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.89 on net income to common of $467 million up 14% per share sequentially and 10% compared to the prior year adjusted EPS.
We demonstrated good progress this quarter on key strategies and goals including optimizing our business mix and balance sheet investing in growth opportunities improving efficiency and growing capital returns.
Revenue improved 4% over the previous quarter but declined 2% from the prior year adjusted level.
The sequential quarter increase can be attributed to both higher net interest income and non-interest income.
Net interest margin benefited from targeted balance sheet actions during the quarter in addition to slight improvement in core loan yields and continued growth in deposits.
Average performing loans were down slightly from the prior quarter due primarily the loan sale activity driven by our continued focus on returns and pay downs of certain loan categories.
We remained confident in our ability to generate targeted growth in segments where returns are appropriate and our relationships are deeper and we will continue to closely manage areas where the competitive environment is driving down returns.
Average client deposits were up 2% compared to the prior quarter and 9% year-over-year with continued broad-based growth driven by improved focus better execution and enhanced capabilities.
Growing deposits remains an important part of our strategic efforts to strengthen client relationships and improve profitability.
Adjusted non-interest income grew 7% sequentially as we deepen client relationships across the company evidenced by growth in investment banking retail investment income and card fees.
Mortgage related income declined sequentially largely as a result of higher rates in the quarter which drove lower refinance activity and higher hedging-related costs.
Adjusted expenses were down 2% from the prior year driven by lower operating losses on the sale of RidgeWorth.
Sequentially adjusted expenses increased 3% a strong overall performance higher client activity levels and typical seasonal patterns generated increases in certain variable expense categories.
In addition we continue to invest in key growth areas.
The combination of these revenue and expense trends resulted in an adjusted tangible efficiency ratio 63.4% for the current quarter which improved sequentially and year-over-year and we are continue to work towards the very challenging goal of being sub 63 for the full year 2015.
Our asset quality performance remained strong with NPLs down 21% as we transfer the portion of the portfolio to held for sale.
The net charge-off ratio declined to 26 basis points reaching new multiyear lows.
Our asset quality performance can be attributed in part to the significant actions we have taken over the past several years to de-risk and diversify and improve the quality of our production.
ROI was 103 basis points this quarter an 11% -- 11 basis points increase sequentially and a 3 basis point improvement relative to last years adjusted performance.
Return metrics are important to us and we continue to focus on strategies to deepen client relationships and optimize the usage and mix of the balance sheet.
Our capital position improved slightly with our common equity Tier 1 ratio estimated to be 9.8% on all Basel III fully phased-in basis.
Growth in tangible book value per share also continued up slightly from prior quarter and 7% compared to the prior year.
Sequential increases in capital ratio and tangible book value occurred alongside of 36% increase in our total capital return to shareholders.
So to recap net interest margin is beginning to show signs of stabilization partially as a result of our balance sheet management efforts as we are cautiously optimistic that we are seeing the trough in net interest income.
Conversely provision expense is likely at or near the bottom even if asset quality continues a condition remains strong.
Non-interest income trends were positive and reflective of our continued efforts to meet more client needs the quarterly variability can be expected.
Our focus on expense management and improving efficiency will remain high.
Overall I'm optimistic about our company strategic direction and our ability to deliver further value of our shareholders.
So with that as a brief overview I will turn it over to Aleem to provide some more details on the results.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Earnings per share in the second quarter were $0.89 which was 14% higher than the first quarter and also 10% higher than adjusted EPS in the second quarter of last year.
As you'll recall adjustments to the second quarter of 2014 included the settlement of certain legacy mortgage matters partially offset by the gain on sale of RidgeWorth the net of which was a negative $0.09 per share impact to earnings.
Sequential quarter increase was driven by 4% revenue growth a decline in the provision expense and a $0.03 discrete tax benefit in the current quarter.
Non-interest expense did increase sequentially but this was primarily related to business performance and activity levels in addition to certain discrete items in the current and prior quarter which I will discuss later.
Compared to the second quarter of last year EPS growth was driven by improved asset quality performance continued expense discipline and higher mortgage and capital markets-related revenue which together more than offset the loss of RidgeWorth revenue and lower commercial loan swap income.
We will now review the underlying trends in more detail starting on slide five.
Net interest income increased to 2% sequentially driven by one additional day an improvement in core loan yields and higher commercial loan swap income.
The premium amortization expense related to the securities portfolio was stable sequentially but will slightly decline next quarter due to portfolio actions we undertook during the period.
Net interest margin improved to 3 basis points primarily due to commercial loan swap income and a slight increase in consumer and mortgage loan yields.
Relative to the guidance we have provided in April balance sheet management actions in the quarter including adjusting duration and repaying higher cost wholesale funding benefited NIM.
Core C&amp;I loan yields were stable sequentially a positive sign after multiple quarters of continuous declines.
With that said new production C&amp;I yields continued to be lower than portfolio yields and thus will likely put further pressure on the overall margin.
We remained intensely focused on ensuring that we meet the full suite of our wholesale banking clients needs particularly with respect to capital markets and treasury and payment products.
On a year-over-year basis net interest income declined $41 million driven entirely by lower commercial loan swap income.
Core margin compression due to the continued low rate environment was offset by positive loan and deposit growth.
Looking forward we expect third quarter net interest margin to be relatively stable to the second quarter level as the balance sheet management actions of the second quarter will fully be in the run rate and potentially offset core loan yield compression.
Despite the potential for stability next quarter NIM will likely still grind down after that until interest rate begin to rise.
Overall we continue to manage the balance sheet to have a positive tilt towards rising rates and expect any increase in rates to be gradual and deliberately paced.
Moving on to slide six non-interest income increased $57 million from the prior quarter primarily driven by higher investment banking activity growth in retail investment income and seasonal increases in other non-interest income categories which offset the decline in mortgage-related income.
Investment banking had a strong quarter with revenues increasing $48 million as growth occurred across almost all product area.
Trading income was stable as lower core client driven activity was offset by higher fair value marks on our debt.
Mortgage production income declined $7 million due to lower lock volume and reduced gain-on sale margins.
We record gain-on sale revenue at the time of rate lock and thus the majority of revenues related to the refinance activity of the prior quarter were recorded at that time.
Mortgage servicing income declined $13 million due to higher decay expense as a result of the increase in closed loans and higher hedging costs given the increase rate volatility throughout the quarter.
Retail investment income and card fees combined increased $12 million sequentially as we continue to deepen client relationships in the consumer related businesses.
We also recorded $14 million in net securities gains and a similar amount of debt extinguishment cost which are recorded in noninterest expense to slightly reposition the balance sheet.
Net lease transactions had no upfront P&amp;L impact but modestly improved our forward NIM and net interest income profile.
Compared to the second quarter of last year adjusted net interest income increased slightly as growth in capital markets and mortgage related income was able to offset the loss of RidgeWorth revenue.
Lets move on to expenses on slide seven.
Adjusted noninterest expense increased $34 million sequentially due to business activity and performance in the second quarter in addition to typical seasonal trends.
Personnel expense declined $15 million due mainly to the seasonal decline in benefits costs and FICA taxes partially offset by higher incentive-based compensation given improved business performance.
Outside processing and software costs increased $15 million as a result of higher business activity levels and continued investments in technology as well as typical quarterly variability associated with the timing of rendering service.
Marketing and customer development expense also increased $7 million as the first quarter typically has lower advertising cost.
Other noninterest expense increased $38 million primarily due to $14 million of debt extinguishment costs recorded in the current quarter and $17 million of discrete recoveries recognized in the prior quarter.
Compared to the second quarter of last year adjusted noninterest expense was down 2% driven by the sale of RidgeWorth lower operating losses and our continued overall focus around expense management.
As you can see on slide eight the adjusted tangible efficiency ratio improved to 63.4% in the second quarter down 110 basis points compared to the prior quarter and 20 basis points better than last year.
We delivered year-over-year improvement despite of $40 million decline in commercial loan swap income as we were able to grow noninterest income and reduced expense.
As we've indicated in the prior two earnings calls improvement in 2015 will be difficult given our significant progress last year in addition to lower commercial loan swap income this year.
We will need to deliver strong efficiency and PPNR performance in the second half of the year to achieve our goal of being below 63% for 2015.
We are working diligently to achieve this goal but as Bill indicated earlier it will be challenging.
Turning to credit quality on slide nine where our performance continues to be strong.
Nonperforming loans declined 21% sequentially primarily driven by the transfer of $110 million of loans to held-for-sale status.
In addition the net charge-off ratio was 26 basis points in the quarter down 4 basis points from the prior quarter and 9 basis points from the prior year.
The allowance for loan and lease losses and provision expense declined $59 million and $29 million respectively compared to the previous quarter.
These reductions were driven by the even further improvements in asset quality combined with more moderate loan growth during the second quarter.
In addition the results of the recent shared international credit exam are already reflected in our June 30th allowance.
With respect to the energy portfolio we have taken proactive actions in prior quarters to build reserves.
And we will continue to remain vigilant given the uncertainty associated with oil and gas prices.
Asset quality conditions are likely to remain favorable over the medium term given the economic environment combined with the proactive actions we've taken to derisk diversify and improve the quality of production.
With that said any given quarter may be impacted by discrete items particularly given todays low overall net charge-off and nonperforming ratio.
Over the next couple of quarters we expect provision expense to increase relative to the current quarter but remain lower than similar periods in 2014 given continued improvements in asset quality.
After that improvements in asset quality will abate and economic and growth conditions will normalize.
And thus we would expect provision expense to much more closely match in that charge-off.
The ultimate level of reserves will be determined by our rigorous quarterly review processes which are informed by trends in the loan portfolio combined with a view on economic conditions.
Lets turn to the balance sheet average performing loans declined slightly primarily due to the $1 billion auto loan securitization we completed during the quarter combined with continued elevated pay downs in certain segments given the low interest rates and credit spread environment.
The auto loan securitization was our inaugural transaction and its success can be attributed to the strong one team approach we have across many units within the company.
Going forward we will periodically conduct additional securitization transactions as they allow us to more efficiently use the balance sheet and diversify our funding sources well still being an active loan originator and partner to our auto dealers and clients.
C&amp;I loans were relatively stable as growth in the number of industry verticals and the client segments was offset by targeted reductions in lower return areas.
Consumer direct loans were higher given continued growth in our online businesses.
On a year-over-year basis average performing loans grew $2.4 billion or 2% driven by strong 9% growth in the C&amp;I portfolio partially offset by reductions in residential mortgage indirect auto and student loans largely due to the balance sheet management and optimization activities we have executed over the past few quarters.
Consumer loans were unchanged year-over-year.
However the mix has improved with growth in higher return direct segments offset by reductions in lower return indirect segment.
Going forward we continue to seek opportunities to help finance our clients growth plans particularly given the solid economic conditions in our markets.
Production trends and client activity levels remain healthy.
And we will continue to keep a high focus on improving returns and ensuring new business exceeds our cost of capital.
Lets turn to deposits on slide 11.
Average client deposits were up $2.4 billion or 2% compared to the prior quarter and 9% compared to the prior year driven by growth across most lines of business.
Were pleased with the improving momentum on the deposit front.
Our success here reflects the overall focus on meeting more clients deposit and payment needs supplemented by the investments in technology platforms and client facing bankers across both the consumer and private wealth and wholesale segments.
Our corporate liquidity specialist within wholesale banking our premier bankers within retail and our SummitView product are all specific examples of investments in talent and technology that have supported this deposit growth.
Importantly the solid growth weve delivered has not resulted in any adverse change in rates paid or mix.
Low growth -- low cost deposit growth continues to be strong while higher cost deposits continue to gradually decline.
As interest rates rise some of these trends will normalize.
However we will maintain a disciplined approach to pricing with a focus on maximizing the non-rate based value proposition for clients.
Slide 12 provides an update on our capital position.
Common equity Tier 1 expanded by approximately $200 million during the quarter as a result of growth in retained earnings.
While the estimated Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio on a fully phased-in basis was fairly stable at 9.8%.
Tangible book value per share increased slightly from the prior quarter as growth in retained earnings offset the lower AOCI.
Importantly tangible book value per share is up a solid 7% year-over-year.
The second quarter also marks the beginning of our 2015 capital plan.
We repurchased $175 million of common stock up from a $115 million in the prior quarter and paid the $0.24 dividend up 20% from the previous levels.
Our capital return program combined with disciplined usage of employee stock-based compensation continues to gradually drive down share counts.
Average fully diluted shares outstanding were down 4 million sequentially and 13 million year-over-year.
And lastly our liquidity coverage ratio continued to exceed the January 1 2016 requirement for 90%.
With that I'll now turn things back over to Bill to cover performance at the business segment level.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem.
In our Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management segment net income increased meaningfully relative to prior quarter and prior year with a lower provision expense being the key driver.
Core operating performance was also solid with revenue up 4% which when combined with stable expenses resulted in strong operating leverage a 220 basis point improvement in the efficiency ratio and 13% year-over-year growth on pre-provision net revenue.
Net interest income has been steadily driving higher in this segment both due to our balance sheet optimization efforts aimed at improving returns and deposit growth momentum.
Average loans declined sequentially due to the $1 billion auto loan securitization and also a $350 million student loan sale that was completed in April.
Offsetting these reductions were solid growth on higher return portfolios including consumer direct and credit card.
The loan sale activity and growth in the direct portfolios are consistent with our overall strategy to improve returns across the company.
Profits were up 1% sequentially and 7% year-over-year with growth being driven by continued execution of our strategy of deepening client relationships particularly in our mass affluent and high net worth segment.
Our premier bankers in the Summitview platform are examples of talent and technology that are enabling this growth.
Non-interest income growth was solid both sequentially and compared to a year ago.
Retail investment income continues to grow up 5% year-over-year in large part due to increased client assets under management in our brokerage platform as we are meeting more of our clients wealth management needs.
Card fees and credit card balances are also on a positive track.
Continued growth in these areas will be important particularly given the downward pressure on traditional service charges.
Expenses were flat compared to the prior quarter and year as we maintained a disciplined approach to expense management while investing in areas associated with revenue growth initiatives.
As I stated earlier this strategy has been paying off as we're achieving positive operating leverage in this business.
Bigger picture the prolonged low rate environment continues to place pressure on the value of deposits.
However the balance sheet management strategies we have executed had mitigated some of this pressure.
Our continued focus on meeting more client needs has generated positive momentum with regard to non-interest income and deposits and we have further opportunity here.
We continued to invest in our various digital platforms and we are seeing results with steady increases in digital penetration and self-service deposits.
The Southeast and Mid-Atlantic economies continued to perform well and are well positioned to meet -- and we are well positioned to meet the growing needs of each of our client segments.
Now moving onto wholesale banking which has been the key growth engine for the company and it posted a very strong quarter with net income up 11% sequentially and 10% year-over-year.
Revenues grew 9% relative to the prior year and were record driven by broad-based growth across life of businesses and products.
Net interest income was up 8% over the prior year driven by strong loan and deposit growth but this was partially offset by decline in loan spreads.
While loan yields did stabilized sequentially we would still expect modest downward pressure going forward given the current environment for new production yields.
Average loans were flat sequentially and up 10% year-over-year driven by gains across most of our client segments.
Our markets remain competitive and we are being more selective to ensure we earn appropriate overall relationship returns.
Loan pipelines are healthy and commitments are growing both of which demonstrate increased activity in both new client acquisition and expanding existing relationships.
Deposits were up 2% sequentially and 13% year-over-year and the success here can be attributed to enhancements in our treasury and payments product offerings along with the success of our liquidity specialist effort allowing us to uncover and meet more of our wholesale clients deposit needs.
Non-interest income was up 10% over the prior year driven by record performances in multiple investment banking product groups including syndications high-yield investment grade and equity capital markets.
Our market share gains are direct result of the continued investment and talent to expand and diversify our capabilities but also due to our continued move towards the less lead on deals as bankers continue to have more strategic dialogue with clients.
This is further evidenced by the fact that our M&amp;A and equity related revenues in the first half of 2015 were up 38% compared to the same period a year ago and higher than they were in all of 2012.
We continued to leverage our One Team approach to better deliver our capital markets capabilities to not only our larger corporate client base but also to commercial banking commercial real estate and private wealth class a value proposition that has been very well received.
Non-interest expense was up over the prior year largely due to continued strategic investments in CIB.
However this business continues to have an efficiency ratio which is very accretive to the overall company.
We believe our Wholesale Banking business is highly differentiated and that we have large bank capabilities and talent with a focus on mid corporate and middle-market clients.
Near-term investment banking income will likely decline given the record performance this quarter and normal seasonality but we remain bullish on the long-term growth outlook for the overall Wholesale Banking segment.
Now moving into the mortgage segment where adjusted net income was stable sequentially and up $24 million over the prior year.
Sequential revenue trends were impacted by higher rates in the quarter.
However expenses were flat and our risk profile continued to improve both of which were important components to maintaining solid overall profitability trends.
Getting into the details revenues were down year-over-year driven primarily by $19 million gain on the sale of loans in the prior year.
Otherwise the increase and production related income due to a 60% increase in closed loan volume was mostly offset by a decline in servicing income which occurred because of the higher prepayment activity.
Compared to the prior quarter revenues declined due to lower production income as a result of the lower refinance activity and reduced all-in gain on sale of margins and lower servicing income.
While servicing income decline given prepayment activity and higher hedging costs the overall servicing portfolio increased sequentially and is up 12% year-over-year largely due to continued portfolio acquisitions.
Application volume declined 10% sequentially though its up 31% over the prior year which will support solid year-over-year growth rates and production.
Refinance activity abated as rates rose in the second quarter.
However purchase activity levels continue to be healthy from applications and closed loans up 20% and 27% respectively compared to the prior year.
Asset quality improved further this quarter as we continued to derisk the portfolio primarily evidenced by a 42% reduction in non-performing loans as a result of the $110 million transfer of loans to held for sale.
Provision expense was again negative this quarter as the pace of asset quality improvement remained strong.
Given the quality of new production we would expect overall asset quality in the mortgage business to continue to trend positively.
Adjusted expenses were stable sequentially and year-over-year because cost saving efforts on lower operating losses have offset growth and production related costs and investments and technology.
In particular we deployed a new origination system for our retail and consumer direct channels during the quarter.
Over time this new technology will facilitate a faster and simpler loan process for our clients while also improving teammate productivity.
Mortgages continued to be an important financial product for our clients and we are committed to continuing to improve the client experience and stay true to our purpose of lighting the way to financial wellbeing.
So in summary our companys performance this quarter reflects its solid progress across key strategies including optimizing our business mix and balance sheet investing in growth opportunities improving efficiency and growing capital returns.
Net interest income and margin are beginning to stabilize and our focus on returns will remain a priority.
Non-interest income trends are positive and reflective of our consisted strategy to meet more client needs.
In addition we are mindful of the intense expense discipline required to operate in this environment and to support continued growth investments so that we can deliver on our efficiency goals and provide further long-term value of our clients and our shareholders.
As I said earlier I continue to be very optimistic about our company strategic direction and our ability to execute against those strategies.
So with that I will turn the call back over to Ankur and we will begin the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Bill.
Angelo we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
As we do so Id like to ask participants to please limit yourself to one primary question and one follow-up so that we can accommodate as many of you as possible today.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Ken.
I was wondering if you could talk to us little bit more about that mixing on the balance sheet.
You are obviously continuing to be very aggressive on moving up into those less attractive consumer loans.
And youve also mentioned just focusing on the ROEs on the commercial side.
So how should we think about just loan growth going forward? And could you help us understand when we get to that kind of right bottom in terms of optimization of mix? Hi Ken.
As we think about our businesses overall particularly in consumer what were enjoying right now is the ability to grow our direct consumer business at a nice pace and that business generates not only new consumer relationships for us it generates them at a relatively low cost and relatively high ROA.
Along with that were able to move the lower ROA businesses or loans off our balance sheet.
I guess part of your question might relate to the auto securitization that we did in the second quarter and this is the first time we have entered that market in about eight years or so.
And were able to take $1 billion of relatively lower ROA low coupon loans off our balance sheet completely and improve the ROE dramatically in that business while continuing to enjoy the benefits of our strong origination engines and be a partner to our auto dealers.
So this is an area of focus for us for some time.
As you know we have been doing this with government guaranteed loans.
We have been doing this with student loans.
We are now doing this with indirect auto.
So this isnt a change in philosophy for us.
But were able to continue moving down the path and grow ROA overall across the company by focusing on business after business after business and improving ROAs across the board.
And Ken its Bill.
Id sort of say we also sort of look at the health metrics and defined as sort of pipeline production and commitment growth.
And our production virtually in every area CRE would be an exception and indirect for the reasons we noted but virtually in every area were up sequentially.
So production is up and thats the important health metric.
Pipelines are up.
And our commitments are up.
So the things that we look at to see that we have a healthy business and opportunities to increase our total needs met and continue to be healthy.
So when we make the pivot I dont know I would say we are always in that matter.
And as long as the production and other health metrics stay healthy I am pretty happy with where we are and generating noninterest income and continuing to improve returns.
Understood.
And my just follow-up question is just to your point about it being tough to get to that sub-63 efficiency ratio.
If the revenue area doesnt quite turn out do you pull harder on expense or you just deal with it and continue that longer-term focus to get it down over time just in terms of your balance and urgency? Thanks guys.
Yes.
Were always being making those trade-offs.
And I think youve seen now consistently over the last few years that we got an ability to make those trade-offs they are hard to do quarter-to-quarter but they are easier to do over time.
We said at the offset on January 1st that 63 was going to be hard its hard on July 17th then it will probably be hard till December 31st at midnight.
So we are going to continue the diligent approach to match that and continue to improve overall on the commitments we paid on the efficiency side.
I think Ken on that also we set this as a tough target.
We knew it was going to be a tough target but we rather set difficult targets and be challenged in achieving them than set easy targets and just hit them constantly.
Next question comes from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Ryan.
Bill maybe I can ask a question about the decision to extend the duration on the balance sheet and reduce the rate sensitivity.
I know you guys have been one of the more dovish in terms of rate expectations and it looks like that outlook is proving to be correct.
But can you just help us understand what the balance sheet is now positioned for in terms of rate expectations and do you see any further changes coming to the swap portfolio? Yes I will turn it to Aleem but I will sort of start with.
I think we are fundamentally in sort of the same zone weve always talked about.
And maybe I will let Aleem go into some more of the details.
All right.
To give you a couple of seconds of context the general philosophy we dont make big bets on rates.
If you think back a few years ago were sort of modestly liability sensitive as rates were coming down.
Today we are modestly asset sensitive as we think rates are going up.
And thats generally the way we run the overall balance sheet.
Our expectation today which is sort of unchanged from the fall of 2014 is that there will be a rate hike around the end of this year and the rate rise will overall be deliberately paced after that for the first year or two.
If you look at the swap books specifically and you think about the decline in income in the swap book the largest driver of the decline there hasnt been declining notionals.
We have been generally consistently in the size of the book.
But its simply the effect of the lower rate environment as the old swap coupons with higher rates are rolling off and we are putting new ones on at lower coupons.
So overall you are right we have been generally dovish on rates.
We do expect that overall rate hike will be deliberately paced and I think [Cherry Allen] [ph] confirmed that view earlier this week.
So were continuing to manage the balance sheet in that context to mitigate the risk that we have as a company to lower for longer and to prevent the balance sheet risk profile from becoming too asset sensitive too quickly.
Got it.
Thats helpful.
And then maybe I could just ask a quick one on expenses which were up seasonally.
I was wondering how much of the increase was driven by performance and vendors.
I know you mentioned it was the majority of it versus core inflation.
When I look on past years we did see a nice step-down in the back half of the year in cost.
I was wondering if we should expect to see a similar type of step-down for 2015.
Yes.
We did get some of that step-down on compensation Ryan that did show up.
Against that also remember some of the increase quarter-on-quarter was due to the discrete that we had in Q1 the recognition of the gain on affordable housing but some of the increase certainly was an increase in comp and that break that up into two pieces.
One piece was April 1 standard merit increase date and that showed up.
And then part two is the increase due to higher performance and the accrual for higher incentives this year as the result of the dramatic increase we saw in fee income.
As you know we are overall focused not as much on the expense number itself but much more so on the efficiency ratio and continuing to improve the efficiency of the company overall.
So I am actually pretty pleased that we got enough of an increase in revenue that despite the increase in expense were able to bring the efficiency ratio down some more.
Yes.
So in other way I mean what you have seen is the pattern on the latter half of the year as the efficiency ratio coming down and obviously the fact that were above 63 now we want to be below 63 that would be our expectation as we said here today.
Thanks for taking my question.
Next question comes from Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Erika.
Hi Erika.
The first question as we also think about your rate sensitivity heading into next year could you give us a sense in a deliberate increase in rates slowly paced increase in rates? How do you expect the past-through from both the pace and magnitude perspective in terms of your deposit data? And do you think that there is a shift change in terms of LCR essentially saying retail deposits are better than everything else? Is that a factor that we should take into account that could be a game changer relative to the last time the Fed raised rates? Yes Erika there certainly appear to be lots of differing views on this issue all over the industry.
And as you know people are making the very reasonable and logical arguments for past at both ends of that spectrum.
Its going to be difficult to know how this plays out I think for several years before we see exactly what happens.
But if you look at where we are I think we fall sort of somewhere near the middle view overall.
With the industry overall today enjoying this abundance of deposits and liquidity it does seem reasonable to us to assume the deposits rates on the way up will lag a little bit.
If you go back and look at history and the last 2004-2006 rate cycle our own experience there was that our data range was between 20% and 50% and that range is sort of differing products differing products generated a range like that.
As we look at this next rate cycle a slow and deliberate move up would argue along with liquidity for us -- for deposit betas to be perhaps toward the bottom end of that but thats not necessarily what we're assuming.
We're taking a more conservative view than that and as we model out different scenarios were tending to be a little bit mote conservative and modeling in ALCO perhaps toward the top end of that range which I think is somewhat sort of in the middle of where the industry is overall.
Yeah.
And I think for we spend a lot of time on this topic as you might imagine in our ALCO committee and among our executive team and but for our frontline team mates were pretty clear.
I mean we want more deposits of high value and we want them better cross sold.
And I think you can really see that in the last couple years in our portfolio and I think overtime thats the best way we can impact sort of what is an uncertain deposit beta future.
Got it.
And just a follow-up to that and a follow-up to Kens question about remixing the balance sheet the consumer direct business that you talk about you highlighted in the past two calls is that the LightStream business and if so can you give us a sense in terms of how much -- in terms of contribution to growth do you see in your budget and what the credit in your characteristics are of typical LightStream borrower and can you get their deposits have you been successful in able to get those deposits as well? Erika thats a lot of questions in there.
Sorry.
I -- just give us I was trying to sneak them all in I am sorry.
Weve got them cataloged.
When you think about those businesses our digital and online businesses the credit characteristics are exceedingly good.
We are running in FICO terms generally north of 700.
And our history so far well let me say that well north of 700.
And our history so far on those businesses in terms of charge-offs is exceedingly good.
Total charge-offs in that business so far this year are less than a $1 million.
And current 30-day plus delinquency in LightStream are also less than a $1 million.
So its exceedingly good credit quality.
The growth rate is very good.
The expense of generating those loans given the digital platform tends to be lower so the ROAs tend to be higher there.
Given that LightStream is a national platform.
Its more difficult for us to generate deposit businesses from those clients.
But weve been able to get some and we're very focused on continuing to be more client needs driven by originations wherever they are across our platform.
Yeah.
And just to be clear on sort of the total direct and it is almost in thirds but its pretty close.
Its really LightStream GreenSky and our credit card business.
So and they all have similar kind of characteristics that Aleem was talking about certainly high FICO score obviously the credit cards much more fully cross-sold from a [indiscernible] standpoint.
So its really a several different categories of high credit quality better yield and client-oriented assets that have the opportunity for future cross-sale.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Betsy.
I have a question on the deposit growth and how you utilized it this quarter.
So you as indicated had some nice deposit growth in the quarter.
It looks like you used it to pay down some of the short-term borrowings and I was wondering why you chose to do that as opposed to utilize it in potentially paying down some of the higher cost debt? Yeah.
Actually but we did paid use it to pay down long-term debt.
I think quarter-over-quarter if you take a look our long-term debt is down about $3 billion and our short-term debt is about a -- is up about a $1.5 billion.
Right.
So generally we did use it to pay-off long-term higher cost debt and restructured that a little bit which will help NIM going forward.
Okay.
And plans to continue that To the extent  as opposed yeah.
 that we continue to get great deposit growth our first use of cash is always loans.
So we just love to do more client business and underlying loans first and to the extent that we need cash for other things we might use it for example to grow HQLA.
But paying off debt and focusing on growing NIM obviously is going to be high on our priority list.
Right.
Okay.
And then just on the swap income book would you consider increasing the size in the event that we get a slower pace of uplift in the fed funds? Well its really -- is going to depend on a lot of things then right.
What the forward curve looks like at that time? Where the value looks like at that time? What our overall loan to deposit ratio and floating rate to fixed rate book looks like at that time? So its on the table.
But the decision on whether to do it will really be taken by our ALCO based on a whole host of current events.
All right.
Okay.
Thanks.
Next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Just back to expenses really quick I know -- again back to that 63% number.
In terms of the difficulty in getting there how much of that is rate because it sounds like you said you werent really betting on rates anyway so what is it that really drove the shortfall in your eyes? Is it other related margin pressures or sluggish pickup in loan growth what really contributed to that? John let me sort of start that.
We dont perceive we had a shortfall so the 63 is the full year goal as we indicated earlier.
This tends to have some seasonality attached to it.
You look at the last couple of years.
The last two quarters tend to be lower on the efficiency ratio side.
So we are not perceiving or indicating or highlighting a shortfall.
We're just talking about it all.
We have said earlier we don't anticipate a rate increase impact to our efficiency ratio target.
I think that keeps the discipline tight for us internally.
So its sort of a no excuses commitment that we make to ourselves and we don't look to exogenous factors to get it.
We've got to sort of do it internally within our business.
So I think just really all we were trying to indicate is that it is hard and that we have a lot of things that we have to do.
We have commitments that we have to make and we have got execution that we have got to make sure that we accomplish.
I think Ive indicated before every single one of our lines of businesses have a short-term and a long-term efficiency ratio target.
And they have specific initiatives that they have to undertake against those.
And Im sort of looking around the rooms here in the eyes of all of them and they know it is hard.
But I dont want you to think that we think we are behind.
Okay.
All right.
Thats fair.
And then on the competitive commentary that you provided sorry if you already elaborated on it but on the commercial side we are seeing a lot of your peer banks that are starting to step to the sidelines in terms of some of the most competitive mid-market commercial type of lending.
Are you seeing competitive pressures that are keeping you out of that space as well? Yeah.
I think it always depends on how you define the space.
Everybody sort of defines corporate mid-market in different ways.
If we sort of talk about our commercial market I dont think were stepping away from anything.
I mean like were sort of stepping into the opportunities.
If we talk about the upper end of large corporate or maybe seeing some leverage thats reaching some new thin air yeah I think there are things that were stepping away from in terms of a structural leverage kind of standpoint but we see lots of opportunities.
So we still see lots of things that we can stay involved in.
The market I guess particularly in our markets and then the businesses that were in I guess was is and will be continue to be competitive.
Our next question comes from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
Could you elaborate more on investment banking? I look at the four largest banks that reported so far this quarter.
Traditional investment banking is kind of flat or tiny a bit quarter-over-quarter year-over-year.
If I look at total capital markets its down.
I know you look at SunTrust which is up by half linked quarter and by a fifth year-over-year.
So the question is how are you doing that? Are you taking on more risk? Is it because maybe your category includes syndicated finance? Maybe thats not apples-to-apples.
Or just can you just give us more transparency on what's underneath that investment banking line item? Yeah.
Sure Mike.
And the good news is it is not one thing.
So were hitting on a lot of cylinders.
Syndication was clearly up high-yield bond origination clearly up investment-grade bond origination up equity offerings and M&amp;A both up significantly.
So for us I think its just an execution continued execution of the strategy that we've been on now for multi multi years.
Its mainly a mid-market business.
For us we still operate in a mid-market zone.
I mean thats how we build this business.
And I think it maybe a good harbinger of positive development that that kind of activity in that market is getting better particularly in the areas of M&amp;A and syndications.
So of the $145 million this quarter I mean just roughly how much is syndications versus some of the other areas? Mike syndication is about third of that in terms of total revenue.
Okay.
And the other two thirds just in a broad brush? Yeah.
That would be investment grade bonds high yield bonds M&amp;A and equity offerings would be the majority of the remainder.
Okay.
And lastly you said you putting on new C&amp;I loans yields at lower yields than the existing.
How do you consider pricing your commercial loans in the context of having the capital market business like you have? Its clearly part of our calculus.
Whenever we look at new business or new clients.
part of our philosophy is always we want to be a relevant supplier for that client.
So to be relevant thats not necessarily just lending the money.
Its understanding their entire business understanding their needs and being there as in -- as a strategic advisor to them to help them to grow their business.
And in that context were very aware of how our investment banking and capital market business might be able to help them do that.
And we make them aware of that and we hope that there is a good synergy there.
Yes Mike.
I mean every new commitment of any size has got a go through in ROA ROE and RAROC lens.
All of which are very disciplined and we hold our teammates accountable for achieving those.
Our next question comes from Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
Hello there.
Thank you for taking the question.
I wanted to ask about high-to-low transaction processing on checking accounts.
Do you have any thoughts on whether you are going to be moving more into line with other banks in the industry and discontinuing that at some points over the next few quarters and years? Yeah.
Im going to apologize I had a hard time hearing your question but Im sure it was high-to-low related.
So let me It was.
Are you going to move more into line with other banks over the next few quarters and years? Yeah.
So couple of comments to clarify the statements that weve made in the past as we currently are high to low.
But we have some very significant differences that we process deposit before debits.
We have limits on OD numbers and we have a no small OD type policy.
So those are important sort of in context.
Now that been said what we have said is that we are going to transition to moreover time based system.
We are going to be doing that through 2016.
So we are doing right now a lot of client research.
We are doing a lot of product research.
We are modeling lots of different activities.
So sometime in the later half of 2016 well be in sort of implementation mode.
So I think the financial impact yet to be determined but clearly predicate on some of the other things I said.
We wont start feeling that probably until full year 17.
And can you give any kind of range at all around what the financial impact could be once we get into 2017? Yeah.
I dont want to do that yet because we really got to finish the modeling process.
We remember sort of ODs as a total or about 3% of our total revenue base.
This would only impact a portion of that.
So this is not a substantial change but weve really got to finish the modeling part and determine what client response will be and making sure that we are responsive to clients.
So sometime later well be able to quantify that I think a little more specifically.
But for now we are not viewing this as given away we currently process doing this as a major major shift from a revenue perspective.
Angela we have a time for one more question.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
Aleem on the mortgage outlook how are you thinking about that? I mean the production revenues were down a little bit quarter-over-quarter.
I think that was partly due to lower gain on sale but also I think you had some MSR higher MSR hit in the servicing income.
How are you thinking about mortgage revenue over the next couple of quarters? Yes.
Thanks Matt.
As we think about our patterns in the mortgage business as rates have moved up as and I look forward to Q3 I would probably think about the refi business the refi activity continuing to decline and continuing that pattern that we saw in Q2.
But I would think that purchase activity will continue to remain strong sort of within seasonal patterns.
So perhaps this is a stronger Q3 followed by slower Q4.
And in our markets the economies are doing well unemployment is down GDP is up and so the purchase business I think there is looking pretty good.
In terms of MSR and servicing Q2 was a little bit difficult for us because of all of the rate volatility that we had in Q2.
You recall the way you normally see rate volatility affecting us is in a particularly volatile quarter.
Our servicing income is generally down.
And if rates are relatively stable our servicing income is generally up.
So looking forward to Q3 I was thinking about refi activity being down purchase activity remaining strong and the MSR or servicing income being partially contingent on rate volatility.
Yes.
I think all things being equal I mean I think 2015 will certainly be better than 2014 somewhat balance if you want to sort of try to net all that out as you look forward.
And particularly in our markets I mean we are seeing good housing recovery we are seeing good purchase activity and we are seeing a very good improvement.
And I think the most important is the job creation.
So we feel good about the purchase activity while transition is lame settle have a seasonal component to it but '15 will be better on balance than '14.
Okay.
Thats helpful color.
And then for my follow-up.
I guess I just want to follow up on Mikes train of thought in terms of the capital markets business.
You have mentioned that obviously thats a sort of a client focus business.
You want to be a strategic advisor to your customers.
I want to put some numbers to that.
I mean can you demonstrate or show sort of what the percentage of customers that you're doing capital markets activity for now versus lets say two years ago and sort of what the momentum in that metric might be? Matt I dont know if we got that exactly metric but maybe another way of showing the momentum and our success in becoming a strategic partner to our clients is actually the line of business revenue out of our corporate and investment banking unit.
And if you look at that over time go back to the start of 2014 that was around 90 million.
And as you saw this quarter was around 145 million.
So that about of 50% increase in revenue coming out of that business which might be a good indicator for you as to our success in meeting client needs not just in terms of broadening and covering more clients but getting deeper with the clients we have.
Yes.
I mean if you just try to put some numbers around sort of where were moving I mean were four times more left lead 44 times more joint bookrunner or one time more left lead on investment grade 27 times more joint bookrunner.
So these are good I mean big numbers.
I mean we have lots of penetration not only within the client base but for those clients we are moving to the left side.
Angela this concludes our call.
Thanks to everyone for joining us today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact the Investor Relations department.
Thank you for your participation in todays conference.
Please disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the SunTrust Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of the call.
[Operator Instructions] Todays conference is being recorded.
Any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I would like to turn over the meeting to Ankur Vyas Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thanks Angela.
Good morning and welcome to SunTrusts third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
In addition to todays press release we have also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules can be accessed on our website at investors.suntrust.com.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures when talking about the companys performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and in our website investors.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third-parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcast are located on our website.
With that I will turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Ankur and good morning everyone.
I will begin with a brief overview of the quarter then I am going to turn over to Aleem for some additional details.
Following Aleems comments I will review our performance at the business segment level.
We delivered strong results this quarter as we made further progress against our key strategies which include optimizing our business mix and balance sheet investing in growth opportunities improving efficiency and increasing our capital return to shareholders.
Earnings per share after excluding $0.11 of non-core items were $0.89 and up a solid 10% compared to the adjusted level a year ago.
Our active balance sheet management and optimization efforts improved our overall earning asset and funding mix resulting in an 8 basis point improvement in net interest margin and $44 million sequential increase in net interest income.
Period-end loans were up 1% driven largely by growth in higher return consumer portfolios resulting in a more diversified and profitable loan mix.
We remain confident in our ability to generate additional and targeted growth in segments where returns are appropriate when we can have deeper relationships.
However we will continue to closely manage areas that are not meeting our thresholds and according with our goal of improving the overall returns of the company.
Average deposits were up 2% sequentially as our core growth initiatives continue to gain momentum.
Growing deposits while also maintaining appropriate pricing discipline remains an important part of our strategic efforts to strengthen client relationships and improve profitability.
In addition our strong deposit growth has allowed us to significantly reduce our higher cost wholesale funding over the last 6 months.
The sequential decline in non-interest income was driven by lower capital markets and mortgage production income primarily the result of a strong second quarter but also the result of challenging market conditions during the third quarter.
Relative to the prior year adjusted non-interest income increased 2% primarily due to our continued success in meeting more of our clients capital markets needs.
This is further evidence of our differentiated wholesale banking platform and the positive returns we are realizing on our investments in this segment.
Expenses were stable relative to prior year at down 5% versus the prior quarter.
While some of the sequential decline was nonrecurring and seasonal in nature we continue to carefully manage expenses given this revenue environment.
Our performance this quarter resulted in an adjusted tangible efficiency ratio of 61% for the third quarter and 62.9% year-to-date.
As you all know we have been working diligently toward our goal of sub 63% for the full year and we took another step in the right direction this quarter.
Improving efficiency remains a strategic priority with a long-term goal of being sub 60%.
Our asset quality performance continues to be very strong with NPLs down 4% and the net charge-off ratio declining 5 basis points to 21 basis points.
This performance can be attributed to the significant actions we have taken over the past several years to de-risk diversify and improve the quality of our loan production.
However we also recognize that our provision expense is at very low levels and will eventually normalize.
Our capital position improved slightly with our common equity Tier 1 ratio estimated to be 9.9% on a Basel III fully phased-in basis.
We are able to improve our capital position while also returning nearly 60% of our earnings to shareholders this quarter.
So to recap we delivered solid bottom line results that further enhance shareholder value this quarter with return on assets and return on tangible common equity increasing to 1.1% and 12.8% respectively and tangible book value per share increasing 4% sequentially.
Our strategies of optimizing our business mix and balance sheet investing in growth opportunities and improving efficiency continue to yield positive results creating value for our clients and shareholders.
So with that as an overview I am going to turn over to Aleem to provide some more details on this quarters performance.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining us this morning.
Earnings per share in the third quarter was $1 even which compares to $0.89 in the previous quarter and $0.81 on an adjusted basis last year.
We recognized $0.07 of discrete tax benefits this quarter which were recorded as a lower provision for income taxes in addition to $0.04 of discrete recoveries related to the resolution of previous mortgage matters which were recorded in non-interest expense.
Excluding these non-recurring benefits earnings per share were $0.89 and relatively stable to the second quarter as higher net interest income and lower non-interest expense were mostly offset by lower non-interest income.
Compared to the third quarter of last year core earnings per share grew 10% driven by a lower loan loss provision higher capital markets and mortgage-related income and solid loan and deposit growth.
All of which helps to counteract the 9 basis point decline in the net interest margin during that time frame.
We will now review the underlying trends in more detail starting on Slide 5.
Net interest income increased 4% sequentially driven by lower premium amortization expense in the securities portfolio lower wholesale funding and higher commercial loan swap income.
Each of which is a reflection of our continued efforts to actively manage and optimize our balance sheet.
Net interest margin improved 8 basis points primarily due to the same factors that drove the increase in net interest income in addition to improved core loan yields and loan mix.
Relative to the guidance we provided in July NIM was higher-than-anticipated as we retired higher cost wholesale funding and core loan yields were firm albeit for just one quarter so far.
On a year-over-year basis net interest income was fairly stable as the declines in earning asset yields were largely offset by growth in earning assets and also by the reduction in wholesale funding which was in turn driven by the strong deposit growth we generated over the past year.
Looking ahead we expect fourth quarter net interest margin to be relatively stable to the third quarter.
Despite the expected stability next quarter NIM will likely grind down in 2016 as long as interest rates remain low.
Overall we continue to manage the balance sheet to where net interest income would benefit from a rise in short-term rates while also ensuring we carefully manage our risk to lower-for-longer scenarios.
Moving on to Slide 6 non-interest income decreased $63 million from the prior quarter primarily driven by the expected decline in capital markets related income given the record second quarter coupled with increased market volatility in the third quarter.
Investment banking income was $115 million in the third quarter down $30 million sequentially but up $27 million compared to the prior year.
Lower high yield and equity origination fees were the primary drivers of the sequential decline while the strong year-over-year growth was driven by most product groups.
In particular M&amp;A a business we continue to grow as a result of building deeper client relationships and increased expertise.
Trading income also declined in the third quarter as wider credit spreads and elevated volatility resulted in reduced client activity and lower valuations of inventory.
Mortgage production income declined $18 million primarily due to the anticipated decline in refinance volumes.
Gain on sale margins were also lower though primarily as a result of changes in channel mix.
Conversely mortgage servicing income increased to $10 million due to lower decay expense and higher levels of core servicing fees as a result of continued steady growth in the servicing portfolio.
We also recorded $7 million in net securities gains and $11 million of debt extinguishment costs which are recorded in non-interest expense to slightly reposition the balance sheet.
Net these transactions had a minor upfront negative P&amp;L impact but will modestly improve our forward NIM and net interest income.
Compared to the third quarter of last year adjusted non-interest income was up 2% as growth in capital markets and mortgage-related income offset the decline in service charges and trust and investment management income.
Moving on to expenses non-interest expense declined $64 million sequentially due to lower personnel expenses in addition to discrete recoveries recognized in the third quarter.
Personnel expenses declined $31 million due to the higher levels of incentive based compensation recorded in the previous quarter given strong business performance as well as declines in benefits costs and FICO taxes some of which is seasonal.
Operating losses and other non-interest expense benefited from $20 million and $12 million respectively of separate discrete recoveries related to the resolution of previous mortgage matters.
This was partially offset by an $8 million increase in marketing expenses due to higher advertising costs.
Compared to the second quarter of last year adjusted non-interest expense declined slightly as lower operating losses and personnel costs were partially offset by higher outside processing and software expenses.
As you can see on Slide 8 the adjusted tangible efficiency ratio improved to 61.0% in the third quarter down 90 basis points from the last year.
Year-to-date the adjusted tangible efficiency ratio is now 62.9% and puts us on track to achieve our full year goal of being sub-63%.
For several years now we have been committed to becoming a more efficient and effective company and we are highly focused on continuing to make progress toward our long-term efficiency ratio goal of sub-60%.
Lets turn to credit quality on Slide 9.
The net charge-off ratio was 21 basis points down five basis points from the prior quarter and 18 basis points from the prior year.
Non-performers also declined slightly and now represent 35 basis points of loans.
While overall asset quality conditions are likely to remain favorable in the near-term future quarters will be impacted by discrete situations and sectors given the current low levels of net charge-offs and non-performers.
The allowance for loan and lease losses and the ALLL ratio declined $48 million and five basis points respectively compared to the previous quarter.
These reductions were driven by the continued improvement in asset quality.
Provision expense increased slightly as lower net charge-offs were offset by higher loan growth and a smaller reserve release.
With regard to our energy portfolio we took further action this quarter to build additional reserves given the decline in commodity prices.
As this portfolio represents only 2% of total loans with less than half of this portfolio in the E&amp;P and oil field services sectors our risk here remains very manageable.
Similar to the guidance we provided in the previous quarter we will [Technical Difficulty] fourth quarter provision expense to increase sequentially but be lower than the fourth quarter of 2014 as a result of our efforts to improve asset quality.
Looking into 2016 we expect provision expense to more closely match net charge-offs as the improvements in asset quality will abate.
Wholesale net charge-offs are likely to increase from here as we do not believe the third quarter level is sustainable.
Ultimately our reserves will be determined by our rigorous quarterly review process which are informed by trends in the loan portfolio combined with a view on economic conditions.
Lets turn to balance sheet trends.
Average performing loans were relatively stable due to the $1 billion auto securitization we completed in June.
Period end loans were up almost 1% relative to June 30 with growth across most loan categories.
C&amp;I loans declined slightly as growth in a number of industry verticals and client segments was offset by continued elevated pay downs and further reductions in lower return portfolios.
On a year-over-year basis average performing loans grew $2.5 billion or 2% driven by 6% growth in the C&amp;I portfolio and $1.7 billion of growth in our consumer direct book as a result of continued momentum in our LightStream business and GreenSky partnership.
The growth in C&amp;I and consumer direct loans was partially offset by continued pay downs in the home equity portfolio and reductions in indirect consumer loans given the competitive environment in auto lending.
Going forward we continue to seek opportunities to help finance our clients growth plans particularly given the solid economic conditions in our markets.
Production trends and pipelines remain healthy and we will continue to keep a high focus on improving returns and ensuring new business exceeds our cost of capital.
Turning to deposits on Slide 11 average client deposits were up $2.4 billion or 2% compared to the prior quarter and 10% compared to the prior year driven by growth across most lines of business.
We continue to be pleased with the momentum on the deposit front.
Our success here reflects our overall strategic focus on meeting more clients deposit and payment needs supplemented by investments in technology platforms and client facing bankers across both the consumer private wealth and wholesale segments.
In particular our corporate liquidity product specialists within wholesale banking are doing an outstanding job of deepening client relationships with our treasury and payments product offerings.
And as Bill noted earlier our strong deposit growth directly enabled us to reduce higher cost long-term debt by $4.6 billion over the past six months.
Our broader enterprise wide focus on deposits was also evident in the recent release of FDIC deposit market share data where SunTrust grew faster than the competition and increased our national market share by four basis points.
Importantly the strong growth we have delivered has not resulted in any adverse changes in rates paid or mix.
Low cost deposit growth continues to be strong while higher cost deposits continue to gradually decline.
As interest rates rise some of these trends will normalize.
However we will maintain a disciplined approach to pricing with a focus on maximizing our value proposition for clients.
Slide 12 provides an update on our capital position.
Common equity Tier 1 expanded by approximately another $250 million during Q3 as a result of growth in retained earnings and the estimated Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio on a fully phased in basis increased to 9.9%.
Tangible book value per share increased 4% from the prior quarter driven by growth in retained earnings and higher unrealized gains in the securities portfolio.
We repurchased $175 million of common stock and paid $0.24 dividend in the quarter per our 2015 capital plan.
Our liquidity coverage ratio continued to exceed the January 1 2016 90% requirement.
Lastly I would like to highlight the credit rating upgrade we received from Fitch Ratings last week which was a reflection of our improved earnings profile strong asset quality performance and balanced and diversified business model.
Our credit ratings across all three major rating agencies have generally improved over the past year which is positive for our teammates clients and investors.
With that I will now turn things back over to Bill to cover performance at the business segment level.
Great thanks Aleem and I will start on Slide 13.
Our Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management segment continue to demonstrate solid steady growth this quarter.
Net income was up 7% over prior year driven mainly by lower provision expense.
Core operating performance was also solid as pre-provision net revenue increased 2% compared to the prior year and 3% sequentially.
Net interest income continues to steadily improve in this segment that bodes our balance sheet optimization efforts aimed at improving returns and deposit growth momentum.
Average loans were stable sequentially as growth in higher return portfolios including consumer direct and credit card offset the impact of the $1 billion auto securitization in June.
Deposits were up 6% year-over-year with growth being driven by continued execution of our strategy of deepening client relationships particularly in our mass affluent and high net worth segments.
Our premier bankers in SummitView platform are examples of where our investments in talent and technology have accelerated our growth.
We also introduced new checking account packages in August simultaneously simplifying and improving our product offering in addition to increasing our value proposition to students and families consistent with our companys purpose of lighting the way to financial well-being.
Non-interest income was down marginally compared to the prior quarter and year.
Service charges remained pressured as client behavior continues to change.
Wealth Management related income declined modestly this quarter given market conditions which resulted in lower assets under management and reduced transactional activity.
Irrespective of short-term market fluctuations many more of our clients wealth and investments needs continues to be a strategic priority for the company.
Expenses in this business have been well-controlled and we have been using efficiency gains to invest in client-facing technology and talent.
We continue to generate solid returns from our digital investments with steady increases in mobile penetration digital sales and self-service deposits with the latter representing now 26% of total deposits received in the third quarter.
Bigger picture the progress we have made of optimizing the balance sheet meeting more client needs and investing in technology has helped offset the negative impact of the prolonged low rate environment.
The economies in our Southeast and Mid-Atlantic markets continue to perform well and we are uniquely well-positioned to meet the growing needs of each of our client segments.
So lets go to wholesale next which has been a key growth engine for the company and had a solid quarter despite challenging market conditions.
Total revenue was down 6% relative to the prior quarter but up 12% compared to prior year.
The sequential quarter decline was driven by lower capital markets related income primarily because we were coming off a record second quarter but also due in part to market volatility in the third quarter.
Investment banking had a third highest quarter ever and was up 31% compared to a year ago.
M&amp;A investment-grade bond originations and equity sales and trading all had strong quarters each a reflection of the strategic investments we have been making to expand and diversify our capabilities.
Strength in these product areas help to mitigate declines and high-yield bond and equity originations driven by elevated market volatility.
Trading income was lower this quarter as choppy market conditions led to increased volatility wider credit spreads and reduced client activity.
Net interest income was up 6% year-over-year driven by strong loan and deposit growth though this was partially offset by a decline in spreads.
Average loans declined 1% sequentially and increased 6% year-over-year.
We continue to generate solid growth across a number of industry verticals and lines of businesses.
However this has been offset by elevated payoffs and intentional reductions in lower return areas.
While the overall lending environment remains competitive we have seen more stability in portfolio and production yields over the past few months.
Production and pipeline trends are healthy and we remain focused on generating profitable growth both for SunTrust and our clients.
Deposits were up 5% sequentially and 18% year-over-year with broad-based growth across all major lines of businesses.
Our strong performance here can be attributed to enhancements in our treasury and payment product offerings the success of our liquidity specialist in CIB and increased intensity in meeting more of our wholesale client needs on the deposit front.
Provision expense grew relative to the prior quarter and prior year as we continue to proactively increase the energy portfolio reserve given the decline in oil prices in the third quarter.
With that said SunTrust exposure to the exploration and production in oilfield services sector which are the more severely impacted by decline in oil prices continues to represent only 1% of our total loan portfolio.
Overall asset quality in Wholesale Banking and the company continues to be very strong.
Non-interest expense was up 6% over the prior year largely due to the continued strategic investments in CIB and improved business performance but more importantly wholesales overall efficiency ratio improved relative to last year.
We believe our Wholesale Banking business is highly differentiated as we bring large bank capabilities and a One Team approach to mid-corporate and middle-market clients.
This differentiation has led to continued growth and left lead relationships both with corporate and commercial clients giving us continued optimism in the long-term growth outlook for the Wholesale Banking segment.
Moving to the market segment where bottom line performance was aided by approximately $50 million of non-recurring benefits which Aleem discussed earlier.
Excluding these benefits mortgage still had a solid quarter as continued expense discipline and further de-risking combined with a larger servicing portfolio and an improving purchase market mitigated the anticipated decline in refinance volumes.
Revenues were relatively stable sequentially as higher servicing income help to offset the decline in production income a reflection of the balance between servicing and production particularly during periods of elevated refinance swings.
Our servicing portfolio is up 12% compared to a year ago due largely to portfolio acquisitions as we view performing servicing as a core competency and a solid ROE business.
On a year-over-year basis the decline in revenue was primarily driven by $41 million loan sale gain in the third quarter of 2014.
Excluding this gain revenue was generally stable as higher non-interest income was generally offset by lower net interest income due to a decline in loan spreads and the prior year loan sale.
Mortgage production income increased 29% largely due to increased purchase activity in our markets as consumer confidence continues to steadily rise and the housing market recovers.
Total applications increased 20% compared to the prior year with purchase applications up 15% evidence of the continued rebound in the housing market in addition to lower rates.
Asset quality improved this quarter if net charge-offs and nonperforming loans continue to be on the downward trajectory resulting in further declines in the residential mortgage-related allowance.
And given the quality of new production combined with stable to improving housing markets we would expect overall asset quality in the mortgage business to continue to trend favorably but not necessarily at the level or pace of recent quarters.
Expenses were lower both sequentially and year-over-year due primarily to discrete recoveries in the current quarter related to legacy matters.
Excluding these items expenses are still well-controlled as cost-saving efforts and reduced credit-related expenses have generally offset growth in production-related cost in investments and technology.
Big picture after years of operating and credit-related challenges the mortgage business has become a more steady contributor to bottom line performance of the company has also improved its focus and execution around creating a better client experience and delivering the entire bank to our mortgage clients.
So before I conclude I want to highlight our announcement yesterday regarding certain management changes.
These changes align top talent with significant opportunities at our company and this will help sharpen our focus and enhance our growth prospects.
Tom Brad Jerome and Dorinda are all seasoned executives and I am confident in their individual and collective capability to lead their respective units and deliver on our purpose of lighting the way to financial well-being.
So to recap the third quarter we made solid progress against key strategies including optimizing our business mix and balance sheet investing in growth opportunities improving efficiency and growing our capital return.
Our active management of the balance sheet has resulted in an improved net interest income and margin.
At the same time while our asset quality performance is strong current levels of provision expense are not sustainable in the long-term.
Year-over-year non-interest income trends are solid and reflective of our strategy to meet a wider array of client needs.
In addition we are mindful of the intense expense discipline required to operate in this environment and also to support continued investments in our company.
Overall I remain optimistic about our companys strategic direction and our ability to deliver further value to our clients and shareholders.
So with that let me turn the call back over to Ankur and lets take some Q&amp;A.
Thanks Bill.
Angela we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
As we do so I would like to ask participants to please limit yourself to one primary question and one follow-up so that we can accommodate as many of you as possible today.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Great.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Aleem you are establishing a nice new seasonality of being able to really show expense control in the third quarter of each year.
I know some of that is related to some of the comp-related fee businesses.
But I know you get this question every quarter but can you talk to us about is this finally formally kind of a new sub 13 bar and what pressures would you see if any to kind of take you back up off this level? Well thank you for noticing Ken.
No I wouldnt say that our bar is a sub-13.
I think when you think about the revenue base that we have here core expense level of around 1.3 is about right for us as I say at this type of revenue  this type of revenue level.
But as you know we are really just more focused on the efficiency ratio rather than on the expense number itself.
And as long as we can continue to grow revenue we are not averse to growing expenses as long as it helps revenue at a better pace and we improve our operating leverage and efficiency ratio.
If we do get revenue growth in the next year or two I wouldnt be surprised to see expenses move up but continuing our trend of becoming a more efficient company.
If revenue stays where it is then think about expense levels around $1.3 billion sort of give or take.
Okay got it.
And my follow-up just is on this overall size of the balance sheet is really now flattened out for a good couple of quarters and you have had the sales that look like maybe they finalized out and you are kind of where you are and beyond on the securities book.
So do you expect much growth at some point here on the average earning asset side or is there still more churn to happen from the mix perspective? Well from a mix perspective there is still going to be I think some change as we continue to try to grow our direct consumer business as well as focusing on higher return businesses across the other segments.
So I think you will see a little bit of mix change still happening.
We are continuing to try to work and optimize our balance sheet in every one of our businesses.
In terms of overall balance sheet growth and loan growth it will  we havent had much loan growth in Q2.
We are starting to see it pick up again a little bit in Q3.
Looking forward I wouldnt be surprised to see loan growth kind of at the pace we saw in Q3.
Thats not an unreasonable level given the relatively low economic growth that we are seeing across the country.
I think the other place we might see some growth in earning assets if you think about moving through 16 perhaps will be in the securities book as we need to move from sort of 90% LCR compliance rate to 100% compliance rate in 2017.
And that might require some additions in HQLA and securities and you might see some growth in earning assets but of course that will also help on the net interest income side as we grow assets.
Understood.
Okay.
Thanks Aleem.
Our next question comes from Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Yes.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Erika.
Hi.
Just to follow-up to Kens question.
This management team has clearly done an excellent job managing down this efficiency ratio but the market expectation for revenue growth for the industry seems to be tempering for 2016.
And I am wondering relative to your long-term goal of below 60% efficiency what the decision is in terms of lets say the Fed raises very slowly or doesnt raise at all in 2016 on sort of what  where are you going to attack the efficiency ratio the most aggressively whether its still numerators side and maybe taking down that $1.3 billion quarterly level or are you confident in what you are doing on the revenue side for next year and that there is some offset there? Erika let me start that with sort of I think the Fed part of your question there and then maybe Bill can talk to you about the efficiency ratio approach that we have got overall.
We as you know in our case we have sort have been in the lower for longer camp for some time and set ourselves up appropriately for that type of an approach.
As we look forward into 16 I think also lower for longer stays I think if there are Fed increases they will be very deliberate and the pace of rate rise will probably be slower now than the market had been thinking six months ago.
Having said that again we are setting ourselves up so that we benefit from that type of an approach.
In terms of expenses relative to revenue we will continue to try to improve the efficiency of the company.
We have been on a path now for many years.
We are going to continue to be on that path.
And we understand that we need to get better.
So to the extent that we dont get a tailwind from rate rise we will be looking at other ways to grow income whether that is net interest income or non-interest income.
And we will be looking for ways to manage expenses such that our efficiency ratio continues to keep us on that path of becoming more efficient.
Maybe a good way to look at it is sort of tale of two cities.
If you look at our two largest business segments if you look at our consumer private wealth segment its more rate dependent.
So it has more rate variables to it.
And you can see there that the top line growth in left but we have continued to manage expenses and increase efficiency.
Then you sort of shift to wholesale which is less rate dependent and you see there that we have continue to grow the business at sort of good double-digit kind of revenue numbers and continue to increase efficiency.
So the answer is to all the questions is yes.
I think we want to be able to grow the business where we can grow it and all along being focused on the efficiency side.
And if we see opportunities to invest and that increases expenses while at the same time improving efficiency we are going to do it.
If we dont see those opportunities then we are going to grind down a little harder on the expense side.
And that will literally be a line of business by a line of business kind of analysis and diagnosis.
Thats clear.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Ryan.
Maybe I could ask one of the questions that was asked in a little bit of different way.
So when I think about the outlook of NIM grinding lower a little bit we shouldnt expect too much balance sheet growth just because of the strategy thats being pursued.
So on the revenue side we are left with obviously growing fee income but how do we think about the continued management of the asset liability management in terms of continuing to add more swaps.
And then I guess related to that despite the fact that it looks like you might have added some stocks the asset sensitivity did go up a lot.
So can you just walk us through the puts and takes of what happened I am assuming you have something to do with prepayment speeds in the mortgage business? And maybe for you jump into the harder part of that question I want to be clear we dont have a strategy that doesnt have growth in our balance sheet.
So what we want to do is optimize our balance sheet and business mix.
So where we see opportunities for growth in the balance sheet that are positive contributors to that strategy we are going to absolutely take advantage of them.
We havent seen as many of those in the last couple of quarters.
So we dont have a flat balance sheet type of strategy.
We have an optimized balance sheet business mix and more importantly focus on growth and return strategy.
And maybe with that said Aleem let me turn over to you.
Sure.
Well thanks for the question Ryan.
Look when I think about the swaps book Ryan I sort of think about it as the tail wagging the dog.
And if you think about our overall loans our natural position on loans is 60% of the loans that we generate and 60% of the loans that we produce are floating rates.
And so that naturally makes us more and more asset sensitive every month as we continue to do new business.
The tail part of this is all the swaps do is take about 12% to 14% of those floating rate loans and effectively turn them into fixed rate loans.
So in the context of our overall book its sort of the smaller part of that.
And what we will do with the swaps and securities and which loans that we produce to emphasize and which loans we deemphasize really is going to be economy dependent client needs as well as our view of the structural balance sheet and structural rates.
So the swap component ends up being a pretty sort of smallish part of that decision process.
Got it.
And if I could ask a follow-up on credit I think both of you made comments I think Bill you said something to the extent of an eventual normalization and Aleem you said something about 20 basis points of charge-offs not being sustainable.
And I guess as you look out if rates end up staying low you guys have done a great job de-risking the balance sheet.
How should we think about a more reasonable level of charge-offs if we stay in a similar kind of environment and what does that eventually mean for the loan loss provision? Well as we think about our overall risk profile and sort of the medium-term outlook through the cycle expectation line for charge-offs is in the 40 to 70 basis point range.
So thats what we are setup for over the medium to long-term.
So given that we are only half of the floor of that range right now we will take the 21 basis points we have today is sustainable.
Having said that obviously I dont think we are going to go from 20 to 40 in the quarter.
But I do expect that as we go into 2016 and 17 we will probably see charge-offs start to move back up again into that range.
I think one example to think about there to really bring it home is when you look at our C&amp;I book.
Today we have got charge-offs in that book of less than 10 basis points a single-digit basis points in a book where historically our average is more like 50 or 60.
And so clearly in C&amp;I single-digit basis points wont be sustainable as the economy normalizes.
Got it.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thanks.
Next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Hi John.
Just back to the loan growth real quick on the C&amp;I side and sorry if you touched on this but just wanted to get a little bit more color behind the decline in the C&amp;I balances end of periods of what drove it? And what would your outlook be for C&amp;I in coming quarters given what you are seeing in the markets in the Southeast? Yes thats sort of a quarter-to-quarter thing.
I mean we have had in core areas we have seen really good growth healthcare TMT corporate banking I mean those numbers on an annualized basis are up 30 and plus kind of percent.
So we have got a lot of cylinders that are running at a high base.
And then at others we have just had some pay-downs.
I mean we have had sort of a significant level of pay-downs that have been maybe different than we have experienced in the past.
And then as I said earlier there is something that we just said on the margin thats just not really creating profitable value for us.
So we are just not going to play in that arena.
So I clearly think C&amp;I will have positive growth.
I mean I think this is  its a one quarter deal.
Sort of over time you have seen that.
We have got 6% growth year-to-year based upon what I see with pipeline based what I see in growth and unfunded commitments based upon I see with new clients and all the things that are the health metrics of our business I would expect C&amp;I will continue to grow but it will just be on a quarter-by-quarter basis based on sort of the same kind of example we will look at each individual business within that and sort of make determinations.
But I dont think we are in a flat environment in C&amp;I growth maybe thats the best way to summarize that.
We will grow over time.
Yes thats helpful.
The pay-downs is that  what parts of C&amp;I are you seeing that more concentrated in? Yes we have seen that in a couple of different areas.
We have seen in our asset securitization area as a good example where we have had significant pay-downs.
Clearly on the CRE we have seen significant pay-downs in that and most of those are positive.
They are refinancing.
There are companies that have moved to investment grade.
So they are paying down their loans.
Their company is on the CRE side that they are moving out of the construction phase much faster.
So the quality of what we are doing is supporting it.
So its not pay-downs that we are viewing is sort of a negative correlation its sort of positive.
So its a number of different places.
Okay.
And then lastly just wanted to get color on the non-interest bearing deposit balance and again sorry if you already touched on this I missed a part of the call but I know the non-interest bearing balances were down 3% linked quarter and year-over-year as well.
So just want to get some color on what drove that? Well I think thats just a reflection of client behavior and client needs.
It looks like clients are looking for liquidity.
They want daily liquidity.
And as they grow balances in each of their accounts we have had this history of client behavior over the last several years where in order to avoid fees on their accounts and manage their money better our clients are consolidating accounts and keeping more dollars in each of their accounts.
And as they are doing that they are starting to move into accounts that give them daily liquidity as well as the opportunity to earn something.
So I think thats just a reflection of client behavior.
Got it.
Alright thank you.
The next question comes from John McDonald of Bernstein.
Hi good morning.
Wondering if you could explain what drives the premium amortization income? What led to the decline this quarter Aleem? And did you mention how much that contributed to the NIM expansion this quarter? John I didnt mention it but premium amortization this quarter declined by about $15 million and what drove that mostly was some remixing we did within our securities portfolio at the start of Q2 and that helped a little bit in Q2 and it helped more in Q3.
At this kind of level I would expect general stability in premium amortization.
As I said it improved by $15 million from Q2.
Just so you have the number in your head the actual amortization in Q3 was $45 million and I would expect as long as sort of rates are generally here to sit within that $40 million to $50 million range in amortization.
Okay thanks.
And then just a bigger picture follow-up you guys have been executing really well.
Your ROA the last nine months has been about 1%.
You have got an ROTCE to about 12% just under 12%.
What are your longer term goals Bill in terms of where you think the ROA and ROTCE should be for this company as you think out of few years? Yes we have been careful about not having a specific external goal but clearly I think over time we are a north of 1% ROA company.
That will actually be increasingly hard in the short-term.
So thats going to  the degree of difficulty actually is going to change in the short-term on that.
But I think what you are seeing is that we have got the kind of company thats got the ability to be north of 1% ROA.
And then on the ROTCE similarly I mean I think sort of continue to sort of ratchet up as we think about where we need to be.
Can you get back to those lofty numbers of 15%? I dont know.
Thats a lot of rate dependencies sort of pre-crisis dependencies on those.
But I do think we have got we are going to continue to ratchet up even in this environment.
Okay thanks.
And John if I take sort of a longer term view of your question if I think back pre-crisis SunTrust was sort of averaging ROA of about 1.2%.
So I see no reason why over the long-term we cant be a 1.2% plus ROA company.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Next question comes from Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Thanks.
Wanted to ask you two questions one is on the capital markets activities you gave about $50 million a little bit more than $50 million this quarter.
I am just curious if all the uncertainty and disruptions in the marketplace if you didnt see some embedded activities or possible revenues as you move forward kind of stuck up in the pipelines out there in those businesses? Yes.
There is clearly some of that Marty.
But lets keep in mind we are also year-to-year up 30%.
And we had an unbelievably great second quarter.
So part of the give up is we are just coming off a great second quarter.
We had a lot of the things in the part of the business that are I would consider to be core like syndications held up well.
M&amp;A had another really good quarter and pipelines are still good there.
The volatility numbers are in sort of high yield bonds and the equity sales and trading and thats better.
Spreads have come in.
I think things will get done more this quarter than they did last quarter if things stay stable.
And based upon what I see in terms of our pipeline I feel good about our pipeline.
And I feel good about our pipeline again particularly in those sort of core areas.
So what we saw in the decrease I saw was primarily related to specific volatility rather than any sort of chink in our strategy.
And then as you highlighted it also creates opportunity and creates opportunity for a bank like ours.
Aleem I have got a tougher question for you and the sense of Good well Marty why are saving the tough one for me.
When you look at the mortgage portfolio you had to work hard with a lot of pain to allow for potential losses that were weighted to the big event that we had in the financial crisis and the unusual losses that we had in the portfolio.
Now that we are on the backside of that and we have changed all the underwriting and now we are looking at a portfolio thats going to perform more like it did historically with very low losses expected for the foreseeable future without the risk of those big kind of spikes up how do you think about allowing for that because you are releasing reserves but you had to put away a lot and should probably look at further benefits from that as you move forward? Well that is a great question actually Marty.
If you would look at the mortgage segment slide that we have got in the deck you do see we are actually releasing reserves.
We have got a negative provision in that book this quarter.
And as you look around the rest of the industry you see I think kind of the same thing with the mortgage books and sort of home equity books generally looking better and better every quarter that we get away from the crisis with a lot of those reserves that have been set aside for those books starting to become apparently no longer required.
And as that becomes more and more apparent over time its possible as you say that we will continue to require fewer reserves for that book and you could see negative provisioning against that.
However against that if I think about the C&amp;I book and my comments earlier about C&amp;I charge-offs being at extremely low levels I do expect that we will see increased charge-off and reserving required in C&amp;I over time and to some extent that ought to offset the benefits that we are getting on the mortgage side.
Appreciate it.
Just over time can be defined in different ways and been in periods where you had very low losses especially in C&amp;I books for not quarters but years and so you may not see the timing of that if you dont have event like energy to offset it going forward? Lets see Marty if that happens.
We will be happy.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Hi Matt.
Good morning Matt.
Bill you have been talking about preferring to invest in SunTrust given the big opportunity organically versus doing deals but I am wondering with the combination of the improvement you have had on your expense base ROA on the balance sheet optimization and then sort of macro factors out there in terms of both lower rates and likely slower growth for some time is that thought process changing to where you may be more open to M&amp;A and if not what needs to happen to be more a little more constructive on doing deals? Yes.
I mean I think you have quoted me accurately which I appreciated.
And I still think the best opportunity is within SunTrust in terms of where I see the investment.
And I still think we have significant opportunity for growth.
And I also think we have efficiency opportunity.
So I dont think we sort of run the string all the way out there that we are sort of looking for the next thing.
All that being said to the extent that we did get involved in anything it would be likely to be smaller fill in that would complement an existing line of the business or a product gap or something where we just saw we had a chance to enhance what we are doing rather than any large scale M&amp;A.
And would that apply just to key businesses or some openness in terms of geographic fill in bank deals as well? Yes.
I mean if there was something interesting I mean obviously on the geographic side a lot of things that we would do would dilute our franchise.
And we want to make sure that we dont do anything geographically that dilutes the opportunities we see.
I mean we have got states like Florida and North Carolina and Georgia which are three of the top then job growth states in the country right now.
So we are in a lot of the right places where we want to be for the next phase.
So again it could be I am not limiting that to fee business but again if it were it would be fill in and not large scale at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Angela we have time for one more question.
Our last question comes from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Gerard.
Aleem can you come back to the C&amp;I portfolio you were saying that you are seeing some firming in pricing in the last month or two can you give us some color where you are seeing that and what you think is causing it? Yes.
Gerard I think what we are seeing there is that as you know over a long period of time the loans that we have been putting on have been at lower yields than the loans that we have had that have been rolling off or paying down.
And I think that that long-term several year consistent trend is starting to ease partially because our overall portfolio yields are moving down.
And so we are at a place now with the loans that are coming on are not as much lower in yield terms as they loans that are rolling off.
So while there are still lower I want to be clear about that they are not as much lower and sort of that kind of firming is helping our overall portfolio.
I think also we have been pretty explicit about trying to make sure that where we are not getting the returns that we expect to get where we are being very careful about those relationships and managing our balance sheet as a precious resource.
I think our teammates are very focused on that and so if we are not getting the returns we are sort of trying not to do that kind of business.
Yes.
I would say we wouldnt want to underplay or overplay that comment.
It just is a  its a reversal of a trend.
So its not as important to discuss that that in this quarter we saw some difference in that trend.
I think as Aleem said its probably some combination of our own discipline and selection process at some combination of portfolio mix and probably some market issue some widening bond spreads and sort of how do they reflect in terms of what we see in terms of production.
Thank you.
And then as a follow-up I think everybody in the call agrees with you about the outlook for credit its been great for you and the industry.
And then question is on the C&amp;I portfolio Aleem you talked about I think the charge-offs now down to 10 basis points and over time you think they will go back up to a more normal number 50 to 60.
And the question is is it so good today because of some ultraconservative underwriting standards you guys had 3 years or 4 years ago or  and then as we go into the future we head into a recession and that pushes it up whats going to be the driver behind the normalization of credit losses? Well Gerard I dont know that our  I would characterize our underwriting standards as ultraconservative.
I think we play in a market along with many other competitors and that market is what it is.
However I think that as a country as an economy overall we have all benefited from the increased liquidity that many corporations and increased capital that many corporations have placed within their companies and their portfolios.
I think one of the other benefits also that you see for SunTrust and perhaps for the industry overall is the benefit of CCAR.
The CCAR has changed the way that companies think about their overall risk.
They apply a stress test to all their portfolios now and think about how portfolios would behave during a stress test.
One of the benefits for SunTrust specifically is how good we look in CCAR.
We are a top decile performer.
We have managed our portfolio very carefully and thats whats helping our particular charge-off numbers right now look as good as they do.
Thank you for this insight.
Thank you.
Angela this concludes our call.
Thank you to everyone for joining us today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact the Investor Relations department.
Thank you for your participation in todays conference.
Please disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the SunTrusts Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this point.
Now I will turn the call over to Ankur Vyas Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may now begin.
Good morning and welcome to SunTrusts fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us.
In addition to todays press release we have also provided a presentation that covers the topics we plan to address during our call.
The press release presentation and detailed financial schedules can be accessed at investors.suntrust.com.
With me today among other members of our executive management team are Bill Rogers our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Aleem Gillani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started I need to remind you that our comments today may include forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainty and actual results could differ materially.
We list the factors that might cause actual results to differ materially in our SEC filings which are available on our website.
During the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures when talking about the companys performance.
You can find the reconciliation of these measures to GAAP financial measures in our press release and on our website investors.suntrust.com.
Finally SunTrust is not responsible for and does not edit nor guarantee the accuracy of our earnings teleconference transcripts provided by third-parties.
The only authorized live and archived webcasts are located on our website.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Ankur and good morning everybody.
I will begin with a brief overview of the quarter and then turn over to Aleem for additional details including our results at the business segment level.
I will conclude with the review of our performance in 2015 as a whole in addition to providing some forward-looking perspectives.
We delivered solid results this quarter which is a direct result of the focus we have maintained on executing our primary strategies of optimizing our business mix and balance sheet investing in growth opportunities improving efficiency and increasing capital return to shareholders.
For the fourth quarter we reported $0.91 of earnings per share which included $0.03 of discrete tax benefits.
When adjusting for non-core items earnings per share were stable compared with the prior quarter and prior year.
Continued improvement in net interest income this quarter was offset by a decline in non-interest income as a result of challenging market conditions in addition to normal quarterly variability.
Capital markets related income was in line with the prior quarter as the slowdown in fixed income markets was offset by higher equity origination fees and trading income the latter which was a result of increased client-driven interest rate hedging activities.
Overall we are successfully deepening client relationships within our wholesale banking platform and benefiting from our diverse business mix and breadth of capabilities.
We achieved our goal of attaining the sub 63% efficiency ratio and ended the year with an adjusted tangible efficiency ratio of 62.7% 24 basis points better than 2014.
Looking ahead we remain focused on achieving our long-term goal of the being sub-60% and we will continue to diligently manage expenses while also investing in strategic revenue-generating initiatives throughout the company.
We continue to see the benefits of our active balance sheet management and optimization efforts which drove a 4 basis point improvement in our net interest margin and a $34 million increase in net interest income.
This is further realization of a positive shift in our overall earning asset and funding mix.
Average loans were up 2% compared to the third quarter driven by growth across most sectors including commercial consumer direct and residential mortgage.
While loan growth will ebb and flow quarter-to-quarter we remain confident in our ability to generate growth in segments where returns are appropriate and we can have deeper relationships.
However we closely manage areas that dont meet those thresholds.
Average deposits were also up 2% which is further evidence of the success we are having in deepening client relationships across the company.
Growing deposits remains an important part of our strategic efforts to strengthen client relationships and improve profitability the latter of which is evidenced by the 35% reduction in long-term debt over the past year.
Overall asset quality remains favorable.
However we did see an increase in non-performing loans as a result of deterioration in our energy-related exposure which Aleem will provide details on later.
Provision expense was less impacted as we have been building reserves in the previous quarters.
The net charge-off ratio was 24 basis points a strong result but likely unsustainable long-term.
Lastly our capital position continues to be strong with our common equity Tier 1 ratio estimated to be 9.8% on a Basel III fully phased-in basis.
So with that as a brief overview I will turn it over to Aleem to provide some more details on the quarters performance.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Before I jump into the details I would like to call your attention to a new table we are presenting on Slide 4 which highlights key metrics over the past five quarters and will help you analyze our financial performance in an efficient manner.
As it is year end we have added this slide to the main presentation and going forward you will find this in the appendix.
Moving to Slide 5 you can see the net interest margin improved by 4 basis points driven by higher security deals as a result of slower prepayment speeds further low cost deposit growth and lower long-term debt as we received a full quarter benefit of the $1.7 billion debt reduction in the third quarter.
Net interest income increased $34 million sequentially driven by solid 2% loan and deposit growth and the 4 basis point improvement in NIM.
As a result of our activity balance sheet management efforts overall net interest income has been grinding higher since the first quarter which we had anticipated would be the trough.
For the full year net interest income declined at 2% entirely due to a decline in commercial loan swap income as a result of lower fixed rates.
In 2016 commercial loan swap income will decline modestly relative to 2015 largely due to an anticipated increase in LIBOR which would be more than offset by higher net interest income from the core asset sensitivity of the balance sheet.
Looking ahead we expect first quarter net interest margin to improve further 3 to 5 basis points relative to the fourth quarter.
From there NIM will likely be relatively stable for the remainder of 2016 assuming we only get one additional increase in the federal funds rate.
We have been and will continue to carefully manage the duration of our overall balance sheet in light of the current low interest rate environment while also ensuring our balance sheet is structured to benefit from potential increases in short-term rates.
Moving on to Slide 6 adjusted non-interest income declined $32 million sequentially primarily driven by asset disposition gains in the third quarter and lower wealth management-related revenue in the fourth quarter partially offset by an increase in mortgage related income.
Wealth management-related revenue declined $13 million sequentially partially due to seasonal trust fees typically earned in the third quarter but also due to market conditions which reduced assets under management and client activity.
Investment banking income declined $11 million as fixed income originations were negatively impacted by challenging market conditions.
Equity originations and M&amp;A however remained relatively strong which is a reflection of the strategic capabilities that we have expanded over the past few years.
Trading income increased $11 million driven by higher derivative marketing revenue as commercial clients increased their utilization of interest rate swaps to hedge potential changes in rates.
Mortgage servicing income improved by $16 million due to higher servicing fees some of which is seasonal lower decay expense and better hedge performance.
Mortgage production income declined $5 million as lower production was generally offset by improved channel mix.
Service charges on deposits continue to steadily decline a reflection of the increased transparency and technology we are providing our clients so they can manage their accounts more effectively.
This decline will continue in 2016 in part driven by enhancements to our posting order process which once fully implemented will help our clients save more money and reduce our service charges by approximately $10 million per quarter.
This transition will occur in the second half of 2016.
Compared to the fourth quarter of last year non-interest income was down 4% driven by declines across most categories largely due to the challenging market conditions experienced in the second half of 2015.
Moving on to expenses on Slide 7 adjusted non-interest expense increased $35 million sequentially almost entirely due to $32 million of discrete recoveries recognized in the previous quarter related to the successful resolution of previous mortgage matters.
Outside processing and software costs were up $22 million due to higher utilization of certain third party services in addition to normal quarterly variability.
Amortization expense increased by $8 million similar to last years increase as we invested additional capital in low income communities which was generally offset by a correspondingly lower provision for income taxes.
Offsetting these increases was a $35 million decline in personnel costs driven primarily by lower accruals on certain incentive and medical costs as we calibrated expenses to actual performance.
While quarterly incentive and benefits costs can be variable for the full year incentive compensation increased due to improved business performance in 2015 which is consistent with our pay for performance philosophy.
Compared to the fourth quarter of last year adjusted non-interest expense increased 2% driven by a combination of higher personnel expense and outside processing and software costs.
For the full year adjusted expenses were down 1% compared to 2014 and have declined each of the past four years.
In fact adjusted expenses are down 15% since 2011 evidence of our efforts to operate more efficiently.
Separately while not a non-interest expense point I will highlight that the discrete tax benefits we have recognized in 2015 resulted in an effective tax rate of 28% for the full year which is below what we would consider a more normal range in the low-30s.
As we look to the first quarter of this year we anticipate personnel expenses to increase by approximately $100 million due to the typical seasonal increase of 401(k) and 5K expenses and also return to more normal accrual rates on incentive and benefit costs.
In addition our marketing and customer development costs will weigh more heavily in the first half of the year versus the second half as we are introducing a new campaign to further advance our purpose as a company.
Bigger picture after four consecutive years of declines we expect 2016 expenses to be higher than 2015 as we expect revenues to improve.
We will maintain our focus on the efficiency ratio and if revenue do not materialize we will have to adjust our expense base accordingly.
As you can see on Slide 8 the adjusted tangible efficiency ratio was 62.2% in the fourth quarter up slightly over the prior quarter and year.
Our full year adjusted tangible efficiency ratio was 62.7% better than our 2015 target and 24 basis points better than 2014.
For 2016 we are targeting revenue growth that exceeds expense growth and thus a tangible efficiency ratio that improves.
That being said the pace of improvement will be significantly lower than previous years as our core expenses have already declined substantially and the operating environment while improving in certain areas remains challenging overall.
Nonetheless we remain firmly committed to our long-term target of sub-60 %.
And achieving this important objective will be a key driver of delivering additional value to our shareholders.
Turning to Slide 9 overall asset quality remains solid during the quarter evidenced by a 24 basis point net charge-off ratio and a 49 basis points NPL ratio.
We did experience a deterioration in our energy portfolio which when combined with the proactive NPL sales in prior quarters resulted in an NPL ratio that was 14 basis points higher sequentially but very much in line with last year.
As it relates to energy not much has changed with regard to our exposure and mix.
The energy portfolio is 2.2% of the total loan portfolio which is down 11% over the past year.
The exploration and production and oil field services portfolios which are the most negatively impacted by prolonged low oil prices represent a little under 40% of the total energy portfolio or slightly under 1% of total loans.
Our reserves for the energy portfolio are approximately 4.5% and when isolated to the two most severely impacted sectors are near 12%.
In addition total reserves of $1.8 billion have been designated to cover inherent losses in our total loan portfolio.
Losses in the E&amp;P and oil field services portfolios will be elevated over the next couple of years and will thus cause overall C&amp;I loss rates to rise from their low levels today.
However given all of the factors I mentioned we believe our energy related risk remains very manageable in the context of the overall company.
The provision for credit losses increased $19 million sequentially and the ALLL ratio declined 5 basis points to 1.29% consistent with overall credit quality trends.
Looking ahead we expect non-performing loans and net charge-offs to increase primarily as a result of further stress on the energy portfolio.
Despite this we would still expect the companys overall net charge-off rate to be less than 40 basis points in 2016.
Provision expense this year will more closely match net charge-offs as the multi-year improvement in asset quality abates.
Ultimately our reserves will be determined by our rigorous quarterly review process which is informed by trends in all of our loan portfolios combined with the view on economic conditions.
Lets turn to balance sheet trends average performing loans were up 2% sequentially driven by continued momentum in our commercial and consumer portfolios in addition to lower levels of pay-offs.
Commercial loan growth was broad based and driven by corporate commercial auto dealer and commercial real estate clients.
While consumer loan growth was driven by growth in direct indirect and guaranteed student loans.
The momentum in the consumer direct portfolio continues to be strong driven by LightStreams our partnership with GreenSky and further success with our credit card offering.
On a year-over-year basis average performing loans grew $2 billion or 2% driven by 3% growth in C&amp;I and 13% growth in consumer direct and was partially offset by declines in home equity pay-offs in commercial real estate and reductions in indirect consumer loans given our focus on returns.
In total we have proactively sold or securitized approximately $5 billion of loans since the middle of 2014.
Going forward we will periodically sell or securitize lower return loans as part of our balance sheet optimization focus though likely not at the pace of the past 18 months.
Turning to deposits on Slide 11 average client deposits were up $2.9 billion or 2% compared to the prior quarter and 8% compared to the prior year driven by growth across most lines of business.
We are pleased with the momentum on the deposit front.
Our success here reflects our overall strategic focus on meeting more clients deposit and payment needs supplemented by investments in technology platforms and client facing bankers across both the consumer and private wealth and wholesale sectors.
In particular our corporate liquidity product specialists within wholesale banking continue to do an outstanding job of deepening client relationships with our treasury and payments product offerings.
And as Bill referenced earlier our strong deposit growth directly enabled us to reduce higher cost long-term debt by $4.5 billion or 35% in just the past year.
Importantly the strong growth we have delivered has not resulted in any adverse changes in rates paid or mix.
Low cost deposit growth continues to be strong while higher cost deposits have been gradually declining.
As interest rates rise some of these trends will reverse.
However we will maintain a disciplined approach to pricing with a focus on maximizing the value proposition outside of rate paid for our clients.
Slide 12 provides an update on our capital position which continues to be strong.
Our estimated Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio on a fully phased-in basis was up 9.8%.
Tangible book value per share was stable sequentially and up 6% compared to the prior year driven by growth in retained earnings partially offset by lower AOCIs as a result of higher interest rates.
For our 2015 capital plan we repurchased $175 million of common stock and paid a $0.24 dividend in the fourth quarter.
In addition we repurchased an incremental $39 million of common stock in December which reflects our overall commitment to increase capital return to shareholders.
We expect to repurchase approximately $350 million of additional common stock in the first half of 2016 to complete our 2015 capital plan.
As a result of our capital return program we are continuing to drive down share count.
Average fully diluted shares outstanding were down 1% sequentially and 3% year-over-year.
Lastly as of January 1 the liquidity coverage ratio is now a formal requirement.
We have started the year in full compliance and we will of course maintain that status over the course of 2016.
Moving to the segment overviews we will begin with consumer banking and private wealth management on Slide 13.
Net income declined 6% sequentially as elevated market volatility resulted in lower wealth management-related revenue.
We also had a modest increase in expenses driven in part by investments in our card offerings as well as various one-time items.
Net interest income was up 2% sequentially and 4% annually benefiting from continued low cost deposit growth and our balance sheet optimization efforts.
The strong growth in our consumer direct portfolios has afforded us the opportunity to sell securitize or reduce production in lower return areas.
Deposits were up 1% sequentially and 6% for the full year with much of this growth coming from deeper relationships with our mass affluent client base aided by our investments in premier bankers and the SummitView platform.
On a full year basis CPWM posted strong net income growth of 8% which is once again the result of strong deposit growth our balance sheet optimization efforts and further improvements in credit quality.
Loan balances declined 3% in 2015 as we sold or securitized approximately $2 billion of loans.
But organic consumer loan production was solid and increased 5%.
Non-interest income declined 1% for the full year largely due to the headwinds wealth management faced in 2015 but also due to the continued decline in service charges.
While current market conditions have made growing wealth management revenue more challenging meeting more of our clients wealth and investment needs continues to be a strategic priority for our company.
Expenses in CPWM have been well-controlled as we have been using efficiency gains to invest in client-facing talent and technology.
We continue to generate solid returns from our digital investments and expect this to increase as mobile adoption rates and digital sales trend upwards.
Bigger picture the progress we have made in optimizing the balance sheet meeting more client needs and investing in technology has helped offset the negative impact of the prolonged low rate environment.
We are optimistic about the long-term trajectory of this business both as it executes against its strategic priorities and as the value of our strong deposit franchise is more fully realized in a normal interest rate environment.
Moving to wholesale banking on Slide 14 we had a solid quarter in spite of the challenging market conditions.
Revenues were down 3% sequentially but stable relative to the prior year.
Much of the decline in revenue was driven by overall market volatility which not only impacted debt origination activity but also resulted in adverse mark-to-market impacts.
Partially mitigating these impacts was strength in other product areas such as equity originations equity sales and trading and derivatives marketing a reflection of the increasing diversity of our business model.
Net interest income was up 1% sequentially as a result of strong loan and deposit growth partially offset by margin compression.
Overall net income declined 9% sequentially as a result of the declines in non-interest income and increased provision expense.
While we have been building reserves for our energy exposure since the fourth quarter of 2014 the prolonged low oil price environment will continue to place pressure on the provision expense in this business.
On a full year basis we saw strong performance with a record year for wholesale bank demonstrated by the 9% increase in net income driven by broad-based revenue growth partially offset by energy-related reserve increases.
Net interest income was up 6% driven by 8% loan growth and 16% deposit growth.
The loan growth was broad-based across each line of business and most industry verticals partially offset by intentional reductions in lower return areas.
The deposit momentum within this business also continues to be strong evidence of the success our liquidity specialists within wholesale are having and the enhancements we have made to our treasury and payment product offerings.
Non-interest income was up 10% in part due to the 14% growth in investment banking income where we had record years in equity originations M&amp;A syndicated and leveraged finance and investment grade bond originations.
The breadth of growth here is reflective of the investments we have made to expand our capabilities and thus become more of a strategic advisor to all of our wholesale clients.
The tangible efficiency ratio improved further to 48.6% as we drove further operating leverage while also investing in revenue-generating initiatives.
In conclusion while market conditions can be choppy quarter-to-quarter we are encouraged by our differentiated business model within wholesale banking and are confident in the opportunities we have to expand our client base meet more of their complex corporate finance and advisory needs and continue to grow our business.
Moving to the mortgage segment revenues were stable sequentially as higher servicing income helped to offset the decline in production income.
Net income declined $38 million as a result of the $50 million in after-tax discrete benefits recognized in the third quarter.
On a year-over-year basis revenue declined by $22 million as a result of lower margins both in production and our held-for-investment loan portfolio.
These declines were partially offset by an increase in servicing income as a result of portfolio acquisitions over the past couple of years.
For the full year we saw $137 million increase in adjusted net income which is primarily due to the significantly improved credit quality of the loan portfolio both as a result of the improving housing market and our proactive actions to de-risk the book.
This improvement was partially offset by a decline in net interest income as a result of $2.3 billion of loan sales in 2014 and lower loan spreads in 2015.
Production volume increased by 38% in 2015 due primarily to higher refinancing activity new purchase volume also improved in 2015 a broader sign of the continued improvement of the economies in our markets.
We also grew the servicing portfolio by 5% as a result of portfolio acquisitions.
In both production and servicing we achieved our objectives of smart targeted market share growth.
I would also like to point out that we successfully switched to a new loan origination system in the second half of 2015 which facilitates a faster and simpler loan process for our clients and teammates but also allowed us to more efficiently meet the new TRID requirements which became effective October 1.
This was a significant and important undertaking and we have already been able to use our success as a competitive advantage to attract new talent in several of our markets.
Overall the mortgage business continues to benefit from improving asset quality and good expense discipline both of which have allowed this business to become a more steady contributor to the bottom line performance of this company.
And with that I will turn it back over to Bill to share some concluding perspectives on our performance in 2015 and our outlook for 2016.
Great.
Thanks Aleem.
So coming into last year we have several key objectives; continue to improve efficiency further optimize the balance sheet in order to enhance returns invest in growth opportunities and increase capital return.
Overall I am pleased with our performance in 2015 as we met each of these objectives.
We grew earnings per share by a solid 11% we met our efficiency ratio goal we increased ROA by 5 basis points and advanced the revenue growth trajectory of many businesses all in the context of managing the headwinds associated with the prolonged low interest rate environment.
We also grew tangible book value per share by 6% and returned over 60% of our earnings back to our shareholders continuing our path of improving capital returns.
Our performance is a reflection of the diversity of our business model where each segment made strong contributions to enhance the financial performance of our company.
Within consumer and private wealth organic production growth and higher return portfolios and continued momentum on the deposit front has allowed us to further optimize the balance sheet.
Our investments in digital have allowed us to better identify and meet more client needs while also extracting efficiencies from certain areas.
In wholesale our differentiated business model allowed us to absorb the impact of the more challenging market conditions in the second half of the year and drive strong high single-digit growth in revenue and net income.
In particular I am pleased with the more integrated One Team approach we delivered to our clients and thats evidenced by a 36% increase in capital markets revenue from the commercial real estate and private wealth businesses.
This increase in client and product diversity will be an important contributor to the long-term growth of wholesale banking.
And within mortgage we benefited from the abatement of legacy mortgage related costs but also from the targeted growth initiatives we have in place to grow production in servicing.
The transition to a new origination platform was time-consuming and challenging but I believe we have the right risk and operational foundation to place to further advance our mortgage business.
So as we look into 2016 we will remain focused on the same primary strategies of optimizing our business mix and balance sheet investing in growth opportunities and improving efficiency all with the goal of creating further value for our clients and shareholders.
While the revenue environment is expected to improve we expect credit cards will normalize in the non-recurring benefits we had in 2015 will abate.
Subsequently we will need to deliver positive operating leverage in 2016 in order to achieve our financial objectives and make further progress towards our long-term target of a sub-60% efficiency ratio.
So to conclude I would like to take a moment to recognize and thank all of our teammates for their key roles in delivering our 2015 financial results many of them are on the phone today.
Our team is diligently focused on fulfilling our purpose of lighting the way to financial well-being for our clients communities and shareholders.
As we look into 2016 we will further advance this purpose facilitating a dialogue about money in order to help Americans move from financial stress to control and ultimately to confidence.
Our team is absolutely ready to go.
Now with that I will turn it back over to Ankur and we will begin the Q&amp;A portion.
Dexter we are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
As we do so I would like to ask the participants to please limit yourself to one primary question and one follow-up so that we can accommodate as many of you as possible today.
I was wondering if you can give us some thoughts on your framework in terms of when all said and done how you think the energy book plays out in terms of either default rates or total NPL levels what the loss content might be and any framework on that kind of would be helpful? Well Matt let me take a crack at that.
I think when you think about our energy book overall its helpful to think about the context.
So you know our energy exposure overall is only 2.2% of our total loan book first of all.
Secondly within that E&amp;P and oil field services are 40% so only about 1% of our total loan portfolio is in those two sectors which should probably be the sectors most negatively impacted by lower oil prices.
Within that now you think about we have got about 4.5% of reserves against the entire energy book.
So for those two segments reserve levels are closer to 12%.
So that starts to feel pretty good.
And then thirdly of course we have got total of $1.8 billion of ALLL in total which is available to cover all of our loans.
So as I think about what might happen here in 2016 17 18 we will see some increase in NPLs.
We will see some increase in provisioning against our energy portfolio.
But in the context of the rest of the book where our resi mortgage exposure continues to get better and better and as charge-off levels and required reserves continue to come down I think that our 2016 charge-off levels and provision levels for energy actually are looking very manageable.
And then just on the loss content once the loan is moved to non-performer can you remind us do you take a charge-off on that and then whats potentially the eventual loss content obviously not all non-performers are the same but it takes a while for that to be clear I think from the outside? It does.
I mean it will take a while to see how all of this plays out.
We build  we are building up our reserves for energy clients up client-by-client.
You actually made a great point in not all non-performers have the same loss content.
You saw the increase in non-performing loans that we had this quarter.
I ought to let you know that the vast majority of those non-performing loans are actually performing they are still performing today.
What we are trying to do here is be prudent and get ahead of the curve on non-performing loans the same way you saw us do in Q4 14 when we tried to get ahead of the curve and start to provision early for energy.
We are trying to do the same thing here in non-performing loans.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
Hi just following-up on credit again the outlook for net charge-offs less than 40 basis points is a bit away from the 24 basis points you did this quarter recognizing thats a very low charge-off rate that you are at today are you expecting it to kind of march up steadily? And is it the driver of your outlook for higher charge-offs really just energy or you have got some other normalization going on? No its mostly just energy as sort of where I think the inflection is John.
We have been seeing now for several years that our charge-off levels are unsustainably low.
Well it looks like energy might be the catalyst to actually turn that around.
So I do expect that we will see more provisioning coming in the wholesale book in 2016 but I also expect the rise in provisioning will be mitigated by the releases that I expect to get out of our consumer and mortgage books in that as a result of resi mortgage improving.
Yes.
And outside of energy that increase was more of a macro combat.
I mean to your question we dont see any particular portfolio segment geography however you might want to categorize it that we see a particular problem and its more of a macro kind of non-energy compound.
Okay.
So you still could have some net reserve release in the beginning part of the year Aleem.
It sounds like the gap is going to close between provision and charge-offs but you could still have a little bit of a gap? Maybe I am not sure yet John.
But if I think about the full year I would think that our full year provision and charge-offs ought to be pretty close.
Okay thank you.
Hi thanks.
Two questions.
Just one more on the energy reserve and one on loan growth on the energy reserve you indicated the 4.5% and the 12%.
Can you give us a sense as to how you think about oil price when you are making that reserve? Is that done on a forward basis on a spot basis? And can you give us some sensitivities to if oil goes down another $5 or another $10 what happens to the reserve there? Well the reserve is built as of December 31 Betsy.
So at the time we used the oil price on that day which was $37.
Thats the way the reserve was built.
If oil stays down under $30 for a while yes we will expect that we will continue to see additional provisioning required.
But as I said earlier I think we will be able to mitigate some of that with the benefits we get out of the mortgage book overall.
Our price decks as you know are pretty sort of consistent across the industry and we will be rebuilding our new price deck for the spring re-determination period very soon.
Okay no sense of just what kind of order of magnitude change we should expect or like should I just take whatever the reserve is that you have done today than have another half or given an expectation for if oil stays at $30? I dont have a great sense of that for you yet but it will be well into eight figures maybe even get into nine figures in total provisioning over a multiyear period which in the context of the total PPNR for the company and releases will be coming out of mortgage I think they are very manageable.
Okay.
And just the follow-up was on loan growth and C&amp;I had a nice inflection this quarter maybe you can speak to the drivers there was that just less asset sales or more of originations context would be great? Yes its interesting because we have sort of talked about loan growth being an outcome versus something that we are managing.
And if I look at production over the last few quarters its actually been very consistent and at a consistent high level.
In the fourth quarter in particular we benefit a little more from some lower pay-downs so pay-downs were a little less in the fourth quarter than the third quarter.
We had a slight increase in the utilization rate.
I dont want to mark anything there but there was a slight increase in the utilization rate.
So it really is just a  its a reflection of all the things we have been doing within the case of the fourth quarter just a little less headwind than we have had in the previous quarters.
Okay thanks.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Ken.
Good morning.
I just want to level set on the starting points for the expense side I got your point about the step up the annuals the quarterly step up and then the marketing in the first half and taking your points about driving to operating leverage.
It seems like we had a great end to the year and we have that normal step-up.
So  and I know we ask this question a lot but can you just help us frame kind of the starting point and then I presume we kind of still have that ramp down throughout the year.
Is that the right way to think about it? Well that would be a nice way to think about it but of course it depends on the revenue environment.
If the revenue environment improves in 16 relative to 15 as we are currently anticipating I think that will be the driver of expenses increasing 16 relative to 15.
If I try to think about Ken an average number and of course its going  this is going to be volatile quarter-to-quarter.
But if I try to think about an average number for the year I would probably be thinking about something that would be closer to something like $1.35 billion on average some quarters higher some quarters lower and improving slightly improving efficiency ratio as that revenue appears.
If the revenue environment does not improve then we will have to adjust expenses accordingly.
And in that case I would start thinking about a number lower than that maybe closer to the $1.3 billion.
Yes understood.
And then just a follow-up on that is you guys have done a great job over the past couple of years rightsizing shrinking branch count etcetera how much flexibility would you have in that tougher environment? We dont want to anticipate happening but like is there a lot of opportunity set still inside if that were to be the case? Well this is Bill.
I mean I think the opportunity still exist because we are still on the path to sub-60.
So we have plans underway for expense management in virtually every category.
So its not like they are not on the shelf already our ability to execute against them would really mean.
In fact we are taking a little more risk speeding them up in terms of terms [ph].
So we have those plans in mind.
Ken you may have seen the press announcement we had in the last few days about changes in our real estate footprint in Raleigh and in Richmond we are moving to new space.
We will take our total number of locations in those two cities from 11 to 5 between 16 and 17.
We will reduce our square footage in those areas by 50% and we will create a better environment for our teammates.
Just as a sort of a point of info we have been  you said we have been working on branch count and office space reduction over the last several years.
We have actually taken out 2.5 million square feet over the last 4 years out of our physical footprint and we continue to be on that path.
Between now and 2018 we will stay on that becoming more efficient with our use of space.
So to answer your question I mean we think we have got the flexibility on the expense versus revenue achieved in the efficiency ratio target long-term.
It doesnt exactly work perfectly quarter-to-quarter.
I mean thats the point that I would want to make.
But we can look ahead and adjust the levers accordingly.
Understood.
Thanks for the color.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Ryan.
Maybe I could just follow-up on Kens question if we were to have expenses coming in at $1.35 billion you are going to imply something like mid single-digit growth.
And Aleem given your comments around positive operating leverage that implies revenue growth should be north of 5%.
I was just wondering maybe can you talk us through the components of revenue growth? How should we think about NII growth? What does it mean for the net interest margin over the last couple of quarters? And on the fee side how do we think about the split between wholesale and consumer fees? Clearly consumer will likely be under pressure as you make some changes.
Markets have come down.
So may be that will hurt the wealth business but just trying to contextualize how to think about the different moving pieces on revenue growth? Thanks Ryan for the question.
So if you think about NII overall for the last several years its been essentially flat maybe even coming down a small amount and thats been the effect of declining NIMs essentially being offset by production and growth.
Now that NIMs are no longer declining and we are looking for NIM to be essentially stable for 2016 that underlines our organic loan production and growth on both assets and liabilities is going to start to show through.
And as that shows through I think we will see NII start to climb in 16 sort of as it started to do in 15 after the first quarter.
So I think that will be where you see the growth in revenue.
On the fee income side you are right we are not really expecting growth in consumer service charges thats not going to be a growth area for us but the growth that we have seen overall in wholesale will continue I think will continue to appear.
The One Team approach that we have got our ability to meet more of our clients needs across more products and be a bigger more of a strategic advisor to more clients I think continues to show up.
So I think that will be helpful.
And I think mortgage will also become a more sort of consistent contributor to the bottom line.
So thats where revenue will appear.
Got it.
And then maybe if I could just follow-up on one other question given where your reserve is on energy and the E&amp;P and oil field services book of 12% and which I think is well above a lot of your peers I guess how should we think about the comment that you made that we should expect continued reserve builds from here.
And more specifically if oil prices stayed at these levels what would be realistic loss content over a 2-year period I heard what you said to Betsy but I am just trying to understand like why would losses in your book be at that type of level relative to peers you were talking about levels that are half of what you are commenting on? Well you know us we are inherently a conservative company and we would try to think conservatively.
So I dont know where peers are or what they have got in their book.
We are trying to be careful and make sure that we stay ahead of this overall.
I think our reserve levels are very prudent for where we are right now with oil at this stage in the cycle.
But remember we set these reserves when oil was $37.
And if oil moves into the $20s we will have to take account of that and I would think that the farther oil moves down the loss content starts to become asymmetric for the industry.
Got it.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thanks.
Hi.
Well cant wait for the Super Bowl to see your ad.
Great.
But it comes in the context of 4 years of expense declines and now expense is going higher as you just discussed.
So its the same question I asked last year and you got your target.
But if we dont get rate increases do you think you can still grow revenues faster than expenses and you gave some specific examples about those locations.
But if you could say what are the few main reasons why you think you can improve efficiency if that is the case without rate hikes? Yes.
I think Mike as we went into last year we were a very clear about saying we were going to improve efficiency irrespective of rates.
So we sort of said take that off the table.
Now it looks like we are only projecting two rate hikes and one at end of the year.
So I think we are still taking a pretty conservative approach to the impact of rate hikes.
And we are continuing to make the statement that we are going to stay focused on improving our efficiency ratio.
Now in fairness it grinds down slower.
So there is no doubt about that.
I mean we got sort of a big junk and it grinds down slower.
But we are not backing off we are not wavering or anything I guess the commitment to continue to improve on the efficiency side.
Mike in terms of some of the things that we continued to work on expenses to be clear we are not saying that we are taking our foot off the gas pedal on managing expenses.
And we are still looking at overall operations costs.
We are looking at call centers lending centers.
We are still looking at technology infrastructure and how we can continue to improve our efficiency there.
I mentioned that we introduced a new mortgage origination platform late in 2015 and I anticipate that that will help our overall efficiency and effectiveness within the mortgage segment.
I mentioned we continue to work on optimizing our real estate footprint and we will continue to do that now through 18 and 19 I expect.
And look across the whole company we are staying disciplined on how we manage roles responsibilities.
We have a very clear pay for performance philosophy.
I think that shows up for  across our teammate profile.
And of course we continue to consolidate our suppliers.
So we are working on managing our third party supplier profile.
So none of this is meant to say that hey we are declaring victory on expenses what we are saying is that as we move forward the big rocks on expenses I think we have achieved and we are going to be more balanced to going forward in terms of revenue growth and expense management.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Aleem I want to ask you on your guidance on net interest margin being I think a little inconsistent so I just want to make sure we connect the dots right you came into the year in first quarter of 15 you had a 2.83 margin which improved to 2.98 by the time you get to the end of the year which would average 2.90 you are saying you are going to improve 3 basis points to 5 basis points in the first quarter.
And so when you are looking at that kind of trend your net interest margin would have to significantly be above in 2016 versus 2015 unless expense going downward from the first quarter through the end of 2016? Thats right Marty thats exactly what I was trying to say.
I am sorry if I was unclear.
I do expect...
Just a little more flat year-to-year which you really got a  already a lot of improvement in there and I was also wondering about you said if you had another rate hike in the middle of the year if you wouldnt see the margin improve over the first quarter when you are already getting some benefit from rising interest rates there would be seems like another catalyst or margins to go up again on that next just one more rate hike in the middle of the year? I do think that will help.
So to be clear on my margin expectations Marty I think the first quarter margin will go up from the fourth quarter.
And I think thats sort of 3 basis points to 5 basis points or so.
And then from there for the rest of the year I am expecting it to be generally stable to the first quarter number to the increased higher margin level assuming we get that one rate hike in the middle of the year.
The offset to that so thats  the rate hike is going to be helpful and we are asset sensitive.
And we are asset sensitive actually at every key rate duration point across the curve.
So that will be helpful.
The offset to that is competitive pressures are still strong.
Spreads continue to be tight if anything grinding maybe at a bit tighter but sort of trying to stabilizing a little bit relative to the decline we saw in spreads over the last year.
And we still have old mortgages and old securities that will continue to roll off the books that will have to reinvest that new lower rates.
So there are mitigants to the rate rise which I think will put a cap on margin.
But I do think year-over-year margin will be higher and Q1 to Q4 margin will be higher.
And then as a follow-up on the asset quality side you are talking about being conservative in a sense that you got performing loans that somehow you are pushing into non-performing I didnt really have any foreshadowing of this in the delinquencies can you give us some feel for the migration of how $200 million ended up in non-performing this particular quarter and your thought process around that deterioration? Thank you.
Yes.
Thanks for the question Marty.
We are just trying to be a little bit careful here.
The majority of the loans we put into non-performing are actually still performing today.
They are performing loans but these are loans when we look at those particular clients we think that there is a risk that they will become non-performing some time in the next couple of years if oil stays where it is.
Remember how quickly this move has been on oil right.
And so its only 15 months ago we were at $100 a barrel.
So the move has been very very rapid and we are just trying to make sure that we try and stay ahead of this so that we dont end up surprising you and ourselves later.
Thanks.
Dexter we have time for one more question.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Going back to energy sorry the  regarding the increase in the NPAs can you just tell us what types of credits they were or the E&amp;P or service that went on to NPA? Also were they shared national credits and do you have the average size of the credits that moved on or the number? Yes it was just a handful of credits John.
I dont know if they were shared national credits but it was a relatively small number and they were all either upstream or services.
Okay.
And again the increase in the charge-offs this quarter that was related to the energy book as well? Yes some of it was.
There was one charge-off in energy that related to one credit.
Okay.
And then the non-energy or the non-oilfield service and non-E&amp;P types of loans that you are including in that energy-related classification what is that? Is that utilities and coal? Thats mostly midstream and downstream.
So when you look at midstream and downstream that makes up the remainder of what we call the energy book.
And when you think about what lower oil prices do for midstream its sort of a nonevent and for downstream its actually beneficial.
And so for our downstream clients the decrease in energy prices will help them.
Okay alright.
And then lastly also within the energy topic do you have your total criticized ratio within your energy portfolio? And then also how much of your energy book is investment grade versus non-investment grade? Well John let me answer those backwards.
The investment grade versus non-investment grade I dont have that exact number in front of me but as you would expect we have a relatively higher proportion than others of investment grade so think about the context maybe of a third to a half of our book would actually be investment grade.
And as you would also expect when you think about a conservative underwriter like SunTrust the criticized portion would be relatively low and for us thats on the order of 20%.
Okay.
And then lastly the first lien versus second lien do you have that? The vast majority of our loans are first lien.
The vast vast majority of our loans are first lien.
Okay.
Alright great.
Thank you.
Operator this concludes our call.
Thank you to everyone for joining us today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact us in the Investor Relations department.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!