Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Sterling Bancorp first quarter 2011 conference call.
For the conference all the participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be an opportunity for your questions.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
And as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
With that being said I’ll turn the conference now to Mr.
Ed Nebb.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks very much John and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Our news release announcing the first quarter 2011 results was issued today prior to the market open.
We hope you’ve had an opportunity to review it.
If you need a copy it’s posted to the Sterling Bancorp website.
Before turning to the discussion of our financial results let me remind you that any comments made today about future financial results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Actual results may differ substantially from such forward-looking statements.
The amounts of any dividends in 2011 and beyond will depend on the company’s future results of operations financial condition and other relevant factors.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to vary is contained in Sterling’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
Today we will have introductory remarks from Mr.
John Millman President of Sterling Bancorp; and Mr.
John Tietjen Chief Financial Officer.
After their remarks we’ll open up the call for your questions.
And so without further ado I’ll turn the call over to John Millman.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our conference call for the first quarter ended March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011.
Our results for the 2011 first quarter clearly demonstrate that Sterling is off to a strong start for the year.
The company’s performance reflected a sharp focus on understanding [inaudible] diversifying our income sources further strengthening our capital base and reinforcing our sound asset quality.
Thanks to these efforts we believe Sterling is better positioned than ever for long-term profitable growth.
Let me review some of the highlights of the first quarter.
Net income available to common shareholders was $3.3 million for the 2011 first quarter an increase of over 71% from the previous year.
Earnings per diluted share were up 20% for the 2011 first quarter rising to $0.12 from $0.10 a year earlier.
The increase in EPS is a significant achievement considering that the average number of shares outstanding rose more than 42% due to our two common share offerings in the past 12 months.
We experienced continued growth across our business.
Total loans in portfolio rose 8% to $1.3 billion as we continue to meet the credit needs of both existing and new customers leading to significant new lending activity.
We’d like to remind you the seasonality of our loan business which typically accelerates in the third and fourth quarters.
Total deposits increased 7% to $1.7 billion and total assets were up 9% to nearly $2.4 billion.
We significantly added to our supply of growth capital and enhanced our financial flexibility through a common share offering in March 2011.
This was our second capital raise in a 12-month period and it generated gross proceeds of $38.6 million.
It is worth noting that the present offering was priced 20% higher than our 2010 equity offering.
We are gratified by the positive reception that our business strategy has received among investors as indicated by the success of both share offerings.
And we are pleased to have delivered growing shareholder value over the past year.
As we noted in the offering prospectus the proceeds may be used among other purposes to repurchase the company’s TARP capital purchase program preferred shares separately or together with the warrant for the common shares.
We have applied for permission in the US Treasury Department to redeem the entire $42 million of preferred stock issued by Sterling to the Treasury under our capital purchase program in December of 2008 and we do expect to have a formal approval for the redemption in the near future and we will expect that we will be in a position to make an announcement shortly.
Asset quality has continued to be one of Sterling’s distinguishing strength.
This is reflected in a continued decrease in credit cost during the 2011 first quarter as the provision for loan losses declined to $3 million or one-half the level of a year-ago.
Net charge-offs decreased by $2.7 million from $5.9 million a year-ago.
Non-accrual loans were $7 million at March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 a decrease from $17.2 million a year earlier.
The ratio of non-accrual loans to total loans improved to 0.53% from 1.42% year earlier.
Nonperforming assets were 0.30% of total assets at March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 down from 0.83% a year-ago.
And the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of non-accrual loans was 257% at March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 compared to a 116% last year.
Going forward we are optimistic about Sterling’s ability to continue delivering strong operating and financial performance.
The company has a distinct business banking model that has well suited to meet the needs of customers in a newly attractive marketplace the New York metro area and beyond.
We have consistently demonstrated a commitment to provide high-touched service which has enabled us to increase our business with existing clients and to add new relationships.
When focusing on growing our range of products we have expanded the financial solutions available to our customers while also broadening and diversifying our income sources.
We have continued to maintain a prudent credit underwriting and emerged from the economic downturn and a strong position with regard to asset quality.
We have enhanced our capital base which gives us ample dry powder to support investments in organic growth and to consider other business opportunities that may arise.
And we have a talented and experienced team that is dedicated to providing exceptional service and growing our franchise.
We look forward to building on these strengths to deliver continued profitable growth and enhance shareholder value.
Now I’ll turn the call over to John Tietjen.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
I’d like to provide additional detail on our performance with the 2011 first quarter.
As we have noted net income available to common shareholders for the first quarter of 2011 was $3.3 million or $0.12 per diluted share.
In the first quarter of 2010 net income available to common shareholders was $1.9 million or $0.10 per diluted share.
We had 27.4 million weighted average shares outstanding in the 2011 first quarter versus $19.2 million a year earlier reflecting the impact of the two common share offerings.
Looking at some of the key factors that contributed to our performance net interest income on a tax equivalent basis was $20.3 million for the 2011 first quarter roughly equal to the $20.4 million we reported a year-ago.
This reflects the benefit of higher average loan and investment security balances and reduced funding costs offset by the impact of lower yields on loans and securities and higher interest bearing deposit balances.
Noninterest income excluding security gains increased by $1.1 million or 11.6% compared to the first quarter of 2010.
This primarily reflected growth in fees from accounts receivable management factoring trade finance and mortgage banking products.
Total noninterest income was $11.4 million for the first quarter of 2011 up from $11.1 million a year-ago as our higher fee income was partially offset by a decrease in the security gains in the 2011 period.
Reflecting the strong contributions from our fee generating products noninterest income represented 33.5% of total revenue for the current quarter.
Noninterest expenses were $22.5 million for the 2011 first quarter compared to $21.3 million a year-ago.
The increase was primarily due to additional compensation expenses and occupancy costs related to our business development activities.
Now I’d like to provide a perspective on the net interest margin.
As we have discussed our business model plays a strong emphasis on fee generating products.
For this reason it’s important to emphasize that if fee income associated with our accounts receivable management factoring in trade finance products were included in the net interest margin it would add approximately a 100 basis points to the margin.
Overall the net interest margin was 3.84% for the 2011 first quarter on a tax equivalent basis compared to 4.37% for the first quarter of 2011.
Breaking the margin into key components the net interest margin on the loan portfolio was 4.90% for the 2011 first quarter compared to 5.03% a year earlier.
This was largely due to the impact on interest income of the shift of the loan portfolio mix as planned reduction in the leasing portfolio receivables was offset by growth in loan categories with lower yields.
The net interest margin on the investment portfolio was 2.55% for the 2011 first quarter compared to 3.57 a year earlier.
This primarily reflected a sharp rise in liquidity as we temporarily deployed the common share offering proceeds in short-term securities during a period of declining yields.
For example in the first quarter we had an average of $265 million invested in various instruments with maturities of less than two years at a blended rate of 1.93%.
For the first quarter of 2010 we had invested approximately a $160 million with similar duration at 3.24%.
We expect the excess liquidity to dissipate as we continue to fund loan growth with a resulting improvement in yield.
Turning now to the balance sheet.
Net loans held in portfolio at March 31<sup>st</sup> were $1.29 billion up $94 million from year-ago.
Please keep in mind that the net increase in the loan portfolio reflects the impact of the planned reduction in our leasing portfolio which declined $39 million from March 31<sup>st</sup> ’10 to March 31<sup>st</sup> ’11.
Investment securities were $872 million at the end of the first quarter up from approximately $763 million a year-ago.
As I’ve just mentioned this largely reflects an increase in short-term investment securities reflecting on a strategy for the deployment of proceeds from our share offering coupled with the implementation of other asset liability management initiatives.
Total deposits at March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 were $1.73 billion compared with $1.61 billion a year-ago.
We continue to build our solid core of noninterest bearing deposits which increased 10% to $562 million for the first quarter of 2011.
Demand deposits had grown as a result of our business development activities and business strategy.
All of our regulatory capitals continue to exceed well capitalized requirements.
At March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 15.50% total risk-based capital was 16.53% and the Tier 1 leverage ratio was 11.90%.
The tangible common equity ratio rose to 8.30% at March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 from 7.58% a year earlier and book value per common share increased to $7.10 at March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 compared to $7 a year earlier.
Our liquidity remains strong and will support future growth.
The ratio of loans held in portfolio to deposits was approximately 75% at March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 giving us ample capacity to increase our lending activities.
With that let me turn the call back over to John Millman.
Thanks John.
To sum up we’re entering a period in which the economy can be regarded with cautious optimism.
We have the proven business models strong capital base and commitment to exceptional service to make the most of the opportunities that may arise in this environment.
Now we would be pleased to respond to your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And first in the line we’ve Mark Fitzgibbon with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good gentlemen.
Hi good morning Mark.
Good morning Mark.
A couple of questions on the loan side of things.
First I wondered if you can share with us how big the line pipeline is and what the percentage of the pipeline that typically makes it on to the balance sheet is.
Well the pipeline is in excess of $200 million and that’s a short-term pipeline and we would expect to see about 25% of that to translate into closings.
Okay.
And then secondly how long do you think it will take to sort of run the – redeploy that excess liquidity into loans? Is it a multiyear process? It’s certainly multi-quartered Mark at $25 million on a quarterly basis.
We’re expecting 10% growth in the loan portfolio.
Having said that as we get closer to the end of the year the impact of the leasing runoff will become less.
If you recall on the call I made at year-end the comment that we had the leasing portfolio at about the level we thought was appropriate for us as we looked forward.
And once we get closer to the fourth quarter the impact of the leasing will minimize so that 10% growth with start to be real.
Okay.
And then with respect to the margin it sounds like we should anticipate the margins slowly rising from this 3.84 level.
Is that accurate? I would think that certainly by the end of the second quarter and beginning of third that would be the case.
We’re still going to have a temporary impact in the beginning of the second quarter because of the share offering that we just completed.
There will still be some impact on the margin for that.
When do you say impact do you –? I wouldn’t expect a dramatic change in the margin from the 3.84% that we’re at.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Damon Delmonte with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
How are you? Good morning.
Good morning David.
At the time of the capital raise you guys seem pretty optimistic or bullish on your trends for the first quarter.
And as I look at the quarter-over-quarter average loan balances it looks like you saw about a 7% decline.
I’m just wondering kind of what happened from when we spoke with you during the quarter to the end of the quarter?  John touched on it earlier Damon that the fourth quarter for us tends to be if you will somewhat a distortive quarter because the nature of our customers are such that the loan growth in the fourth quarter is contingent on what they’d like to do with their balance sheets and what’s going on with their businesses.
So comparing any quarter to the fourth quarter is probably not a good thing to do.
There is seasonality in our balance sheet.
I think also Damon if you go back historically you take a look at the sequential progress from Q4 to Q1 you’ll see typically we’re flat or down as always – that typically has been the case with us.
All right okay.
So with that in mind are you still confident that you can get double-digit growth from – on a year-over-year basis by the end of the fourth quarter? We full expect to see double-digit earning – double-digit growth in loans.
Just again to give you some flavor on that Damon at period end the leasing portfolio at March 31<sup>st</sup> to March 31<sup>st</sup> was down $39 million.
On average for the first quarter it was down $48 million.
So if you put that into the numbers we’ve got we’re pretty close to double digit.
Okay.
Okay great.
And then on the fee income side we also look at the first quarter as a period of seasonality and that’s kind of what was reflective in the decline from the fourth quarter and we can expect a rebound as we go out through the year.
Well in the mortgage banking business I think the second quarter tends to be a little software but the accounts receivable and factoring starts to pickup and get strong in the third quarter and then falls off a little bit in the fourth quarter.
So there is some seasonality to that line item also.
Okay.
That’s all I had for now.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to Collyn Gilbert with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Collyn.
Good morning Collyn.
John I hate to do this to you but it’s not in the press release so could you just give us the period end loan balances for the loan buckets C&amp;I leasing resi teri [ph]?  Okay.
This is going to – this will include loans held for sale.
That’s okay.
All right.
If we look at true commercial and industrial we’re about $590 million this year.
We were $572 million last year.
We have leasing is a $140 million versus a $179 million.
Factoring is a $154 million versus $151 million.
Now these are period end numbers these are not averages.
That’s fine yes.
Okay.
Residential mortgage portfolio $132 million versus a $127 million.
Loans held for sale is $24 million versus $21 million.
Commercial mortgage including construction – well let me not do that – the commercial mortgage is $98 million versus $97 million.
Real estate construction land development is $23 million versus $22 million.
Loans to individuals don’t – didn’t change very much very small balances.
And then because these items are separate items on a call report we break them out but they’re really in the C&amp;I lending – additions to the C&amp;I lending that I’ve already given you.
Loans to depository institutions are $25 million this year and we had none last year.
And loans to non-depository institutions are a $110 million this year and it was $34 million last year.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
And then just on – sticking on the loan side for a minute John you had mentioned the pipeline was just under $200 million.
Do you know how that compared to last year – this quarter last year?  It’s larger than last year.
Okay okay.
And then just on the – I know John you mentioned about the dynamic of the NIM and probably you’re expecting it to be flat or so but just within that are we getting close – trying to sort of reconcile the dynamics specifically on the loan yield side? Are we getting to the point now where the loan yields will have plateaued and those declines should now slow a bit?  Well let me – let me just come back.
The comment I made about the NIM was for the second quarter reflecting what you just stated yes.
As we move through the year the impact of the runoff on the leasing portfolio is going to become less and I would expect that the loan yields will stabilize and actually begin to grow a little bit.
Okay okay.
I think that was – that was all – and just one thing.
One the – on the TARP can you just tell us when you’re actually put in for the application?  Shortly after we completed the stock offering.
Okay.
Okay that was all I had.
Thanks.
Well thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll go to Rick Weiss with Janney.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Rick.
Good morning Rick.
On the noninterest expense is there anything unusual about the run rate of about $22.5 million for this quarter.
Is that – this is the number to use going forward?  I would expect that that number will increase moderately.
The run rate we were about $91 million $92 million in expenses the last year.
We’ll be around that number for this year.
And then turning just to asset quality would – is your sense is that things have stabilized from here or anything particularly worrying you?  Rick as of now we don’t see any change in the [inaudible] requirement going forward.
So that should give you an indication.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Great thanks.
And gentlemen there are no further questions in queue.
Good.
Thank you operator.
As always we thank you for your interest in Sterling and we look forward to speaking with you in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Sterling Bancorp’s 2011 Second Quarter Conference Call.
At this time all the participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
And also as a reminder today’s teleconference call is being recorded.
At this time I’ll turn the conference call over to your host Investor Relations Advisor Mr.
Ed Nebb.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tony and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
The news release announcing Sterling’s second quarter 2011 results was issued today prior to the market open.
We hope you’ve had an opportunity to review it.
The release is also posted to the company’s website <u>www.sterlingbancorp.com</u>.
Before turning to the discussion of our financial results let me remind you that any comments made today about future financial results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Actual results may differ substantially from the forward-looking statements.
The amounts of any dividends in 2011 and beyond will depend on the company’s future results of operations financial condition and other relevant factors.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to vary is contained in Sterling’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
We will have introductory remarks today from Mr.
John Millman President of Sterling Bancorp; and Mr.
John Tietjen Chief Financial Officer.
After their remarks we’ll open up the call for your questions.
And with that I’d like to turn the call over to Mr.
Millman.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our conference call for the second quarter ended June 30<sup>th</sup> 2011.
Strong business growth and solid asset quality were the two main themes for Sterling in the 2011 second quarter.
Our performance clearly shows that we are gaining share in a resilient dynamic market leading to expanded business with existing clients and a significant number of new customer relationships.
These market share gains are reflected in double-digit growth in loans deposits and total assets.
At the same time we are experiencing strong asset quality metrics.
Net charge-offs were $2.5 million for the second quarter half the level of the year ago period.
Our allowance for loan losses covered non-accruals by 323% as of June 30<sup>th</sup> 2011.
Now let me review some of the specific highlights of the 2011 second quarter.
Net income was $3.9 million an increase of 32% from the year ago quarter.
This represents a continuation of the strong positive momentum we demonstrated in the first quarter of this year.
As you know we fully redeemed the TARP preferred shares and warrants in the second quarter.
This action was reflected in net income available to common shareholders as we incurred accelerated accretion of $1.2 million or about $0.04 per share.
Including the accelerated accretion net income available to common shareholders was $2.5 million for the 2011 second quarter Including our previous common share offering in 2010 we have raised over $100 million in additional equity in the past 15 months and significantly to our already strong capital foundation.
With the effect of the higher share count being partially offset by earnings growth earnings per diluted share were basically stable with the year ago period $0.08 for the second quarter 2011 versus $0.09 for 2010.
We experienced strong asset growth across our business and set new record highs for loans deposits and total assets.
Total loans in portfolio were up over 10% to $1.4 billion.
Total deposits rose 22% to $2 billion and total assets were up 13% to approximately $2.6 billion.
Again these were all historic highs for our company.
The growth in our business shows that we are continuing to gain market share as we expand our existing client relationships and add new customers who have been underserved by competitors.
Asset quality also has continued to be quite strong.
Net charge-offs were $2.5 million for the second quarter half the level of $5 million a year ago.
Non-accrual loans were $5.7 million at June 30<sup>th</sup> 2011 down from $18.7 million a year earlier.
The ratio of non-accrual loans to total loans improved to 0.41% from 1.46% a year earlier.
Non-performing assets were 0.30% of total assets of June 30<sup>th</sup> 2011 down from 0.85% a year ago.
The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of non-accrual loans was 323% at June 30<sup>th</sup> 2011 compared to 110% last year.
There are a number of key factors that give us confidence in Sterling’s ability to continue delivering strong growth and solid financial performance for the balance of the year.
Sterling is uniquely positioned as a business bank in an attractive market place that is centered in New York the New York Metro area and beyond which is home to hundreds of thousands of small to mid size businesses.
While a number of lending institutions seem to have rediscovered the middle market we continue to differentiate ourselves by providing unique custom-tailored solutions.
Our C&amp;I lending sweet spot as the client whose credit needs are between $3 million and $10 million.
Due to our broad range of products including our strength and asset-based finance we can offer custom-tailored financial solutions to clients while also broadening and diversifying our income sources.
Our strong balance sheet which was enhanced by two successful share offerings in recent years provides ample growth capital to support the continued expansion of our business.
We recognize that a return to economic uncertainty and a continued lack of direction from Washington on debt and budget matters may affect the future borrowing plans of our customers.
That said though we do have a robust lending pipeline and look forward to building on our strength to deliver continued profitable growth and enhanced share holder value over the long-term.
Now I’ll turn the call over to John Tietjen.
Thank you John and good morning to everyone on the call.
I would like to provide additional detail on our performance for the 2011 second quarter.
As we have noted net income was up 32% before the effect of the accelerated accretion from the redemption of the TARP preferred shares and warrant.
Net income available to common shareholders was $2.5 million increasing from $2.3 million a year earlier.
The March 2011 share offering sharply increased our weighted average shares outstanding to $30.4 million in the 2011 second quarter versus $25.8 million a year earlier.
With our EPS remaining basically unchanged at $0.08 for 2011 second quarter from $0.09 a year ago.
Looking at some of the key factors that contribute to our performance net interest income on a tax equivalent basis was $21.8 million for the 2011 second quarter up from $21.1 million reported a year ago.
Net interest income also increased sequentially from $20.3 million in the 2011 first quarter.
The improvement over last year reflected higher average loan and investment security balances and reduced funding costs partially offset by the impact of lower yields on loans and sharply lower yields on securities along with higher interest bearing deposit balances.
Provision for loan losses decreased to $3 million for the quarter from $5.5 million a year ago reflecting our continued strong asset quality trends.
Non-interest income including security gains was $10.5 million about even with $10.6 million a year ago.
We experienced growth in residential mortgage banking income during the quarter partially offset by lower service charges.
Total non-interest income was $10.9 million for the 2011 second quarter compared to $11.4 million a year ago due to a decrease in the 2011 period security gains.
Reflecting strong contribution from our fee generating products non-interest income represented 31.1% of total revenues in the current quarter.
Non-interest expenses were $23.4 million for the 2011 second quarter compared to $22.1 million a year ago.
This increase was primarily due to additional compensation and occupancy expenses related to the continued growth and our ongoing business development activities.
Now I would like to provide some perspective on the net interest margin.
As indicated in the release the net interest margin for the second quarter increased to 3.85% compared to 3.84% in the first quarter.
The second quarter margin benefited from higher loans securities and demand deposit balances coupled with lower funding costs.
These benefits were partially offset by the impact of lower yields on loans and securities and higher interest bearing deposit balances.
The higher loan and demand deposit balances reflect the success of our business development activities while the slightly lower yield on loans was primarily due to changes in the loan mix.
Higher security balances and lower yields reflect the continuation of our strategy to maximize liquidity by investing short coupled with the impact of changes in general market rates.
Lower funding costs were primarily the result of changes in our deposit mix.
The margin for the second quarter of 2010 was 4.12%.
When analyzing the 27 basis point decrease for the 2011 second quarter the impact of many of the factors discussed earlier were similar.
Higher loan and security and demand deposit balances along with lower funding costs benefited the margin with the impact of lower yields and securities and higher interest bearing deposit balances reducing those benefits.
Turning now to the balance sheet net loans in portfolio at June 30<sup>th</sup> 2011 were $1.4 billion up 10% or $127 million from a year ago.
Investment securities were $880 million at the end of the 2011 second quarter from approximately $819 million a year ago.
As I’ve just mentioned this was largely due to an increase in short-term investment securities reflecting our strategy for the deployment of the proceeds from our share operatives.
Total deposits in June 30<sup>th</sup> were $2 billion compared with $1.6 billion a year ago.
We continue to build our solid core of non-interest bearing demand deposits which increase nearly 15% to $602 million for the 2011 second quarter.
Demand deposits are primarily related to our commercial loan accounts and have grown as a result of our business development activities.
All of our regulatory capital ratios continue to exceed the well capitalized requirements.
At June 2011 Sterling’s Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 12.33% total risk-based capital was 13.34% and Tier 1 leverage capital was 9.47%.
Tangible common equity ratio rose to 7.67% at June 30<sup>th</sup> 2011 from 7.33% a year earlier.
Book value per common share increased to $7.09 at June 30<sup>th</sup> compared to $7.04 a year earlier.
Our liquidity remains strong and will support future growth.
The ratio of loans held in portfolio to deposits was approximately 68.2% at June 30<sup>th</sup> 2011 giving us ample capacity to increase our lending activities.
With that let me turn the call back over to John.
Thanks John.
Let me conclude by saying that we expect continued growth in our business for the balance of this year.
We will continue our efforts to gain market share by building on Sterling's well-established focus on high-touched service.
Our broad portfolio of specialized financial solutions for small to mid size businesses and our strong base of growth capital.
Now we would be please to respond to your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question in queue will come from Mark Fitzgibbon with Sandler O'Neil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my question.
Hey Mark good morning.
First Actually Mark I believe that if we are able to sustain the loan growth that we had in the second quarter we should be able to see modest improvement in the margin.
Okay great.
And then secondly you mentioned that the pipeline was robust.
Could you perhaps size that for us? Sure Mark.
First of all we review the pipeline very often.
We add names and we take names out.
It's presently running about $200 million.
We historically see a pull through rate of the current pipeline of about 25%.
So that gives us some idea of what we expect to see in loan production going forward for the next quarter or two.
Okay.
And then lastly on the expense front do you have a target in mind either short-term or long-term for the efficiency ratio or G&amp;A to assets? Now our efficiency ratio has always been higher than peers because of the way we deliver our service and some of the products that we offer requiring more handholding with clients than traditional C&amp;I lending.
Having said that we constantly look at the expense numbers we are attempting to spend money in areas that are going to be revenue producing.
I would say in the second quarter we didn't have any significant increases in non-revenue producing expenses.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question in queue that will come from the line of Damon Delmonte with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys how are you? Good morning Damon.
I was wondering if you could provide a little detail on the loan growth this quarter.
I don't think there is a breakout by category and the recent growth is pretty substantial.
Could you help us kind of delineate that? Damon the growth is largely in core middle market lending.
So that really we find very encouraging it's coming in the sweet spot and the core of what we do in our business.
John you can add some.
Yeah if we look at in the portfolio the C&amp;I lending which includes the asset-based group is up approximately $24 million residential real estate is up about $20 million and loans to non-depository financial institutions are up about $17 million that principally represents the Warehouse Lending that we are doing the Mortgage Warehouse Lending and those increases are comparing June 30th to December 31st.
To December 31st not last quarter okay.
And could you talk a little bit about on the pricing of what you're seeing.
We've heard kind of anecdotally that there is increased competition in the market place for new loans.
The overall demand for new loans has been weak so there has been a lot of market share taking so to speak and with that has come increased pricing pressures.
Can you talk a little bit about that? Yeah I think what you are hearing is accurate.
We are seeing pricing pressure there is no question about that.
There are more lenders who have rediscovered the middle market and there is a tendency to compete very aggressively on pricing and we certainly sense it and feel it.
Okay so with that then kind of going back to the question regarding the margin wouldn’t that have a negative impact on the margin going forward you are still getting loan growth but you are getting it is coming at much tighter spreads more of a volume situation where the dollar amount on loans being added will kind of outweigh the impact? It is coming at tighter spreads Damon but they are still higher than the margin so for every loan that we put on the books we got a yield that is higher than what the margin is and a substantial portion of it is funded by low interest bearing borrowings and demand deposits.
So I would expect that as we move from securities into loans that the margin would in fact increase we don’t yet have the numbers on the increase that we will get with a 100 basis point rise but I suspect with the change in the balance sheet and the growth of loans for the first quarter we said 100 basis points would give us $1.7 million and additional net interest income I believe that when we get the results in for the second quarter that number will be higher.
Okay great.
And then lastly on the funding side of the balance sheet it looks like you had a reduction in borrowings and you obviously had really really strong deposit growth but part of that growth was in CDs.
Is this more of just a function of going away from short-term borrowings and using CDs as a funding mechanism? Yeah the CEDAR’s program and other lending listing services provide very inexpensive funding relative to traditional borrowings.
We are able to get inexpensive money at 25 basis points where we are not seeing that if we were going out in traditional borrowing areas.
And those CEDAR’s as you are putting out those deposits what is the average length of those? I would say it is laddered but generally speaking under a year probably.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question in queue comes from the line of Frank Barkocy with Mendon Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Hello Frank.
Yeah my question on the NIM was answered so I appreciate that.
Could you address other than using the short-term investments you eventually fund loan growth what are your considerations regarding dividends and share buybacks and potential acquisitions as well? Okay three questions.
We don’t presently see anything that would indicate a change in the dividend level.
We do not have any plans to buyback capital and we are always looking at acquisition opportunities to deploy capital.
Okay and what areas would you be looking to acquire? Specialty finance companies whole banks and perhaps assisted transactions but I think it would be whole banks and specialty finance companies it would be most likely portfolios as well.
Good thank you John.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue that will come from the line of Rick Weiss with Janney.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi Rick.
With regards to the loans are there any constraints within Sterling in terms of number of loan officers that you are facing today or do you have capacity to take what is out there? I’m sorry is the question do we have capacity to grow the loan book with the existing question Rick is that your question? Yes.
Absolutely we could do substantially more business with the platforms that we have in place and with the staff that we have in place.
Having said that though we are constantly looking for business development people that we feel can supplement the loan growth.
Okay and most of the growth that you are seeing right now is taking business away from others rather than new business? Well every new piece of business probably comes from another institution so I would say that roughly 80% of the loan growth represents new account relationships the remaining 20% represents additional borrowing from existing clients.
Okay and when you are making the loans John are you able to get deposit balances as well? We never make loans without deposits.
Deposits are a critical part of every lending relationship and every lending relationship requires demand deposits not interest bearing but demand deposits.
And that’s one of the reasons you are seeing a very strong level of demand deposit growth.
Okay and just to follow up Frank’s question with regard to dividends you have a pretty high dividend payout ratio at the moment.
Are you hearing anything from your regulators about that? No not at all Rick.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Aaron.
I guess I have two questions the first relates to non-interest income which is I guess from the last couple of quarters if we exclude the security schemes it is generally stagnated or trended down a little bit is there anything that you can account that to in particular or how should we be thinking about that going forward? I wouldn’t attribute it to anything in particular.
Mortgage banking is one of the contributors in that area and there has been some volatility in the mortgage banking revenue generally following what’s going on in the industry so I don’t think we are unique there.
As our demand deposit balances increase you would expect that service charges on deposit balances are going to go down.
The accounts receivable management and factoring commissions those are up slightly.
We see there the same pricing issues that John talked about and we addressed them as we do with loan pricing looking at the relationship and determining whether we can lower commission rates or not.
Also as you take a look at our business historically there is always been seasonal components to the business.
The first couple of quarters have generally been slow and then we see an acceleration of build up in our business historically third and fourth quarters and I would expect to see that spill over into the generation of non-interest income in the third and fourth quarter.
Just a quick follow up on one point made that as your demand deposits grow you would expect your service charges to trend up? No no trend down.
Okay.
Yeah Okay.
And my second I guess it’s actually my third question now.
The non-interest expense; that has also I guess generally trended up.
I have realized that you have had certain business development investments that have been going on over the last year but do you see that stabilizing or do you see the trend that we have observed over the last year continuing? We are looking at a modest increase over last year in non-interest expenses for the full year and we were about $88 million if I remember correctly for the full year.
A modest increase off that for the entire year.
And that’s principally for business development purposes or is there anything else? With the result of our business development activities and as we go into new areas for instance we have for a full six months this year the impact in income and expenses of our mortgage warehouse business.
Last year we only had it at this point for about a month and a half so there’s a slight distortion there.
Okay.
Well I appreciate your time in answering my questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
I’m showing no additional questions in queue.
Please continue.
Okay thank you operator.
As always we thank you for your interest in Sterling and we look forward to speaking with you in the future.
Thank you.
this conference will be available for replay after 12:00 PM eastern time today through August 9<sup>th</sup> 2011 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at anytime by dialling 800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 210838.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Once again those telephone numbers are 800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 using the access code of 210838.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T’s executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Sterling Bancorp’s 2011 third quarter conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Ed Nebb Investor Relations for Sterling Bancorp.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ruth and good morning everyone.
Our news release announcing Sterling’s third quarter 2011 results was issued today prior to the market open.
We hope you’ve had the opportunity to review it.
The release is available on the company’s website at www.sterlingbancorp.com.
Before turning to the discussion of financial results let me remind you that any comments made today about future financial position or results dividends plans and objectives or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Actual results may differ substantially from such forward-looking statements.
The amounts of any dividends in fourth quarter 2011 and beyond will depend on the company’s future results of operations financial condition and other relevant factors.
And a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to vary is contained in Sterling’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
This morning we will have introductory remarks from Mr.
John Millman President of Sterling Bancorp; and Mr.
John Tietjen Chief Financial Officer.
After which we’ll be happy to open up the call for your questions.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Mr.
Millman.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our conference call for the third quarter ended September 30 2011.
In the third quarter we continued the strong financial and operational performance that is distinguished Sterling throughout 2011.
This was our best quarter of the year in terms of earnings and was also noteworthy for double digit growth in loans deposits and total assets.
Let me highlight some of our key accomplishments for the 2011 third quarter.
Our earnings performance has trended in a positive direction as compared to both the 2011 second quarter and a year ago third quarter.
Net income available to common shareholders was $4.4 million a sequential increase of 74% from the 2011 second quarter.
This growth was driven by higher revenues and unchanged provision for loan losses and the elimination of dividends and accretion no preferred shares related to the TARP Capital Purchase Program.
Our recent earnings performance also represents a substantial improvement over the third quarter of 2010 on our decision to accelerate the resolution of certain non-accrual loans resulted in a net loss for that period.
Unlike some banking institutions our earnings growth was not dependent on recapturing loan loss reserves.
Our allowance at September 30 2011 was $19.5 million or about $1.4 million higher than a year ago.
We have continued to grow our business and expand our share of the market once again setting records for loans deposits and total assets.
Total loans in the portfolio were up 13% to nearly $1.5 billion which is an increase of $167 million from a year ago.
Loan demand has been strong in our traditional C&amp;I category and we have also seen accelerated volumes in the mortgage warehouse lending product that we introduced last year.
Total deposits were up 24% to over $2 billion.
Deposit growth is clearly linked to loan growth since as you may recall we generating prior deposit relationship from our borrowing customers.
Total assets grew more than 15% to approach $2.7 billion.
Asset quality has continued to improve net charge offs were $2 million for the third quarter the lowest level since the 2008 fourth quarter.
The ratio of non-accrual loans to total loans decreased to 0.38% from 0.47% a year ago.
Non-performing assets were 0.28% of total assets to September 30 2011 down from 0.30% a year ago.
The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of non-accrual loans was 347% at September 30 2011 up from 290% a year ago.
At the end of the third quarter our Tier I risk-based capital ratio was 12.14%.
Total risk-based capital was 13.18% and the Tier I leverage ratio was 9.08%.
Our tangible common equity ratio was 7.43% at September 30 2011.
We recognize the concerns of resurface about the state of the economy that said I like to highlight the factors that reinforce our confidence Sterling’s ability to continue delivering strong growth and solid financial performance for the balance of this year.
We are continuing to experience vigorous loan demand with the growth driven primarily by improved market share and demand through new products.
The region that centers on the New York Metropolitan areas home to more than 500 000 small to mid size businesses which represent our sweet spot in terms of customer relationships.
And this has been a resilient market the tristate region according to the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics actually gained over 90 000 jobs in the six months from March to August 2011 while both office and industrial vacancies declined.
We have spent the past few years building a balanced and diversified revenue generating engine by expanding areas such as accounts receivable management factoring and trade finance and introducing a mortgage warehouse financing product.
This allows us to provide customers with a grown range of products and also promotes stability and consistency in our financial performance by producing significant non-interest income as a compliment to our net interest income.
Although such products must be tailored to the needs of each customer and thus require more resources this strategy leads to significant revenue opportunities.
We feel confident that our solid capital base and rigorous commitment to asset quality are important sources of strength in uncertain economic times.
Finally we have a talented and accomplished team that is sharply focused on expanding our client relationships and market share providing unparallel service to our customer base and continuing to grow the business prudently and profitably.
Therefore we believe Sterling is well positioned to enhance shareholder value for the long-term.
Now I will turn the call over to John Tietjen.
Thank you and good morning to those on the call.
I would like to provide you with additional detail on our performance for the 2011 third quarter.
We delivered our strongest quarterly earnings for this year driven primarily by growth in our business.
As we reported net income available to common shareholders for the 2011 third quarter was up 74% sequentially from the 2011 second quarter to $4.4 million or $0.14 per diluted share.
Comparing recent results to the third quarter of 2010 as you may recall we took action at that time to accelerate the resolution of certain non-accrual loans primarily in the leasing portfolio.
This resulted in an additional provision for loan losses and lead to a net loss available to common shareholders in the 2010 third quarter of $3.3 million or $0.12 per diluted share.
Looking at some of the key factors that contributed to our strong performance.
Net interest income on a tax equivalent basis was $22.7 million for the 2011 third quarter up from $21.6 million as we reported a year ago.
Net interest income also increased sequentially from $21.8 million in the 2011 second quarter.
The improvement over a year ago period reflected the benefit of higher average loan and investment security balances and reduced funding costs partially offset by the impact of lower yields on loans and securities and higher interest bearing deposit balances.
Provision for loan losses decreased to $3 million for the quarter from $14 million for the same quarter of 2010 which reflected the accelerated resolution of certain non-accrual loans in the year ago period.
Non-interest income excluding security gains was $11 million a sequential increase from $10.5 million in the 2011 second quarter compared to $11.9 million in the third quarter last year.
Compared to the year ago period we benefited from growth in accounts receivable management and factoring fees offset by lower residential mortgage banking income and service charge income.
Total non-interest income was $11.5 million for the 2011 third quarter compared to $13.1 million a year ago with the difference due to lower security gains this year.
Reflecting strong contribution from speed generating products non-interest income represented 31.3% of total revenues in the recent quarter.
Non-interest expenses were virtually unchanged at $23.8 million for the third quarters of both 2011 and 2010.
We experienced lower deposit insurance premiums and decreases in occupancy and equipment costs which were offset by higher compensation expenses primarily due to the growth in our business and ongoing business development efforts.
Now I would like to provide a perspective on the net interest margin.
The net interest margin was 3.81 for the 2011 third quarter compared to 3.85 for the second quarter of 2011 and 4.11 for the third quarter of 2010.
I should point out that our net interest margin is affected by our strategy of maintaining considerable liquidity to fund future loan growth.
Specifically we are keeping sizeable balances of short-term investment securities and interest bearing deposits with other banks.
Considering that our short-term investments and interest bearing deposit with other banks yield about 175 basis points this has near term effect of reducing our net interest margin.
We believe this strategy is appropriate given our anticipated loan demand and the potential to earn higher yields as we redeploy these funds in loans.
The impact of shifting funds from short-term investments to loans would be an improvement of approximately 375 basis points.
Now turning to the balance sheet net loans held in portfolio at September 30 2011 were a record $1.5 billion up 13% or $167 million from a year ago.
Investment securities were $778 million at the end of 2011 third quarter up slightly from a year ago.
As I have just mentioned this was largely due to our strategy of maintaining sizeable holdings in short-term investment securities for liquidity purposes.
Total deposits at September 30 2011 were $2 billion an increase of 24% from $1.6 billion a year ago.
We continue to build our solid core of non-interest bearing demand deposits which increase 10% from a year ago to $594 million.
Demand deposits have grown as a result of our business development activities.
All of our regulatory capital ratios continue to exceed well capitalized requirements.
At September 30 2011 Sterling’s Tier I risk-based capital ratio was 12.14% total risk-based capital was 13.18% and the Tier I leverage ratio was 9.08%.
Tangible common equity ratio rose to 7.43% at September 30 2011 from 7.05% a year earlier.
Our liquidity remained strong and will support further growth.
The ratio of loans held in portfolio to deposits was approximately 71.5% as September 30.
Coupled with the ability to redeploy investments from short-term instruments this gives us ample capacity to increase our lending activities.
With that let me turn the call back over to John Millman.
Thanks John.
Let me conclude by saying that we recognized that the inherent uncertainty in the current economic environment calls for a cautious measured approach.
That said we believe that our solid performance will continue through the balance of the year supported by strong demand for Sterling’s products and services from customers in our marketplace.
Now we would be pleased to respond to your questions.
Operator we will take questions as soon as you can open the line.
(Operator Instructions) and the first question comes from the line of Mark Fitzgibbon with Sandler O'Neil.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everybody this is actually Matt filling in for Mark.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning.
So you are seeing in the release that the pipeline is robust would you be able to please share with us the current capacity? I’m sorry the question was the pipeline.
The pipeline continues to be exceedingly strong.
We anticipate seeing the level of growth that we’ve recorded through the first three quarters continue in the fourth quarter traditionally we go back and look at the company over the last several years fourth quarter has always been a particularly strong quarter among our client base for borrowing activity.
So we are quite optimistic about the balance of the year.
Okay and in terms of a dollar value I know that you said last quarter that it was about $200 million can we assume that it’s right around that level now.
Yes yes you can.
Okay.
Great just another quick question here.
How much do you have in or do you think you have in excess liquidity and how long do you expect it to take to deploy it? Got roughly $250 million of short-term liquidity.
I would say that that would take couple three quarters to use up.
Okay great.
And then you know I think that’s actually that’s it for me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks.
We do have a question from the line of Lana Chang with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Lana.
One question on the loan growth and pricing it’s I saw the average loan yields were down this quarter by I think it was about 13 basis points from last quarter.
Could you talk about the pricing competition and would you expect that pressure to continue going forward? I think it’s a more a combination of mix in the portfolio Lana the warehouse lending was particularly strong in this quarter.
In terms of component of the loan portfolio but if you look at the if you look at the margin on the loans from period to period we are down.
Well it’s down only 14 basis points so we are getting some benefit on the reduction of the funding which offsets any pricing issues that we could have and the change in the mix because of the warehouse lending product.
Okay did you say how much the mortgage warehouse loan volumes were or did I miss it? We didn’t say but it’s approximately 55% of the loan growth at period end let’s call it 42% 43% on an average basis.
Okay and then just a question on the tax rate you know it’s a little; it was a little higher than I expected this quarter.
What would be a good number to use going forward any kind of guidance on that? At this stage the best guidance I could give you is to use roughly at 28% range.
Okay but this quarter always been a little bit about 33% is that correct.
It was a little higher yes.
Was there a reason for that? It’s just the mix of taxable versus tax exempt income that could swing into the rate that we can use.
Okay thank you.
And excuse me and the benefit that we still get from REIT.
Okay thanks John.
And we do have a question from the line of Damon Delmonte with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys how are you.
Good morning Damon.
I was wondering John if you could provide a little insight on the CDs balances this quarter.
It looks like the end of period CDs were running $146 million versus the average balance of closer to $800 million did you see a big inflow towards the end of the quarter or there is some sort of promotion you had running or.
No it’s the impact of our funding the balance sheet with SEDARs and deposits from other listing services as it relates to time deposits.
The growth of money market and demand deposits were more as a result of development activities.
What’s the rate that you guys are paying on the SEDARs? On a blended basis it’s about 55 basis points.
Okay and then with the total balance of those? You know I don’t have that available with me right now Damon.
Okay.
I will back you on that.
Okay fair enough.
When they come your line is there any seasonal impacts or seasonality in your fee income we should be on the lookout for in the fourth quarter.
Yeah the factoring area in the accounts receivable management third quarter is stronger usually than second quarter.
Fourth quarter not quite as strong as third but still stronger than second.
Okay that’s all I have for now.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) and the next question comes from the line of Rick Weiss with Janney.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
This is Dave Peppard from Janney.
How are you? Good morning Dave.
I have two questions.
The first one relates to the net interest margin you guys were asset sensitive at the end of the second quarter could you tell us a little bit about how your asset sensitivity has changed quarter over quarter and kind of where you are now versus then? I would say that it’s not substantially changed but I don’t have the absolute numbers at this particular point we are still cranking to our models.
But I don’t think it will be a substantial change.
So the great state where they are today where would you expect the margin and interest income to be over the next few quarters.
Well you know there is a couple of ways of looking at this.
Clearly by moving out of investment portfolio into the loan portfolio you would expect that the margin would go up.
It didn’t go up this quarter because a significant portion of our growth was from the mortgage warehouse product which has a yield lower than the blended yield on the rest of the portfolio.
But to give you some idea of what we could look at if we totally eliminated the investment portfolio and just shrunk the balance sheet didn’t even grow loans just shrunk the balance sheet the margin would go up to 4.82%.
So the yield on the investment portfolio and the other temporary investments are at clearly a drag on the margin.
But they are accretive to earn it.
Got you.
Also looking at expenses one item that every other bank is highlighting as it’s the one item truly may control attacking non-credit expenses where things like yours has been kind of trending higher.
I was wondering if this was something you guys have looked at or have plans in your back pocket to go after and cause maybe long growth doesn’t materialize like you think it will there was something that you guys just know strongly about being able to take market share but you are going to have higher comp expenses and you are going to attack the efficiency ratio at a little higher revenue and not whole expenses.
Well our efficiency ratio for the quarter actually improves I’m not bragging about it it’s still high.
But we did improve and there was a combination of higher revenues and our expense control efforts.
The issue that we have here causes that I don’t believe that we are going to win this battle on the expense side.
We are going to win the battle on the revenue side which comes back to your market share comment.
However that does not mean that we are unmindful of the expenses and we do monitor them on a regular basis.
The increases in comp expenses almost totaled our attributable to business production people.
So it’s front office kinds of increases in comp I suppose to support people.
I see the occupancy and equipment expense is down by 12% to 13% in the quarter is there something going on there you have rate going forward there.
That’s just a function of principally the accounting treatment on some of our leases but also the timing of some of the occupancy related things that we have to recognize.
Tell how to revert back to the first and secondary level.
I would say it will probably stay more in the run rate for the year-to-date basis.
Okay thank you for your time.
(Operator Instructions) and we do have a question from the line of Collyn Gilbert with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen it’s actually Aaron Bran calling in for Collyn this morning.
How are you doing? Good morning.
Just a few questions the first is it looks like though your security shield ticked up a little bit during the quarter was this notice of a product of a change in the duration of those assets or there is something else going on.
No I don’t think it’s definitely not the duration we are still very very sure I think it’s probably more than result of the mix of what’s in the portfolio.
Okay and I guess have you been able to pull out some of those liquidity assets into loan growth is that process yielded much in the last quarter.
Well the loans the loans on average for the quarter third quarter versus the second quarter are up about $130 million.
Roughly $40 million of that came out of the investment portfolio the rest of it was funded by lower yielding deposit sources.
And was the -- you talked about C&amp;I being strong and you talked about mortgage warehouse being strong.
Was the loan growth really centered in those two categories or some of the other segments that you talked about in the past? It was centered primarily in our core C&amp;I lending area along with the warehouse product.
Okay and my final question is what it appears from the reconciliation of the statement of shareholders equity that they may have been a reversal of unrealized gains this quarter is there anything that we should be aware of.
No.
Okay well that’s all I had.
I appreciate your time this morning.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Thank you.
Okay thank you operator.
As always we thank you for your interest in Sterling and we look forward to speaking with you in the future.
And as that conclude your conference then I will do a closing statement.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 12:00 PM today and until November 3 2011 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive playback service at anytime by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 220223.
International participants may dial 1-320-365-3844 and again those numbers are 1-800-475-6701 international participants dial 1-320-365-3844 and entering the access code 220223.
And that does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service and you may disconnect.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Sterling Bancorp 2011 fourth quarter conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
And I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Ed Nebb Investor Relations Advisor.
Please go ahead sir.
Certainly Calvin Before turning to the discussion of our financial results let me remind you that any comments made today about future financial position or results dividends plans objectives and other future events are forward-looking statements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Actual results may differ substantially from such forward-looking statements.
The amount of any dividends for the fourth quarter 2011 and beyond will depend on the company’s future results financial condition and other relevant factors.
And a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to vary is contained in Sterling’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
Today we’ll have the introductory remarks from Mr.
John Millman President of Sterling Bancorp; and Mr.
John Tietjen Chief Financial Officer.
And after their remarks we’ll be happy to open up the call to your questions.
And so without further ado I’ll turn the call over to John Millman.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our conference for the 2011 full-year and fourth quarter.
Sterling’s business performed well and delivered solid results in 2011.
We experienced robust loan demand throughout the year.
Our double-digit loan growth in both the full year and the fourth quarter was a key factor driving the increase in net interest income at higher fee income from accounts receivable management and related activities.
As a result of our attention to expenses the increase in non-interest expense was 3% compared to the previous year.
These factors contributed to the risk in net interest income for the year while 2011 results also included certain items specific to the fourth quarter which John Tietjen will detail shortly.
The strength of our business was the basis of our growing profitability.
Let me highlight some of our specific accomplishments for 2011.
Full-year net income available to common shareholders was $15.5 million or 3.5 times to 2010 amount.
Return on average assets increased to 0.07% for 2011 from 0.31% a year earlier.
Return on average equity rose to 7.83% for 2011 from 3.30% in 2010 on a higher equity base due to our public offering and earnings retention.
Total loans in portfolio were up 12% to nearly $1.5 billion at 2011 yearend which is an increase of $159 million from a year ago.
Loan demand has been strong in our traditional C&amp;I category and we have also seen an accelerated volume in the mortgage warehouse lending product that we introduced last year.
The loan pipeline remained robust heading into 2012.
Total deposits were up 14% to nearly $2 billion at yearend while total assets increased to nearly $2.5 billion rising 6%.
Non-interest bearing demand deposits increased to 34% to $766 million.
Our credit metrics remained very sound.
Net charge-offs were $10.2 million for the full year down from $29.6 million in 2010.
The allowance from loan losses as a percentage of non-accrual loans was 315% at December 31st 2011 up from 275% a year ago.
Non-performing assets were 0.33% of total assets at December 31st 2011 compared to 0.29% a year ago.
At the end of the fourth quarter our Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 12.61% total risk-based capital was 13.71% and Tier I leverage ratio was 9.20.
Our tangible common equity ratio was 8.01% at December 31st 2011.
We strengthened our capital base with a public equity offering in March 2011 as well as our retention of earnings.
As a result we were able to fully redeem the TARP preferred shares and warrants while continuing to have a solid capital foundation to respond to growth opportunities.
Sterling’s performance in the past year benefited from our unique business model and focused growth strategies.
And we believe these strengths will continue to drive profitable growth in the future.
We have remained committed to providing financial solutions for our customers including many small to mid-sized businesses their owners and employees.
This segment has consistently been Sterling’s target market for decades.
As a result of this commitment we have continued to build new customer relationships and expand our existing client accounts.
Our growth including double-digit increases in loans and deposits has benefited from our strong resilient market which is primarily the New York Metropolitan Area and beyond.
While we have seen some increase in competition for our target market the type of customers that we traditionally serve should continue to be engines of economic growth and opportunity.
For example the Independent Budget Office a private research group estimates by the end of the 2013 the city and surrounding area will add 89 000 jobs including over 19 000 jobs in professional and business services such as lawyers accountants and technology workers.
A recent US Conference of Mayors’ report supports this optimistic view projecting a gain of 1.7% in the New York market area jobs for the next year.
Sterling’s growth strategy is focused on maintaining a strong service and sales culture while expanding our range of financial solutions.
As we have noted our establishment of a mortgage warehouse financing product has continued to drive growth and our asset-based lending capabilities which we enhanced a few years ago by acquiring an accounts receivable management factoring in trade finance business remain a distinguished feature.
These offerings not only provide our customers with alternatives that are often not available from competitors but also generates significant non-interest income for the company.
Finally we feel confident that our solid capital base and rigorous commitment to asset quality are important sources of strength.
We continue to see excellent opportunities for the continued growth of our business by focusing on our target customer base remaining dedicated to superior service and building on the abilities of our talented team.
Now I will turn the call over to John Tietjen.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
I would like to provide you with additional detail on our performance for 2011 and particularly the fourth quarter.
For the full-year 2011 net income available to common shareholders was $15.5 million.
That is 350% of our 2010 earnings at $4.4 million.
Net income available to common shareholders on a diluted share basis decreased to $0.51 for 2011 from $0.18 per diluted share a year ago.
For the 2011 fourth quarter net income available to common shareholders was $5.3 million up from $3.5 million in the 2010 fourth quarter.
Net income available to common shareholders per diluted share increased to $0.17 for the 2011 fourth quarter up from $0.13 per diluted shares in the 2010 fourth quarter.
Both the full year and fourth quarter of 2011 benefited from our strong loan growth which drove the increase in net interest income as well as well higher fees for lending services such as accounts receivable management and other related fees.
As we noted in our press release the 2011 results also included certain items recognized in the fourth quarter.
Specifically reflecting our loss mitigation strategy with respect to residential mortgage repurchase issues prevalent across the banking industry we recorded a charge of approximately $700 000 for incurred and probable repurchase obligations.
We also recorded an expense related to the settlement of certain litigation matters of about $900 000.
We wrote down certain assets to net realizable value amounting to a charge of about 600 000 and we recorded a net tax benefit in 2011 primarily due to the completion of federal tax audits for the periods from 2002 through 2009 of approximately $1.9 million.
Overall our performance reflected the strength of our core operations and business model.
Looking at some of the key factors that contributed to our performance in the 2011 fourth quarter net interest income was $21.9 million for the 2011 fourth quarter up from $20.3 million a year ago.
This increase primarily reflected higher average loan balances and reduced funding costs partially upset by the impact of lower yields like interest earning assets and higher interest varying deposits balances.
Provision for loan losses was $3 million for the 2011 fourth quarter that is unchanged from the run rate we’ve seen since the fourth quarter of 2010.
Non- interest income was $10.3 million for the 2011 fourth quarter compared to $12.1 million a year ago driven by higher accounts receivable management and other fees.
Residential mortgage banking income declined due to the mortgage repurchase charge that I noted earlier along with industry-wide conditions including lower volume and slower pace of funding by mortgage investors in the 2011 fourth quarter.
We also experienced a decreased in deposits service charges primarily due to higher demand deposits balances and a decrease in security gains.
Non-interest income has remained an important component of profitability representing 29% of total revenue in the recent quarter.
Non-interest expenses were at 24.7 million for the 2011 fourth quarter including the litigation and assets write down charges noted earlier.
Overall non-interest expense rose to $348 000 from a year ago period reflecting higher compensation related to the growth of our business partially offset by lower deposit insurance premiums.
We recognized a net tax benefit of $864 000 in 2011 fourth quarter compared to a provision of $928 000 for the fourth quarter of 2010.
The 2011 period was positively impacted by the net benefit from a completion of the federal tax audits noted earlier.
I would like to provide some perspective on our net interest margin.
Net interest margin was 3.77% for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to 3.98% for the fourth quarter of 2010.
A major factor affecting the margin was the significant increase in interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank which represented 9% of total earning assets in 2011 fourth quarter up from 2% a year ago.
This reflected our strategy of maintaining substantial liquidity for future loan demand by investing in short-term instruments but has had a disproportionate impact on our margin as the yield was only 25 basis points.
We continue to see the potential to improve our yield as the excess liquidity is redeployed into loans and securities.
And because the extremely low yield of these bank deposits even a shift of relatively low yielding assets will still produce an improvement.
Turning now to the balance sheet; net loans held in the portfolio at December 2011 totaled $1.5 billion up 12% from a year-ago.
Investment securities were $678 million at the end of 2011 fourth quarter down from $789 million a year ago.
This partially reflected the shift from investments into loans as well as our strategy of maintaining substantial sums in interest-bearing deposits with banks for liquidity purposes.
We will look to improve yield by opportunistically shifting to securities with relatively short-term maturities.
Total deposits at December 31 2011 were just under $2 billion an increased 14% from a year ago.
Non-interest bearing deposits increased to $766 million from $570 million a year ago.
Demand deposits have grown principally as a result of our business development activities.
All of our regulatory capital ratios continue to exceed well-capitalized requirements.
At December 31 2011 Sterling’s Tier I risk-based capital ratio was 12.61% total risk-based capital was 13.71% and Tier I leverage was 9.02%.
As noted earlier the tangible common equity ratio rose to 8.01% at December 31 2011 from 6.81% a year earlier.
This is due in part to our public equity offering in March of 2011 which raised gross proceeds of $38.6 million.
Our liquidity remains strong and we will support further growth.
The ratio of loans held in portfolio to deposits was approximately 74.1% at December 31 2011.
Coupled with the availability to redeploy investments in short-term and instruments this gives us ample capacity to increase our lending activities.
With that let me turn the call back over John Millman.
Thanks John let me conclude by saying that we are pleased with our solid performance throughout the past year.
With our differentiated business model dynamic market area and strong financial capacity we are quite confident that Sterling is well-positioned for continued profitable growth as we go forward.
Now we would be pleased to respond to your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Mark Fitzgibbon with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
First question I have of the charges that you took during the quarter were those after-tax numbers that you mentioned in the press release? No they were pre-tax.
Pre-tax okay.
Then secondly John you gave us some good color on the margin.
It sounds like you sort of think that the margin is stable to may be up as you redeploy that excess liquidity into loans.
Is that a fair characterization? We would expect it to begin improving and as an indicator of that if you have an opportunity to look at the loan yield for the fourth quarter versus the third quarter of 2011 we’re actually up five basis points on loan yield and that’s because of the areas of growth that we’ve had in the loan portfolio.
And then with respect to the pipeline John I think you said it was robust.
Could you help size that for us; is it sort of north of $200 million? Sure.
Actually today we looked at it and its north of $250 million.
Actually the numbers we put together indicate a pipeline of about $260 million to $265 million.
Historically we have seen a pull-through rate of about 25% so we’re quite encouraged by that.
It’s a dynamic pipeline.
We view it every single month but historically we've pulled through more than 25%.
Do you think in the first quarter because you have some seasonal factors with the factoring business; do you think we’ll see loan balances down a little bit or do you think you are able to sort of hold them? Well traditionally the first quarter has been a struggle for us as you point out.
I would say that we have a good chance of holding our own or seeing a modest increase.
And then last question I had was on the expense front.
Can you help us sort of think about what a good run-rate expense number is going forward.
Is it sort of down around $24-ish million or is it lower? I would say that we are at a normal -- if I took out the items that I told you about earlier that will expenses maybe down around $93 million to $93.5 million.
You know CPI is about 3%.
We do have some factors in there including our expense management activities; so I would add roughly $3 million to that number.
And our next question is from the line of Damon Delmonte with KBW.
Please go ahead.
John I guess could you just give us an update on the decline in period end CDs; were those some of the CDARS that were running off? Yeah we have blocked on a program of running down the CDARS; it cost us more to fund and given the fact that we were constrained in finding acceptable investments; didn’t make any sense to pay lets call it to a larger rate of 50 bps on the CDARS compared to earning 25 basis points of [that].
Right makes sense.
And then with regards to the securities portfolio you know period end balances were down much more than the average balance.
Could you just I may have missed your commentary and your outlook for the securities portfolio; are we going to see the average catch-up to the period end or are you looking to kind of recapture some of that run-off earlier in the first quarter? Well we’re up against a couple of things Damon one we constantly as everybody else does our pace with calls of our agency securities so that’s an issue.
And also as I indicated we’re opportunistically going into the investment portfolio here.
We’re not looking to buy short-term securities further out than I’ll say three year as probably as far as we want to go.
And if we can’t find acceptable yields given the credits that we’re looking at we might just leave the money at the Federal Reserve.
The other side of it is as John pointed out if we’re able to even to some of that pipeline we should have pretty good loan growth in the first quarter.
And then the rep and warranty charge you took for the mortgages; was that actually booked through the mortgage banking fee line item or was that in other expenses? No it’s in the mortgage banking income line.
So then if we exclude from your expense base the reported expenses were 24.7 kind of touching back on Mark’s question from before I mean if you take out the litigation settlement and the outside OREO write-down; is the low $23 million range a good quarterly run-rate return? Well yes.
I would say that except that we’re going to have an increase in expenses and that’s why I was trying to indicate though it was somewhere around 3% give or take a little bit.
Okay.
But yes what you have just done would get us to a start point and then we would have an increase of that.
And our next question is from the line of Rick Weiss with Janney.
Please go ahead.
It’s Dave Peppard filling in for Rick.
I just want to ask an additional follow-up about the dance between expenses and revenue growth.
Essentially in terms of adding more expenses is it revenue producers are not in the course of the next year and how much of the additional expenses is dependent on continued loan growth?  The increase in the compensation expenses virtually on – all is on the business development side.
So year-over-year personnel expenses of about 8%.
So that’s total revenue is kind of flattish year-over-year; is it the right direction?  Well I think you need to look at the loan growth as opposed to looking at total revenues.
I mean these guys and women have nothing to do with what goes on in the treasury function and the treasury functional year has been hammered by what’s going on with the rate environment and our decision to stay short for liquidity.
But if you look at it at what’s going on with the loan growth that’s where you’re getting -- and deposit growth excuse me deposit growth; that’s where you’re getting the benefit.
What type of monthly cash flows are you getting from the investment securities portfolio and how much of that is able to be put in to new loan growth?  You know Dave I really don’t know the run-rate on the cash flows anymore.
I’ll have to get back to you on that.
We’ve got maturities every month on the short-term so that’s usually and I just don’t want to give you the wrong number right; I don’t know it at the top of my head.
And then just quickly what’s the tax rate to use for next year?  I would use the 29%-30% for the tax rate.
And our next question is from the line of Collyn Gilbert with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Just on the non-interest bearing deposits the big jump that you saw at the end of the quarter is there a stickiness to that or is that kind of a relationship that might have been during the year end sort of financial planning? We had some significant deposits come in at the end of the year from one customer in particular and that has resulted from the sale of some real estate assets.
So that was a factor.
But I mean we’ve had pretty good demand deposit growth all year so I think by and large that we would expect to see continued double-digit growth in demand deposits.
Remember looking at that road at the year end versus any other period is an issue for us because of what our customers do for their own balance sheet purpose.
And then just thinking about the pipeline John you used 260 to 265 or so; do you know how that compares to the third quarter going into the third quarter and then also how that compares to the year ago period? I don’t remember a year ago but it’s a bit higher than it was in the third quarter which is particularly encouraging for us.
And then just on the yield front John you had indicated that the year-over-year improvement in the loan yield you know stems in part from improving mix; is that a similar dynamic as to what went on from the third to the fourth quarter because I am just trying to reconcile the increase in security deal in the third to fourth quarter as well as the loan yield in the third to fourth quarter? The yields that I talked about earlier Collyn were fourth quarter versus third quarter of 2011.
I didn't make any reference to the yields on a year-to-date basis.
Well I am because they did go up from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
It looks like both the loan yields and the security yields assuming that the numbers in the third quarter press release were accurate does that seem to make sense? And they are and they did go up we were up 5 basis points fourth quarter over third quarter of this year in the loan yield and that's just a function of the mix of the loans that are going in there.
The increase in the securities yield is essentially we went out a little longer in some of the corporates that we've had.
We were going out a year and a half to two years when we went out two to two and a half years on the basis of what we saw in the economic forecast and now with regard to what the Fed has said in terms of keeping rates low through 2014 we may go out as far as three years.
We haven't done that yet but we may.
And then just on the OREO writedown what was the basis for that what led to that writedown in the quarter.
It wasn’t an OREO writedown.
It was a writedown of other asset other receivable base assets and we've got a situation where we’ve got an asset that's secured by accounts receivables it’s not alone and based on the latest input we’ve got from the people collecting for us we took a writedown of roughly 500 000 on that one particular asset.
Okay so that most likely will not be recurring any form of that type of charge.
Okay and then just finally maybe just kind of a big picture question here.
You know you guys talk about you know the drain here sort of on the overall profitability because of the increased liquidity that you have but you all have kind of carried a high level liquidity over the years.
How do you think about that as we go forward? I mean the intention obviously it sounds like is to redeploy that in the loans currently.
But it seems like the bias has always been to kind of carry a higher liquidity position I mean do you see that I think it’s what like 35% or 36% of your earning asset base seems to be in securities and cash.
Do you see that migrating lower overtime and just trying to draw that into reconciling you know what seems to be kind of a lower ROA and a higher efficiency ratio relative to where I think you would given kind of what seems like the core profitability of business? Collyn our goal certainly would be to reduce the liquidity also to reduce the loan-to-deposit ratio.
This can only be accomplished if we are able to continue growing the loans.
We’re certainly going to focus on return on assets as we go forward in return on equity and we recognize we pay a price for this high level of liquidity and we need to manage that.
Let me put just a little bit different skin on that.
For the fourth quarter our deposits with the other banks on average now were over $200 million.
Compared to the third quarter we just had about $67 million and the reason for that is because as we got calls on maturities in the investment portfolio we just couldn’t get the yields that we wanted in the investment portfolio.
So the money was in effect now if you look at it the yields on investment portfolio for the fourth quarter is lets call it 3.4 and for the third quarter it was 3.1.
So clearly if I can move even $100 million out of the deposits with banks now only to the investment portfolio I am picking up over 300 basis points.
If we can move it into loans we’ll pickup 500 basis points.
But it’s that move and we need to find acceptable yields in the maturity ranges that we want and we have seen some of that to move it into the investment portfolio and then we got the funding of the loan growth.
To that point John you mentioned acceptable yields at the maturity ranges of one in the securities portfolio.
What are the maturity ranges looking like now within the loan book in terms of the types of loan that you put on versus what’s writing off; like how has the duration changed in the core loan book? It hasn’t changed at all.
I would say we are still very much asset sensitive in the loans; virtually the only one that’s that need to turn it all is the leasing book and that’s still running between two and a half years to three years in average life.
But everything else is relatively short.
Okay.
Looking at the mortgage banking we did have a slowdown in the fourth quarter with the funding so that translated into our mortgage warehouse business also.
We had loans that sat in the warehouse longer because the investors slowed down their funding.
But we think that that’s something that will work itself out over the next quarter so that we’re not troubled by that.
But even that’s short I mean we’re talking instead of 20 days we’re talking 30 days in the warehouse business.
And our next question is from the line of [Brett Wakaki with Minden Capital].
Please go ahead.
To question with your excess capital; could you prioritize between organic growth M&amp;A dividend increases and share buybacks? I think the first priority is organic growth.
You know we have such small market share; the market opportunity is very substantial.
We constantly look at the dividend; we review the dividend apply it to the earnings and the capital requirements of the company going forward.
So the dividend is always under consideration.
I do not see buybacks at this time as being very high on the agenda.
And M&amp;A? We’re always looking; as you know we’ve done a couple of specialty financed companies in the last couple of years.
I do not think it is likely that we would do a whole bank transaction; given the fact that the organic growth opportunities in this market are so great.
(Operator Instructions) And we have no lines in queue.
Please continue gentlemen.
No questions though so thank you operator.
As always we thank you for your interest in Sterling and we look forward to seeing speaking with you in the future.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our teleconference call for this morning.
Thank you very much for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Sterling Bancorp 2012 First Quarter Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to our host Investor Relations Advisor Mr.
Ed Nebb.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
Our news release announcing Sterling’s first quarter 2012 results was issued today prior to the market open.
The release is posted on the sterlingbankcorp.com website if you need a copy.
Before turning to the discussion of our financial results let me remind you that any comments made today about future financial position or results dividends plans and objectives or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Actual results may differ substantially from such forward-looking statements.
The amounts of any dividends for the first quarter 2012 and beyond depend on the company’s future results financial condition and other relevant factors.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to vary is contained in the Company’s annual and quarterly reports.
We’ll have introductory remarks today from John Millman President of Sterling Bancorp; and John Tietjen Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
After their remarks we’ll be open to your questions.
And so without further ado I will turn the call over to Mr.
Millman.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our conference call for the 2012 first quarter.
I’m pleased to report that we saw strong trends in virtually every key area of Sterling’s business during the first quarter as we successfully executed our strategies to drive profitable growth.
Our accomplishments during the quarter included substantial increases in loans and deposits higher total revenues or wider net interest margin and well controlled expenses while asset quality metrics remained sound.
As a result of our progress in these areas we started 2012 with a solid increase in net income.
This clearly demonstrates the revenue and earnings power of our business model the value of our franchise and the effectiveness of our customer service.
Our performance was a direct result of the strategies that we have been implementing for the past several quarters as discussed on previous conference calls.
Specifically we have been actively engaged in growing our loan volume.
We positioned our balance sheet for this expected increase in lending by maintaining a sizable pool of liquidity through our securities portfolio and other short-term assets.
The benefits of this strategy were clearly evident in the recent quarter as we experienced robust credit demand.
We have shifted our mix of earning assets into loans from investments leading to an increase in yield.
At the same time we have carefully managed the liability side of the balance sheet taking a disciplined approach to deposit pricing while also increasing our level of non-interest bearing demand deposits which led to a decrease in funding cost during the first quarter.
These positive factors along with firm control of non-interest expenses in continued solid asset quality metrics powered our strong results.
Let me highlight some of our specific accomplishments for the 2012 first quarter.
Net income available to common shareholders was up almost 40% to $4.6 million.
Earnings per share increased to $0.15 on a diluted basis up 25%.
The rate of increase included the impact of $3.3 million more average shares outstanding due to our March 2011 equity offering.
Total revenues for the 2012 first quarter were $35.7 million an increase of $1.5 million from the prior year.
In contrast non-interest expenses increased only $744 000 or 3% due to our rigorous expense management process.
Net interest income was up 13%.
As I noted earlier our yield benefited from the increase in loans in our asset mix while funding cost declined due to our liability management efforts.
This led to an 18 basis points increase in the net interest margin to 4.07%.
Loans and portfolio were up 13% approaching $1.5 billion.
I believe many lending institutions will be pleased to be able to report our pace of loan growth.
Loan demand has been strong across our product range including the mortgage warehouse lending product that we recently introduced.
We are seeing increased economic activity among our existing clients and are also actively acquiring new customer relationships.
The loan pipeline remains robust considering that our loan growth is usually somewhat muted in the first quarter due to seasonal factors.
This strong start to the new year is encouraging.
Total deposits were up 15% to about $2 billion at year end while total assets approached $2.5 billion rising 4%.
Non-interest-bearing demand deposits increased to $816 million from $562 million.
Our credit metrics have remained sound.
Net charge-offs were $2.9 million for the 2012 first quarter improving by about 10% from a year ago.
The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of non-accrual loans was 314% at March 31 2012 versus 257% a year ago.
2012 about even with a year ago.
At the end of the first quarter our Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 12.08% total risk-based capital was 13.15% and the Tier 1 leverage ratio was 9.77%.Our tangible common equity ratio was 8.17% at March 31 2012.
In summary we’re off to a strong start this year.
Our business is performing exceedingly well reflecting significant loan and deposit growth.
We have the capital and liquidity to respond to the robust demand for our products and services within our New York metropolitan marketplace and beyond.
And our commitment to serving the needs of businesses and our clients and a track record of providing exceptional service and our portfolio of financial solutions should enable us to continue to gain market share and to deliver profitable growth and increased shareholder value.
Now I will turn the call over to John Tietjen.
Thank you John and good morning to everyone on the call.
I would like to provide you with additional detail on our performance for the first quarter of 2012.
Net income available to common shareholders for the recent quarter rose approximately 40% compared to a year ago to $4.6 million.
Net income available to common shareholders per diluted share increased to $0.15 for the 2012 first quarter from $0.12 per diluted share a year ago.
The 2011 results included dividend and accretion on preferred shares issued under the TARP Capital Purchase Program which were redeemed in the second quarter of 2011.
As we have noted in the first quarter of 2012 results benefitted from our strategies to position our balance sheet over growth in loans and to continue to manage deposit costs.
At the same time non-interest expenses were well controlled.
Looking at some key elements of our performance in greater detail net interest income was $22.4 million for the 2012 first quarter up 12.8% from a year ago.
This increase primarily reflected higher average loan balances and reduced funding costs.
Total non-interest income was $10.4 million for the 2012 first quarter compared to $11 million a year ago.
This primarily reflected increases in residential mortgage banking income principally due to increased volume of loan sales which partially offset decreases in other fees related to accounts receivable management services and lower security gains.
Non-interest income remained an important component of profitability and represented 29% of total revenues in the recent quarter.
Non-interest expenses were $23.2 million for the 2012 first quarter.
Overall non-interest expenses increased only $744 000 or 3% from the year ago period primarily due to increased personal expenses related to the growth of our business partially offset by lower deposit insurance premiums.
Now I’d like to provide a perspective on the net interest margin.
Net interest margin was 4.07% for the 2012 first quarter up 18 basis points compared to 3.89% in the 2011 first quarter.
The margin increases were driven principally by three key factors.
First the yield on earning assets moved higher with the growth in our loan portfolio.
Loans were 63% of earning assets in the 2012 first quarter up from 58% a year ago.
And we reclassified interest income from non-interest income.
Revenues related to one of our lending products thereby more appropriately reflecting the characteristics of that product.
Second we have been disciplined in our deposit pricing.
As a result the cost of deposits declined to 57 basis points from 71 basis points an improvement of 14 basis points or about 20%.
Third we have experienced a sizable increase in non-interest-bearing demand deposits which were $254 million higher than in March 2012 versus a year ago.
Turning now to the balance sheet loans in portfolio at March 31 2012 totaled $1.5 billion up 13% from a year ago.
Investment securities were $802 million at the end of 2012 first quarter down from $892 million a year ago.
This reflected the shift from investments into loans.
Total deposits at March 31 2012 were about $2 billion an increase of 15% from a year ago.
Non-interest-bearing demand deposits increased to $816 million from $562 million a year ago largely due to business development activities that focus on building these types of deposits.
As previously stated all of our capital ratios continue to exceed well-capitalized requirements.
At March 31 2012 Sterling’s Tier I risk-based capital ratio was 12.08% total risk-based capital was 13.15% and Tier I leverage ratio was 9.77%.
Tangible common equity ratio rose to 8.17% at March 31 2012.
Our liquidity remains strong and will support further growth.
The ratio of loans held in portfolio to deposits was approximately 73% at March 31 2012.
Coupled with the ability to redeploy investments in short-term investments With that let me turn the call back to John Millman.
Thanks John.
Let me conclude by saying that we have all the ingredients in place to continue our strong performance during the balance of this year and beyond.
Our strategies are focussed on growing both our loan portfolio and our base of cost effective demand deposits.
We are benefiting from the demand for our products and services from both existing clients and new customers.
Our business is supported by solid capital base and our team of talented professionals is highly motivated to deliver superior service and build market share.
Now we would be pleased to respond to your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Matt Forgotson with Sandler O’Neill.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys it’s Mark Fitzgibbon here how are you? Great Mark.
Good morning Mark.
First question I have for you is about that reclassification I’m wondering if you could detail for us what the difference was from the fourth quarter to the first quarter what kind of impact it had Yes it did negatively impact that line.
What we have is a product that we call money only product and the revenue from that product is more appropriately shown as interest on loans not in the accounts receivable fees line.
The impact in the first quarter of this year was approximately $900 000.
First quarter last year was approximately $300 000 and the fourth quarter amount was approximately $800 000.
Okay great and then secondly I know you said you have a robust pipeline could you share with us how large that is and what the mix of loans in that looks like?  Mark presently the pipeline runs in excess of $300 million.
It is really across many of the lines the warehouse line our core C&amp;I lending business our asset-based lending business.
So it’s you know we’re quite encouraged across the full range of our products.
Our pull-through rate runs 25% approximately so we’re talking from the existing pipeline it is not unreasonable to expect $60 million in growth in loans.
Okay.
And then lastly how should we be thinking about that mortgage banking income line is it likely do you think it would be a touch lower in the second quarter?   I would think that if history holds it would probably be stronger because the second and third quarters are where we start to see the impact of people more actively looking for houses.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from the line of Collyn Gilbert with Stifel Nicolaus please go ahead.
Thanks good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Collyn.
John just a follow up on the pipeline comment so it’s about $300 000 million now I think it was just north of $250 000 in the first quarter and I know you had commented before about that 25% pull rate so the loan growth didn’t materialize in the first quarter with that formula did you guys see a higher than expected level of pay downs coming in the first quarter or was it a timing issue? First of all the first quarter historically you may remember slower then the successive quarters in the year.
We did have some meaningful pay downs but we are very encouraged by the capacity to continue growing the loan book through the successive quarters.
Okay so because I know year-over-year loans are up 12% this quarter which is about where they were in the fourth quarter so you are seeing some good growth do you think that would just mean well let me ask you…  Go ahead I am sorry.
No no.
I thought that – do you think that you can continue with that pace? Do you think 2012 loans can grow you know you can end the year at 12% higher or even 10% higher than where you were last year? Yeah we have every expectation that the loan growth will continue at double digits.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then John just on the margin comment one dynamic I know that occurred in the fourth quarter was the shifting from sort of some of the warehouse loans which were carrying a lower yield than the commercial loans did that same phenomenon happen this quarter?  I’m sorry.
Collyn I’m not sure I understand what you just said.
We didn’t shift the loans into commercial loans.
They’re shown in loans to non-depository financial institutions in the queue but I’m not sure I understand.
I think that part of the dynamic if I recall correctly the yield improvement the loan yield improvement in the fourth quarter was that you carried more commercial loans than you did mortgage warehouse loans which carry a higher yield?  Well yes.
That’s true.
The commercial outstandings do yield higher than the warehouse lending outstandings.
So I just didn’t know because without seeing the loan breakdown kind of the loan segmentation in the first quarter I just didn’t – I guess my question is more about the mix is the similar change in mix occurring in the first quarter to see that kind of loan yield improvement and I know – aside from the comments that you had just said as to what drove that.
Yeah I don’t have the comparison to the fourth quarter.
I do have a comparison over the March quarter but not in the room with me at this point in terms of the balances.
Okay.
That’s fine.
And just on the securities front are you still – is your appetite to still go a little bit longer on the duration there to pick up some yield? No.
Quite the contrary we are everyday telling ourselves that we’re going to continue to stay short.
And we recognize the price that we’re paying to do that but we feel the benefit that it gives us to be able to respond to loan growth outweighs the price that we’re giving up.
Okay.
And then just one final question on the service charges on deposits.
Do you have a sense of how much income you guys are giving up now because of carrying higher non-interest-baring deposits through service fees? Well I’ll tell you the – because the balances are up clearly that impacts the levels of services charges but another factor that goes into that is the earnings credit that we give to those deposits is also reflective of the current interest rate environment.
So the balances are up yes but it’s somewhat offset by a lower earnings credit.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
That’s all I had thanks.
And our next question is from Rick Weiss with Janney.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Rich.
I was wondering you’ve talked a little bit about your core deposit growth would that be an effect of the resulting loan growth.
I guess is that’s what driving such high deposit growth? Yes.
The one other thing that impacts the growth in demand deposits this March versus March last year is that in March of last year we had the growth of demand deposits is substantially higher than that based on business development activities.
Okay that $90 million that would be in the non-interest-bearing deposit? Goes into non-interest-bearing deposits that’s correct.
Okay.
And the other question has to do – I guess with capital management you’re well in excess of the ratios is this like – I guess tangible capital ratio level are you comfortable with and also with the trust preferred does it make sense to redeem that at this time? Our feeling on capital continues to be what it’s been in the past.
We don’t feel that the economy is on solid footing yet.
We are growing our loan portfolio.
The switch from the investment portfolio could be into loans could be higher risk-weighted asset levels.
So our thinking is that capital continues to be very very important to our business plan.
And yes we like to get rid of the trust preferreds but we haven’t yet come upon a more effective way to replace that capital.
Okay thank you very much.
And our next question is from Damon Delmonte with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Hi morning guys.
How are you?  Good morning Damon.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> John a quick question for you if you could circle back to the margin what was the actual fourth quarter margin with the reclassification impact? With the reclass impact we recorded $377 million on a restated basis it goes to $390 million.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> $390 million okay.
And as we look out for the next couple of quarters how sustainable is a plus 4% margin for you guys? Do you think you can maintain above the 4% level or you expect to take on a drift back down? I wouldn’t expect it to change on a downward way significantly.
Obviously the benefit of growing the loans has a dramatic impact on it as does the increase in the non-interest-bearing deposits.
So I would not expect it to go down significantly.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay that’s helpful.
And then with respect to expenses the price in seasonal factors in this quarters result how should you look at the expense base going forward? I think the expense on a going forward basis I would look for slight increases as we continue to bring on people that should generate business for us and help continue that loan growth and demand deposit growth.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay and then tax rate still good on that 30% level? Still around that same level yes.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great that’s all I had thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Lana Chan with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Lana.
Most of my questions have been answered just the last one was on professional fees that came down nicely from the fourth quarter what kind of a level would you assume going forward and is that sustainable? I think where we are at based on what we see right now we would probably be at pretty sustainable level.
Okay.
Thanks John.
You’re welcome.
(Operator Instructions) And no further questions from the phone line I’ll hand the call back to management.
Thank you operator.
As always we thank you for your interest in Sterling and we look forward to speaking with you in the future.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 12 o’clock today running through Monday May 7 at mid-night.
You may access AT&amp;T Executive playback service at anytime by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 245048.
International parties may dial 1-320-365-3844.
Those numbers again 1-800-475-6701 or 1-320-365-3844 with the access code 245048.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thanks for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Sterling Bancorp 2012 second quarter conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host  Thank you very much [Chad Gray].
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us here at the Sterling Bancorp’s second quarter 2012 conference call.
Our results were issued today prior to the market open and we hope you had an opportunity to review the release.
The release has also been posted to the company’s website at www.sterlingbancorp.com.
Before we turn to the discussion of the company’s financial results let me remind you that any comments made today about future financial position or results dividends plans objectives or other events are forward-looking statements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Actual results may differ substantially from forward-looking statements.
The amounts of any dividends for the third quarter of 2012 and beyond will depend on the company’s future results of operations financial condition and other relevant factors and a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to vary is contained in Sterling’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
This morning you will have some introductory remarks from John Millman President of Sterling Bancorp and John Tietjen Chief Financial Officer and after their remarks we will open up the call to your questions.
And so without further ado I would turn the call over to John Millman.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our conference call for the 2012 second quarter.
Today we are reporting exceptionally strong operating and financial performance for the second quarter and first half of this year.
Our strategy is to position Sterling for profitable growth and increasing shareholder value have produced very positive results.
We have demonstrated continued and expanding core earning power driven by a robust loan volume and improving net interest margin of balanced revenue mix well controlled expenses and solid asset quality metrics.
Let me highlight some of the positive factors that drove our solid performance during the quarter.
We continue to deliver double digit loan growth with the portfolio increasing by 15% to approach$1.6 billion.
Because we are headquartered in New York City and serve the Metropolitan area and beyond we operate in one of the most attractive and dynamic regions in the country and we have benefited from positive economic trends in our market.
In addition since Sterling offers a portfolio of financial products we have been able to take advantage of a range of growth opportunities to serve the needs of small and midsized businesses.
I will have more to say of our performance in the current lending environment in a few minutes but first let me cover a few specific highlights of our second quarter performance.
Total deposits exceeded $2 billion.
The real growth story here has been in the non-interest bearing demand deposits which increased 30% to $786 million.
The high ratio of demand deposits which is approaching 40% contributes further to our extremely favorable cost advance which is among the lowest of our bank peers.
We are experiencing an improving net interest margin even though we remain in a persistently low interest rate environment.
The NIM for the 2012 second quarter was up 14 basis points from the same period of 2011 to 4.04%.
The improvement was largely due to our continuing strategy of shifting the asset mix from investments into loans driving higher yields as well as a growing cost effective demand deposit base and our ongoing control of deposit costs.
Sterling’s earnings power has also benefited from our balance of revenue mix which includes a significant level of non-income generated by a range of financial products and services.
The fact that our non-interest income is nearly 30% of total revenues helps to balance out the effect on loan yields from the low interest rate environment.
At the same time we have maintained firm control on non-interest expenses which were up $388 000 or less than 2% this quarter versus an increase of about $1.4 million or 4% in total revenues.
Our credit metrics have continued to improve from an already solid base.
Net charge-offs fell to $1.7 billion or 0.43% of loans for the 2012 second quarter which is the lowest level of net charge-offs since the third quarter of 2008.
Non-performing assets at June 30 2012 were just 0.28% of total assets.
The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of non-accrual loans was 377% at June 30 2012.
The level of allowance to total portfolio of loans was 1.35% at the end of the 2012 second quarter essentially even with the year ago.
These factors led to impressive earnings growth for the 2012 second quarter.
Net income available to common shareholders was almost double the year-ago level at $4.9 million.
Earnings per share also doubled versus a year ago to $0.16 for the 2012 second quarter.
Our return on average tangible equity for the 2012 second quarter approached 10% which compares very favorably to our bank peer group.
Now I would like to give you some additional perspective on our loan growth which remains extremely robust and this is an important factor in our expanding earnings capacity.
As you know Sterling has a diverse portfolio of credit products and services particularly in contrast of most of our bank peers.
This breadth of products has served us very well in the current environment.
We also have a track record of seeing and seizing upon opportunities that maybe overlooked by others.
As a result while we have seen more competition in traditional C&amp;I lending in the second quarter we’ve been able to drive a high-level of loan growth across a range of other products.
For example our mortgage warehouse finance business continues to do very well.
Since entering this field two years ago we have take advantage of the opportunity that still abides to this type of lending.
Recently we have been expanding our commercial real-estate lending activity while a number of other banks in our market have reached to lending amendments in commercial real estate bringing both the capacity and the expertise to take advantage of this opportunity.
Our interest in this type of lending also reflects the fact that loan-to-value ratios have come down to more reasonable levels and valuations have decreased from previous session highs.
In a related move in late June we purchased approximately $40 million of participations and seasoned high performing low loan-to-value commercial real-estate loans originated at favorable market rates by other banks in our market area; each participation was underwritten by us as though it was our own origination.
Within our C&amp;I lending category we are seeing a growth in payroll financing caused by the improvement in temporary employment.
As you know companies typically turned to temporary employees as the economy improves rather than hire full time staff so we see this as a positive leading indicator.
Reflecting the diverse opportunities I just mentioned our loan pipeline remains robust.
I would add that because we have a range of products to offer we can sustain solid volume without coming to trade off price we choose not to compete on price in the more competitive corners of the market.
In summary the second quarter and first half of 2012 have been extremely strong for us.
We expect our profitability continue to benefit from our expanding loan volume stable net interest margin and continued discipline over expenses and credit quality.
Now I’ll turn the call over to John Tietjen.
Thank you John and good morning to everyone on the call.
I would like to provide you with additional detail on our performance for the second quarter of 2012.
Net income available to common shareholders was up 94% to $4.9 million for the recent quarter to $5 million a year ago.
Net income available to common shareholders per diluted share rose to $0.16 for the 2012 second quarter from $0.08 per diluted share a year ago.
The 2011 results included dividends and accretion on preferred shares issued under the TARP Capital Purchase Program which were redeemed in April of 2011.
Pretax pre-provision income grew significantly to $9.75 million for the recent quarter from $8.34 million a year ago an increase of 17%.
As we have noted the second quarter of 2012 results benefited from our loan growth which was driven by our business development activities and also reflects our strategy to shift the asset mix from investments to loans.
Looking at some of the key elements of our performance in greater detail net interest income was $22.9 million for the second quarter up 7% from a year ago.
This increase primarily reflected higher average loan balances the shift in our earnings asset mix and reduced lending costs.
These benefits were partially offset by a lower yield on loans reflecting the mix of loans held in portfolio.
Total non-interest income represented a strong 29% of total revenues and rose to $10.7 million for the 2012 second quarter.
This primarily reflected an increase in residential mortgage banking income primarily due to increased volume of loans sold as well as higher deposit service charges.
Lower fees related to accounts receivable management and other factoring services and lower security gains also impacted non-interest income.
Non-interest expenses were $23.8 million for the 2012 second quarter.
The modest increase which was less than 2% compared to a year ago was primarily due to increased personnel expenses related to growth in our business as well as higher professional fees.
This was partially offset by lower deposit insurance.
Now I would like to provide some detail on the growth of our net interest margin.
Net interest margin was 4.04% for the 2012 second quarter up 14 basis points from the same 2011 period.
The margin increase was driven by three key factors.
First as we've mentioned was the low growth of our loan portfolio.
Loans were 64% of earning assets in the 2012 second quarter up from 58% a year ago.
The plan shift to loans from investments resulted in a pick up of approximately 300 basis points.
Second we have been disciplined in our deposit price.
As a result the cost of deposits declined to 53 basis points from 64 basis points the same period a year ago.
Third we have experienced a sizeable increase in noninterest-bearing demand deposits which were $214 million higher on average for the 2012 second quarter versus a year ago.
I should point out that we have performed very well in the prevailing low rate environment.
The balance sheet remains asset sensitive and our earnings would benefit significantly from higher rates.
Turning now to the balance sheet loans and portfolio at June 30 2012 totaled $1.57 billion up 15% from a year ago.
Investment securities were $7.27 million at the end of the 2012 second quarter down from $900 million a year ago.
This reflected the plan shift from investments in large.
Total deposits at June 30 2012 were over $2 billion an increase of 2% from a year ago.
As we mentioned noninterest-bearing demand deposits increased to $786 million from $602 million a year ago.
This was largely due to our business development and cross selling activities including our policy of requiring demand deposits as a result of our loan pricing model that focuses on building interest free deposits.
All of our regulatory capital ratios continue to exceed well capitalized requirements.
At June 30 2012 Sterling’s tier one risk based capital ratio was 11.81% total risk based capital was 12.89% and tier one leverage ratio was 9.58%.
Tangible common equity ratio was 8.09% at June 30 2012 versus 7.67% a year ago.
Our liquidity remains strong and will support further growth.
The ratio of loans held in portfolio to deposits was approximately 76.6% at June 30 2012.
Coupled with the ability to redeploy investments in short-term categories this gives us a significant capacity to continue to increase our lending activity.
With that let me turn the call back to John Millman.
Thanks John.
Let me sum up by saying that we feel very confident in Sterling’s prospect as we enter the second half of 2012.
Our earnings however continue to be driven by our balanced loan mix stable margin cost discipline and solid credit metrics.
We remain as always committed to serving our clients and customers growing our business and building shareholder value.
Now we would be please to respond to your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Mark Fitzgibbon from Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead  First couple questions I had related to the loan pipeline.
First could you tell us how big the pipeline and is that the strength in the pipeline is mostly from taking market share or is it existing customers really growing their lines?  Mark today the pipeline is about $320 million probably in excess of that.
Most of the pipeline opportunities overwhelming majority are new relationships.
You have to constantly keep in mind the various small market share we have and compare that to the [debt] of the market.
So a great percentage of our growth is always in new relationships and the pipeline is representative of that opportunity.
Okay.
And then of the loan growth you had this quarter what did the mix of that look like from a sort of whether it’s C&amp;I or what was sort of the mix of the loan growth? The mix primarily was in loans to non-depository financial institutions and commercial real estate.
Okay.
And then on the pool of participations you mentioned at the end of the call how big is that pool and is that multifamily or traditional commercial real estate and did you buy the loans at par or a premium or discount? We bought participations they are all participations.
It’s a conditional portfolio of commercial real estate and average life of five years or less.
Some multifamily pricing we thought was represented an extraordinary opportunity because of the pressures in some institutions we see in the marketplace but they were all participations all at par obviously.
Little more on that Mark.
The range of loans was $1 million to $5 million and the range on pricing was 4.5 to 6.25.
Okay.
And then one last question on expenses how should we be sort of thinking about expense growth going forward do you have sort of bogie in mind for 2012 and beyond? Well I think the level that we have for expenses as we have indicated is been moderate in terms of increase.
As a matter of fact the increase in professional fees for this quarter was about 6000 hrs 400 of that was the result of an expense that we had from a legal firm on a loan that we collected out.
So we wouldn’t expect necessarily to see that recurring every quarter but having said that we continue to invest in people that will help us develop business.
So I would say that $23 million to $24 million rate on expenses is probably where we are going to be for a while.
Your next question comes from the line of Damon Delmonte from KBW.
Please go ahead.
This is actually Timor Brizola with KBW.
Just a couple of follow-up questions on the purchase participations how many loans comprise that $40 million balance?  It was about 16.
And then on the loan growth this quarter was it concentrated in any particular industry or is it kind of spread across? No it spread across all the different industries that we have in the portfolio.
Okay next on the mortgage warehouse business.
What's the current balance of that business right now? Current balance is about $205 million.
And how has that changed from the first quarter? On average it's up about 10% from the first quarter.
I don't have a period in the first quarter balance but on average it's up about 10%.
Okay and then for the entire portfolio you are still comfortable with the guidance of double-digit growth for 2012.
Yes we are.
Okay.
Lastly just on the mortgage banking pipeline can you maybe compare that to where it was at the first quarter and just maybe talk a little bit about the sustainability of mortgage banking fees going forward? Well we believe that based on what we are seeing now that the level of mortgage banking income for the second quarter should be able to be sustained for the third and fourth quarter of this year.
I don't have exact pipeline numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Collyn Gilbert from Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted to most of my questions kind of surround the margin.
The growth that you saw this quarter the balance sheet growth or loan growth did that come more late in the quarter? Well the participations were June late June so that's certainly late in the quarter.
Okay so that $40 million was at least that tranche was late in the quarter okay.
And then John do you happen to have a monthly margin for June? It's approximately what it was for the first quarter Collyn it's about 4.06.
Yeah 4.06.
So the monthly margin was actually higher than for the quarter.
Yes but you know again I don’t believe you can actually look at any one month because of what happens in a particular month for the mix of loans.
Having said that we do have this approximately $40 million of loans that went on at the end of the quarter which should have a beneficial impact on the margin in the third quarter.
Do you happen to have what you are -- if we look at the commercial and the resi what new (inaudible) versus what's rolling off?  No I am sorry.
I don’t have it.
Okay so when you talk about John if I heard you correctly 300 basis point tick up from the shifting from investments to loans that's what you saw this quarter?  Yes we’re coming ahead of a relatively short corporates with the yields on a blended basis of around 2% a little bit higher and moving into loans with the blend of 5 and change.
Okay so do you still anticipate that shift continue at least through the balance of the year or how should we think about how low you could bring that securities portfolio looks like securities and cash now comprise about 35% of your earning asset base.
Do you anticipate or could you see that dropping to 20% or just trying to understand how long this balance sheet dynamic could go?  We have almost $200 million of corporates and about another $50 million of other treasury type loans that are in the loan portfolio actually which could be shifted out in to the traditional types of lending that we do.
So we've got plenty of capacity to do that.
Okay this margin should I mean if you gave guidance I didn’t hear you but the margin should you think you should be able to keep the margin elevated at this 405 406 407 level?  I would say that margin will be relatively unchanged from where it was in the second quarter with a slight bias to a slight improvement.
Okay and then just one final question what's going on in the other income line that it is running so much lower this year than it was last year these last two it was 22 000 this quarter it was a loss of 62 000 in the first but then the first two quarters of last year was 700 and then 300?  Well I think if you look at the income statement that we have with the financials that we just released the other income line there which is different than the one that’s in the 10-Q we’re down about 200 000 in other income and that could be a single item that came in last year that we don’t have this year.
Okay it’s just running a fraction of where it was prior.
I am just trying to it’s a big number so I am just trying to figure out if thinking about it going forward if this is a line item that would contribute that 200 000 or so of income or so I guess what you are saying is maybe it’s more normalized at the $200 000 level than what we have seen in the last two quarters? Well that's it for instance.
In the press release we break out income on life insurance and in the 10-Q we don’t break that out and the difference there is 400 000 year-to-date basis.
I am looking at a drift of the Q and the other income for the second quarter of this year that will be in the Q is up 200 000 for the quarter and it’s down about 200 000 for the six months.
So maybe we can talk off line.
Okay.
That’s fine.
Which one you are looking at? (Operator Instructions) The next question comes from the line of Rick Weiss from Janney.
Please go ahead.
Just wondering if you can talk a little bit about the bank deposits and the non-interest bearing where are they coming from new customers? Yes they come from business development efforts.
So as you know we do a lot of business with service-oriented firms with law firms with accounting firms with real estate management firms and these are all very substantial sources of demand deposits and we also in every borrowing relationship we acquire demand deposits.
So as you see loans growth and deposits will grow and independent of that we have a very strong effort to raise demand deposits as part of our business generation efforts.
Rick the other thing that I would remind everybody on the call about is that in the fourth quarter last year we moved the factoring into the bank and as a result of that reclassified certain balances up into demand.
The impact looking at June versus June is about $90 million as a result of that.
So it's in June of this year it's not in June of last year because the factoring business was not in the bank in June of last year.
Okay I see and still impressive growth are you still is it still the lending side that drives the deposits and if you establish the relationships that come with it is that a way of looking at it? The meaningful part that is a the meaningful but in addition to that we have bankers who are focused on generating demand deposits from very specific sources and we constantly work those sources.
And John what do you think will happen if and when interest rates go up will those demand deposits stay there? That's a great question.
My personal view is that there will be more sensitivity on the part of clients and you will see them take advantage of interest lending opportunities.
So it will be little bit harder for demand deposits although you know for the various rate cycles we have a history of having a very high level of demand deposits.
But they may not grow as rapidly in a rising rate environment as we are seeing now.
And I guess my other question is in terms of model what tax rate would you willing to use in the foreseeable future? I would use the tax rate for the second quarter which is about 29%.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Thank you operator.
We also thank you for your interest in Sterling.
We look forward to speaking with you again in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay afternoon Eastern Time today through August 7th.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at anytime by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 254258.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again are 1-800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with the access code 254258.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by welcome to the Sterling Bancorp 2012 Third Quarter Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
If you should require assistance during the call please press star then zero.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Edward Nebb.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kinsom [ph] and thanks to all of you who are joining us this morning.
Our news release announcing Sterling’s third quarter 2012 results was issued today prior to the market open and is available on the company’s website at www.sterlingbancorp.com.
Before we turn to the discussion of Sterling’s financial results let me remind you that any comments made today about future financial position or results dividends plans and objectives or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Actual results may differ substantially from the forward looking statements.
The amounts of any dividends for the fourth quarter of 2012 and beyond will depend on the company’s future results of operations financial condition and other relevant factors.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to vary from the expectations or forward looking statements is contained in Sterling’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
We will have introductory remarks today from Mr.
Louis is Cappelli Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bancorp and Mr.
John Tietjen Chief Financial Officer.
After management’s remarks we’ll open up the call to take your questions.
And so without further delay I’ll turn the call over to Mr.
Cappelli.
Thank you Ed.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our conference call for the third quarter of 2012.
Our President John Millman has a respiratory infection and is not in speaking voice today.
I would like to begin by saying that our thoughts are with everyone in our area whose lives business and communities were impacted by the storm.
We have had virtually no disruption of our ability to serve customers.
In large measure this is due to the exceptional dedication and efforts of our great Sterling team.
It’s still too early to tell how our clients and customers have been affected.
We will accommodate them as needs arise from the storm’s impact.
Sterling has served this region for more than 80 years and we have every confidence that the city and the region will recover and rebuild and we will do our part to assist in this effort.
I am pleased to report that Sterling’s results for the third quarter continued the strong momentum that we have seen throughout this year.
Our targeted strategies to deploy our assets in a highly productive and profitable manner all to meet the needs of small and mid size businesses in our dynamic market place and to manage expenses and credit quality in a disciplined fashion all led to a solid performance across virtually many of our businesses.
Our key accomplishments during the quarter included record levels of loans and deposits double digit earnings growth an expanding net interest margin and advancing trends in return on assets and return on equity.
Now let me review some specific third quarter highlights.
Loan growth continued to be robust benefiting from our sharp focus on the needs of business customers and our portfolio of financial solutions.
Loans increased by nearly 13% from a year ago approaching $1.7 billion an all time high.
As of today we continue to have a robust loan pipeline and ample liquidity to support loan growth.
Deposits increased 9% to 2.2 billion also a record.
Non-interest bearing deposits continue to be a defining strength of Sterling’s business model and a source of cost efficient funding.
Demand deposits represent over 37% of total deposits at quarter end.
Net interest margin has continued to rise versus last year this is in contrast in many banking institutions whose margins are being pressured by the persistently low interest rate environment.
Our net interest margin for 2012 third quarter was 4.02% which is up 12 basis points from the third quarter last year.
This increase largely reflects our ongoing strategy of shipping the asset mix from investments into loans driving higher yields as well as growing cost efficient demand deposit based that I mentioned previously.
At the same time our financial results have continued to benefit from a balanced and diverse mix of revenue sources so that we’re not dependent solely on net interest income.
Non-interest income generated by our range of financial products and services was approximately 28% of total revenues this quarter.
We have continued to manage upgrading expenses in a disciplined manner.
Non-interest expenses rose only 3% versus the year ago period.
Our credit quality matrix remain strong.
Net charge-offs were approximately $900 000 which is less than half of the level of the year ago and represents the lowest volume of charge-offs since 2007.
Non-performing assets at September 30 2012 was just 0.26% of total assets.
The allowance for loan loss as a percentage of non-accrual loans was 407% [ph].
The level of allowance the total portfolio loans was 1.3% at the end of 2012 third quarter.
Now let me provide some detail on our impressive earnings performance for the 2012 third quarter.
Net income available to common share holders was up 22% from a year ago exceeding $5.3 million.
This also represented positive sequential trend increase in 10% compared with the prior quarter earnings of $4.9 million.
Diluted earnings for common share was $0.17 in quarter three of this year compared with $0.14 a year ago.
Return on average tangible equity has continued to trend upward.
For the 2012 third quarter return on average tangible equity was 10.32% up from 9.68% for the prior quarter and 8.82% in the third quarter of last year.
I would like to provide further perspective on our loan growth which remains robust and is an important factor in our advancing earnings trend.
Commercial lending has been a primary driver of our loan growth specifically commercial real estate lending is an area where we have selectively expanding as competing institutions run up against regulatory concentration limits.
We have seen strong demand for commercial real estate lending in our core metropolitan market place primarily on income producing properties.
We are not doing any land or development loans.
Mortgage warehouse financing also continues to be a strong source of growth.
We are seeing indicators demonstrating that housing has turned the corner.
And our entry into this area has been well time productive and rewarding.
Payroll financing continues to benefit from an upturn in temporary employment.
In addition to providing funding secured by payroll receivables we differentiate this product by offering clients record keeping and a range of other support services.
Our portfolio of business and financial solutions has given us a variety of ways to benefit from loan growth opportunities that we see in the current environment.
As a result while these continue to be more aggressive competition in some areas of traditional C&amp;I lending we have experienced strong loan growth without having to engage in pricing or underwriting practices that we would consider unacceptable.
Another positive development was our acquisition of the business of Universal mortgage in August of this past year of this current year excuse me.
Universal is a leading residential mortgage broker with offices in Brooklyn and serves affluent markets such as Brooklyn Heights Park Slope Caroll Gardens and the emerging community of Lidensberg [ph].
Its team has consistently been ranked among the highest mortgage producers in the industry.
The acquisition complements our existing mortgage banking business and will generate additional mortgage production and mortgage banking fee income.
This transaction also provides our first fiscal presence in Brooklyn and we have already begun to introduce other Sterling products beyond mortgages in this growing and attractive market.
The universal acquisition is the latest example of Sterling’s ability to capture opportunities in lines of businesses that create value from our existing core capabilities as we have done in payroll financing mortgage warehouse financing and other areas.
We are looking forward to continuing our momentum through the remainder of 2012 and beyond.
We are building our long term profitability on a foundation that combines a strong loan pipeline growing deposits diverse revenue generation sources disciplined expense management and solid credit quality.
Now I will turn the call over to our CFO John Tietjen.
Thank you Louis and good morning to all on the call.
I’d like to provide you with additional detail on our performance for the third quarter of 2012.
Once again highlighting our earnings growth trend net income available to common share holders was up 22% to more than 5.3 million for the recent quarter from 4.4 million a year ago.
Diluted earnings per common share rose to $0.17 for the 2012 third quarter from $0.14 a year ago.
Looking at some of the key elements of our performance in greater detail net interest income was 23.8 million for the 2012 third quarter up more than 5% from a year ago.
This increase primarily reflected higher average loan balances the shift in our earning asset mix and reduced funding costs.
Non-interest income represented over 28% of total revenues at $10.5 million for the 2012 third quarter.
We benefited primarily from an increase in residential mortgage banking income due to increased volume of loan sales.
This benefit was offset by decreases in commissions and fees related to accounts receivable management services and lower security gains.
As you note that we had virtually no impact from the Universal mortgage acquisition in the third quarter and we will begin to see the benefits of that transaction in terms of higher mortgage banking fees in the fourth quarter.
Non-interest expenses were $24.5 million for the 2012 third quarter.
Due to our emphasis on managing expenses the increase versus last year was only 3%.
This was primarily due to increased personnel and occupancy expenses related to the growth of our business including our Universal acquisition partially offset by lower professional fees.
I like to point out that Sterling’s business model and our strategic management of assets and liabilities have positioned the company well in the current interest rate environment.
We have all seen articles including a recent page one Wall Street Journal story about how margins at many banks are being funneled [ph] by the low rate policies of the US Treasury.
Facing margin pressures some banks are striving to compensate by developing new sources of non-interest income.
In contrast as we noted earlier Sterling has the delivered an increasing net interest margin and has a well established focus on generating non-interest income.
Let’s take a minute to look at both of these areas in some greater detail.
The net interest margin was 4.02 for the 2012 third quarter up 12 basis points from a year ago period.
Our margin is in the top third of all banks of our asset size.
The quarter-to-quarter margin was drive by three key factors.
First was the strategic redeployment of our assets in response to loan demand.
Average loans were 67% of earning assets in the 2012 third quarter up from 60 % a year ago.
The difference in yield between investments and loans results in a pickup of 213 basis points.
Second we have continued to be disciplined in deposit pricing.
As a result the cost of deposit dropped to 50 basis points from 62 basis points.
Third we have experienced a sizeable increase in non-interest bearing demand deposits which were $173 million higher on average for the 2012 third quarter versus a year ago.
Overall our cost of funds including both deposits and borrowings is in the bottom 20% of our peer group.
Our diversified revenue base is also a key strength in today’s low interest rate environment.
Sterling traditionally generated a substantial portion of our total revenue from non-interest income.
We have expanded our range of revenue sources in the past few years with our entry into warehouse financing and just recently with the universal mortgage acquisition.
Our solid ratio of non-interest income to total revenues places us in the top four of our peers in diversity of revenue.
In short we have structured our business with a diverse mix of net interest income and non-interest income that produces balanced revenue base and has enabled us to deliver growing profitability.
Turning now to the balance sheet loans net [inaudible] discount at September 30th 2012 totaled $1.7 billion up 13% from a year ago.
Investment securities was $700 million at the end of the 2012 third quarter down from $800 million a year ago.
Again this reflected the planned strategic shift from investments into loans.
Our asset liability management strategies have provided us with a robust level of liquidity that can support our continued loan growth and that contributes to our earnings momentum.
Of the $700 million investment pool portfolio that I just noted approximately $300 million or some 40% is categorized as available to sell and $200 million of the available for sale portfolio is an instrument with a weighted average life of 1.3 years.
This means that we have strong liquidity to fund loan demand without having to sell down the held-to-maturity portfolio.
Total deposits at September 30th 2012 were $2.2 billion an increase of 9% from a year ago.
The increase in non-interest variant demand deposit which I mentioned earlier was primarily due to our business development and cross selling activities including our policy of requiring demand deposits as part of our loan pricing model.
All of our regulatory capital ratios continued to exceed world capitalize requirements.
At September 30th 2012 Sterling’s tier one risk-based capital ratio was 11.69% total risk-based capital was 12.82% and the tier one leverage ratio was 9.380%.
The tangible common equity ratio was 7.84 % at September 30th 2012 versus 7.3% a year ago.
Book value per common share increased to $7.54 from $7.07 at September 30th 2011.
With that let me turn the call back over to Louis.
Thanks John.
Let me conclude by saying that we are proud of the exceptional growth and profitability we have delivered for Sterling shareholders in 2012.
We feel confident that we’re well positioned to end the year on a strong note and to continue our solid performance in the future.
Now we will be pleased to respond to your questions.
Hi.
I’m with Sandler O’Neill and Partners.
Good morning gentlemen.
I’m just trying to wrap my head around the excess liquidity here.
If you could John can you just repeat what you said how much liquidity is on the balance sheet? And I think you said the incremental yield was 215 basis points.
Is that correct? That’s the difference between the yield on the entire investment portfolio and the yield on the entire loan portfolio.
If we look at just the what I call the highly liquid available for sale component which is roughly about $100 million we’re picking up 300 to 350 basis points for that deal.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then as far as the loan pipeline is concerned can you give us a sense of how large it is and its complexion? It is about $300 million and it’s spread throughout all of our products.
Okay.
And then just finally I’m sorry one modeling question just on I mean expense base.
It looks like the other expenses was up modestly link quarter and year on year anything non-recurring in nature going on there? Not on that particular line.
You will see a modest increase in the fourth quarter as we continue to roll in the Universal acquisition but you will also see revenue on the other side.
Thank you.
Hi.
KBW.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Good morning Damon.
Okay a couple questions here.
I think first we’ll start off with universal mortgage.
Could you kind of help frame up first the expected impact from this acquisition maybe in terms of what the quarterly volume is or loan originations and what the corresponding gain on sales those mortgages is? I could have Damon until we had this recent storm what’s going to happen in the fourth quarter is that all the loans that we have that are not yet funded are going to have to be re-inspected and recertified.
So that’s going to slow down our ability to shift loans to investors and these are the investor requirements.
And we’ll pick it up in the first quarter of next year but I would expect that we’re not going to see a significant increase in mortgage banking income in the fourth quarter simply because of the impacts and the new requirements of the reinspection brought about by the storm.
Okay.
That’s kind of understandable.
How about from a historical standpoint? What kind of volume were they doing just so we have some idea as of for modeling in 2013? I think we’ve indicated in the past that their volume was approximately $300 million which was about 50% of what our existing volume is in our mortgage division.
So it was going to be a fairly significant contributor.
Okay.
And do you happen to have a gain on sale of what you would expect? No we don’t.
You don’t have that.
Okay.
And then – so I guess to kind of follow-up on that expense question.
So you said in the other non-interest expense line item this quarter there was nothing really one time in nature that we would remove but rather we can expect a little bit higher level of expenses as you fully integrate the Universal Group.
So would you say that low $25 million quarterly run rate is fair for the fourth quarter? At this particular point I think that would probably be an accurate number.
We have all the fourth quarter adjustment of accrual items and things like that that we deal with.
So $25 million would be realistic.
Okay.
Great.
And then my last question is quickly on the margin.
On the good days you were able to sustain very minimal compression this quarter do you think maintaining above foreign [ph] extent level is doable going into the end of the year? We do and it will be about the four or three range I would say is where we expect to come in.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much guys.
Janney.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I guess let me start out with the investment securities.
It’s 25% of total assets where would you be comfortable keeping that level at.
Would it like in the 15% range is that enough? I would say that if we were around $400 million that would give us enough to be able to satisfy the fledging requirement we have for public deposits and federal home loan bank advances.
I see.
Okay.
And let me go on your margin and specifically with the loan yields.
I mean it’s amazing really how you’ve been able to keep those more or less at all last year.
Are you making different kinds of loans or are they riskier or maybe are they longer in term or how do you explain like how you guys are able to do this? I think the answer to your question is that they’re definitely not riskier.
What we do have is that the mix in the loan portfolio has changed.
So if you were to look at the yield on the loan portfolio versus second quarter we’re down about 13 bips.
And the reason for that is because the growth in particularly the warehouse lending product while on a business basis produces a yield that’s above 5% on an accounting basis because many of the fees don’t go into the calculation of the yield it will actually result in a decrease in the yield.
But the areas of growth in the loan portfolio from third quarter of last year were about $40 million in residential mortgage and that includes health of sale.
About $70 million in commercial real estate and about $130 million in warehouse lending.
And again as I said the warehouse lending product on an accounting basis will cause the yield on the loans to be lower.
But it’s a hell of a lot better that we’d be getting on the investment portfolio.
Okay.
That’s for sure.
Let me just ask on Hurricane Sandy.
First I guess I hope you guys are okay for that but where do you see the impact this quarter and also longer term? Well as Louis indicated in his remarks I mean we believe that we’ll be able to address all the concerns from our customers to the extent that they are reasonable.
But the other side of it is that clearly in the mortgage banking area it will have an impact of deferring some of the revenue that we would have realized in the fourth quarter into the first quarter of next year.
Having said that we have a strong pipeline.
We expect to be able to continue to grow loans.
We anticipate that we’ll have double digit loan growth in the fourth quarter consistent with what we’ve done pretty much all year.
Okay.
And in terms of expenses are there going to be any added cost for any of the branches.
Hopefully they weren’t flooded out.
No.
We don’t anticipate.
Yes.
We were pretty lucky there Rick.
We lost power we lost some connectivity but no flooding.
All right.
Well that’s great.
And I guess my final question is with regards to the low rates you’ve done a great job in terms of positioning for it.
Are you still would be better off if rates do go up eventually? Yes.
Okay.
All right.
That’s all I had.
Thank you very much.
[Inaudible] Capital Markets.
Just another follow-up on the margins.
Do you happen to have the margin by month? Sometimes you guys give it month by month.
No.
I don’t have that with me at this particular point in time.
Okay.
Yes.
That’s my only question.
Thanks.
There are no more questions? Thank you Operator.
As always we thank you for your interest in Sterling and we look forward to speaking with you in the future.
Thank you again.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Sterling Bancorp 2012 Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder today’s teleconference is being recorded.
And at this time I will turn the conference call over to your host Investor Relations Advisor Mr.
Ed Nebb.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks very much Johnny and thanks to all of you who are joining us today.
Our news release announcing Sterling’s fourth quarter and full year 2012 results was issued today prior to the market open.
We hope you had an opportunity to review it.
The release is posted to the company’s website if you would like to see it.
Before turning to the discussion of our financial results let me remind you that any comments made today about future financial position or results dividends plans and objectives or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Actual results may differ from such forward looking statements.
The amounts of any dividends for the first quarter of 2013 and beyond will depend on the company’s future results of operations financial conditions and other relevant factors.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results to vary from the forward-looking statements is contained in Sterling’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
In addition our earnings release includes information on a calculation of certain non-GAAP financial measures that maybe referenced in this discussion.
We’ll have introductory remarks today from Mr.
Louis Cappelli Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bancorp and Mr.
John Tietjen Chief Financial Officer.
After their remarks we’ll open up the call for your questions.
And so without further adieu I will turn the call over to Mr.
Cappelli.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our conference call for the fourth quarter and full year 2012.
Our President John Millman is recuperating from an illness and could not be with us this morning.
2012 was a year of strong positive momentum for Sterling.
We benefited from our traditional focus on serving customers in the robust New York City metropolitan marketplace and beyond as well as from our diverse revenue sources our disciplined expense control and continued solid asset quality.
As we have noted for the past quarters a cornerstone of our strategy has been to redeploy assets from lower yielding investments into higher yielding loans.
It has been reported by that many financial institutions today are a wash in excess cash which they have not been able to redeploy profitably into the prevailing climate of low interest rates.
In contrast our strategy has resulted in an increase in our total loan portfolio to an all-time high of $1.8 billion at year end.
This represents substantial growth in our percentage of loans to earning assets which increased to over 65% for 2012.
We also expanded the net interest margin by 16 basis points for the year to 4.17%.
We still have considerable liquidity as reflected in our $287 million of short-term investments and we currently intend to continue to redeploy these assets into higher yielding loans.
Now looking at our performance for 2012 in greater detail the increase in our loan portfolio was 17% comparing year end 2012 to ‘11.
As I noted earlier our total loan portfolio of $1.8 billion now stands at an all time high.
We benefited from Sterling’s comprehensive portfolio of credit products which provided multiple avenues of growth including commercial and residential real estate lending mortgage warehouse financing middle market lending payroll financing and equipment leasing and financing.
At this time we continued to have a robust long pipeline of around $325 million.
Total deposits increased 14% from a year ago to a record $2.3 billion.
We have experienced especially growth in non-interest bearing demand deposits which are an essential component of our customer relationship model.
Non-interest bearing demand deposits totaled $924 million at year end or more than 40% of total deposits which we believe is one of the highest levels in our peer group.
Our earning performance for 2012 was outstanding as our profitability benefited from the strong growth of our business as well as higher net interest income and non-interest income driven by our asset liability management strategy.
We also enhanced our positive operating leverage due to ongoing expense discipline and continued to demonstrate solid asset quality metrics.
Pre-tax income for the 2012 fourth quarter was $7.1 million or an increase of 58% over the year ago period.
The pre-tax income comparison is particularly noteworthy as net income in 2011 period reflected a tax benefit of approximately $1.9 million.
Our net income available to common shareholders was $5.2 million in the 2012 fourth quarter.
In the 2011 fourth quarter after the effect of the tax benefit net income applicable to common shareholders was almost equivalent.
For the full year 2012 net income available to common shareholders was up 29% to more than $20 million and pre-tax income rose 31%.
Our ability to control non-interest expenses during the past year is especially worthy of mention.
Although we invested in some additional personnel to support the growth in our business and we made an acquisition that increased mortgage production personnel we have the increase in non-interest expenses to about 2% for the full year and even less than 2% for the 2012 fourth quarter.
The rate of the expense increase was outpaced by our 4% increase in gross revenues.
We continued to explore further means of increasing our operating leverage through the use of technology improved processes disciplined use of outside vendors and of course continued strong revenue growth.
Our credit quality metrics have remained strong.
We have continued our traditional sound underwriting practices while at the same time expanding our loan activity with credit worthy borrowers.
Net charge offs were under $2.3 million in the 2012 fourth quarter.
Non-performing assets at 2012 year end were just 0.27% of total assets.
The allowance for loan losses was 377% of non-accrual loans and the allowance to total portfolio loans was 1.35% at December 31 2012.
It is also significant that in contrast to a number of other banking institutions our earnings growth did not benefit from any reductions in the allowance to loan losses.
In addition to our strong organic growth we completed an acquisition that has extremely positive implications for our current business and future potential.
During the third quarter we acquired Universal Mortgage a mortgage brokerage business with a solid position in the Brooklyn market.
Universal has an accomplished team with an exception to loan production track record and well-established business relationships.
The acquisition was planned in advance of the current rebound in the mortgage market which continues to gain momentum.
Existing home sales in 2012 increased over 9% from the prior year and reached the highest level in 5 years according to a recent report by the National Association of Realtors.
The National Association of Homebuilders another organization also reports that the confidence level of homebuilders in the market for new housing has increased steadily for the last eight consecutive months and is now higher than at anytime since April of 2006.
Given these strong indicators of a continued recovery in the housing market we believe that the addition of Universal Mortgage along with the strength of our established mortgage banking operations positions us for significant expansion of our mortgage volume.
At the same time Universal Mortgage has provided us with an excellent platform from which to expand into Brooklyn which we believe is an extremely attractive market for all of our financial services.
We are pursuing this opportunity with a new office in Brooklyn which we expect to open this quarter and which will serve as both a branch and it has expanded facilities for Universal Mortgage.
In summary we believe the positive momentum that drove our growth and profitability in 2012 can be sustained in 2013.
We continued to experience robust demand for our range of financial products and services.
The Universal acquisition should enable us to grow our mortgage volume and fee generation capacity and we are excited about the new opportunities in the booming Brooklyn market.
Our strong liquidity holds further potential to shift earning assets from investments into loans in line with our past success and in implementing this strategy going forward.
And our performance should continue to benefit from our diverse revenue sources expense discipline and asset quality.
And now I would like to turn the call over to our CFO John Tietjen.
Thank you Lou and good morning to everyone on the call.
I would like to provide you with further detail on our performance for the fourth quarter of 2012.
As we noted net income available to common shareholders was $5.2 million.
This compares to $5.3 million including the $1.9 million tax benefit for the same period last year.
Pre-tax income increased 31% to $7.1 million from $4.5 million for the same period last year.
Looking at some of the key elements of our performance net interest income was $24.8 million for the 2012 fourth quarter up nearly 9% from a year ago.
This increase primarily reflected higher average loan balances the shift in our earning asset mix and reduced funding costs.
Non-interest income for the 2012 fourth quarter was up more than 4% to $9.6 million and represented 26% of total revenues.
We benefited in particular from an increase in residential mortgage banking income reflecting both organic growth and the Universal acquisition partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable management and other related fees.
Non-interest expenses were $24.9 million for the 2012 fourth quarter.
As was noted due to our disciplined focus on managing expenses the increase versus last year was less than 2% despite increases in business development activities and the Universal acquisition.
The net interest margin was 4% for the 2012 fourth quarter up from 3.90% a year ago.
Our margin is in the top 25% of all banks in our asset size.
The margin increase was driven by three key factors.
First as we have discussed our ongoing deployment of earnings assets into loans.
Average loans were nearly 70% of earning assets in the 2012 fourth quarter an increase from approximately 60% a year ago.
The difference in yield between investments and loans averaged 242 basis points for the full year of 2012.
Second we have continued our disciplined deposit pricing.
As a result the cost of deposits dropped by 12 basis points comparing 2012 to 2011.
Third we have experienced a sizable increase in non-interest bearing demand deposits which were $138 million higher on average for the 2012 fourth quarter versus a year ago.
Now let’s take a look at the effect of our asset liability management strategies on the balance sheet.
For the year ended December 31 2012 average loans were $1.6 billion up 15% from a year ago.
Investment security balances averaged $755 million for 2012 down 11% from $851 million a year ago again reflecting the planned shift from investments into loans.
These strategies have also provided us with a robust level of liquidity that can support our continued loan growth and that contributes to our earnings momentum.
At December 31 2012 about $297 million of our $683 million investment portfolio was in the available for sale category.
Approximately $150 million of these securities mature within two years.
This means that we have strong liquidity to fund loan growth without having to sell out of the held-to-maturity portfolio.
Total deposits at December 31 2012 were $2.3 billion an increase of 14% from a year ago.
The increase in non-interest bearing deposits which we mentioned earlier was primarily due to our business development activities and cross selling activities including our policy of requiring demand deposits as part of our loan pricing model.
All of our regulatory capital ratios continued to exceed well-capitalized requirements.
At December 31 2012 Sterling’s Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 11.49% the total risk-based capital was 12.58% and the Tier 1 leverage ratio was 9.14%.
The ratio of tangible common equity to tangible assets was 7.50% at December 31 2012.
Book value per common share increased to $7.37 from $7.14 a year ago.
With that let me turn the call back over to Lou.
Thanks John.
Let me continue by saying that we are well positioned for 2013.
While record low interest rates have compressed margins across our industry and have made it challenging for many financial institutions to deploy their assets productively.
Sterling has generated a more profitable asset mix continued loan growth and a rising margin.
We have been conscientious towards of expenses and asset quality.
And we have successfully expanded our business through both organic means and a well-timed and accretive acquisition.
We look forward to continuing to drive shareholder value.
And now we would be pleased to respond to your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question in queue from Mark Fitzgibbon with Sandler O’Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning Mark The first question I had related to your accounts receivable and factoring fees in the quarter I was wondering was there anything unusual in there that maybe depressed those fees a little bit and how should we be thinking about them moving forward? The biggest impact on those fees Mark was the reduction of letter of credit volume for factoring clients those fees the loss of those fees pretty much accounted for the entire decrease.
Factoring volume is down but the volume in payroll finance is up but the single largest item is the couple of clients that don’t need letters of credit any longer to being able to conduct their business.
Okay.
So we should sort of expect it to sort of start at a lower level going forward? I would expect it would be at this level.
Having said that as we pointed out in the call our payroll finance group is growing very well and that will definitely have a positive impact going forward.
Okay.
Secondly I wondered if you could share with us what the mortgage banking pipeline is I know you gave us the loan pipeline but maybe the mortgage banking pipeline? The mortgage banking pipeline is approximately $240 million.
Okay.
That’s impacted by the fact that the investors are having difficulty keeping up with the volume so that the funding is not as rapid as it was without the volume increases and also of course the positive impact as a result of increased business in both our traditional mortgage banking business and the Universal group that we just acquired.
Okay.
And then on the cost of the new branch are any of those costs already sort of running through the fourth quarter expense numbers or should we look for those to kick up and if so roughly how much for the new branch in the first quarter? It won’t be great.
This is not the kind of branch that you see for many of the large institutions.
It’s not a street level branch it will be on an upper floor.
So the costs will not be that great.
Okay.
And then in the tax rate the effective rate was 26.5% in the fourth quarter I assume some truing up there the normalized rate going forward probably still around 31.5% do you think? I would 30% to 32%.
Okay.
And last question is as it relates to the margin assuming rates hold here I know you are doing some great remixing with the balance sheet but we are likely to see maybe a little bit of additional compression in the margin in coming quarters? We believe that for the entire year we will be above 4%.
It is possible in a particular quarter we might dip under but it won’t be by a lot.
And as I said for the year we expect that will be above four.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) I am showing no additional questions in queue please continue.
Thank you operator.
As always we thank you for your interest in Sterling and we look forward to speaking with you in the future.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 12 PM Eastern Time today running through February 7 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at anytime by dialing 800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 279219.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Once again our telephone numbers are 800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 using the access code of 279219.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Sterling Bancorp 2013 First Quarter Conference Call.
For the conference all the participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be an opportunity for your questions.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
With that being said I will turn the conference now to Mr.
Edward Nebb with Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks to all of you for joining us today.
Our news release announcing Sterling’s first quarter 2013 results was issued today prior to the market open and is available on our website.
Before turning to the discussion of the Q1 financial results let me remind you that any comments made today about future financial position or results dividends plans and objectives or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Actual results may differ substantially from the forward looking statements.
The amounts of any dividends for the second quarter of 2013 and beyond will depend on the company’s future results of operations financial conditions and other factors.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to vary is contained in Sterling’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
In addition our earnings release includes information on certain non-GAAP financial measures that maybe referred to in the discussion.
We will have introductory remarks today from Mr.
Louis Cappelli Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bancorp and Mr.
John Tietjen Chief Financial Officer.
And after their remarks we’ll open up the call for few questions.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Cappelli.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our conference call for the first quarter 2013.
As we previously announced on April 4 of 2013 Sterling Bancorp and Provident New York Bancorp have entered into a definitive merger agreement.
In the stock-for-stock transaction Sterling Bancorp shareholders will receive a fixed ratio of 1.2625 shares of Provident New York Bancorp common stock for each share of Sterling Bancorp common stock.
Upon closing Provident Bank will convert to a national bank charter and adopt the Sterling name as will the holding company.
The transaction is subject to approval by shareholders of both companies regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions.
Subject to such conditions the merger is anticipated to close in the fourth quarter of 2013.
We are excited by the potential benefits of this transaction and the opportunities it will create for the combined institution in the future.
Let me turn to the 2013 first quarter which was a period of continued robust growth and strong earnings expansion for Sterling.
During the quarter we continued our successful strategy of redeploying assets from investments into loans which help drive double-digit growth in loans and contributed to our higher profitability.
We also delivered solid growth in deposits and maintained a strong net interest margin and we continued to carefully control expenses and to pursue our stringent credit quality standards.
Looking at the highlights of the quarter in greater detail the loan portfolio increased 19% from the year earlier quarter to $2.8 billion continuing our track record of mid-teens loan growth.
Our comprehensive portfolio of credit products provided us with numerous avenues of growth.
I want to highlight our outstanding growth in residential mortgage fundings which will more than double the year ago level.
This reflected increases in volume of course both our regional mortgage banking operation as well as Universal Mortgage business that we acquired in the third quarter of 2012.
As we had noted the Universal Mortgage has a solid position in the Brooklyn market and accomplished high producing team and excellent business relationships.
This timely acquisition was planned in advance of the rebound in the mortgage market and we have continued to experience increasing residential mortgage volume as a result.
The Universal acquisition also has positioned Sterling extremely well to expand into the booming Brooklyn market where we will be opening a branch office shortly.
Total deposits rose 15% from a year ago to $2.3 billion.
We have continued to experience strong growth in non-interest bearing demand deposits which are an essential component of our customer relationship model.
Non-interest bearing demand deposits are reaching close to $900 million at March 31 2013 or about 39% of total deposits.
Our growth in demand deposits places us in the top 5% among banks with assets of $1 billion to $5 billion.
Turning to our earnings performance income before taxes increased by more than 19% to approaching $8 billion contributing for the sharp earnings increased gross revenues rose by $1.9 million.
This partially reflected the growth in interest income driven by our redeployment of assets from investments into loans.
In addition we delivered higher non-interest income largely due to the growth in mortgage fees as a result of the loan volume increase that I noted earlier.
Net interest income was up 8% reflecting our continued disciplined approach to funding cost and the strong growth in non-interest bearing demand deposits.
Our credit quality metrics remain sound.
We have continued our vigorous underwriting practices while at the same time expanding our loan activity with credit worthy borrowers.
To sum up we have continued Sterling’s positive growth momentum in 2013.
We continued to experience robust demand for a range of financial products and services.
The Universal acquisition should continue to build our mortgage volume and fee generation capacity and we are excited about our new opportunities in the exceptionally vibrant Brooklyn market.
Our strong liquidity holds further potential to shift earning assets from investments into loans in line with our past success in implementing this strategy.
And our performance should continue to benefit from our diverse revenue sources expense discipline and asset quality.
I would like to thank the Sterling team for delivering another quarter of positive results.
And now I’ll turn the call over to our CFO <a href="http://seekingalpha.com/search/transcripts?term=John+Tietjen&amp;sasource=participant">John Tietjen</a>.
Thank you Lou and good morning to all on the call this morning.
I’d like to provide additional detail on our performance for the first quarter of 2013.
Net income was $5.2 million representing a 14% increase versus the same period a year ago.
EPS increased to $0.17 from $0.15.
Looking at some of the key contributors to our results net interest income was $24.1 million for the 2013 first quarter an 8% increase from a year ago.
This increase primarily reflected the higher average loan balances the shift in our earning asset mix and reduced funding costs due to deposit pricing discipline as well as continued growth in non-interest bearing deposits.
Net interest margin remained above 400 basis points at 4.02% for the 2013 first quarter.
We have continued to benefit from our ongoing strategic shift of earning assets into loans.
Investment security balances at March 31 2013 were down approximately $137 million from a year earlier while loans in portfolio were up $228 million over the same period.
Average loans rose to nearly 68% of average earning assets in the 2013 first quarter up from 63% a year ago.
The difference between yield on investments and loans averaged 253 basis points in the recent quarter.
We also have continued to be disciplined on deposit pricing.
As a result cost of deposits dropped by 8 basis points comparing first quarters of 2013 to 2012.
Finally we benefited from an increase in non-interest bearing deposits which were $138 million higher on average for the 2013 first quarter versus a year ago.
Non-interest income for the 2013 first quarter was $10.7 million.
Excluding gains on sale of securities non-interest income was up $1.1 million or 12% from a year ago.
Non-interest income continues to be a meaningful contributor to our financial performance and represents 29% of gross revenues in the 2013 first quarter.
As noted we benefited in particular from an increase in residential mortgage banking income reflecting organic growth and the impact of the Universal Mortgage acquisition.
These factors will offset decreases in gains on sale of securities accounts receivable management and other related fees.
Non-interest expenses were $24.8 million for the 2013 first quarter these expenses were essentially unchanged comparing the 2013 first quarter to the 2012 fourth quarter.
The increase from the year ago first quarter primarily reflected higher personnel expenses due to investments in the growth of Sterling’s business development activities including expenses associated with the Universal Mortgage acquisition.
Our asset liability management strategies have provided us with a robust level of liquidity that can support in our continued loan growth and that contributes to our earnings momentum.
At March 31st about $278 million of our investment portfolio or 42% was categorized as available for sale.
This available for sale portfolio was invested in instruments that have a weighted average life of 3.4 years.
This means that we have strong liquidity to fund loan demand.
Our asset quality metrics remain strong net charge-offs were $1.6 million for the 2013 first quarter.
Non-performing assets at the end of the quarter were 0.26% of total assets.
The allowance for loan losses was 431% of non-accrual loans and compared to the total portfolio loans was 1.34% at March 31 of ‘13.
With respect to capital all of our regulatory capital ratios continued to exceed well capitalized requirements.
At March 31 2013 Sterling’s Tier 1 risk based capital ratio was 11.68%.
Total risk-based capital was 12.81% and the Tier 1 leverage ratio was 9.16%.
The ratio of tangible common equity to tangible assets was 7.58% at March 31 2013.
Book value per common share increased to 7.49% (sic) ($7.49) at March 31 2013 from $7.29 excuse me a year earlier.
With that let me turn the call back over to Lou.
Thank you John.
I’d like to conclude by saying that Sterling team remained sharply focused on delivering profitable growth expanding the business providing exceptional service to customers and continuing to produce solid value for shareholders.
We are also working diligently to bring our merchant with profit and to a successful conclusion.
Now we will be pleased to respond to your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll go to line of Collyn Gilbert with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning Collyn.
First question I guess John on the mortgage banking side could you just breakout what the difference was in terms of revenue coming from just share volume and then what the gain on sale trends were this quarter versus what you guys saw in the fourth quarter? I don’t have the breakout Collyn.
The income for this quarter was higher than it wouldn’t early be expected given the fact that we have the impact in the fourth quarter of all the extra things we had to do relative to Sandy.
So there was some overflow of sales into the first quarter.
Okay okay and what do you think your – you should be able to do from here I mean do you see revenues sort of sustaining this level or gradual drop-off and I guess part of that may be would be driven in the split that you are saying between refi and purchases? Yeah we do think that it will be some softening of mortgage banking income in future quarters partially due to seasonality the second quarter had some seasonality built into it which would bring ordinarily bring down the revenue in that quarter.
And also when you are comparing the first quarter you are not going to have the impact of the overlap from last year.
The other part of it is the purchase sale mix as that changes not only with us but industry wide that will have an impact.
Okay okay and the – what was driving the loan yields on a quarter-to-quarter basis? Principally the mix of what’s in the portfolio.
Okay which lead to my final question no actually not my final question next question is can you give us and I guess round numbers will do what the loan buckets were in the first quarter in terms of breaking now between C&amp;I I mean kind of how you do in your regulatory data just a rough idea of may be where the growth was? Yeah well virtually all of the significant components of the portfolio increased comparing March 31st of ’13 of March 31st of ’12.
C&amp;I is up loans to the non-depository financial institutions which is a core report breakout and this is essentially C&amp;I that was up equipment financing was up commercial mortgage was up so it’s pretty much across the entire spectrum.
Okay.
Is it usually your better loan quarters sort of the second and third quarters from the seasonal perspective? Yes.
Okay.
Usually that’s the case and we hope that will continue in this year.
Okay okay and then just a final question.
Is there any either sort of balance sheet changes or sort of expense changes that we should anticipate in advance of the Provident merger? Well we’ll start to see the impact of some of the merger related expenses in P&amp;L but other than that I don’t think there will be any significant balance sheet increases other than the ongoing shift into loans and our continued efforts to increase deposit levels.
Okay.
Okay great.
That was all I had.
Thanks very much.
And with no additional questions I will turn it back to the presenters for any closing comments.
Thank you operator.
And as always we thank you for your interest in Sterling and then we look forward to speaking with you in the near future.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Sterling Bancorp 2013 Second Quarter Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Edward Nebb with Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much Jack and good morning to all of you who are joining us today.
Our news release announcing Sterling’s second quarter 2013 results was issued today prior to the market open as you know.
The release is available on the company’s website.
Before turning to the financial results let me remind you that any comments made today about future financial position or results dividends plans objectives or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Securities Exchange Act.
Actual results may differ substantially from the forward-looking statements.
The amounts of any dividends for the remainder 2013 will depend on the company’s future results of operations financial conditions and other relevant factors.
A discussion of these factors that could cause actual results to vary is contained in Sterling’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition our earnings release includes information on the calculation of certain non-GAAP financial measures that maybe referenced in this discussion.
Today we’ll have introductory remarks from Mr.
Louis Cappelli Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bancorp and Mr.
John Tietjen Chief Financial Officer.
And after their remarks we’ll open up the call for your questions.
Now without further ado I’d like to turn the call over to Mr.
Cappelli.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our conference call for the second quarter of 2013.
Sterling’s performance for the second quarter reflected our core strengths; a business model built on diverse revenue sources solid franchise serving the robust New York metropolitan region and beyond a well established asset liability management strategy and a talented team of professionals.
These factors along with expense control and continued sound asset quality drove higher gross revenues and a double-digit increase in recurring income for the 2013 second quarter.
Looking at the highlights of the second quarter in greater detail net income from recurring operations increased 15% to $5.6 million or $0.18 per diluted share.
We are focusing on recurring earnings in order to present our results excluding merger-related professional fee expenses associated with the merger of Sterling and Provident New York Bancorp which we announced in April.
Contributing to the sharp earnings increase net interest income increased by 7% as we continue to benefit from our strategy of redeploying assets from investments into loans.
We also have paid down higher cost borrowings and continued to grow non-interest bearing demand deposits.
As a result net interest margin increased to 4.10% which was higher than both the second quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013.
Non-interest income continued to provide a meaningful contribution to our results with the mortgage banking business being a strong component.
Our credit quality metrics remains sound.
Net charge-offs non-performing assets and the provision for loan losses all decreased as compared to a year ago.
Reflecting the continuing growth dynamics in our business total loans increased 12% from the earlier quarter to $1.8 billion.
Our comprehensive portfolio of credit products provides us with numerous avenues of growth.
Total deposits were up 10% from a year ago to over $2.2 billion.
We have continued to experience strong growth in non-interest bearing demand deposits which represents 42% of total deposits at the end of this quarter.
The ratio of demand to total deposits has consistently been among the highest in the industry.
Sterling recently opened a new branch office on Court Street Brooklyn which is also a production center for residential mortgages and other products.
Our expansion into the blooming Brooklyn market which has experienced dynamic growth in both residential population and businesses builds upon last year’s Universal Mortgage acquisition.
We are excited about the opportunity to use this new branch as a platform to offer our full range of financial solutions to an attractive and lucrative market.
I would like to comment on the possible impact of higher interest rates which is on the minds of many of us and investors as well.
Federal Reserve Board continues a gradual taping of its economic stimulus programs.
Sterling is very well positioned for a rising rate environment.
Residential mortgage volume may decline nationally from the high levels over the past few years.
That said mortgage banking should continue to be a meaningful contributor to our revenue stream.
At the same time the Fed has stated that any tapering would be linked to an improving economy which would help to drive demand for our other financing products.
Of course we’ll offer a diverse range of products.
We have numerous ways to benefit from rising economic activity.
Sterling’s business model and asset liability management strategies have resulted in an asset-sensitive balance sheet with approximately $1.3 billion of assets were about half of our total assets that would reprice upward as rates increase.
With respect to the merger with Provident we continue to be extremely enthusiastic about the transaction.
The enormous opportunity is to create a premier $7 billion high performing banking institution serving the needs of small-to-middle market businesses and consumers in the New York metropolitan area and beyond.
Those teams from each company are working energetically our integration planning to ensure that we deliver the full benefits of top line growth expense savings and continued exceptional customer serving starting day one.
The merger is anticipated to close in the fourth quarter of 2013 subject to approval by the shareholders of both companies regulatory approvals and other customary conditions.
We will make an announcement when we have scheduled the Special Meeting of Sterling shareholders to vote on approval of the merger.
I would like to thank the Sterling team for the continued strong performance on behalf of our customers and shareholders.
and now I’d like to turn the call over to CFO John Tietjen.
Thank you Lou and good morning to all on the call.
I would like to provide additional detail on our performance for the second quarter of 2013.
Net income for the recent quarter was $4.5 million or $0.15 per diluted share.
That compares with $4.9 million or $0.16 per diluted share for the same period of 2012.
As we have noted the results for 2013 second quarter included professional expenses related to the merger with Provident of about $1.1 million after-tax.
Excluding these merger-related fee expenses income from recurring operations was up more than 19% on a pre-tax basis.
Looking at some of the other key factors driving our results net interest income was $24.4 million for the 2013 second quarter a 7% increase from a year ago.
This increase primarily reflects higher average loan balances the shift in our earning asset mix and reduced funding costs due to deposit pricing discipline as well as continued growth of non-interest bearing demand deposits.
The net interest margin expanded to 4.10% a pick up of six basis points from a year ago and eight basis points from Q1 this year.
We have continued to benefit from our ongoing strategic shift of earning assets into loans.
Investment security balances at June 30 2013 were down approximately $52 million from a year earlier while loans in portfolio were up $176 million over the same period.
Average loans rose to nearly 69% of average earning assets in the 2013 second quarter versus about 64% a year ago.
The yield on loans in Q2 was virtually double the yield on the investment securities at 5.37% versus 2.86% which underscores the value of our strategy to shift assets from investments into loans.
On the liability side we paid down $21 million in high cost borrowings principally Federal Home Loan Bank advances while growing our cost effective core deposit funding base.
Non-interest bearing demand deposits were $107 million higher on average for the 2013 second quarter versus a year ago.
As a result of these factors the cost of deposits dropped seven basis points comparing the second quarter of 2013 to the second quarter of 2012.
Non-interest income for 2013 second quarter was $9.8 million compared to $10.5 million a year ago.
Non-interest income remained a major component of gross revenues at 27% for the 2013 second quarter.
As Lou noted mortgage banking income was a strong performer for the quarter.
The decrease in accounts receivable management and other related fees along with lower security gains offset the increase in mortgage banking income.
Non-interest expenses were $25.8 million for the 2013 second quarter but included $1.4 million of merger-related professional fees.
Non-interest expenses excluding merger-related fees were up about 3% from last year.
That increase primarily reflected investments in the growth of Sterling’s business as well as expenses associated with the Universal Mortgage acquired in the 2012 third quarter.
Our asset liability management strategies have provided us with a robust level of liquidity that can support our continued loan growth and that contributes to our earnings momentum.
At June 30 2013 approximately $292 million of our investment portfolio or 43% was categorized as available for sale.
Approximately $223 million of the available for sale securities were invested in instruments with a weighted average life of 1.6 years.
This means that our strong liquidity is available to fund our loan demand.
Asset quality metrics remains strong.
net charge-offs were $1.4 million or 0.32% of portfolio loans in the 2013 second quarter.
Non-performing assets at the end of the quarter were 0.24% of total assets.
The allowance for loan losses was 1.3% of portfolio loans at June 30 2013.
With respect to capital all of our regulatory capital ratios continued to exceed well capitalized requirements.
At June 30 2013 Sterling’s Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 11.54% total risk-based capital was 12.65% and Tier 1 leverage ratio was 9.36%.
The ratio of tangible common equity to tangible assets was 7.75% at June 30 of 2013 and book value per common share increased to $7.54 at June 30 of 2013 from $7.36 a year ago.
With that let me turn the call back to Lou.
Thank you very much John.
And now we would be pleased to respond to any questions you may have.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Collyn Gilbert.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Good morning Collyn.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color as to where the loan growth was coming this quarter also some color around the Warehouse Lending business as well? It was pretty much across the total portfolio factors was perhaps the one area or a softness as the mix of business in that particular area is away from our full service product there more towards volume only product in that particular area.
The Warehouse Lending Group continues to be a significant contributor to the loan growth and those numbers will be available Collyn when we issue the kit.
Okay.
So you didn’t see a shortfall or a decline on a linked-quarter basis in that business? No.
Okay okay.
And then John do you think given what your – the dynamics within the lending portfolios do you think that loan yield can stay at least where it is if not migrate higher? I think that if we look at as a pipeline it’s spread pretty nicely through all the lending products and it continues to be at the $275 million $300 million that we’ve reported in past quarters.
So yes I would expect that the loan yield would be approximately kind of the same is what you are seeing now.
Okay.
Okay and just kind of how are you thinking about mortgage banking from here and where you think you might be able to find offsets to the decline in that business and at the same time other areas of expenses that you can cut to offset kind of the drop in that business? Yeah well we are not looking at a major drop in mortgage banking revenues and let me put some more flavor on that.
With the current six months the closings have been about 55% purchase and are clearly with what’s happened with rates we think that much of that drop will be offset by purchase volume.
So for the third quarter of 2013 we expect that mortgage banking income will be up over the third quarter of 2012 with respect to the third quarter of 2013 versus second quarter of 2013.
We think it will be about flat compared to the second quarter as I said but we may see some lower numbers in the fourth quarter.
We think that what is going to go on principally in the fourth quarter what is there will be some compression in the margins on loans sold into the secondary market.
But as I indicated we are not looking for a major drop in the third quarter.
If there is any compression at all we think it will be made up with improved volumes.
Volumes okay that’s helpful and then just one last question.
Are there any maybe just kind of your outlook for expenses is there anything that you guys are doing on the operating expense side ahead of the merger that we can see that line item fall further over the next couple of quarters? I wouldn’t look for anything significant in the non-merger related expense area reason being we are continuing to run our business as if we are standalone here and we are hiring people that are revenue producers that will generate revenue.
So I wouldn’t look for a major change in the non-merger related expenses.
Okay.
Okay that’s great.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) It looks like we have no further questions from the phone.
Please proceed.
Thank you operator and thank you all for your interest and we look forward to speaking with you all in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 12 PM today through August 9 2013.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive replay system at any time by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code 298680.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 access code 298680.
That does conclude the conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Welcome to the Provident New York Bancorp Fiscal 2013 Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
Later we will conduct a questions-and-answer session.
Much of the information to be discussed is included in the earnings announcement that was released yesterday afternoon which is available on www.providentbanking.com in the Investor Relations section as well as accompanying slides.
Forward-looking statements made during the course of the conference call are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the press release filed on Tuesday as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jack Kopnisky President and CEO of Provident New York Bancorp.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Provident Bancorp’s fourth quarter and fiscal year end results.
Joining me today on the call is Luis Massiani our Chief Financial Officer.
So if I could start on Page 3 I am going to focus my comments on our year-over-year performance and Luis will highlight the quarter’s performance.
We have made strong inroads into creating a high performing company as we continue to successfully execute our strategy and deliver results.
Net income excluding merger-related expenses of $25.3 million represents a 12.9% growth over 2012.
EPS was $0.58 per share compared to $0.52 per share last year an 11.7% increase.
Net income excluding merger-related expenses and securities gains was 34% greater than last year.
The results were driven by the 11.5% year-over-year growth in revenue while expenses were up 2% but we have focused on driving revenue at a 2 to 3 times multiple of expenses.
We achieved a 5.75 times multiple year-over-year which enabled us to drive the core efficiency ratio down to 62.6% which represents a 579 basis point improvement in efficiency from 2012.
Our commercial banking teams continue to deliver strong relationship focused results.
For fiscal 2013 our relationship teams generated $1.2 billion of new loan volume which represents 48% growth over 2012 originations.
The new originations resulted in total loan growth of 13.8% and commercial loan growth of 21%.
Our credit quality has continued to show positive trends across all of our portfolios.
Year-over-year non-performing loans decreased $12.9 million to $26.9 million.
And our criticized and classified assets decreased by $56.3 million to $74.8 million.
Our capital and liquidity positions remained very strong.
Our Tier 1 leverage ratio was approximately 9.3% at Provident Bank and our consolidated tangible equity to tangible assets ratio was 8.1%.
And finally we expect to close the acquisition of Sterling Bancorp tomorrow.
We have received all of the required regulatory and shareholder approvals to complete the transaction.
We have developed a very detailed integration plan that will enable us to achieve the committed expense savings enhanced revenue growth and most importantly accelerate the process to deliver high-performance results.
Now let me turn the call over to Luis to discuss the detailed financial performance.
Thanks Jack.
I will focus on reviewing the results for the fourth quarter.
Our diluted earnings per share were $0.12.
Excluding the impact of merger-related expenses and a charge for asset write-downs earnings per share were $0.14.
Our effective tax rate was approximately 38% for the quarter and 31% for the full fiscal year.
The increase in the fourth quarter was largely due to merger-related expenses that are fully non-tax deductibles.
This represented an impact of over $0.01 per share.
For fiscal year 2014 on a standalone basis we anticipate our effective tax rate in the 30% to 32% range.
However given the merger with Sterling a greater portion of our earnings will be generated in New York City therefore our effective tax rate will increase and is anticipated to be in the mid-30s.
Results for the quarter were impacted by increased interest expense associated with our senior – associated with our senior notes offering.
Net interest margin decreased to 3.23% for the quarter which represents a decrease of 23 basis points relative to the linked quarter.
Total interest expense on the senior notes was $1.4 million which represents approximately 16 basis points of the decline in NIM.
Also the accretion of adopted loan discounts decreased NIM by 4 basis points.
These two items account for substantially all of the change in net interest margin.
We are seeing the benefits of our increased loan production and loan balances in our net interest income.
Year-over-year net interest income has increased by approximately 16%.
We have higher quality more attractive loans today than we had a year ago.
Our proportion of securities to total assets increased from 27.9% to 29.8% in the quarter.
Our strategy of converting securities into higher yielding loans remains unchanged and we will continue to execute this strategy in 2014.
The increase in securities for the fourth quarter was driven by the investments of the net proceeds of the senior notes offering and purchases of securities that we feel are going to better position the combined average Sterling balance sheet post margin.
The ROA and ROE ratios at the bottom of the slide are based on a reported a GAAP net income adjusting to exclude the impact of the merger expenses and the charge for asset write-downs.
Our return on tangible equity was 8.6% and our return on average assets was 72 basis points for the full fiscal year.
These metrics are not yet where we want them to be but 2013 represents steady progress towards achieving the goals we have previously outlined.
Turning to Slide 5 the progress in the execution of our strategy and the success that our commercial teams are enjoying is evident in the 2013 performance.
Total originations for the fourth quarter were almost $318 million.
This number is below the volume for the linked quarter but as we mentioned the third quarter was exceptional and we were anticipating some drop off in volume in Q4.
When compared to fourth quarter of last year origination volume increased by $112 million which represents growth of 50%.
The weighted average yield on commercial loan originations was 4.1% for the quarter and 4% for the full year.
As we have mentioned before this represent a significant pickup over the yield on our securities portfolio which is the reason our strategy will continue to be focused on deploying a more efficient balance sheet with a greater proportion of loans relative to securities.
Our long-term target of approximately 25% securities to total assets remains unchanged.
Performance has been strong across our products and geographies.
For the quarter approximately 75% of our origination were CRE and commercial and industrial loans.
Both our legacy markets and the Net York City market are contributing to our growth.
We are pleased with the performance of the teams to-date.
On Slide 6 let’s review our deposit base.
Overall total deposits were nearly $3 billion at September 30 2013.
This represented a decrease of $149 million year-over-year mainly due to lower the deposit balances in our municipal bank.
The balance of core retail and commercial deposits which excludes municipal deposits wholesale deposits and CDs increased by $146 million which represented 8.3% growth year-over-year.
Focusing on core DDA accounts since the beginning of the year our retail demand and commercial demand deposit account balances have increased by $80 million which represents growth of 10%.
As you can see on the bottom right chart we continued to have a strong deposit composition consisting mostly of non-interesting bearing demand and low cost demand money markets and savings accounts.
Our certificates of deposit continued to runoff and now represents just 9% of our total deposits.
Our deposit composition results in a low and attractive cost of funds.
In the fourth quarter our total cost of deposits was 15 basis points which represents a decrease of 12 basis points year-over-year and a decrease of 2 basis points over the linked quarter.
We are well positioned to continue driving core deposit growth through our teams and our financial centers.
On Slide 7 we will review our operating efficiency ratio.
Year-over-year our core operating efficiency ratio decreased by 579 basis points and was 62.6%.
We continued our positive momentum towards achieving long-term efficiently goals we have previously outlined.
Comparing the linked quarter the efficiency ratio was 63% compared to 59% for the third quarter.
The change was a result of several factors including the increase in interest expense in our senior notes offering as well as an increase in compensation and benefits of $1.1 million over the prior quarter.
The increase in compensation and benefits was due mainly to accruals for compensation and additional temporary personnel expenses which were improving connection with various merger and non-merger related projects.
We had previously announced the target of $88 million in core operating expenses for 2013.
Excluding the impact of merger-related expenses amortization of intangibles foreclosed properties and the charges for asset write-downs our aggregate core operating expenses for the year were approximately $85 million.
We intend to continue investing in building the number of banking teams in our commercial banking infrastructure.
In order to do that we will continue to execute our strategy of rationalizing expenses on the retail side of the business and reinvest in growing our commercial presence.
We have identified several opportunities that we will pursue in 2014.
Turning the page to Slide 8 our credit quality significantly improved during the fourth quarter and throughout the year.
Although our loan book grew significantly during the year the balance of special mentioned substandard and doubtful accounts decreased by $56.4 million to approximately $75 million.
The balance of our past dues 90 days and non-accrual loans decreased from $39.8 million to $26.9 million.
A main contributor to this improved performance has been our continued workout of the acquisition development and construction book.
The beginning of the year the ABC portfolio had approximately $144 million in outstanding loan balances.
As of September 30 2013 outstanding balances had decreased by nearly $42 million and were $103 million.
We will continue to work through this portfolio in 2014.
On the top chart you can see the significant improvement across the board in our credit ratios.
For the end of the year our non-performing loans to total loans decreased to 1.1%.
And most importantly our reserve coverage ratio to non-performing loans increased to 107%.
Our loan loss reserves to total loans were 1.2%.
When you exclude the impact of the loans acquired through Gotham which is not carrying allowance for loan losses our loan loss reserves to total loans ratio was 1.3%.
We are comfortable with our level of reserves.
On Slide 9 we will review our capital and liquidity position which both remains strong.
Consolidated tangible equity to tangible assets ratio for the quarter ended September 30 2013 was 8.1%.
Our Tier 1 leverage ratio at Provident Bank was 9.3%.
In connection with our pending merger with Sterling Bancorp we issued 100 million of senior notes in July 2013.
A portion of the net proceeds of the offering were contributed as capital to Provident Bank during the fourth quarter.
Given the merger with Sterling we will convert from a savings and loans holding company to a bank holding company.
Therefore we will begin reporting regulatory capital ratios at the bank and the holding company going forward.
Our regulatory capital position at the holding company will be in excess of capital required to be considered a well-capitalized institution.
As I mentioned before as of September 30 our securities to total assets ratio was 29.8%.
And our loans to deposits ratio was 81.5%.
We will continue to focus on redeploying this excess liquidity in the loans over the course of 2014.
On Slide 10 we will review our pending merger with Sterling Bancorp.
On October 21 2013 we announced that we had received all required regulatory and shareholder approvals for the merger.
From announcement to completion of the transaction this process has taken a little over six months which we believe is a tremendous accomplishment.
We have dedicated a significant amount of human and capital resources to complete this process in an accelerated timeframe.
Using Sterling’s financial information as of June 30 the pro forma combined entity will have approximately $6.8 billion in total assets and $5.2 billion in total deposits.
The opportunities we have identified from a cost savings and revenue enhancements perspective are exceeding our initial expectations.
We are comfortable with the long-term targets we have highlighted previously of greater than 1% ROA 12% plus ROE and mid-50s efficiency ratio upon full facing of synergies and savings in 2015.
The combined company will be larger and more efficient.
And we will be focused on delivering superior customer service to our target markets of small and middle market commercial clients.
Jack? Thanks Luis.
Just to summarize our year-over-year performance earnings increased 12.9% year-over-year.
Without merger-related cost and securities gains earnings were up 34% year-over-year.
Revenue grew at 11.5% and expenses were up 2% resulting in a 5.75 times expense multiple.
Efficiency ratios are in the low 60% range with significant opportunity for continued improvement.
Loan growth was up 14% overall and up 21% in targeted commercial lending products.
Credit metrics continue to improve across the board as NPLs were down 32% and criticized and classified loans were down 75% year-over-year.
We have very strong levels of capital and liquidity further strengthened by our $100 million capital raise in early July.
And finally we are ready to begin the integration processes of Sterling Bancorp.
We are very confident in our ability to deliver top performing results as a result of the merger of these companies.
Detailed cost reductions are identified.
Improved revenue opportunities are quantified.
We are very focused on delivering strong results as a result of the execution of this integration plan.
So now let’s open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Kelley from Sterne Agee.
Yeah hi guys.
Hi Matt.
Hi Matt.
I was just wondering with the deal closing tomorrow if you could just update us on where you seem the pro forma margin coming in? And how much accretable yield benefit you will have beyond just the simple arithmetic average of the two companies kind of blending them together? How much the accretable yield will boost the full first quarter margin? It remains unchanged Matt.
What we have mentioned before obviously there is changes in some of the valuations that marks on the – from an interest rate perspective on the loan book but the average or that you are just saying the arithmetic average has taken it – take you about 170 basis points or so.
And we expect that there is going to be substantial accretion from sort of from that that discount being accreted in the income.
So it’s going to be again sort of closer to the 380 and 390 or so closer to 4% that we have talked about in the past.
So that remains largely unchanged.
Okay got you.
And then what’s the plan with kind of reducing the securities book that’s coming over from Sterling and where do you seek kind of the total securities book shaking out at the end of the first quarter? So it’s going to be around on a combined basis about a $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion combined.
And we are going to move quickly to downsize specific buckets of the Sterling portfolio that for various reasons don’t – either don’t fit to the combined balance sheet going forward or just places where we have for example in the municipal side overexposures on both sides some of the perspective of.
We have exposure to specific municipalities on both ends where we want to sort of move down a bit.
So overall it’s going to be about $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion on combined basis.
Okay got it.
And then just on – I think that was it for now.
If you could just give us an update on what’s happening with Sterling’s mortgage banking operation would it be similar to the trends that we have seen so far here in the September quarter down 40% or 50% sequentially? Without getting into too much detail Matt since we are not combined yet but we will shortly.
And again we don’t want to comment on sort of specifics given we don’t want them yet but that you can expect that there has been a sort of volume overall has held up better than what we have seen other folks announcing but from a sort of margin and income perspective and on gain on sale yes there is – it’s similar to what numbers that you have seen for folks that have reported recently.
So I would say that it’s pretty much in line with what you have seen in the marketplace.
Okay.
It’s interesting about that that business kind of going forward there are much of the strategic initiatives that folks from Sterling are going to execute against as a combined entity.
So that will support that business so whether it is hiring more teams when you – when the volumes are running down and capturing more of a market share or improving distribution channels which is in essence of putting the branches together between the two organizations.
There is greater distribution for their product set that will make all of a sense.
All that said yields will compress because the mix of fixed product that was yielding high returns in sales will transition more to a variable rate or a jumbo rate mix.
So there are a number of initiatives that are in line to make up some of the difference between the drop and where this has existed in the past but it will be down overall.
Okay.
And are we going to get a September earnings number or not? I do not believe so.
Okay.
Alright thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Collyn Gilbert from KBW.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi Collyn.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up so Sterling will not be reporting earnings would you guys anticipate putting out some sort of 8-K following the close just to give a little bit of insight as to what they put up for the quarter? No we are not – we won’t do that but we will within 75 days of the close we will have updated pro forma financial information that will have their balance sheet and income statement through September 30.
Okay okay.
And then on the expense side so Luis you are saying you guys kind of were guiding to an $88 million level in ‘13 you came in at $85 million excluding a lot of the sort of non-recurring items.
Is that sort of the base run-rate we should be thinking about as we go into the merger or just can you give a little bit more color as to if there has been expense pull forward that’s occurred already on the PBNY side that maybe there will be less than that $34 million on the Sterling side but just give a little more color on sort of the expense trajectory you guys are thinking about now? No the $85 million is good number.
As you know it does exclude a number of items and so that there are some items that are excluded that have some volatility in them.
So foreclosed properties for example that might sort of that may change and sort of – and will be volatile from quarter-to-quarter.
So when you look at our total non-interest expenses they were up – there were $91.5 million or so the $85 million excludes all those items that $85 million from the perspective of the core run-rate of sort of what we call the sort of the regular expense base is a good number to use going forward.
Okay okay.
And you guys are still on track any other updates to the $34 million of expense save that you expect to see I don’t know? No the $34 million is extremely solid.
What you do in these things cut through all the stuff.
We always ask people internally for higher numbers.
So we feel very confident with the $34 million and we feel very confident that we are going to make this company more efficient.
Okay.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just I wanted to confirm Luis so you said the tax rate going forward is going to be in the mid 30s for the combined institution? Yes that’s what we are anticipating as of today yes.
Okay okay.
And then just a final question just to make sure I heard you right the loan yield the current origination yield that you saw this quarter did you say that that was 4.1%? Yes on the commercial side yes.
Okay.
So both – that includes both CRE and C&amp;I.
Okay.
And then what about just the blended overall portfolio yields? Well if you give me one second I have that in front of me.
The total for the quarter was 4.02%.
Okay.
So the mortgages the residential mortgages that you put on this quarter those were – and if you said this in your intro comments I apologize but those are then – were those mostly fixed rate? No those were 5 and 10.1 arms for the most part.
Okay.
Yes maybe just and I am confused my comment was an overall comment going forward about mix not what it was going backward relative to mortgages.
Okay okay.
And we have mentioned to you before Collyn we sort of the long-term 30-year fixed rates and sort of 15-year fixed rates is not the place where we want to invest on the mortgage side.
On a portfolio basis.
On a portfolio basis on a portfolio basis.
So we are seeing good opportunities out there for generating good mortgage loans to folks that are in footprint that give us the opportunity to have that individual as a customer and generate more product sales and other sort of synergies from having that mortgage on the books but sort of long-term fixed rate mortgages that’s not where we are going to play.
Okay.
Okay I think that was all I had.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Great thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Kelley from Sterne Agee.
Yes just a follow-up how do envision the deal charge is going to playing out in the next two quarters two or three? So the – we have mentioned a 32 – sorry $33 million restructuring charge on aggregate Matt.
We are finalizing the details around that but our current estimate is that we are going to take the majority of that should have upfront in the first quarter sort of in the first fiscal quarter 2014.
Something just by the nature of our GAAP accounting works will come in sort of in the second and third quarter depending on sort of how we get more clarity around some of the savings and restructurings of facilities and that we will have going forward.
So the vast majority of it will be in the first quarter.
Okay got you.
And then when do you anticipate achieving that 25% securities to asset ratio? Two to three quarter post merger.
So second I will say is end of the first quarter the second calendar or end of the first calendar quarter or the second calendar quarter of next year that’s what we are targeting to get those ratios where we wanted to be.
Got it.
And then the reserves to originated loans you are sitting at a 127 basis points right now how low would you – do you think that might be able to go? How low? Yes.
1.2 to 1.25 where we wanted to be.
Okay just kind of holding this level then? Yes it’s going to hold this level.
There is sort of a lot of what we are doing today is slightly larger loans on the commercial side.
So we feel that will be appropriate place to be.
The credit quality is great.
At the same time we do realize that there is a – now there is a shift when you do business in the city to larger more – sort of larger clients that do larger loans therefore you have to hold a little bit more reserves against it.
So that’s where we want that number to be and we feel good about it.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Collyn Gilbert from KBW.
Sorry guys.
Just one quick follow-up is there any hope at all of you changing your fiscal year? Yes (indiscernible).
It depends on who is answering your question.
So the short answer to that Collyn is that we are exploring that possibility for 2014.
We will we have the full intention of changing the fiscal year.
We just don’t know what’s going to be in 2014.
We will provide you with updates in guidance as we go along but we are still exploring that possibility.
Yes we’ll tell you once that happen just there are some mechanical things we just want to make sure that we can do it obviously the right way and make sure that the core systems all work quite well when we combine.
Okay.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
Great.
Thank you.
There are no further questions.
I will now turn it back over to Jack for closing remarks.
I just want to thank everybody for the terrific work that was done in putting these companies together and frankly terrific work from a Provident standpoint in producing results and putting us on a path to really be a high achieving organization.
We are not there yet but we know fully intend to get there in short order.
We have had people from an employee standpoint worked their tails off this past year.
I really appreciate that and especially given that as we put these two organizations together folks have gone above and beyond the call duty to do that.
And I think we have – we will have created a very smart focused performance oriented company coming out of that.
And that also applies for the advisors and counselors that we use.
So my appreciation for everybody’s hard work on this and we look forward to closing the deal tomorrow and executing against our plan.
So thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Sterling Bancorp Fiscal 2014 First Quarter Earnings Call.
My name is Victoria and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Much of the information to be discussed is included in the earnings announcement that was released yesterday afternoon which is available on www.sterlingbancorp.com as well as accompanying slides.
Forward-looking statements made during the course of the conference call are subject to risks and uncertainties described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the press release filed on Tuesday as well as the annual report on Form 10-K.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jack Kopnisky President and CEO of Sterling Bancorp.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on this very snowy and icy day in the Northeast.
We’re going to discuss Sterling Bancorp’s first quarter results as a combined company.
The results represent three months of legacy Provident New York Bancorp and two months of legacy Sterling Bancorp.
Joining me today on the call is Luis Massiani our Chief Financial Officer.
Luis is going to review the financial details of the quarter.
So if I could move you to page three for those of you following on the web.
We are pleased with the progress thus far in integrating the companies.
We are slightly ahead of schedule in the integration process in terms of results.
We are very focused on executing our plan to create a high performing company one that grows earnings 10% to 15% per year or with return on tangible equity greater than 12% and return on tangible assets greater than 1%.
We expect to create positive operating leverage where revenues are growing at a 2 to 3x multiple of expenses.
Core net income excluding merger related cost was $9.4 million or $0.13 per share.
We would expect quarterly earnings and earnings per share to rise steadily throughout the year as our cost savings are realized and as revenue synergies and tactics take hold.
We've already seen improvement in return on core tangible equity to 8.67% and return on tangible assets to 66 basis points.
We have made strong progress toward achieving the $34 million plus cost reduction in core operating cost by December 31 2015.
On an annualized core run rate basis costs were down approximately $10 million from the operating expense baseline of $190 million.
Since announcement of our transaction full time equivalent individuals are down 17%.
These cost savings will be reflected after the 90 day [warn] [ph] period ends for most of the initial reductions in March 2014.
The core efficiency ratio of 65.4% will continue to improve.
We're also pleased with the manner in which the commercial relationship teams and revenue growth are positioned.
On a combined basis we have 21 relationship teams and are in the process of adding two new teams.
Our pipeline of opportunities are very strong which will enable us to deliver planned volumes of commercial consumer and mortgage loans in 2014.
The portfolio mix of the combined company is very diverse.
The commercial product set has already enabled us to identify more than a $100 million of shared revenue opportunities in terms of loans that neither company could have provided as a standalone company.
The core deposit base continues to be a low cost and growing.
The deposit cost for the quarter was 17 basis points.
Non-interest bearing demand and interest-bearing demand deposits represent 32% of total deposits.
Margins on a combined basis were 3.58% for the quarter and we would expect to have growth throughout the year in the margin.
Credit quality on a combined basis is strong.
Charge-offs for the quarter were $1.3 million or 14 basis points.
Non-performing loans are $38.4 million or 93% of total loans and reserves to total loans considering the marked acquired loans were 124 basis points.
Our capital and liquidity positions remain strong.
Our Tier 1 leverage ratio was 10.58% at Sterling National Bank and our consolidated tangible equity to tangible assets ratio was 7.78%.
The tangible capital ratio is expected to rise to approximately 8% by this calendar year-end.
We’re most excited about the future of this company.
The opportunities are very clear in terms of revenue growth expense savings and competitive positioning in the market.
Now let me turn the call over to Luis to detail the financial performance.
Thanks Jack and good morning everyone.
Given the successful closing of the merger with legacy Sterling we did have a number of items that negatively impacted our results for the quarter.
As a reminder our financial results we are going to review today include three months of legacy Provident and two months of legacy Sterling.
Reported net loss was $14 million and loss per share was $0.20.
Excluding the number of charges that we will review on the following slide core results for the quarter were net income of $9.4 million and earnings per share of $0.13.
In connection with the merger we issued 39.1 million shares of common stock to legacy Sterling shareholders on October 31.
Therefore our weighted average diluted shares were approximately $70.5 million.
As of December 31 2013 our total shares outstanding were approximately $84 million.
Results for the quarter were also impacted by a net loss on sales securities of 645 000.
The loss was due to a repositioning of the investment securities portfolio in connection with the merger that had the objective of reducing specific credit concentrations given overlap between legacy Provident and legacy Sterling and to reduce the overall duration profile of the portfolio.
From a net interest margin perspective we are already seeing the positive impact of the merger.
Net interest margin on a tax equivalent basis was approximately 3.6% which represented a 35 basis point increase over the linked quarter.
Net interest margin was positively impacted by accretion of the fair value marks recorded in the Gotham and legacy Sterling transactions of approximately $2 million.
Given our average interest earning assets for the quarters were $5.2 billion the accretable yield had a positive impact of approximately 15 basis points on NIM.
Longer term we anticipate the net interest margin will be closer to or slightly above 370 basis points as we fully integrate legacy Sterling results.
Turning to slide five we will review in more detail the reconciliation of reported GAAP earnings to core earnings.
As we previously mentioned the loss for the quarter was $14 million and the loss per share was $0.20.
Items that negatively impacted results included the following.
A $9.1 million merger-related expense incurred in connection with the legacy Sterling acquisition which was recorded on the effective date of the merger.
These items are included as a separate line item on our statement of operations and included mainly professional fees a portion of change in control payments and cost associated with changes in signage and other merger communications.
The second item was a charge of $22.2 million for asset write-downs retention and anticipated severance compensation.
These items are related to the realization of anticipated cost savings from the merger.
Asset write-downs mainly include charges for the consolidation of office and financial center locations and the write-off of the Provident Bank ballpark naming rights.
These items are recorded in our statement of operations on the other non-interest expense line item.
The third item represents the amortization of non-compete agreements we entered into with key personnel of legacy Sterling.
As of December 31 2013 the balance of these agreements was $9.3 million.
We will amortize a little over half of this intangible asset in 2014 and the remainder in 2015 and 2016.
This item is recorded on our statement of operations in the amortization of other intangibles line item.
The fourth item is a charge on the settlement of a portion of the legacy Provident defined benefit pension plan.
We decided to take advantage of strong equity market performance in 2012 and 2013 which was reflected in the fair value of the pension plan assets to eliminate a substantial liability.
This item is recorded in our statement of operations in compensation and benefits expense.
Please note that this charge represents the acceleration of future amortization of items that are recorded as accumulated other comprehensive loss therefore this charge had no net impact on our tangible book value.
We are currently in a process of evaluating a similar partial termination of the legacy Sterling defined benefit plan.
Let’s turn to slide six which we think demonstrates the impact and full potential to be realized from the merger.
First there has been no client fallout to-date as a result of the merger.
As of October 31 2013 total loans have increased 24 million even though we have experienced decreasing loan balances in our ADC portfolio.
Deposits present a similar story.
Although total deposit balances are down since the effective date of the merger by approximately 45 million this is due to seasonal factors associated with our municipal banking business.
Since October 31st demand deposits are up approximately 100 million.
To-date we have experienced no client attrition.
The pie charts on the bottom of the page show the impact of the merger and the diversification of our business mix as a combined company.
If you were to review the balance sheet of each company on a standalone basis prior to the merger you would see a significant concentration in commercial real estate assets for legacy Provident and commercial and industrial assets for legacy Sterling.
As a combined company we have approximately 80% of our loans evenly split between CRE and C&amp;I.
And we also have significant consumer lending capabilities as consumer loans represent 20% of our total loan portfolio.
We intend to continue this mix of business.
The yield on loans was 4.88% in the quarter which represented an increase of 18 basis points over the linked quarter.
From a funding perspective we continue to enjoy the benefits of an attractive low cost deposit base with approximately 62% of deposits consisting of demand and money market deposits.
Total cost of deposits was 17 basis points for the quarter which was up 2 basis points over the linked quarter but continues to be an extremely attractive number on an absolute basis.
On slide seven we will review in more detail our significant origination capabilities across a broad range of asset classes.
We now have a portfolio of businesses that spread pretty evenly with the ability to originate short medium and long-term maturity loans floating and fixed rate loans and loans that have direct connectivity to significant fee income generation.
We will also be able to expand our target market as our capabilities in specialty lending business lines allow us to offer products to companies of varying sizes and stages of development.
Given the nature of these businesses there is also a direct opportunity to capture low cost core deposits as part of a full commercial relationship.
We're also a larger company with larger balance sheet and more resources.
This will allow us to grow with and better serve our customers as they grow their businesses.
Our strategy going forward is simple.
The merger has created a company with diverse lending capabilities and a differentiated distribution strategy a strategy that includes 21 commercial relationship teams and over 40 financial centers covering the greater New York metro area.
We now have more teams more products and have expanded target market of opportunities.
We believe that over time this will allow us to deliver substantial growth.
As you can see on slide 8 our diversified business lines and asset origination capabilities resulted in attractive balance-sheet position.
Our securities portfolio totaled approximately $1.6 billion as of December 31st with a weighted average duration of approximately 5 years which remains unchanged relative to pre-merger.
However our total yield on securities increased during the quarter by 22 basis points to approximately 2.6%.
Looking at our combined loans and securities we believe this presents an attractive and differentiated picture relative to most banks of our size.
We are well positioned in the event of a rising rate environment.
As of December 31st approximately $1.8 billion of interest earning assets would mature or reprice within one year and close to $2.5 billion of assets would mature or reprice within three years.
Combined with our large balance of demand deposit accounts we believe this provides us with significant balance sheet flexibility and earnings potential going forward.
Turning to slide 9 let’s look at our fee income which was approximately $9.8 million for the quarter excluding the impact of the net loss on sales securities.
As shown in the chart on the right we anticipate that mortgage banking payroll finance and factoring will be main drivers of our non-interest income going forward and will be supplemented by our other fee-based businesses.
Excluding the impact of the securities losses non-interest income to total revenues was approximately 17.5%.
Over the long-term we’re targeting this ratio to be closer to 25% to total revenue.
Reviewing mortgage banking in more detail we will focus on a combined three months view to provide a better guide of trends in the business.
Please remember that our results only reflect two months of legacy Sterling so the combined company did not enjoy the full benefits of the numbers we will discuss here.
Total closings for the quarter were approximately $183 million which represented a decrease of approximately 25% relative to the linked quarter and a decrease of approximately 33% relative to the second calendar quarter of 2013.
Even though total volumes are down approximately 63% of total closings in the fourth quarter represented purchase transactions and the majority of originations continue to be in the tristate area with a specific concentration in New York City (inaudible).
We believe this will provide us with some stability in origination volumes going forward.
On slide 10 our core operating efficiency ratio was 65.4% which does not yet reflect the impact of anticipated cost savings to be realized from the merger.
As you will recall in connection with the merger announced in April 2013 we provided guidance regarding our anticipated level of cost savings and percentage of cost savings relative to operating expenses.
These were $34.2 million and 18% respectively which equaled in operating expense base line of $190 million.
The table below shows the anticipated progression in the combined operating expense base.
Please note that to be consistent with the merger announcement information that we provided this chart focuses on expenses for the calendar year 2014 and not this quarter.
Over the next 12 months ending on December 31 2014 we are targeting four operating expenses in a range of $165 million to $168 million.
Turning to slide 11 our asset quality remains strong and ratios continue to show improvement across the board.
In connection with the merger we reported a fair value adjustment of $25.4 million which included a credit mark of approximately $31.3 million.
When looking at our allowance for loan losses to total loans excluding the impact of the loans acquired in the Gotham and legacy Sterling transactions which were reported at fair value and carry no allowance this ratio was 1.24% at December 31 2013 which is right in our target range.
When reviewing our allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans ratio which was 78% at December 31st please remember that this ratio does not reflect the credit mark associated with the loans acquired from Gotham and legacy Sterling.
Net charge-offs against the allowance were $1.3 million which compared favorably relative to the $2.2 million recorded in the linked quarter.
Our provision for loan losses was $3 million which in addition to replenishing our net charge-offs also begins to provide for the growing portion of Gotham and legacy Sterling loans that are now part of our allowance calculation.
Our long term target allowance to total loans ratio continues to be approximately 1.2%.
Turning to slide 12 and finalizing the presentation we will quickly review capital and liquidity.
We continue to be in the strong capital position with the consolidated tangible equity to tangible assets ratio of close to 7.8% as of December 31st.
Our liquidity position also remains strong and we’re looking to further enhance it by reducing collateralization requirements in our municipal deposits.
Our municipal banking business is an attractive source of low cost deposit funding and will be an efficient tool to continue funding loan growth going forward.
We anticipate redeeming of legacy Sterling Trust preferred securities by June 30 2014 which will generate significant interest expense savings.
I’ll now turn it over to Jack.
Thanks Louis.
Let me summarize the quarter.
First core earnings of $0.13 per share are what we expected for the first quarter of the combined company.
As cost saves occur and revenue enhancements are realized we would expect the results to grow and improve quarter-over-quarter.
Our integration process is working and we are pleased with how the two companies have come together.
We've retained our clients through the process and have continued to grow core loans and targeted demand deposits.
Our pipeline of revenue opportunities is significant across all lending and fee income categories.
The response from clients and prospects to the broader product offering and our team based relationship delivery has been significant.
We have over a $100 million of new loan opportunities that neither bank could have provided as a standalone entity.
We recently [bleached] our commercial clients these are existing clients using our executives with our relationship teams and have resulted in 127 calls on the clients.
Yielded -- what's interesting is it yielded a new opportunity in virtually every call that we made just one small snippet of the power of what we think we can do in the future.
This opportunity -- the opportunity for growth is significant.
Our capital and liquidity positions remain strong and will enable us to grow the earnings of the company.
Credit quality continues to improve as we have appropriately marked the book of the acquired company and have seen continued improvements in the legacy portfolio.
Finally we are most focused on delivering strong results in the future.
We are targeting earnings to grow 10% to 15% per year on a long-term basis with return on tangible equity greater than 12% and return on tangible assets greater than 1% driven by the creation of positive operating leverage.
Now let’s open up the line for questions you may have.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Kelley with Sterne Agee.
Yeah hi guys.
Hi Matt.
I was wondering if you could just kind of go through the second quarter second -- I guess your second fiscal quarter your accretable yield impact so the $2 million goes to what on a full quarter and where do you expect the margin on an FTE basis compared to the 3.58? I just want to make sure I am clear on that.
So to answer your first question Matt the $2 million goes in the range of $2.5 million to $3 million or so as you will recall and we’ve talked about this in the past there is various factors that go into that potential prepayments and so forth that might make that number move.
But where we stand today we think 2.5 to 3 is a good number to use.
And sorry what was your second question?  Yeah.
So just you were suggesting a full year FTE margin of around 3.70; is that kind of where you think it’s settled down now?  Yeah it’s going to be -- we think that full year once we start and finalize the redemption of the trust preferred securities it’s going to be slightly above 3.70.
You will see a steady progression towards that number on long-term.
So for the second quarter I would that sort of that 3.58 that we had is probably going to be in the 3.65-ish to 3.70 range.
And then as we continue to do various things and reposition the securities portfolio which we still have a little bit of work to do there and we redeem the trust-preferred securities you'll see another slight bump.
You do have to remember when you think about our NIM Matt that there is two -- sort of there is two parts of the year given our municipal bank business for we have higher or elevated deposit [muni] [ph] deposit balances and therefore a higher cash balance at the Fed.
And that happens at September 30 and in the first part of this quarter as well.
So sort of the second fiscal quarter of this year isn't the best indicator what the long-term run rate of NIM is.
So you'll see a little bit of a steadier increase as we go forward through 2014.
Okay got it.
And then the mortgage banking operation acquired from Sterling what is the pipeline looking like and what do you expect for fiscal 2Q gain on sale activity compared to the 1.6? We had so $183 million was the total combined originations for the first quarter but the vast majority of that production came from the legacy Sterling side of the business.
We anticipate that we're going to be sort of flat to that number to slightly maybe potentially up.
We're working on a number of things; we're hiring some additional folks in that area.
And when you think about the mortgage business for us on a combined basis is very much focused on the tri-state area and specifically in New York City and the Boroughs with a high concentration in purchase versus refi volume.
So I think that you're going to see us have a little bit more stability there than what you would see for other folks.
But that 100 and sort of that we're seeing from the January run rates we think that we’re going to be generally flat to where we were in the fourth quarter.
I'm sorry in the first fiscal quarter and fourth calendar quarter.
Yeah.
Yeah what we're transitioning in the model actually in the mortgage business we're actually transitioning the model to be much more of a team-based model rather than taking tons of refinance volume off of brokers.
We're concentrated on purchase volume.
And frankly we're hiring and supporting teams of folks that really are high value-added high quality originators of purchase volume and relationship.
So the Sterling mortgage team has done a very good job of repositioning the business to look more like that.
Got you.
And then just two last ones; what are you current yields on the pipeline for both C&amp;I and then commercial real estate and then what should we use for tax rate? Tax rate 30% to 33% 32% to 33% for the remainder of the year is our current estimate for effective tax rate.
From the yields on the pipeline varies by geography but on average sort of for our traditional commercial real estate book it’s slightly above 4%.
For the C&amp;I book is below that but shorter duration and floating rate in a lot of cases so that’s actually not a bad place to be.
So if you’re looking at our CREs it’s 4 to 4.25 depending again on city in the city versus outside of the city and sort of the competitive landscape in the geography that we are talking about.
It’s pretty interesting even from a volume standpoint that towards the end of the year it was a little bit flat in terms of volume.
At the beginning of the year it has picked up significantly in terms of activity deals that we’re working on of now come to bear.
And frankly the pricing in certain sectors still is a little bit tough like multi-family but in our sectors commercial real estate have firmed a little bit still competitive as it always will be.
But I think pricing kind of hit bottom probably six months ago and have started to firm up a little bit.
Got it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Collyn Gilbert with KBW.
Thanks good morning guys.
Hi Collyn.
Jack just to follow-up on your comment there about pricing and the fact that maybe you know it’s bottom six months ago.
Do you -- how much of an impact does this move in the tenure have do you guys think on loan pricing? I mean it’s pulled back now obviously they are like 2.60.
Do you think that flows through to loan pricing eventually or is it just competitive factor than demand that’s going to keep loan pricing more stable than what the tenure may or may not do? Yeah I actually think competitive factors do that.
I think more so than the tenure bouncing around tenure is going to bounce around for whatever period of time.
But I think it’s really more of the competitive pressures.
And frankly one of the opportunities that we have as a company is we are seeing many many more opportunities across all these business lines.
So if there are deals that are frankly thin priced and below our hurdles and non-relationship oriented we will pass on because there are opportunities in other sectors that we have.
One of the great things about -- with this company looks like now is a series of levers in terms of geography and from a product standpoint that you can pull and push on.
So the best example is the multi-family side brokerage and the multi-family.
We are not going to play in an area where the rates are in the low threes versus places like factoring or payroll finance or some of the CRE other CRE mechanisms where the prices are firmer and are obviously higher with greater yields.
Okay.
And then to that point how should we think about loan growth this year? I mean what’s your targeted growth rate specifically in each of those two categories C&amp;I and CRE? Yeah I can give you the overall.
We expect low double-digit low-teen commercial loan growth.
And that's across the whole portfolio.
And where there is probably higher loan growth are going to be higher than the low it will be kind of the commercial real estate and C&amp;I across the board.
Obviously where it’s lower are things like multi-family and the mortgage business for example; mortgage warehouse for example will not enjoy that type of growth rate.
So it’s going to be low double-digit teen growth rate.
Okay that's helpful.
And then what about -- you had mentioned sort of what you are doing on the mortgage side to stimulate additional growth there? What about factoring? How do you think you can grow that business or what is your targets for growth on the factoring side?  Yeah...
And I believe you got that from a feed perspective not any tiny rate? Right so like factoring and payroll are more fee-oriented than they are kind of loan outstanding growth rates.
But what's interesting is we already are seeing the relationship teams -- so the issue with factoring in legacy Sterling has been throughput.
So there is not been enough deals that have come through the system that we have a magnificent back office that can process payroll factoring even ABL but we need more volume.
Part of what the relationship teams are tasked to do is to identify specific opportunities in addition to the sales areas of factoring within that group.
We have the relationship teams tasked with identifying factoring opportunities.
The $100 million that I identified with it’s actually more than $100 million of loans that we've identified.
Actually our wins identified generally from the relationship teams for areas like factoring and payroll and ABL.
So that’s how we expect to grow.
It’s not -- it’s really more of an issue of distribution and having more of our team’s touches more clients.
We had one specific deal that’s about ready to close Jim of around $27 million that one of the relationship teams identified early on.
And so a perfect deal for factoring.
The factoring folks may not have seen that in prior times because of the contacts that the relationship teams have.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just one last question Luis; can you just give a little more color to your plans on sort of the repositioning of the securities portfolio?  There is specific buckets of the portfolio that sort of that we inherited as part of the merger that we’re not enamored with.
There is no sort of securities that have sort of a lower yielding profile but significant extension risk.
Given this recent sort of back up in rates again over the last couple of weeks we are seeing we believe and anticipate that there is going to be good opportunity for us to potentially sort of sell out some of those positions and replace them with things that I think better fit the combined profile of the company and better position the portfolio for a rising rate environment.
So specifically some of those buckets include agencies and some [annuities] where we are not -- where we just have to continue working to a little bit as we go through the course of the year.
Okay.
Alright that’s helpful.
Thanks.
Sure.
And there are currently no further phone questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Kopnisky for any closing remarks.
Yeah thanks for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to a terrific next quarter and following quarters with the opportunities before us.
So we are very excited about the opportunity and look forward to providing great results in the future.
Thanks a lot for everybody.
Again thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Sterling Bancorp Fiscal 2014 Second Quarter Earnings Call.
My name is Brandy and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Much of the information to be discussed is included in the earnings announcement that was released yesterday afternoon which is available on www.sterlingbancorp.com as well as accompanying slides.
Forward-looking statements made during the course of the conference call are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the press release filed on Tuesday as well as the Annual Report on Form 10-K.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jack Kopnisky President and CEO of Sterling Bancorp.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today to discuss Sterling Bancorp’s second quarter results.
Joining me today on the call is Luis Massiani our Chief Financial Officer.
Luis is going to review the financial details of the quarter.
So if I could direct you to Page 3 I will take you through the slides.
During the quarter we are seeing the results from our execution of our strategy and the integration of legacy Sterling Bancorp.
We have made significant progress which is evidenced by our strong results in the quarter including a higher profitability double-digit loan growth and a significant improvement in operating ratios.
Excluding the impact of merger-related expenses and other charges core earnings for the quarter were $13.2 million and core earnings per diluted share were $0.16.
Our core return on tangible equity improved approximately 223 basis points to 10.8% and our core return on tangible assets improved 19 basis points to 85 basis points.
The net interest margin improved by 18 basis points to 3.76%.
During the quarter on a pro forma basis revenue grew by approximately 1% and expenses declined by approximately 6% creating the level of operating leverage we have targeted.
The efficiency ratio improved 340 basis points to 62%.
We continue to make strong progress toward achieving our target of $34 million plus reduction in core operating costs by 12/31/2015.
On an annualized core run-rate costs are down $23 million from the operating baseline of $190 million.
During the quarter we continued to right-size our branch network by announcing a consolidation of 10 branches effective in the third fiscal quarter.
We experienced strong loan deposit and fee growth for the quarter.
Total loans grew at an annualized rate of 11.4% over the prior quarter.
Focusing on our commercial and industrial loans commercial real estate loans and specialty lending businesses loan balances grew by $145.4 million to $4.3 billion which represented annualized growth of 17.7% over prior quarter end.
We continue to have a significant pipeline of opportunities across all business lines.
Core deposits of transactions savings and money market accounts grew to $3.7 billion which represented annual growth of 7.2% over balances at December 31 2013.
Total core deposits including muni deposits represent 90% of our total deposits.
The cost of deposits was 19 basis points for the quarter.
For the quarter non-interest income was $12.4 million or 18.6% of total revenue.
We are focused on improving or raise that ratio to over 20% of revenue.
As we continue to manage our mix of human capital we hired 11 new relationship bankers during the quarter to increase the size of many of our 21 teams.
Our team based strategy works and we continue to see opportunities to hire more teams and gain share.
Credit quality remains solid.
In the recent quarter we moved three acquisition development and construction credits to non-performing status with two still paying current.
This is consistent with our efforts to liquidate the ADC portfolio and we are confident in our valuation of the portfolio.
Looking ahead we see continued core earnings growth as our team based approach results in more loans deposits and fee income along with our drive to become more efficient through our merger-related cost reductions.
Now let me turn the call over to Luis to detail the financial performance.
Thanks Jack and good morning everyone.
As a reminder the financial results we are going to review today include three months on a fully combined basis for the second fiscal quarter while the linked quarter included three months of legacy Provident and two months of legacy Sterling.
Reported net income was $10.3 million and diluted earnings per share was $0.12.
Excluding certain charges that we will review on the following slide core results for the quarter were a net income of $13.2 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.16.
In connection with the merger we issued 39.1 million shares of common stock to legacy Sterling shareholders on October 31.
Therefore our weighted average diluted shares were approximately 70 million in the linked quarter as compared to 83.8 million for the quarter ended March 31.
As of March 31 our total shares outstanding were 83.5 million.
From a net interest margin perspective we are building on our first quarter results.
Net interest margin on a tax equivalent basis was 3.76% which represented an 18 basis point increase over the linked quarter.
Net interest margin was positively impacted by the accretion of the fair value marks recorded – reported in the Gotham and legacy Sterling transactions of $2.6 million which represented an impact of 18 basis points on NIM.
Going forward we anticipate net interest margin will be in the range of approximately 370 to 380 basis points as the accretion of the fair value marks will begin to moderate over time and will be offset by the continued repositioning of our balance sheet including growing loans and increasing proportion of loans to total interest earning assets.
We also continue to make progress towards achieving our core profitability targets.
For the second fiscal quarter core ROTA was 85 basis points and core ROTE was 10.8% which are both well above the linked quarter performance and are heading in the right direction.
Turning to Slide 5 we will review in more detail the reconciliation of reported GAAP earnings to core earnings.
The starting point for the calculation is our reported net income for the quarter which was $10.3 million and diluted EPS which was $0.12.
Items that negatively impacted results included the following.
We incurred merger related expenses of $388 000 related to final client communications branding relocation of personnel and professional fees.
These items are recorded as a separate line item on our income statement.
The second item was a charge of $678 000 which consisted of a charge for incremental severance compensation and a charge for expenses associated with our core banking systems conversion.
These items are recorded in our income statement as other expenses.
The core conversion will allow us to fully integrate the IT systems of legacy Provident and legacy Sterling and will better position the company for sustained and profitable growth.
Our target date for conversion is November 2014.
We anticipate we will incur additional costs of approximately $3 million through the conversion date consisting mainly of early contract termination charges as we transition away from our current service provider.
The third items is a charge of $1.5 million on the settlement of a portion of the legacy Sterling defined benefit pension plan and the legacy Provident ESOP plan.
This item is recorded in our income statement in compensation and benefits and is the function of the integration of personnel and benefits of the two legacy companies.
The fourth item represents the amortization of non-compete agreements which was $1.5 million for the second fiscal quarter.
We entered into these agreements with key senior personnel of legacy Sterling.
As of March 31 the balance of these agreements was $7.8 million.
We will amortize an additional $3 million of this intangible asset in 2014 and the remainder in 2015 and ’16.
This item is recorded on our income statement in the amortization of other intangibles line item.
Let’s turn to Slide 6 which we believe is a good indicator of the success of the merger to-date.
As of March 31 loans have increased $140 million as compared to the merger date which represents annualized growth of 7.6%.
During the second fiscal quarter we grew total loan balances by 11.4% and our commercial balances at an almost 18% annualized rate.
A significant portion of this growth was in the month of March but we are nevertheless pleased with the volumes and activity our teams and business lines generated during the quarter and how they are positioned for further growth.
Deposits presented similar story.
Deposits increased $291 million in the second fiscal quarter with core retail and commercial deposits increasing 7.2%.
Since October 31 demand deposits were up $166 million which is an annualized growth rate of 16.4%.
Including our municipal deposits approximately 90% of our deposits are core and our total cost of deposits was 19 basis points.
We continue to enjoy the benefits of an exceptional depositor base.
The pie charts on the bottom of the page show the diversification of our business mix as a combined company.
Prior to the merger you would have seen a significant concentration in commercial real estate for legacy Provident and C&amp;I for legacy Sterling.
As a combined company we have approximately 80% of our loans evenly split between CRE and C&amp;I and we also have significant consumer lending capabilities.
We intend to continue this mix of business going forward.
The yield on loans was 5.05% in the quarter which represented an increase of 17 basis points over the linked quarter.
On Slide 7 we will review in more detail our significant origination capabilities across a broad range of asset classes.
We think this table summarizes our strategy well.
We are focusing on growing our commercial businesses where we have the capabilities and opportunity to have full client relationships that include loans deposits and fees.
We are augmenting these commercial businesses with other businesses in consumer and CRE where we believe there is a good opportunity to generate attractive risk adjusted returns.
In short we are going where you want to while managing or reducing our exposure in select areas.
Turning to Slide 8 our diversified business lines and asset origination capabilities resulted in an attractive balance sheet that is well positioned for a raising rate environment.
Our securities portfolio totaled $1.8 billion as of March 31 with the weighted average duration of approximately 4.4 years which is below the linked quarter in which it was closer to five years.
Our total yield on securities increased during the quarter by 20 basis points to 2.77%.
Looking at our combined loans and securities we believe this represents an attractive and differentiated picture relative to most banks our size.
As of March 31 approximately $1.9 billion of interest earning assets will mature or reprice within one year and close to $2.6 billion of assets will mature or repriced within three years.
Combined with our large balance of demand deposit accounts we believe this provides us with significant balance sheet flexibility and earnings potential going forward.
Turning to Slide 9 let’s look at our fee income which was $12.4 million excluding the impact of modest securities gains.
This compares to $9.8 million excluding the impact of loss on sale of securities in the linked quarter.
The majority of the increase is reflective of three months of legacy Sterling being included in our results.
Non-interest income to total revenues was 18.6% compared to 17.5% for the linked quarter.
Over the long-term we are targeting this ratio to be 20% or more of total revenue.
The main contributors to our fee income were service charges on deposits factoring payroll and mortgage banking.
Although mortgage banking results were impacted by seasonal factors mortgage banking was – mortgage banking income was relatively unchanged relative to linked quarter adjusting for the merger date.
Our payroll finance and factoring businesses also experienced seasonality in the first calendar quarter.
Year-over-year combined aggregate volumes and fee income in these business lines has increased slightly.
We are seeing good opportunities in both of these businesses and anticipate that the addition of our commercial teams with a greater focus on cross selling will make a significant impact allowing us to grow these business lines.
On Slide 10 our core operating efficiency ratio was 62% for the quarter which is a positive step relative to the long-term goals we have outlined and compared to the 65.4% ratio we reported in the linked quarter.
This does not yet fully reflects the full impact on anticipated cost savings to be realized from the merger.
As you will recall in connection with the merger announcement in April 2013 we provided guidance regarding our anticipated level of cost savings and percentage of cost savings relative to operating expenses.
These were $34.2 million and 18% respectively which equaled an operating expense baseline of $190 million.
The table below shows the anticipated progression on the combined operating expense.
Please note that to be consistent with the merger announcement information that we provided this chart focuses on expenses for the calendar year 2014 and not fiscal.
For the 12 months ended December 31 2014 we are targeting core operating expenses in a range of $165 million to $168 million.
Our first quarter expense levels are in line with our target.
We have also restarted our team recruiting strategy.
During the quarter we hired 11 new relationship bankers in the New York City market.
Recruiting and new hires will have an impact on expenses but we are comfortable maintaining the guidance we have provided on efficiency targets as synergies will be realized in other areas and the new teams begin to generate revenues and results as they come on board.
Turning to Slide 11 our asset quality remained strong.
During the second fiscal quarter we moved three relationships to non-performing based on our overall assessment of the loans.
As a result our non-performing loans increased $16.8 million from the linked quarter.
However because these loans had already been identified as problem assets you can see that the increase in substandard doubtful loans in the period was only $5.4 million.
Two of these loans are current.
However we believe the best course of action is to move them to non-accrual to accelerate the reduction of outstanding balances and to provide greater flexibility for workout purposes.
In connection with the merger we recorded a fair value adjustment of $25.4 million which included a credit mark of approximately $31 million.
When looking at our allowance for loan losses to total loans we have included a ratio that excludes the impact of the loans acquired in the Gotham and legacy Sterling transactions which were recorded at fair value and carry no allowance.
This ratio was 1.12% at March 31 which is within our expected range.
When reviewing our allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans ratio which was 58% at March 31 please remember that this ratio does not reflect the remaining credit marks associated with the loans acquired from Gotham and legacy Sterling.
Net charge-offs against the allowance were $3.6 million or 34 basis points compared to $1.3 million or 14 basis points in the linked quarter.
Our provision for loan losses was $4.8 million which in addition to replenishing our net charge-offs also provides for the growing portion of Gotham and legacy Sterling loans that are now part of our allowance and also for our loan growth.
As we continued to reduce our problem ADC credits our long-term target allowance to total loans ratio will be in the range of 1.1% to 1.2% of total loans.
Finalizing the presentation we will quickly review capital and liquidity on Slide 12.
We continue to be in a strong capital position with a consolidated tangible equity to tangible assets ratio of close to 7.7% as of March 31.
Our liquidity position also remains strong and we have further enhanced it by reducing collateralization requirements under municipal deposits.
Our municipal banking business is an attractive source of low cost deposit funding and will be an efficient tool to continue funding loan growth.
As we announced yesterday we will redeem the legacy Sterling Trust preferred securities on June 1 which will generate significant interest expense savings.
I will now turn it over to Jack.
Thanks Luis.
Let me summarize the quarter.
Core earnings were $13.2 million or $0.16 per diluted share.
Our progress in executing our strategy is also reflected in strong improvement in net interest margin to 3.76% core return on tangible equity to 10.8% core return on tangible assets to 85 basis points and efficiency ratio of 62%.
We will continue to drive positive operating leverage through this model.
We delivered solid growth in loans deposits and fee income highlighted by a 17.7% annualized commercial loan growth 7.2% core deposit growth and fee income representing 18.6% of total revenue.
The strong capital ample liquidity and solid credit quality with which we will support our growth objectives.
Finally as we stated on a number of calls we expect to improve earnings 10% to 15% per year with a ROTE greater than 12% and return on tangible assets greater than 1% driven by the creation of positive operating leverage.
We have made significant progress and we continue to focus on driving the execution of this strategy.
Now let’s open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) You have a question from the line of Collyn Gilbert with KBW.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Jack maybe I will just – that was your comments around loan growth and the fact that you still see opportunities to hire more teams tying that in tying in also to I don’t know maybe I am reading into it but the fact that you said that a lot of the loan growth came in in March.
Does that mean maybe growth slows in the second quarter or how should we kind of think about total loan growth and the momentum from here if you could sort a quantify some of your comments? Sure sure.
So loan growth comes in varying times based on what the teams are processing.
So you can’t read anything into that January may have been slower than March is just a matter of – as loans get closed one of the great things about this – the diversity of this portfolio is that loan opportunities lending relationships come from many different areas at many different times.
So we are very confident that we can continue at a clip of double-digit loan growth throughout the remainder of the year and into the foreseeable future highlighted by higher loan growth on the commercial side which is where we are focused versus the total loan side as we look at what level of loans we want to put in portfolio on the mortgage side for example or the consumer banking side.
So our concentration and our focus are really around C&amp;I commercial real estate and the specialty lending areas.
Okay okay.
That’s helpful.
And then Luis how much do you remind us again the dollar amount of accretable income that you have left? This quarter was $2.6 million and we anticipate that’s going to stay close to – for the next couple of quarters it’s going to be in that same range.
Okay okay.
That’s helpful.
And then so just on the margin guidance of the 370 to 380 is a portion of still what’s driving that do you anticipate continuing mix shift in terms of getting putting securities in the loans how should we think about the securities for lack of… So that’s right.
So you are going to have a re-shifting and rebalancing of the earning asset side into more loans.
And also as Jack alluded to the places where we are focusing our most attention on growing are places where we think that we can – on the loan side are places where we think we can generate nice risk adjusted returns and nice yields.
So in the specialty business lines those are by nature higher yielding types of loans.
So as we continue to rebalance from securities to loans and increase the proportion of our specialty business lines as a part of the total earning asset pie that’s where you start getting a little bit more little bit more juice on the margin side.
Okay okay that’s helpful.
And just you had made the comment that 44% of the loans re-priced within three years or mature within three years and how much of that is tied to specifically the prime or LIBOR? There is a good portion of it.
I don’t have that exact number at the top of my head.
I can get back to you on that but it’s a good portion of it because the vast majority of the specialty business lines do price off of three-month LIBOR time right depending on specific contractual agreements and arrangements with each borrower but it is a good portion of it.
So but then again you also have a significant portion of our commercial real estate book especially on the legacy Provident side that also rolls off over the course of the next one two and three years.
So it’s a mix of both and I don’t have an exact number to give you but there is a fair amount of that 44% that would also be long-term loans that are coming due at that point.
Okay okay.
And then just one final question and then I will hop out how quickly do you think you can let that ADC portfolio can – will run off and is your intention to take it to zero or? Yes I mean pretty close to zero.
I frankly don’t like the business.
I have never liked the business.
I think it is loudly cyclical.
The only portion that there will be some remaining on – is on the C side the construction side because there are good opportunities to manage construction projects that turn into permanent loans but we will not do the AMD side of this thing unless somebody secures with cash or some remarkable level of collateral.
So we have taken this portfolio in about 2.5 years from almost $300 million down to $90 million.
And what we did for the quarter and why the non-performing loans went up there are three credits in there.
They are all long time customers.
They have multiple projects within those three credits.
We want to be very aggressive at liquidating those three credits.
So frankly half of the charge-offs that we took related to those credits and we wanted to be aggressive about getting them out of the company.
They have been around for a long time and we feel very confident in the asset market evaluation.
So that there won’t be additional losses coming out of these three credits but long way to answer your question we really want to liquidate this portfolio down to the C side of this into the $30 million $40 million balance within the next two years.
Okay that’s great.
That’s great color.
Alright thanks guys.
Alright thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) There are no additional questions at this time.
We will turn the conference back over to the management for closing remarks.
Yes just thanks everybody for joining us.
We look forward to some continued terrific results and moving forward in our strategy and the execution of our strategy.
So thanks for following the company and thanks for supporting us and look forward to continued improvement.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to the Sterling Bancorp Third Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jack Kopnisky Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bancorp.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Sterling Bancorp’s third quarter results.
Joining me today on the call is Luis Massiani our Chief Financial Officer.
During the quarter we continued our progression of delivering strong core operating results driven by solid revenue growth and expense control.
Excluding the impact of various gains and charges associated with our integration of legacy Sterling and other strategic initiatives core earnings for quarter were $15.7 million and core earnings per diluted share was $0.19 representing a 19% increase over the previous quarter’s earnings.
Core revenue growth was 6.5% with flat expenses relative to the previous quarter.
The resulting core efficiency ratio improved 366 basis points to 57.8% over the last quarter.
The improvement in our core operating and profitability ratios was significant.
Our net interest margin improved 8 basis points to 3.84%.
Our core return on tangible equity improved 169 basis points to 12.4% and our core return on tangible assets improved 11 basis points to 95 basis points.
We have made significant progress in achieving the objectives of creating a high performing organization that consistently produces return on tangible equity greater than 12% return on tangible assets greater than 100 basis points and efficiency ratios of approximately 55% or better through the creation of positive operating leverage.
We are ahead of schedule in reducing cost associated with the integration of the two companies.
Since the merger in October 2013 we have reduced headcount by more than 20% consolidated 13 financial centers and we are on track to reduce total facility square footage by almost 25%.
We have also changed the mix of our workforce by hiring more client facing teams while both modernizing and outsourcing selected back-office processes.
We experienced very strong loan growth for the quarter.
Total loans grew by $314 million in the quarter representing a 29.4% annualized rate.
The annualized growth in commercial loans was 33.4% approximately 57% of the commercial growth was C&amp;I loans and 43% in real estate loans as we continue to enjoy a diverse loan mix.
Total deposits were down 2.1% for the quarter primarily due to seasonally lower levels of CDs and municipal balances.
The deposit mix and 18 basis points cost of deposits remains favorable.
Fees represent 17.4% of revenue as the growth of interest income outpaced the growth of core fee income.
We are focused on improving the ratio to over 20% of revenue.
Credit quality continues to improve.
Annualized charge-offs were 15 basis points and the level of non-performing loans declined by $3.5 million.
We made significant progress in this quarter.
Our strong results continue to reflect our ability to deliver results consistent with our strategy.
Now let me turn the call over to Luis to detail our financial performance.
Thanks Jack.
Let’s turn to Slide 4 reported GAAP diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.18 and core earnings per share were $0.19.
We will review the details of reconciliation between the two numbers on the next slide.
Total assets increased to 7.3 billion at June 30 with the majority of the increase consisting of growth in our loan portfolio of over 200 million compared to the linked quarter.
You can see the impact of our strategy of rebalancing earning assets from securities to higher yielding loans.
Total securities decreased by 30 million to 1.7 billion at June 30.
On the bottom of the page we detailed our key performance metrics which showed strong progress across the board.
Net interest margin was 3.84% which included 2.9 million of the accretion of the fair value marking the legacy Sterling and Gotham acquired loan portfolios.
Excluding the impact of the accretion net interest margin held steady at 365 basis points.
Our asset quality performance was strong with charge-offs against the allowance of 1.6 million versus charge-offs of 3.6 million in the prior quarter.
Charge-offs represented just 15 basis points of average loans on an annualized basis.
However our provision for loan losses was 6 million mainly driven by the need to provide for the strong loan growth we had during the quarter.
Our core profitability ratios continue to improve.
Core return on average tangible assets was 0.95% and core return on average tangible equity was 12.4%.
We are making steady progress towards achieving our long-term performance goals.
Turning to Slide 5 let’s look at core earnings per share in more detail.
We continue to make progress on three key strategic initiatives we outlined for fiscal 2014.
These are the integration of legacy Sterling the consolidation of our financial centers and other real estate locations and the conversion of our banking systems.
During the quarter we recorded pre-tax gains of 2.8 million which consisted of a gain on the sales of financial center location a gain on the redemption of our trust preferred securities and a gain on sales of investment securities.
These gains were offset by pre-tax charges of 3.8 million which included a charge for asset write-downs on real estate locations expenses associated with our banking systems conversion and the amortization of the non-competing intangible assets acquired in the legacy Sterling transaction.
Going forward we do not anticipate we will incur additional charges on facilities exits and may record some gains on various dispositions of real estate.
As we had announced in the prior quarter the charge incurred on our systems conversion mainly consisted of the payment of an early termination fee to our current service provider.
We continue to be on track for our systems conversion which is anticipated to occur in November of this year.
Next on Slide 6 let’s look at our loans and deposits.
Loans reached 4.6 billion which represented an increase of 314 million over the prior quarter.
This is growth of 29% annualized.
Our mix of business continues to be diverse across C&amp;I CRE and consumer asset classes.
Yield on loans was essentially unchanged at approximately 5%.
Our total deposits were 5.1 billion which represented a decrease of 109 million relative to the prior quarter.
The decrease was largely result of a decrease in our municipal deposits which are seasonal and typically experience a low in the third fiscal quarter and then peak in the fourth fiscal quarter.
We continue to enjoy the benefits of a low cost core deposit base.
At June 30 88% of our deposits were core and our total cost of deposits was 18 basis points.
Going forward key to our strategy will be to continue growing our commercial deposits.
During the quarter commercial demand deposit accounts increased by 48 million relative to the prior quarter which represented annualized growth of 9%.
We expect to drive meaningful growth in our commercial deposit balances as the number of relationship teams continues to grow and our existing teams become more seasoned.
Turning to Slide 7 we provide greater detail on our loan portfolio which experienced significant growth across the board.
The table includes data for end of period balances for each of our loan categories.
Average balances tell a similar story.
Our average loan balances for the quarter were 4.3 billion which represent an annualized growth of 29% over the prior quarter.
Our pipeline of commercial loans is robust and will allow us to continue to generate loan relationships with strong credit characteristics and attractive risk adjusted returns.
Our main focus continues to be originating commercial loans and you can see we had meaningful growth in C&amp;I and CRE assets.
The vast majority of our C&amp;I assets are either floating rate or mature on a short-term basis.
We believe these differentiated businesses position us well for a rising rate environment and provide us with significant balance sheet flexibility.
On Slide 8 let’s look at a more holistic view of our earning assets.
At June 30 our securities portfolio was 1.7 billion which represented a 30 million decrease relative to the prior quarter and approximately 24% of total assets.
Longer term we anticipate we will drive the percentage of securities to earning assets closer to 20%.
We will accomplish this mainly through continued growth in our loan portfolio and a reduction in specific segments of our securities portfolio.
Total yield on earning assets was 4.3% in the quarter.
The chart on the right side of the page shows the maturity and repricing profile of our loans and securities.
We are asset sensitive and anticipate we will continue to be asset sensitive given the focus on growing our C&amp;I and specialty lending businesses.
On Slide 9 let’s look at our fee income.
The figures on the slide exclude the impact of securities gains which were 1.1 million in the quarter.
Total fee income was 12.3 million which was essentially unchanged relative to the linked quarter.
Gain on sale income in mortgage banking decreased by 400 000 during the quarter.
However similar to the growth we experienced in our warehouse lending business we have been a meaningful uptick in mortgage originations in June and July which should lead to stronger results in the fourth fiscal quarter.
Similarly our factoring and payroll finance businesses are seasonal in the fourth fiscal quarter typically represents peak levels for the year.
We are confident that over time we will accelerate fee income growth and achieve our target percentage of 20% or more fee income to total revenue.
On Slide 10 you can see the steady progress we have made on driving organic growth through our commercial teams and the integration of legacy Sterling.
These events have had a positive impact on our revenues and expenses.
This is the first quarter post merger in which we can compare linked quarter results on an apples-to-apples basis.
Total revenue growth was 6.5% while expenses remained essentially flat.
Our core operating efficiency ratio was 57.8%.
This ratio excludes the impact of the gains and charges we detailed on Slide 5.
Let’s review asset quality on Slide 11.
You will recall that in the linked quarter we had higher charge-off levels due to the strict ADC relationships.
This quarter’s performance showed good progress and a return to strong metrics across all credit quality indicators.
Provision for loan losses for the quarter was 6 million as strong loan growth resulted in a higher reserve requirement.
The allowance to total loans and the allowance to non-performing loans were 80 basis points and 64% respectively.
Please remember that these ratios do not include the impact of the fair value mark recorded in the legacy Sterling acquisition.
Non-performing loans declined by 3.5 million in the period while criticized and classified assets decreased by 1.8 million relative to the linked quarter.
We are working to reduce these balances materially by December 2014.
Wrapping up on Slide 12 our capital and liquidity remain strong.
At June 30 our tangible equity or tangible assets ratio was 7.6% and we remained well capitalized under all regulatory capital ratios at the bank and on a consolidated basis.
As we have previously announced we redeemed our trust preferred securities on June 1st.
I will turn it over to Jack for final comments.
Thanks Luis.
Let me summarize the quarter for everybody.
Core earnings were $15.7 million or $0.19 per diluted share representing a 19% increase in earnings over the linked quarter.
On a linked quarter basis return on tangible equity improved 169 basis points to 12.4%.
Return on tangible assets improved to 11 basis points to 95 basis points.
And our efficiency ratio improved 366 basis points to 57.8%.
We are driving performance through the creation of positive operating leverage.
Core revenue grew by 6.5% and expenses were flat on the linked quarter basis.
Revenues driven by significant increase in commercial loan volume.
Total commercial loans increased $314 million or 33% on an annualized basis.
Net interest margin improved 8 basis points to 3.84%.
Expenses will continue to be managed down as we complete our cost reduction strategies.
We have made significant progress in reducing the overall cost basis in the company.
And we continue to have strong levels of capital and credit metrics.
Finally two actions we have taken over the past couple of years that put us on a strong path for high performance results.
First our strategy of team-based delivery primarily focused on small and middle market businesses in metropolitan New York City works.
The full relationship approach enables strong alignment to our clients’ needs while yielding the higher returns to our shareholders.
Second the acquisition of Sterling Bancorp in October 2013 has enabled us to accelerate a broader solutions set to our clients create a more diverse balance sheet and provide higher margins and stronger revenue opportunities in a more efficient cost environment.
The integration has gone well and we are continuing to see both enhanced revenue opportunities and increased cost synergies.
We are far from completion but our colleagues have done a terrific job in executing the strategy and we are on track to achieve our targeted levels of performance.
Now let’s open up the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Casey Haire with Jefferies.
So I guess starting-off on the loan pipeline outlook obviously a very good quarter here.
It looks like it was also kind of back-loaded if I look at the point-to-point versus the average.
Just wondering if you can confirm that? And then just provide some update as to how the pipeline is holding up after a strong quarter? So the answer is yes it was back loaded so we created a kind of volume kind of closings in June kind of mid-month to the end of the month.
And then secondly the pipelines frankly have never been larger.
We have very strong pipelines in virtually every business.
What that really does is allows us to be very selective frankly in terms of obviously creating high quality credits or booking high quality credits but also deciding on which pricing and return scenarios we want to allocate capital to.
So for example we have decided to not do a significant level of multifamily loans which as you know in the New York City market have been generally priced down.
We are seeing more traditional C&amp;I opportunities frankly more traditional non-owner occupied commercial real estate opportunities and some good opportunities in the specialty finance areas at higher margins.
Okay great.
And I would assume that that sort of selectivity is allowing you to pick your spots on price which is I mean the core loan yield ex the purchase accounting held up pretty well is that a function or product is that these opportunities that you’re seeing in the commercial front? Yes it is.
So I mean one of the great things about this company what we put together is different economic cycles in a different competitive environment because of the diversity of the businesses we have you can kind of pick and choose which areas to allocate capital to and to take yield off of.
It’s not a perfect scenario and there is always a rolling forward forecast in this but it allows us to be more selective in the areas where we can get higher yields and frankly full relationships out of the interaction.
Okay last one from me just on the expense side.
You guys mentioned you guys are ahead of schedule I was just wondering where you guys are on the cost takeout versus that $34 million target? Yeah so we are going to exceed the $34 million target.
So we are very comfortable that we will exceed it.
What we have done is we’ve taken the operating cost the base of the operating cost we started with a 190 million as a base cost.
We are down into the 164 or 165 kind of core base level and we are going to continue over time reducing that cost structure.
So the majority of our cost to-date have been people says as we consolidate still we are just starting to realize the facility cost changes as we go as you would imagine it takes a lot of cycle through those types of changes.
So we are ahead of where we expected to be and we will exceed the $34 million in cost saves.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Kelley with Sterne Agee.
May be just staying on that line just primarily on expenses where would you anticipate the fiscal fourth quarter operating expense lining on to be? Yeah so we should be in kind of that $40 million to $42 million and we would expect to be at the lower level of that range.
And we provided guidance since the beginning of the year from a calendar year perspective we were anticipating to be in 2014 at about 165 million to 168 million.
We are going to get to the lower end of that range which is gets you to the 40.
So if you take the midpoint of what Jack just mentioned it’s 41 million annualized that gets you roughly to that number.
So we feel pretty good about coming in slightly below what we had announced at the beginning of the year that 165 is low point of the range.
Okay and then on the margin.
The 365 core margin ex-accretion benefits where do you see that going over the next year in a stable rate environment? Unchanged as well Matt we think as I have mentioned before when you just took the ex-accretive rule so if you take mean of what legacy Sterling and legacy Provident brought to the table it was about 265 basis points.
We anticipated that steady state once you start seeing the impact of that accretable yield disappeared a little bit as we go into fiscal 2015 that core NIM is going to be right in that same range 360 to 365 as we have mentioned in the past.
We feel good about that and the ability to originate the differentiated businesses that Jack is talking about specifically on the C&amp;I side this would allows you to have a little bit more pricing advantage to be able to generate and maintain that NIM in this low rate environment.
Okay and then tax rate still 32 to 33 is that the range you are going to in? So for fiscal 2014 it’s going to come in slightly below so you will see in our press release we have mentioned for ‘14 it’s going to be about 28.5% to 29%.
Long-term as we move into fiscal ‘15 and the reason for the decrease in this fiscal year Matt is just due to chewing up of our income tax returns and various noise and things that move around a little bit with various merger related items.
Long-term 32.5% to 33% as we have mentioned in the past continues to be the boggy in the number.
Okay and then it sounds like the pipeline is still really strong on a loan growth front.
Should we expect to see a similar reduction 2% reduction in securities portfolio to help fund some of that? You will so we were at 24% securities to total assets for as of June 30.
We want to take that ratio down to closer to 20%.
If you factor in more normalized down so I am not going to tell you that we are going to grow loans by 32% every quarter so that’s not the case in the commercial loan.
So we feel very good about the double-digit loan growth that we have provided at the beginning of the year as the right target.
If you normalize that growth rate and loans through the rest of the year you are going to get to see about another $150 million to $200 million reduction in securities that we will fund some of that loan growth to be experienced in the next couple of quarters.
Got it.
Alright thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Darst of Guggenheim Securities.
Luis could you help me characterize kind of what we should expect from the seasonal peak and factoring just from a volume perspective? And then also what’s the fee income flow that we might see? So you are going to see so remember that those businesses David are very much flow driven versus average outstanding driven.
So what you are going to see is there is going to be or we anticipate an increase of about 20% to 25% or so in volume relative to the prior quarter that doesn’t necessarily mean that you see a 20% to 25% increase in the outstandings that are there specifically when you look at two period end balances.
But you will see a similar increase and we anticipate to see a similar increase in the fee component.
So when you look at our income statement we have that line item that’s accounts receivable management you should see a nice pump in the fourth fiscal quarter as again those businesses reach peak volumes.
Okay.
And then in your prepared comments as I guess you mentioned references to deposit growth.
Are you expecting that the teams that you have brought on the spring to begin driving more deposit growth or are there some C&amp;I categories that you expect them to begin to work? So you’re going to see two things David in this quarter.
So at September 30 you’re going to see a very large increase in our municipal deposit balances and conversely you’re going to see a very large decrease in our FHLB funding and other short-term borrowings.
That is not what we are talking about in perspective of long-term core strategy.
The long-term core strategy will continue to be rebalancing and growing accelerating the growth of those commercial deposit balances which is driven by exactly what you mentioned which is we have more teams on-board and those teams become more seasoned.
So as they continue to build their books of business they continue to build their pipeline you will start seeing meaningful core commercial deposit growth in and outside of whatever we do on the municipal side.
Okay got it.
And then could you just maybe give us little bit of guidance on kind of the relative level that you’re providing for growth and are any of the categories that you’re growing in require to have your reserve level? From loan perspective? Correct.
Yes.
So over the course of the next 12 months and into 2015 and ‘16 what we anticipate is getting the allowance to total loans closer to about 1.1%.
So you will see that if you exclude the so taking into account the impact of the mark that we still have on both the Gotham and the Sterling acquired portfolios we’re about 1.05% or so.
So we’re going to grow from 1.05% closer to 1.1% over time.
However you’re not going to see a reserve because the reason for having that $6 million reserve requirement was just the outsized growth of $314 million in loans for the quarters.
So you’ll see we do not anticipate having $6 million of reserve requirement on a steady state.
As you start thinking about a double-digit loan growth that’s closer to 10% to 12% you would have a meaningful decrease in the level of provisioning expense.
Of course assuming that credit quality and charge-offs remain in line with what we have seen this quarter and what we anticipate seeing in the fourth fiscal quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
David just I want to clarify something Luis said it the right way but I just want to emphasize something.
So we’re not expecting the accounts receivable fee income to go up by 20% or 25% in the final two quarters.
We do expect an increase in payroll finance and factoring receivable turns on the fee income side based on the seasonality but not in the 20% to 25% range.
And we’re really more looking in kind of 5% to 10% range kind of quarter-over-quarter type of range.
We also believe that we view the pipeline of mortgage opportunities to have a good lift from this quarter to next quarter too again more in that kind of 5% to 10% range.
And is that mortgage warehouse or residential mortgage? It’s residential mortgage so on the fee income side and residential mortgage side.
(Operator Instructions).
We do have a follow-up question from the line of Casey Haire with Jefferies.
So just wanted to touch on the longer term fees to revenue target of 20% to 25% obviously the NII story is a good one with NIM outlook the core NIM outlook stable and the loan growth the balance sheet growth doing very well which I would assume put pressure even with some help near-term seasonal help near-term on the accounts receivable line.
I am just wondering what is the timeline in which we could start to see this fees to revenue start to creep up towards that 20% target in earnest given we have got a very nice spread income forecast there? Yes that number is really our expectation kind of into 2015.
So the three big components of that are the mortgage business and the stability.
I love it when we reach our low and people point toward mortgages but we’re trying to take the volatility a little bit out of the mortgage business in the way of focusing on purchase volumes so that’s one major component of that.
The second major component is cash management fees so as our teams develop more deposit relationships and more sophisticated relationships with C&amp;I borrowers generally we should see an increase with that in that category.
And the third and frankly the biggest variable in opportunity is in accounts receivable fee income.
So our expectation what happens with those businesses as people build for the holiday seasons the third and fourth quarters as I said get bigger that’s really the opportunity of driving more factoring and fee income and payroll finance fee income.
And then as you very smartly suggested the challenge is the numbers maybe going up but it’s part of a bigger kind of denominator if you would because of the net interest income.
So our expectation is that those numbers start to tick up in the third and fourth quarter or fiscal quarters or calendar quarters of this year and then they may fall a little bit in the first quarter next year but it is more of a second quarter of 2015 that we would expect them to start to realize that type of range.
Got you okay.
And just apologies if I missed this the purchase accounting impact how much purchase accounting is left here as of June 30th? So for the next couple of quarters Casey we are going to see a similar so we had 2.9 million of the fair value accretion that flow through net interest margin this quarter.
You are going to have for the fourth fiscal quarter and then the first fiscal quarter of 2015 that number will be slightly lower but still going to be around $2 million to $2.5 million or so.
And then fiscal 2015 sorry in calendar 2015 when we get into the March quarter and then through you will see that dissipate pretty it will come down at that point.
So the important thing for us is to generate that diverse loan mix that’s going to allow us to withstand whenever that comes down and being able to maintain that core NIM steady at that 360 to 365.
So we have another couple of quarters to go.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Marchon with Raymond James.
appreciate the color on the 2 point and going into the 2 to 2.5 range.
I am just wondering if you guys are thinking that that translates to roughly the same recorded NIM range that you guys were thinking that you are going to see going forward I think you said on last call around 370 to 380 range? Yes so the 370 to 380 was for the calendar year.
It’s for the full fiscal year 2014 so we feel good about that range still.
And then as we move into 2015 we might pop-up against the lower end of that range so that the accretion of the fair value mark starts to dissipate but the 370 to 380 for the next couple of quarters is our boggy.
Perfect thanks.
My others questions were actually answered.
So thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will turn it back over to Mr.
Jack Kopnisky.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks so much for your time.
We have a lot of wonderful things going on in the company and our folks are working their tails off.
We’ve really done a good job of executing against the things that we said we are going to do.
Appreciate all the great questions too.
These are terrific questions very thoughtful questions.
So thanks for following company and supporting it.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Sterling Bancorp’s Fiscal 2014 Fourth Quarter and Full-Year Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Brandy and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Much of the information to be discussed is included in the earnings announcement that was released yesterday afternoon and is available on www.sterlingbancorp.com as well as the accompanying slides.
Forward-looking statements made during the course of the conference call are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jack Kopnisky President and CEO of Sterling Bancorp.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today to discuss Sterling Bancorp’s fourth quarter and full-year results.
Joining me today on the call is Luis Massiani our Chief Financial Officer.
During the quarter we continued our progression of delivering strong core operating results driven by solid revenue growth and expense control.
Excluding the impact of merger-related expenses and other charges core earnings for the quarter were $18.2 million and core earnings per diluted share were $0.22 representing a 16% increase over last quarter’s earnings.
Core revenue growth was 1.7% and we reduced core operating expenses by 3.7% relative to the previous quarter.
The resulting core efficiency ratio improved 310 basis points to 54.7%.
The improvement in our core operating and profitability ratios were significant.
Our net interest margin was 3.77%; our core return on tangible equity improved 139 basis points to 13.8% and our core return on tangible assets improved 11 basis points to 106 basis points.
We have made significant progress in achieving the objectives of creating a high-performing organization that consistently produces return on tangible equity greater than 12% return on tangible assets greater than 100 basis points and efficiency ratios of approximately 55% through to the creation of positive operating leverage.
We are ahead of schedule in reducing costs associated with the integration of the two companies.
Since merger date we have reduced headcount by more than 20% consolidated 13 financial centers and we are on track to reduce total facilities square footage by 25%.
We have also changed the mix of our workforce by hiring more client-facing teams and automating and outsourcing back-office processing.
We experienced very strong loan growth for the quarter.
Total loans grew by $202 million in the quarter representing a 17% annualized rate.
The annualized growth in commercial loans was 17.9%.
For the fourth quarter approximately 77% of the growth was commercial and industrial loans and 23% in real estate loans as we continued to enjoy diverse loan mix.
Total deposits increased 3.8% over the linked-quarter and commercial and consumer transaction deposits increased by almost $70 million which represents annualized growth of 13.2%.
Fees represent 17% of revenue as the growth of interest income outpaced the growth of core fee income.
We are focused on improving that ratio to over 20% of revenue over time.
Credit quality continues to improve.
Charge-offs were 9 basis points and the level of non-performing loans declined by $5.8 million.
We made significant progress in the quarter.
Our strong results continue to reflect our ability to deliver results consistent with our strategy.
Now let me turn the call over to Luis to detail the financial performance.
Thank you Jack and good morning everyone.
Our GAAP reported diluted earnings per share were $0.19 for the quarter up from $0.18 for the third quarter.
On a core operating basis our diluted earnings per share were $0.22 for September compared to $0.19 for June.
Total assets increased $86 million to $7.3 billion at September 30.
Loans grew by just over $200 million in the fourth quarter and we trimmed our securities portfolio by $41 million.
We continue to build the more efficient balance sheet by rebalancing earning assets from securities to higher yielding loans.
As of September 30 our securities to total asset ratio was 23% down from 24% the prior quarter.
On the bottom of the page we detail our key performance metrics which showed strong progress across the board.
Net interest margin was 3.77% for the September quarter which represented a 7 basis point decline from June.
However included in interest income was $1.7 million of the accretion of the credit mark on the legacy Sterling Bancorp and Gotham acquired loan portfolios.
This compares to $2.9 million of accretion in June.
Excluding the impact of the credit mark accretion net interest margin was 367 basis points for the September quarter which is an increase of 2 basis points over the linked-quarter.
Our asset quality performance was strong with charge-offs against the allowance of $1.1 million versus charge-offs of $1.6 million in the prior quarter.
We continue to add to our allowance for loan losses and our provision expense was $5.4 million which was mainly driven by the need to provide organic loan growth.
Our core profitability ratios continue to improve.
Core return on average tangible assets was 1.06% and core return on average tangible equity was 13.8%.
We are on track towards achieving our long-term performance goals.
Turning to Slide 5 let’s look at our core EPS metrics in more detail.
We continue to make progress on the three key strategic initiatives we have outlined for fiscal 2014.
These are the integration of legacy Sterling Bancorp the consolidation of our financial centers and the conversion of our core banking systems As you know we completed our acquisition of legacy Sterling Bancorp on October 31 of this fiscal year.
Therefore it is difficult to make meaningful year-over-year comparisons on our operating results.
However we did include on the slide our key earnings and performance metrics for the fiscal year 2014 and 2013.
Please remember that our GAAP reported results were impacted by merger-related expenses and other charges so we provide a reconciliation of GAAP versus core metrics here.
Let me begin with a summary of the full-year results.
Our core diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2014 were $0.72 compared to $0.51 for fiscal 2013.
This represents growth of 41%.
Our core operating efficiency ratio was 59.4% for 2014 compared to 63.7% for 2013.
Our return on tangible assets was 91 basis points compared to 62 basis points and our return on tangible equity was 11.8% compared to 7%.
In the fourth quarter we incurred pre-tax charges associated with our banking systems conversion of approximately $900 000 and a $200 000 charge related to the closure of branch facilities.
We also incurred a pre-tax charge of $1.5 million for the amortization of non-compete agreements.
Also on facilities.
During the quarter we moved six financial center locations to other real-estate owned as we were holding these properties for sale.
We will continue to review our financial center footprint for additional efficiencies going forward.
On Slide 6 let’s look at our loans and deposits.
Loans reached $4.8 billion which represented an increase of $200 million over the prior quarter.
This is a growth rate of 17.7% on an annualized basis.
Our mix of business continues to be diverse across C&amp;I CRE and consumer asset classes.
The yield on loans decreased to 4.8% but this was mainly driven by lower income generated on accretable yield and lower prepayment income.
Our total deposits were $5.3 billion which represented an increase of $196 million relative to the prior quarter.
The mix of deposits improved as we continue to allow higher cost certificates of deposits to mature.
We also decreased our utilization of wholesale deposits in the fourth quarter as municipal deposits were at their peak at September 30 and reached $993 million.
We continue to enjoy the benefits of low cost deposits of 19 basis points.
Going forward our strategy will be to continue growing our commercial and retail transaction deposits.
During the quarter commercial and retail demand deposit accounts increased by nearly $70 million relative to their prior quarter which represents a growth of 13% on an annualized basis.
We expect to drive meaningful growth from our commercial deposit balances as the number of relationship teams continues to grow and the teams become more seasoned.
Turning to Slide 7 we provide greater detail on our loan portfolio which experienced significant growth across all asset classes.
The table includes data for end of period balances for each of our loan categories but I will also provide some data on average balances.
For the quarter average loan balances were $4.6 billion which represents an annualized growth of 24% over the linked-quarter.
Our pipeline of commercial loans is robust and will allow us to continue to choose credits with higher margins and strong credit characteristics.
We continue to focus on originating commercial loans and we had solid growth in C&amp;I and CRE assets.
The vast majority of our C&amp;I assets are either floating rate or repriced on a short-term basis.
We believe these differentiated businesses position us well for a rising rate environment and provide us with significant balance sheet flexibility.
On Slide 8 let’s look at our fee income.
The figures on the slide exclude the impact of securities gains which were $33 000 in the fourth quarter.
Total fee income was $12.3 million which represented a decrease of $26 000 relative to the prior quarter.
As we had anticipated we increased factoring and payroll commissions by $206 000 and mortgage banking fees by $233 000 in the quarter.
However this was not enough to offset decreases in wealth management other loan fees and service charges on deposits that totaled $440 000.
This is the one area where performance has not met our expectations and we are focused on turning it around to achieve our long-term goal of 20% or more of fee income to total revenue over time.
On Slide 9 you can see the steady progress we have made on driving organic growth through our commercial teams and the integration of legacy Sterling Bancorp.
Both of these have had a positive impact on our revenues and expenses.
Relative to the linked-quarter revenue growth was 1.7% while expenses declined 3.7%.
Our core operating efficiency ratio was 54.7%.
This ratio excludes the impact of the gains and charges we detailed on Slide 5.
Let’s review asset quality on Slide 10.
This quarter’s performance shows continued progress and strong metrics across all credit quality indicators.
Total net charge-offs against the allowance were $1.1 million which represented 9 basis points of total loans.
Provision for loan losses for the quarter was $5.3 million as the loan growth during the quarter resulted in a higher reserve requirement.
The allowance for total loans and the allowance to NPLs were 85 basis points and just under 80%.
Please remember that these ratios do not include the impact of the fair value mark recorded in the legacy Sterling Bancorp acquisition.
Non-performing loans declined by $5.8 million and criticized and doubtful assets declined by $8 million relative to the linked-quarter.
We are working diligently to continue to reduce these balances.
Our capital ratios also remained strong.
At September 30 our tangible equity ratio was 7.6% and we remained well capitalized under all regulatory capital ratios at Sterling Bancorp and Sterling National Bank.
Jack? Thanks Luis.
Let me summarize the quarter which is on Slide 11.
Core earnings were $18.2 million or $0.22 per diluted share representing a 16% increase in earnings over the linked-quarter.
On a linked-quarter basis return on tangible equity improved 140 basis points to 13.8%.
Return on tangible assets improved 11 basis points to 106 basis points and our efficiency ratio improved 310 basis points to 54.7%.
Again we’re driving performance through the creation of positive operating leverage.
That’s really been our focus.
Core revenue grew by 1.7% and we reduced core expenses by 3.7%.
We’ve made significant progress in reducing the overall cost basis in the company and we continue have assorted levels of capital and credit metrics.
Finally I’d take you to review our Slide 12 if you would.
As you can see we have made significant progress in transforming Provident Bancorp now Sterling Bancorp over the past three years.
Most of our leadership team came in late of 2011.
You can see the progress that we’ve made.
Since fiscal year-end 2011 loans have grown by 180% deposits 131% and core earnings more than 6x that level.
As we noted previously for the fourth quarter 2014 the return on tangible assets were 106 basis points core return on tangible equity 13.8% and the efficiency ratio 54.7%.
In addition our market capitalization is now over $1 billion and our stock price has more than doubled.
Our strategy of team-based delivery primarily focused on small and middle-market businesses in Greater Metro New York is working.
The full relationship approach enables strong alignment to our clients' needs the creation of holistic loan deposit and fee-based relationships and ultimately the strategy yields higher returns to our shareholders.
Additionally the acquisition of Sterling Bancorp in October 2013 has enabled us to accelerate a broader solution set to our clients creating more diverse balance sheet providing higher margins and stronger revenue of fees in a more efficient cost environment.
The integration has gone well and we continue to see both enhanced revenue opportunities and increased cost synergies.
Now before I open up the line for the questions I’ll remind everybody that our policy is not to comment on any market speculation regarding acquisitions.
So now with that let’s open the line for questions.
Operator are there any questions?  Yes sir.
Your first question is from David Darst.
Hi good morning.
Hi David.
Good morning David.
So I guess we’re now at the end of your fiscal year.
Could you give us just kind of – it appears that you’ve hit a lot of the expectations that you had outlined for the calendar year 2015 early relative to where you wanted to be on the kind of low-teen or mid-teen on return on tangible equity and the efficiency ratio ROA.
So can you maybe talk about where you go from here what’s your fundamental outlook and kind of how you’re going to continue to drop [ph] the operating leverage of the expenses base? Yes it really is the operating leverage that we’ve focused on.
Driving kind of incremental gains in revenue and controlling expenses.
So those targets and where we’re at today we think we can continue to maintain and improve on.
It is – we will go through a sequence where as you manage a business you always are balancing what opportunities are to control costs relative to the revenue opportunities in the market.
So today we still see strong revenue opportunities in the market.
Flat interest rate environment that we’re in right now does put a damper on that.
So if there is ever a time where rates actually go up we think the revenue opportunities will be more significant than they are today.
And as we go along we will manage our expenses accordingly.
So there is going to be a time when there is great revenue opportunities we will then spend more money.
And the way we will spend more money is by acquiring more and more teams.
And in times where there will be moderate revenue growth opportunities we will keep expenses flat or contract expenses.
So that’s kind of how we think about it.
Okay.
Do you think you’re done on the square footage reduction? No.
we actually haven’t received most of the benefit from the square footage reduction because we either have to sublet the space or people have to buy the properties where we have cost of maintaining that.
So we would expect there to be some additional expense reductions in the future.
That said that will be offset with us hiring people and putting them – people facing the clients.
Okay.
And what do you think the total reduction you’ve given 25% and how much more do you want to take out? The 25% is our target for the end of next year.
So that is the amount that we would take out.
We just haven’t realized all the cost out of that – cost efficiencies out of that.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question is from Collyn Gilbert.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning Collyn.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Jack just a follow-up on your comments about how you think about the business in totality and your comment about managing expenses if revenue growth slows.
Is there any – I mean as we stay in this rate environment is your expectation that revenue growth will slow and that maybe we will see some jiggering of expenses in fiscal ‘15 I guess? I think good managers always look at things like that.
So I think we would – it depends – no one has been accurate about projecting where interest rates are going.
So it’s hard to tell you exactly the time but we would be very – we want to be very smart about the expense allocation.
So one of the things that we’ve done in this process is not only have we reduced cost in total but we’ve reallocated cost and so we’ve reallocated cost that we would have been spending on back-office processing to frontline folks and we’ve outsourced some of the back-office costs.
A perfect example of that is mortgage servicing.
We will continue to do that and we will continue to look at how to create more efficiencies and effectiveness in the back-office through outsourcing and verbalizing [ph] those expenses which creates a better match to the revenue opportunities in the market.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay that’s helpful.
And just one comment I missed it Luis.
You had mentioned you were talking about fees and you said something was disappointing.
Was it a specific fee line that was disappointing or the overall fees? I just was curious what you were suggesting there? The answer to that is both.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
So the absolute dollar amount of fee income we fully expect and anticipate we’re going to do much better going forward as we had outlined in the past.
More specifically we have seen an uptick in mortgage banking.
So when you look at the linked-quarter performance mortgage banking payroll factors they did better they didn’t do as well as we had anticipated that they were going to do.
So that’s an area that we’re going to continue focusing going forward.
Now those are as we mentioned in the past are differentiated businesses.
Those are places where regardless of rate environment you can still generate good risk adjusted returns on those types of assets and we want to focus on continuing to grow volume and outstanding in those three particular areas.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay that’s helpful.
And just your comment on – you’ve done a great job of making that balance sheet more efficient.
Is there more to do there? Do you think that there is still is some liquidity opportunities to shift from securities into loans or how are you thinking about sort of that? There is.
So our target – so we’re in securities to total assets of 23% today.
Over time we want to get that number down closer to 20%.
A little bit of that is going to depend on how we continue to manage our municipal deposits as we’ve talked about in the past to just create a collateralization requirement that therefore has – you have to have hold guard [ph] your securities book if you have that amount of municipal deposits.
As we continue to shift that going forward we do expect to continue moving securities down increasing in their proportion of loans as a percentage of total earning assets but that is going to play – it’s going to take a little bit of time to play that out.
For now securities are going to stay at about $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion where they are today.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay that’s helpful.
And just one final question.
What was the core loan yield this quarter exclusive of the accretion and then what was it in the second quarter? I know you gave us the NIM but just the loan yield I was curious about? So the total NIM – sorry total loan yield was 4.83%.
And then I don’t have the specific accretion numbers in front of me but I’ll get back to you on that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay that’s helpful.
That’s all I had.
Thanks guys.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question is from Matthew Kelley.
Yes hi guys.
Hi Matt.
Hi Matt.
Do you have an operating expense number we can use just for the fourth quarter with everything you have with new hires that’ll be running through a full quarter operating expense range for the December quarter? $40 million to $41 million Matt.
You see that this quarter it was about $40.2 million of core.
Remember that out of that $40 million we’re taking out some of the non-cash items the non-compete agreement agreements and so forth that we don’t include into that true run rate of OpEx but $40 million to $41 million is a good number.
Okay.
And then off of that call it $164 million annualized type number what type of growth do you envision for a full-year from December to December off of that $164 million? Yes.
Well actually our view is it’s kind of $162 million to $164 million.
So I think you normally would look at 0% to 3% growth rate.
Okay all right got you.
And then in the current interest rate environment how do you feel that the $365 million core margin ex-accretion and then last quarter you had talked about accretion running at – I think it was like $2 million to $3 million a quarter.
Any update on that number? Yes.
So remember Matt that when we talked about the accretion.
So the accretion in the linked-quarter was $2.9 million but we did messaged last time that that number was going to come down substantially because remember the book of business that we acquired in the legacy Sterling transaction is very different than you would see in a traditional bank right.
A lot of that was C&amp;I the factors the payroll the warehouse lending businesses those are all very short-term.
So the accretion associated with those relationship with the C&amp;I piece of the business which was the vast majority of the loan portfolio that we acquired was always going to play itself out very quickly over the course of the first four or five quarters post-acquisition.
So we had always – I think last time we had guided to this quarter was going to be closer to $2 million and we ended up coming in at $1.7 million.
So it was slightly below because that number always fluctuates a little bit for credit events that flow through the acquired book of business versus now [ph].
Going forward for this quarter and then into 2015 – into the calendar year 2015 this quarter is going to be about $1.2 million to $1.5 million or so.
And then into 2015 you’re going to see a decline from that number over the course of the following two or three quarters.
So the vast majority of the mark again it was associated with the C&amp;I part of the book.
It has played itself through.
And then the CRE or the longer dated CRE and equipment finance books of business that we acquired is where the remaining mark – the vast majority of the remaining mark still remains.
Remember though Matt that that also does – you also have to provide for those loans right.
So one of the reasons that we’ve had this – last quarter we had $5.9 million in provision for loan losses and then $5.3 million almost $5.4 million this quarter is that you do have to provide for the loans that you’ve acquired that then are becoming a part of your allowance.
So you will see even though the accretable yield is going to be coming down the reserve requirement should also – you should see a decrease in that reserve and that provision requirement as well.
So it’s not going to be a dollar-per-dollar decrease from the perspective of what the bottom line P&amp;L looks like once this accretable yield starts rolling off.
Okay.
And then your prior guidance on tax rate of 32% to 33%.
Does it tick-up to that range in the December quarter or does that start in calendar ‘15? No calendar ‘15 is when that starts and it will get there gradually over time.
So for the calendar year 2015 for those four quarters 32% to 33% and again over the course of that year that will be.
And the reason for that is that as we continue to grow the business we continue to grow call the non-tax efficient part of the businesses as muni securities income and BOLI and REIT income starts becoming a smaller proportion of the pie as we continue to grow the business you will see that tax rate tick-up a little bit but it will play itself out over some quarters.
Okay.
And then last question.
As you grow the balance sheet up can you remind us again on what your comfort levels are on the loan-to-deposit ratio and kind of the target range there that you would like to stay within? We’re at 90% today which was one of the goals that we had established when we first joined we knew that we had – we needed to become a more efficient balance sheet and we’ve achieved a lot of what we set out to do.
90% to 95% on a loans-to-deposits ratio is where we’re comfortable.
If you were to see it above 95% that would be a place where we’d have to revisit the loan growth and how to better match that with deposits going forward.
But with that said I saw your note earlier today Matt and I think that we concur.
We obviously want to continue growing the funding side of the balance sheet as well and we are actively focusing on working with all of our commercial teams and getting a better match from the perspective of loan-to-deposit growth going forward.
Got it all right.
Thank you.
Sure.
(Operator Instructions) You do have a follow-up from Collyn Gilbert.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Thanks.
Sorry guys just one quick thing.
Luis on the $5.3 million in provision that you took this quarter just to your comments about how you’ve had to put in the provision a reserve on the acquired book.
Do you have that breakout by chance what it was in the $5.3 million that was tied to the acquired book? I don’t have that breakout but it’s not – I don’t have that breakout in front of me but it’s a significant chunk of – there is a big – the number associated with that if you’re providing to a 1% or 1.1% long-term allowance to total loans is a significant portion of it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
So that 1% is kind of what we should assume you’re putting in the reserve on the new [indiscernible] stuff? Okay.
And then just the one – quick follow-up on the six properties that you guys have moved to OREO and you’re expecting to sell can you remind us – is there an expected gain embedded in those? There are gains in some and there is losses in others.
So it depends on – I guess in real estate its location location.
So there is – in the end the six properties that we moved and you’ll see that the shift in OREO that was about $2.5 million between the linked-quarter to this quarter vast majority of that was represented by the six properties that we owned that we’ve put in there.
In the end we think it’s going to over the course of the next couple of quarters because it does take a while to market these properties and sell them.
It’s going to wash out.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay great.
All right thanks guys.
Remember though we did take a big gain – we took a big gain last quarter.
So in the end we’re actually going to come out when – once everything is set and done we’ll be ahead of the game on the real estate games but from this point forward it’s going to be breakeven.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Sure.
And there are no additional questions at this time.
I’d like to now turn the conference back over to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Just thank you for following the company and thanks for investing in the company and for taking your time.
So thanks.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning.
My name is Brandy and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Quarter Ended December 31 2014 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
Jack Kopnisky CEO.
You may begin your conference sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today to discuss our quarterly results.
Joining me today on the call is Luis Massiani our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we start going to our results let's begin by discussing our fiscal year-end.
We will be changing our fiscal year-end from September 30th to December 31st effect of as of this fourth calendar quarter.
We will file a file a transition 10-K in March 2015 which will include audited financial results for the quarter ended December 31 2014.
We believe this change will assist shareholders investors and analysts in reviewing our financial results and evaluating our performance.
Now let's discuss this quarter’s results.
We continue our progression of delivering strong core operating results driven by solid revenue growth and expense control.
Excluding the impact of merger related expenses and other charges core earnings were $19.6 million and core earnings per diluted share were $0.23 representing an 8% increase over last quarter’s earnings.
Core revenue growth was 3.2% and core expenses increased 1.9% over the linked-quarter.
The improvement in our core operating and profitability ratios was significant and again to position us a high performing company.
Our net interest margin was 3.7% compared to 3.77% in the linked-quarter and 3.58% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our core return on tangible equity improved 62 basis points to 14.42% and our core return on tangible assets improved by 7 basis points to 113 basis points over the linked-quarter.
Core efficiency ratio improved by 70 basis points to 54% and we continue to drive positive operating leverage in this model.
We continue to experience strong loan growth across notable commercial asset classes.
Commercial loans grew $94.4 million for the quarter representing a 9.6% annualized growth; year-over-year commercial loans have grown by almost $700 million which represents growth of 20.5%.
Please note that our total loan balances in the quarter were impacted by the sale of approximately $43 million of residential mortgage loans which Luis will discuss further.
As of December 31 2014 total deposits were $5.2 billion.
We continue to enjoy the benefits of a great deposit base with close to 90% core deposit balances and a weighted average cost of deposits of 21 basis points.
Non-interest income excluding security gains was $14 million which represented approximately 18.9% of total revenue.
We are very focused on diversifying and improving our revenue mix and continuing to invest in specialized lending businesses there are also fee income generator.
We are completing the acquisition of a specialized payroll finance service provider by February 2015.
Luis will talk a bit about this opportunity in a second.
Credit quality continues to improve charge-offs were 10 basis points for the quarter.
Non-performing loans declined by $4.3 million to $46.6 million.
During the quarter we announced a merger with Hudson Valley Holding Company.
Hudson Valley provides us with a terrific opportunity to create significant positive operating leverage by putting their excess liquidity and cost effective funding into work while reducing the expense space.
We're on target for a second quarter 2015 closing.
We're excited about the opportunity to take the combined the company to the next level of performance.
Hudson Valley is a very terrific franchisee that we look forward to leveraging our class of competencies that will result in a $10 billion mid-tier regional bank metropolitan New York marketplace.
Now let me turn the call over to Luis to detail the financial performance.
Thank you Jack and good morning everyone.
Our GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.20 for fourth calendar quarter up from $0.19 for the linked-quarter.
On a core operating basis our diluted earnings were $0.23 compared to $0.22 for quarter ended September 30.
I will discuss the reconciliation of our GAAP and core result on the next slide.
Total assets increased $87 million to $7.4 billion at December 31.
Based on ended of period balances total loans grew $55 million in the fourth calendar quarter.
Based on average balances the increase in total loans was $175 million.
On the top right of the chart you can see the impact of our strategy of rebalancing earnings assets from securities to higher yielding loans.
Year-over-year total loans have grown by over 16% while securities have grown by 3.1%.
We continue to focus on making our balance sheet more efficient.
On the bottom of the page we detail our key performance metrics which showed strong progress across the board.
Net interest margin was 3.7% for the December quarter which represented a 7 basis point decline from September.
Included in interest income was $1.2 million of the accretion of the credit mark on the legacy Sterling Bancorp and Gotham acquired loan portfolios.
This compares to $1.7 million of accretion in September.
Excluding the impact of the credit mark accretion net interest margin was 363 basis points for the December quarter compared to 367 basis points for the September quarter.
The main driver of the decrease in organic NIM was a higher average cash balance as the seasonal peak in our municipal deposit balances resulted in higher cash balances in the beginning of the fourth quarter.
Our asset quality performance was strong with charge-offs against the allowance of $1.2 million versus charge-offs of $1.1 million in the prior quarter.
For the quarter charge-offs represented just 10 basis points of total loans.
We continue to add to our allowance for loan losses and our provision expense was $3 million driven by the need to provide for the organic loan growth we had during the quarter as well as loans included in the allowance that used to be covered by the credit market.
Our core profitability ratios continue to improve.
Core return on average tangible assets was 1.13% and core return on average tangible equity was 14.4%.
We are making steady progress towards achieving our long-term performance goals.
Turning to Slide 5 let’s look at our core EPS metrics in more detail.
We continue to make progress on the three key strategic initiatives we have previously outlined.
These are the integration of legacy Sterling Bancorp the consolidation of our financial centers and other real-estate locations and the conversion of our core banking systems For the quarter our reported GAAP earnings per share were $0.20 and core earnings per share were $0.23.
Results were impacted by the following pretax items charges associated with our banking systems conversion of approximately $1.4 million a $610 000 charge for the closure and disposal of certain facilities.
A charge of approximately [$455 000] for the change in our fiscal year end merger related expense of approximately $500 000 related to the Hudson Valley merger and a pre-tax charge of $859 000 million for the amortization of non-compete agreements recorded in connection with the legacy Sterling merger.
This amount declined from the linked-quarter have some of these agreements have now expired.
We completed the conversion of our banking systems on November 8 and the incremental expenses associated with this significant undertaking are now largely behind us.
This new operating platform really positions us well for long-term sustainable growth.
On Slide 6 let’s look at our loans and deposits.
Total loans grew $55.2 million in the quarter and on an average basis increase by $175 million or just over 15%.
We continue to have the business spread across C&amp;I CRE and consumer asset classes.
The yield on loans declined 9 basis points to 4.74% largely the result of lower accretable yield in the quarter.
Our total deposits were $5.2 billion; we continue to maintain significant balances in non-interest demand accounts which represent 30% of our total average deposit base.
The total cost of deposits was 21 basis points.
Going forward our strategy will be to continue growing our commercial and retail transaction deposits.
The addition of Hudson Valley will provide us with immediate significant excess liquidity and further augment our ability to capture low cost deposits to fund our loan growth.
Turning to Slide 7 we provide greater detail on our loan portfolio which experienced continued good growth.
The table includes data for end of period balances for each of our loan categories.
Total C&amp;I loans increased by $70 million even though stock balances experienced a decrease in warehouse lending and factoring due to seasonality.
Total commercial real-estate loans increased by $30 million over the linked quarter.
Year-over-year CRE loans grew by almost $275 million which represents approximately 17.5% growth and is in line with the targets we have set.
Our pipeline of commercial loans is robust and we will obviously continue to choose credit with higher margins and strong credit characteristics.
Regarding consumer assets total balances decline by 44 million mainly driven by the sale of 43 million in residential mortgage loans which were previously held for investment.
We have started to reposition our balance sheet and anticipation of the merger with Hudson Valley and we’ll continue to identify opportunities to trim consumer balances that can be redeployed into commercial relationships.
On Slide 8 let's look at our fee income.
Total fee income was 14 million which represented an increase of 1.7 million relative to the prior quarter.
Mortgage banking income increase 698 000 we realize an increase of 320 000 in factoring and payroll finance fees a 353 000 increase in title insurance income and a 233 000 in bank owned life insurance.
Mortgage banking close 2014 with a strong quarter with total close commercial of approximately 170 million.
Mortgage banking income also benefited from the sale of 43 million in residential mortgage loans.
After divesting sales commissions and to further origination fee the net gain on sale was approximately 400 000.
Our specialty finance business is our key differentiator for us I don’t believe these assets these are asset classes that allow for more attractive risk adjusted return and position us well from an interest rate risk prospective given their shorter duration.
Consistent with their strategy of investing in these businesses we anticipate we will complete the acquisition of the specialty payroll finance provider by February of 2015 which will allow us to grow a very attractive business for us.
Although this transaction is small in a relative basis we anticipate it will be accretive to earnings upon four phases in a cost savings and its internal rate of return significantly exceeds our hurdles.
We have a significant opportunity to continue to grow these businesses.
On Slide 9 you can see the steady progress we have made on driving organic growth through our commercial teams and the integration of legacy Sterling Bancorp and the positive impact these have had on our revenues and expenses.
Total revenue growth was 3.2% while expenses increased 1.9%.
The core operating efficiency ratio was 54%.
This ratio excludes the impact of the gains and charges we detailed on Slide 5.
Let’s review asset quality on Slide 10.
Total net charge-offs against the allowance were 1.2 million which represented 10 basis points of total loans.
Provision for loan losses for the quarter was 3 million based on loan growth and additional Gotham and legacy Sterling loans that are now coming into our allowance.
The allowance for total loans and the allowance to NPLs were 88 basis points and 91%.
Please remember that these ratios do not include the impact of the fair value mark recorded in the legacy Sterling Bancorp and Gotham acquisitions.
Non-performing loans declined by 4.3 million and criticized and classified assets declined by 6.5 million relative to the linked-quarter.
This shows strong results and continued improvement in our credit metrics across the board.
I’ll just hand it over to Jack.
Thanks Luis.
Let me summarize the quarter.
Quarter core earnings were $19.6 million or $0.23 per diluted share representing an 8% increase in earnings over the linked-quarter.
On a linked-quarter core return on tangible equity improved 62 basis points to 14.42% core return on tangible assets improved 7 basis points to 113 basis points and our efficiency ratio improved 70 basis points to 54%.
Core revenue grew by 3.2% and core expenses increase by 1.9%.
Revenue was enhanced by solid commercial loan growth and increases in non-interest income areas of mortgage accounts receivable management and service charge income.
Expenses were up generally due to higher bonus accrual on increase data processing cost associated with the crossover to our new banking system.
We continue to have improving credit metrics and solid levels of capital.
Our integration of legacy Sterling has been largely completed.
We’ve met or exceeded all the objectives we have prescribed at the time of the merger announcement.
We have started our integration planning process in Hudson Valley and look forward to receiving the regulatory and shareholder approvals.
Most importantly with our organic growth model along with these two mergers we have positioned ourselves to be a high performing company and a meaningful commercially focused financial institution in the metropolitan New York City market.
There are significant opportunities before us to create strong positive operating leverage by growing commercial loans and fee income businesses attracting low cost deposits controlling expenses and showing strong levels of credit and capital.
We’re looking forward to another terrific year in 2015.
Now let's open the lines up for questions.
Certainly.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question is from David Darst with Guggenheim Securities.
As we're thinking about the acquisition should we think about it being -- closing in the first part of the second quarter or at the end of the quarter? The mid of the quarter is the target that we have at the moment.
Okay.
And then as you think about timing and going over $10 billion with this transaction -- so you have identified branches you are consolidating and closing.
Have you considered maybe selling anything that's kind of in the periphery of that franchise? Because it feels like you're trying to concentrate really more into the metro market.
We're looking at all options David.
Overall we're trying to create a more efficient and effective and very focused company.
So as we go through this process we look at all the areas of cost and revenue and again really focused on creating that positive operating leverage that we have talked ad nauseum about.
So kind of everything is on the table when we consider all those things as we move forward.
Okay.
And then as your path to get the expense saves could you maybe give us what you expect day one? And then I'll assume the 50% efficiency ratio you think you can get for the full year of 2016 or latter 2016.
Latter part of 2016 so the phasing is going to be similar to what we saw in this legacy Sterling transaction.
So 75% of that coming in the first -- by the end of the first 12 months post close and then by the end of 2016 at that point we should have -- at that quarter we should be fully realizing the 100% of the safe targets outlined.
Okay got it okay.
And then is anything changing in your commercial loan pipeline or your expectations for growth and then remixing the balance sheet? No it's what we've said before we really are trying to keep a very balanced book on the loan side between C&amp;I and commercial real-estate.
The pipelines are very strong a very good mix of all those things I mean again that's one of the advantages to what we have created is we have created a very diverse both asset and liability portion of the balance sheet.
So there are opportunities at different interest rates cycles in different times in different asset categories.
So we are not married to any single one and we're trying to kind of balance that with the opportunities that are out there.
Your next question comes from Collyn Gilbert with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Could you just give us a little more color how this payroll finance acquisition came to light? And I know you both said in your comments I think that you expect further opportunities there.
If you could just give a little more color and background as to what's driving that.
Yeah so maybe I will start and then I will have Luis burn into this thing.
So we have -- the business mix that we have there a number of businesses that we want to continue to reinforce and invest in payroll finance would be one of them.
Payroll finance a business that provides services both on the finance side and the fee based side to temporary companies -- temporary employment companies we basically factor the receivables -- high quality receivables.
So it's a very high yielding business generally fee driven and a very efficient business.
So we have a fairly significant business today in payroll finance and this particular acquisition we have a letter of agreement on but have not closed yet are very complimentary and very supplementary to that.
We do have several other of those types of businesses other types of commercial finance businesses that we're evaluating as we have plenty of opportunity to create better economies of scale and efficiencies in areas that will drive the revenue mix to become more fee oriented than it is today so that's what we're trying to do.
Okay.
And did this specific opportunity did it come from contacts that had already been made within the bank? Or is somebody bringing these to you? I'm just curious as to how that pipeline is evolving.
Good question actually both.
So we have our business leaders are all looking at folks that may want to join us and we have many folks that are bringing ideas to us.
So we have many opportunities and again these are huge deals these are great additive deals that are enhancing and they are accretive frankly very straight forward in terms of gathering the revenue from x amount of clients and reducing the cost because we have an infrastructure to support that.
Okay that's very helpful.
And then along those lines Luis do you by any chance have a breakdown as to what percent of the factoring pick-up you saw in the fourth quarter was seasonal versus just new customer activity? I don't have that breakdown for you of the top of my head.
But true to form as we've talked about in the past the latter part of the third quarter and the early stages of the fourth quarter are always from seasonal perspective the better month out of the year for the factoring business as retailers and so forth gear up for the holiday season.
A good guide and proxy that you could use is that you just look at the progression of outstandings over the course of the year that gives you the amount of the seasonality that comes from and I would say that about half of that is seasonal versus half of that being new clients if I had -- you know had this lot of numbers on the top of my head.
Okay.
Okay that's super helpful.
And then Luis you had mentioned -- so obviously -- well I shouldn't say obviously -- I'm assuming that the $43 million of the resi mortgages you sold this quarter is part of your comments you had made about restructurings ahead of the HVB deal.
Is that correct? Yes.
So that’s correct.
So we’re going to be -- so Hudson Valley had invested in some call three to five different pools that they bought from various originators on the residential mortgage side over the course of the last 12 months to 18 months or so.
So when you look at what they are going to bring to the table which is about $600 million or so and resi outstanding plus what we had that was going to take us closer to 1.3 billion in residential mortgages which is more than we wanted to have ion a combine basis.
I think we’ve been pretty consistent in the past; we are not interested in just holding residential mortgage loan.
We want to hold the residential mortgage loans where there is the ability and the opportunity to have a deposit relationship wealth management relationship with that borrower.
So these were loans where we did not have that opportunity and we think it will better serve using that funding and liquidity to redeploy into the commercial side of the business and we’re going to continue exploring those opportunities over the course of the next couple of quarters and really trying to position the mix of business that we want pro forma for the Hudson Valley there.
Okay.
Do you have a sense yet of Hudson Valley's $600 million how much of that would be considered relationship borrowers versus single product borrowers? I mean you [track gauge] how much more you want to sell.
Or maybe asked differently the $1.2 billion $1.3 billion is higher than what you wanted.
What's the ideal level that you want to hold? We’re going to be evaluating that as we go.
The majority of what they -- the majority what we’re going to be inheriting is probably non-relationship because again they bought -- these were loans that were originated by third-parties who have invested in by the folks at Hudson Valley.
So it's too early to tell exactly what that number is but the mix of business that we have today which is 15% to 20% consumer and then the balance of that 80% to 85% being split between C&amp;I and CRE what we were trying to maintain longer-term.
And when you think about next two to three years the portion of that consumer asset classes is going to continue to wind down as we invest in specialize business client as Jack was mentioning and growing to commercial real estate side as well.
Okay.
Okay helpful.
And then one just really quick last question.
Luis you said the provision part of the provision was obviously gross but then also some of legacy Gotham and loans moving from covered to now needing reserve.
Do you have a sense of how that flow is going to look in the next few quarters or how we should be thinking about the provision over the next few quarters? So it's the 3 million that we had this quarter assuming credit and as you’ve seen creditors performing very well from a perspective of NPLs and criticizing classified that progression continue to be positive for us it's going to be about 2.5 million to 3 million going forward.
So as we have talked about in the number of calls in the past obviously the accretion on the yield the accretable yield starts to where off but that reduce is the reserve requirement.
So a lot of the reserve requirement when we were provisioning $5 million for in the second quarter and the third quarter was driven by the fact that we’re providing for the incremental loans coming into the allowance count.
The 2.5 million to 3 million which is about 50% to 60% that what we were doing previously the difference between those two is that there is significantly less loans coming into the allowance now because the accretable yield and purchase adjustments have now -- from to P&amp;L.
So that’s working exactly how we had anticipated it would 2.5 million to 3 million is a good target going forward.
(Operator Instructions) Sounds like no more questions.
We really appreciate all your support and following and look forward to again a great 2015.
So thank you very much for your participation on the call.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect your line.
Good morning and welcome to the Sterling Bancorp 2015 Second Quarter Conference Call.
Our call will be led today by Mr.
Jack Kopnisky President and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to discuss our results for the second quarter ended June 30 2015.
Joining me on the call is Luis Massiani our Chief Financial Officer.
Our core operating results for the quarter were very strong and support our progress in the development of a high performance banking organization that provides strong returns to our shareholders great service to our clients and a high energy results oriented environment for our employees.
In addition to the strong results on June 30 we completed the merger with Hudson Valley Holding Company which will enable us to continue to expand and grow our company.
Now let me discuss the results.
Excluding the impact of merger related expenses and other charges core earnings were $21.4 million and core diluted earnings per share were $0.23.
This represents growth of 36% and 21% respectively over the same period a year ago.
On a linked quarter basis core earnings were up $2.8 million or 15.3%.
Our core return on average tangible assets was 113 basis points and core return on average tangible equity was 13.27%.
This compares favorably to 95 basis points and 12.4% respectively for the quarter ending June 30 2014.
We are constantly focused on creating positive operative leverage in this model.
Year-over-year our core revenue grew 8.4% and core non-interest expense decreased by 1.2%.
For the quarter our core efficiency ratio was 52.6% which compares favorably to 56.4% in the linked quarter and 57.8% in the same quarter last year.
We have driven significant improvements in performance by growing revenue through organic growth and acquisition while reducing overall costs.
We continue to have significant loan and deposit growth as we have leveraged our team-based model to drive broad-based relationships.
Our volumes also enable us to begin to leverage Hudson Valley Bank's balance sheet liquidity through the growth of high quality loans.
For the quarter we had organic total loan growth of $480.6 million which represents 18.9% year-over-year growth and 38.9% linked quarter.
Our targeted commercial loan growth was $492 million for the quarter representing an annualized growth of 47.7%.
The current loan mix after the merger of C&amp;I at 40% and CRE at 44% is strong and will evolve to more of equal parts C&amp;I and CRE.
Deposits grew $241.7 million during the quarter representing an 11.9% growth year-over-year and a 11.2% growth over the linked quarter.
The deposit base continues to be a strong low cost source of funding.
Core deposits defined as total deposits less certificates of deposit represent 92% of total deposits.
Total costs of the deposits were 24 basis points for the quarter.
Net interest margin was solid at 3.57%.
The balance sheet composition changes with the Hudson Valley merger.
The current deposit mix after the merger is very strong with 54% of total balances in DDA and 39% in savings and money market deposit accounts.
Looking ahead on a core organic basis we expect strong mid-teen commercial loan growth in the future.
And strong high single-digit to low double-digit deposit growth.
We continue to focus on diversifying and improving our revenue mix.
For the quarter non-interest income as a percentage of total revenue excluding securities gains was 17.2%.
We have growth both organically and through acquisitions in targeted categories.
Accounts receivable management fee income increased 22.8% year-over-year as a result of organic growth and acquisitions in payroll and factoring groups.
Credit quality remains strong net charge offs of $1.7 million represents 13 basis points of average loans.
Our capital position remains strong our tangible equity to tangible assets ratio was 8.04% Tier 1 leverage ratio was 12.86%.
We have ample capital to support our organic growth and execute our strategy.
Finally we are most excited to have completed the merger with Hudson Valley Holding Company on the last day of the quarter.
This merger provides us with a terrific opportunity to continue to create positive operating leverage by growing revenues and controlling expenses.
It also provides us with the ability to expand our footprint and model in Greater New York Metropolitan market.
This is the company that has a similar market segment focus and culture.
On a combined basis we have 27 commercial teams and a significant branch network to provide value added relationship service to our clients.
We also see significant opportunities to grow and expand our model.
Now let me turn the call over to Luis to detail the financials.
Thank you Jack and good morning.
Turning to Slide 4 let's review key balance sheet and income statement metrics for the quarter and compare them to the same quarter a year ago.
As of June 30 our total assets were $11.5 billion as our organic growth in total assets was approximately $800 million and Hudson Valley had $3.5 billion in total assets at the acquisition date.
Our total loans increased to $7.2 billion and total deposits increased to $8.8 billion.
This represents significant growth year-over-year and was driven mainly by the completion of the acquisition of Hudson Valley.
However as we will review on the following slides organic growth and loans and deposits has also been significant and exceeded our targets.
The impact of our strategy of rebalancing earning assets from securities to higher yielding loans is evidenced by our improved earning assets mix which has resulted in net interest income growth of approximately $5 million or 9% over the same quarter a year ago.
Securities comprised 23.1% of our balance sheet compared to 23.9% a year ago and we anticipate we will continue to reduce this percentage over time.
On the bottom of the page we detail our key performance metrics which show continued strong operating momentum.
Net interest margin was 357 basis points which represented 37 basis points decline from a year ago.
Included in interest income was $1.9 million or the accretion of the credit mark on prior acquisitions which compares to $2.9 million of accretion in the same quarter a year ago.
Excluding the impact of the credit mark accretion net interest margin was 348 basis points compared to 365 basis points in the June 2014 quarter.
Our core profitability ratios have continued to improve year-over-year.
Core return on average tangible assets was 1.13% and core return on average tangible equity was 13.3%.
We are continuing to make steady progress towards achieving our long-term performance goals.
Turning to Slide 5 let's review the reconciliation of GAAP to core EPS.
Our GAAP reported loss per share was $7.6 million or $0.08 for the second quarter.
This compares to earnings to $15 million or $0.18 for the same quarter a year ago.
Our core earnings were $21.4 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.23 compared to $15.8 million or $0.19 a year earlier.
Core net income increased almost 36% and core diluted EPS increased 21% over the same quarter a year ago.
Our reported net loss was mainly the result of the merger related expense and other restructuring charges that were incurred in connection with the acquisition of Hudson Valley.
Merger related expense of $14.6 million included charges of change in control payments employee benefit plan terminations financial and legal advisory fees and merger related marketing expenses.
Other restructuring charges which were included in other non-interest expense in our income statement were $28.1 million and mainly included charges for information and technology services contract termination impairment of leases and facilities and severance and retention compensation.
The amortization of non-compete agreements and acquired customer list was $991 000 in the quarter.
The increase over the linked quarter was due to the acquisitions of Damian Services Corporation and the factoring assets of First Capital.
Our tangible book value per share as of June 30 was $6.70 which decreased from $6.89 in the prior quarter.
Tangible book value per share was impacted by the merger and restructuring charges highlighted above as well as other purchase accounting adjustments recorded in connection with the acquisitions completed during the quarter.
In aggregate these items impacted tangible book value per share by approximately $0.09.
The remaining decrease is attributed to the increase in market interest rates which caused our accumulated other comprehensive income to decline by approximately $8 million relative to the linked quarter and also impacted a fair value of the loans acquired in the Hudson Valley merger.
Turning to Slide 6 let's take a look at our loans and deposits on a combined basis for the Hudson Valley.
Total portfolio loans were $7.2 billion at June 30 and our mix of business continues to be diverse across C&amp;I CRE and consumer asset classes.
Approximately 40% of our total loan portfolio consists of C&amp;I loans which includes our specialty finance business lines.
We believe these asst classes provide attractive risk adjusted returns and position us well for a raising rate environment.
Yield on loans declined 44 basis points year-over-year to 4.6%.
The yield on our combined loan portfolio before purchase accounting adjustment is approximately 4.5% at June 30.
Our total deposits were $8.8 billion which includes $3.1 billion of deposits acquired in the Hudson Valley merger.
Our deposit mix is attractive with 37% of our deposit consisting of non-interest bearing demand accounts and over 17% consisting of interest bearing demand accounts.
Overall the cost of our combined deposit base was 24 basis points at June 30.
On Slide 7 we provide an organic view of our loan and deposit growth over the past 12 months.
Under an organic basis we grew loans by $860 million over the last 12 months and $481 million over the linked quarter.
This represents annual growth rate of 19% and 39% respectively.
On the deposit side we grew balances by $609 million over the last 12 months and $155 million over the linked quarter.
This represents annual growth rates of 12% and 11% respectively.
As of June 30 2015 our loans to deposits ratio was approximately 82% which provides us with significant excess liquidity and a solid foundation that continue growing our core loans and earning assets.
We anticipate we will continue growing loans in the mid teens range and deposits in the high single digits range as we create a more efficient balance sheet targeting loans to deposits ratio of 95% over time.
On Slide 8 we provide greater detail on the areas in which we have generated loan portfolio growth.
Our target asset classes of C&amp;I and CRE loans have grown organically 27% and 20% respectively over the same period a year ago.
In aggregate they grew almost $917 million or 25% year-over-year and now represent more than 83% of our portfolio.
We will continue to target this business mix going forward.
Our pipeline of commercial loans is robust and we are focused on generating loans with strong credit characteristics attractive risk adjusted returns and where we can also have a significant deposit relationship.
On Slide 9 let's look at our deposit base in greater detail; organically our deposits grew 11.9% year-over-year and we have experienced balance growth between our retail commercial and municipal deposits which have grown at over 17% year-over-year.
On a combined basis with Hudson Valley we have significantly strengthened our deposit base and now have over 92% to our deposit consisting of core retail commercial and municipal deposits.
This provides us with a low cost funding based upon which to fund further loan growth.
As we have discussed previously an important element in our strategy is to continue growing our retail and commercial transaction accounts through a team-based delivery model.
On Slide 10 let's look at our fee income the figures on the slide exclude the impact of securities gains which were $697 000 for the quarter.
Total fee income was $13.2 million which was up from $12.5 million in the linked quarter and $12.3 million in the same quarter a year ago.
Our fee-based specialty finance businesses are growing both organically and from acquisitions.
Accounts receivable and factoring commissions and other fees grew $933 000 or 27% over the linked quarter and now represent 34% of our total fee income.
Please remember this was a first full quarter of Damian operations and that the First Capital factoring assets were acquired in mid-May.
So we do not yet have full earnings from these businesses.
These acquisitions have been very efficient as we have been able to increase revenue with little incremental operating expenses.
Adding the impact at our Green Campus partners' team has had in originating loans and deposits we estimate that we have achieved 50% of our goal of the $0.12 to $0.15 of incremental earnings that we would obtain from our capital raise in February of 2015.
We anticipate we will continue to grow volumes and reduce expenses in these businesses and we continue to evaluate opportunities to fully deploy the capital raised.
Our target of $0.12 to $0.15 of accretion upon full capital deployment remains unchanged.
We have consistently communicated our long-term goal of 20% or more fee income to total revenue.
However please note that with Hudson Valley – with the Hudson Valley merger we will take a step back from our current levels.
As initially our pro forma income will be approximately [Technical Difficulty] we have included our estimate of incremental expenses associated with crossing the $10 billion in asset size threshold.
This builds to an estimated annual operating expense base of approximately $220 million to $225 million once the full cost savings from the Hudson Valley merger are realized.
Including non-cash amortization items we estimate the total non-interest expense will be approximately $230 million to $235 million.
We anticipate we will achieve this run rate for the full year of 2016.
Let's review asset quality on Slide 13.
This quarter's performance showed continued progress and strong metrics across all credit quality indicators.
Charge-offs against the allowance were $1.7 million or 13 basis points of average loans and were level relative to their prior quarter.
We continue to add to our allowance for loan losses as our provision expense was $3.1 million driven mainly by the need to provide for organic loan growth.
The allowance for total loans and the allowance to NPLs were 61 basis points and 64%.
Please remember that these ratios do not include the impact of the fair value mark of $51 million recorded in the Hudson Valley merger and the remaining mark recorded in prior acquisitions.
The increase in NPLs was mainly driven by the Hudson Valley merger as organically non-performing loans increased by just $154 000 and criticized and classified assets declined by $7 million relative to the linked quarter.
We're working diligently to continue to reduce these balances.
Jack? Thanks Luis.
Let me summarize the quarter.
We continue to have strong momentum in core earnings and profitability core earnings were up 35.9% over the same time last year and up 15.3% over the linked quarter.
The core return on average assets was 113 basis points and core return on average tangible equity was 13.27%.
Operating leverage continues to improve as core revenue grew 8.4% and core non-interest expenses declined by 1.2%.
The efficiency ratio improved to 52.6%.
Commercial loans grew $492 million or 11.7% on a linked quarter basis.
This represents an annualized growth of 47.7%.
Deposits grew $214.7 million during the quarter representing 11.9% growth year – over year and 11.2% growth over the linked quarter.
Fee income from our accounts receivable management businesses increased by 22.8% year-over-year reflecting both organic growth and acquisition.
Finally we are excited with the opportunity to bring Hudson Valley into our company.
We are in the process of systematically implementing a well-designed integration plan.
On the revenue side we will transition the approximately $600 million to $700 million in liquidity on Hudson Valley's balance sheet into high quality loans over the next six quarters.
We will continue to grow the strong deposit base to create more opportunity for growth and we will increase productivity across all distribution points.
On the expense side we will meet and exceed the $34 million target for expense savings by consolidating the back office expenses and consolidating the number of financial centers.
We are already ahead of our plan to reduce expenses.
We are well positioned to continue to improve the profitability and drive growth.
We are on track to achieve the next level of returns that we committed upon completion of integration of Hudson Valley in December 2016 we expect to be at an ROA of 1.2% or beyond return on tangible common equity of 14% or beyond and efficiency ratios in the low 50% range.
So I really do want to thank everyone that has been part of this growth story that means employees clients shareholders advisors -- everybody has worked so hard to drive this level of performance and the opportunity in the future continues to be great.
So let's open this up for questions.
But before we do this Matt Kelley from Piper Jaffray was kind enough to send us a number of questions and I will read and kind of answer up front.
I don't want to take any – away from your Matt but it's easier to just read the questions and respond to them.
So first question is what are the expected additional fee and expense adds from the recent specialty finance acquisitions? As Luis said we are about 50% of the way there in putting the dollars that we raised to work.
So we net-net we have achieved about $0.06 or $0.07 run rate or about 50% of what we expected which was on an annualized basis full run rate by the end of 2016 an incremental $0.12 to $0.15.
Maybe said in a different way we have basically covered the cost of the capital raise already in the businesses we already have acquired.
Second question was what are the plans for additional acquisitions of businesses and people in this area? So we have a series of things we have looked a lot of businesses to acquire to supplement the fee income side of what we are doing everything from additional payroll companies to factoring companies to SBA companies to – we even have looked at insurance premium finance and other kind of corporate finance types of activities.
And as you have seen us be very disciplined in this process where we would be able to take the incremental fee income frankly strip out the cost by putting them on our existing platforms.
Third question is beyond the targeted Hudson Valley deal cost saves what are the plans for longer term branch and staff reductions? We are very confident and very comfortable that the cost reductions in total will exceed the $34 million that we articulated previously and we are already ahead of plan.
We are ahead of plan in part because we froze positions at both organizations and we feel very strong about the opportunities out there.
We will – we have articulated that we will consolidate at least 10 branches so we will take the branch network from 60 to 50 and then we will continuously look at consolidating more – the branches on both sides were frankly less retail branches more commercial branches that are supported by the commercial banking teams.
Any update on deposit run-off from a commercial team that departed? We have 27 kind of teams that were very comfortable with.
As you have seen we have terrific deposit flows and asset flows across the board.
That one particular team that you are referring to; we have actually increased deposits over that period of time by adding new teams but – also a new team.
I will also tell you we have a pipeline – a very strong pipeline of anywhere from 6 to 10 teams that we are evaluating to add over a period of time.
So there are many teams and many folks that want to add – that want to join this model at the right period of time we would add teams and frankly supplement some of the existing teams to increase productivity of each of the teams.
But we are very comfortable with the teams that we have and the performance levels.
And then the last question is the company still on track to achieve the 120 basis point ROA and 14% ROTCE targets outlined with the Hudson Valley deal and as I mentioned in the closing statement absolutely we are very comfortable – even in spite of a very tough interest rate environment we are – we have found a way over the last three or four years to kind of re-invent the company constantly to get the level of performance metrics out of this.
So thank you Matt for the questions.
And if there are any follow-up please go on.
But let's now open it up to questions that anyone has? So operator if you could open up the questions please.
All right.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Casey Haire with Jefferies.
Good morning guys.
Hi Casey.
Just wanted to ask about any updated commentary on the NIM guide are you guys are on track to your 355 to 365 on the year that excluded HVB if I remember correctly obviously that's now on board lots of moving parts just some updated thoughts there? So the guidance from a – Casey from a – what I will call a core basis excluding any purchase accounting adjustments from Hudson Valley merger on a tax equivalent basis they are going to move a little bit below the 355 to 365 that we guided to in the past and that can be closer to about 345 to 350.
But then on top of that you are going to have some pretty significant accretion from that $51 million fair value mark that we mentioned on the phone.
So all in first couple of quarters after the transaction we are anticipating that's going to be about 375 to 380 basis points.
But you obviously have to – there is – when you talk about accretable yield there is always a little bit of a question mark right regarding performance of the portfolio and so forth.
So it could move a little bit from those numbers but we do anticipate that it's going to be about 15 to 20 basis points higher than where the core number has been today.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And just to understand like the loan growth guide is -- I mean the loan growth this past quarter was obviously very strong and 40% annualized and the guide going forward is more reasonable at a mid teens pace.
I'm just wondering that – just some color on the growth this past quarter was it in anticipation of getting sort of head start on the liquidity provided by Hudson Valley which actually came in a little bit bigger than initially – when you initially announced the transaction $3.1 billion versus $2.8 billion.
Were you guys just trying to get a head start and sort of really maybe push it a little bit more on the loan growth front which is why loan pricing kind of came in a little bit hedged purchase accounting? Absolutely.
You hit on the – you hit the nail on the head.
So well we – one our teams are very productive and as you saw the volumes came in across many asset classes.
So one of the advantages of this structure is our balance sheet is very diverse and there is certain opportunities that are afforded to us in the market that we take advantage of.
But that's exactly what we are doing.
We are trying to get a head of the volume and put the liquidity to work sooner as we found high-quality loans more or less transition very simply cash and securities that are yielding 1% to 1.5% and the loans are yielding kind of 4% to 4.5%.
So that's exactly what we were doing.
Okay.
So the loan pricing I would expect would be a little bit more stable going forward and the use of borrowings obviously will not be – I mean average basis borrowings were up we are not going to see that obviously given the remix? Correct.
That's right.
Okay great.
And just following up on the $0.12 to $0.15 so if you guys do – you are half a way there you basically covered the cost of the raise in February.
So do you need more deals to hit that $0.12 to $0.15 or can you grow into it can you just develop the revenues at your existing acquired subsidiaries? No.
That's – we are going to do more deals.
So we would need some more transactions that we are doing.
So the yield that we are getting out of these acquisitions will get us a long way there and it may tick up $0.01 or $0.02 just higher levels of productivity from the existing.
But in reality we are looking for some additional acquisitions to put the equity to work.
Okay.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Sure.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of David Darst with Guggenheim Securities.
Hey good morning.
Hi David.
Hi David.
So it relates to our fee income see you have got a little bit more build for the full quarter of the factoring acquisition then should we expect a seasonal surge again or is that the expectation for the third quarter? There will be David.
If you look at – you look at the progression of non-interest income in specifically of that line item in 2014 the strongest quarters for the factoring and payroll businesses or the third and fourth quarter more so the fourth but constructing a lot more volume towards the latter part of the third quarter.
So you are going to see a similar bump up on a relative basis between the first and the second quarter versus third.
So we do anticipate a nice increase in volume there.
Okay.
And then you had some BOLI income this quarter was that a one-time event or is that a new run rate from a purchase or the acquisition? New run rate from a purchase.
Okay.
And then just on expenses and looking at what you are taking out how should we think about inflation new teams and kind of what else come into the run rate or is that in your guidance for full a 230 to 235? That's in the guidance.
That's in the guidance.
Yes.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just as it relates to your commercial real estate versus commercial growth going forward you are expecting both of those to be at mid-teen growth rates? Yes.
Obviously as much as we can push higher yielding loans the better in those higher yielding loans generally are more in the C&amp;I category than the real estate category.
So we are consciously pushing the higher yielding asset classes on the C&amp;I side.
And we are being hopefully smart about the real estate investments of that yields.
Okay.
And then just – if you think about your tangible equity ratio is there a level that you are comfortable levering that down to? Yes.
So there is a little bit of room to go before – below that 804 that we posted for the quarter end.
So we can't go – we had been operating at about seven and three quarters 775 to 880.
And we are comfortable moving back down to those types of levels now.
Remember that a significant portion of the story here isn't necessarily balance sheet growth it's the rebalance – it's the continued rebalancing of the earning asset side of the equation.
So when you think about securities plus cash that we now have combined with Hudson Valley or close to $3 billion in assets.
That number is $2.7 billion – I'm sorry $2.7 billion to $3 billion that number is going to come down and that's going to be redeployed in the loans.
So long way of saying that mid-teens loan growth doesn't necessarily reflecting dollar for dollar growth and assets because we are going to be reducing the size of the securities and the cashes we go along.
Okay.
But if you are growing deposits at say $850 million and to $900 million a year is that going to be the level to think about asset growth or will you be at least paying down some borrowings as well? We will be paying down borrowings as well.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question will come from the line of Matthew Kelley with Piper Jaffray.
Yes.
Hi guys.
Maybe just to help us out a little bit what were the balances of Damian and Green Campus First Capital loans at the end of the quarter just to give us a sense on loan balances and how that might have impacted some of the other growth trends you saw on the quarter? So the balances in Damian and in First Capital remember those are more volume based businesses.
So there is not – there is – that's not a significant driver of loan growth in any way.
The Green Campus partners' guys as we have talked in the past they are going to have the same types of target that our folks have that our other teams have which are maturity $250 million to $300 million in total balances and they are well on track to achieving those targets.
So they were from a loan perspective they are not – none of those three are what I would call you necessarily a significant contributor to the loan growth that we experienced during the quarter.
The two of those businesses are more volume driven.
The Green Campus guys are on track.
But they don't – they were not the main driver of growth during the quarter either.
Okay.
Maybe they will give – be specific on a range so these are in $50 million to $100 million range.
On aggregate of the three.
On aggregate of the three.
But remember that Damian had already been – so Damian had already been acquired in the first quarter.
So the Damian – so Damian essentially represent – those are the total balances that are outstanding for those businesses today.
But Damian was already baked into the 331 numbers because we closed that transaction in February.
So the loan growth that was generated by those areas in Green Campus that already started generating loans in the 331 quarter as well.
So the drivers of growth were not those three – loan growth were not those three businesses.
Okay.
Got you.
And what was the average yield on your CRE originations during the quarter? It depends on the product multi-family versus traditional CRE.
On the multi-family side in the five-year – on the five-year fixed rate area three in a quarter is what we are seeing the marketplace today.
As you move outside of the city you – you get a 25 to 50 basis point pick up.
On new loan yields on the commercial real estate side in the 5 to 10 year fixed rate on average just around 4% 375 to 4%.
That's what the market bearing in the New York Metro area.
Got it.
And then there has been a lot of moving parts on tax rates for banks on the metro New York City market which will you be using for tax rate with you guys going forward? For the full year 2015 32.5% to 33% for 2016 that is going to increase to about 35% to 37%.
But I would – for -- where we stand today it's going to be closer to – split the middle between those two 36% is a good number.
Okay.
Got it.
And will it be any effort to put into place tax-advantaged investments or the strategies to reduce that's a pretty big ramp? We are – we are working on it.
Unfortunately for us more so than the – more so than the changes in the tax code per se the issue that we average that we breach the $8 billion asset size threshold which brings with a significant impacts on the refracted of the new tax codes and loss of REIT tax advantages and so forth.
So the increases isn't just driven by the tax changes actually driven the fact that we have grown about $8 billion in assets.
And we are actively going to be looking at extreme lining things to be able to look at tax-advantaged earning assets.
So yes the short answer to that is yes.
Got it.
Then one last question.
Over time what's the lowest we could see the securities to asset ratio you mentioned it's going to drift down from where we are right now which I think was in the mid-20s you had mentioned low 20s excuse me but how low could you bring that over time? It's at 23% today where we would target 18% to 20% over the long-term.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Sure.
[Operator Instructions] Well again thanks for – yes go ahead.
I'm sorry.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Casey Haire with Jefferies.
Sure.
Thanks guys.
Sorry just one more – just to clarify on the expenses so the 220 to 225 that you guys are targeting on a long-term basis.
I'm assuming that's once you get obviously all the cost saves out which if memory serves was by the end of 2016.
So that's a good run rate for 2017? That's a run rate for 2016 for the full year.
For the full year.
And that bakes mid-teens loan growth and high single digit deposit growth? That's right.
Correct.
Okay.
And then on a GAAP basis we are going to see a meaningful ramp up in the non-cash amortization expense if that's – I mean it's currently running at around $4 million per annum and it looks like it's going to be $10 million to $15 million drag? That's right.
So the CDI – the CDI generated on the Hudson Valley transaction is going to drive the vast majority of that increase.
Oh okay got it.
So it's core deposit not the non-compete got you.
That's all non-cash.
That's all non-cash amortization item CDI plus non-competes and so forth.
It's all non-cash amortization.
Understood.
Thanks for cleaning it up.
Sure.
And you have another question that will come from the line of Collyn Gilbert with KBW.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi.
Luis just to go back to the comment on the core NIM coming in a little bit below where you had anticipated before.
What is driving that? It was two things.
So we have – so one of the things that we did during the quarter is that we increased our security balances on a relative basis in anticipation of closing the merger with – and being able to reposition there security book into our security book.
So even though that's originating greater net interest income it obviously on a net interest margin basis has the negative impact because it's lower than the weighted average earning asset yield.
So that was one thing.
The second part of that is that the – we continue to be in an environment where the new loan origination in most of the asset classes that we are in is below the weighted average earning asset – weighted average loan yield.
So you are still seeing some compression on that front.
That's one of the reasons that's important for us and as we move into the third and fourth quarter.
We start to see volumes pick up in the specific areas where we have loans that are actually accretive to that number.
So we are still in an environment where your loan yields are compressing but we do have specific business lines that will help us offset that.
So we feel pretty good about that that combined guidance with Hudson Valley.
Okay because if I heard you guys correctly did you say that you thought loan yields or loan pricing was more stable or the outlook for that would be more stable? I think its stable it's just that it's low.
Okay.
Stable from a competitive standpoint but yet still just low relative to what's rolling off? Yes exactly.
So that's the reason that you see margin is compressing it's kind of compressing across the industry is that yes we are all still stuck in that right.
Okay.
And just the $2.7 billion of liquidity coming on and I probably could do the math figure this on the timeline.
But how could -- do you anticipate the sort of say that mix shift or see that absorption if that would put any? It's not a $2.7 billion of liquidity.
So the entirety – so the entirety of the balance sheet that we inherited had $3.1 billion or the balance sheet that we acquired $3.1 billion in deposits and about $1.8 billion in loans.
So they bring about $1.2 billion what I will call cash and securities to the table they won.
If you – we continue to grow loans on average at $250 million per quarter which is what we have been averaging for the past four five quarters.
We would use up that liquidity over the course of the next four to five quarters.
So by the end of 2016 we would expect to be back to that 92% to 95% loans to deposits ratio that we have been operating at on a standalone basis for the past year.
Okay.
Great.
That's super helpful.
And then just one last question how you guys thinking about mortgage banking I know it dropped this quarter but just sort of your thoughts on that that business line going forward? That's a business line that frankly I'm not a huge lover of mortgage banking as time goes on.
So it's a supplemental business that allows us to take when rates are going down higher volumes and rates are going up lower volumes.
So a lot of our mortgage banking group does around $800 million to $900 million a year in volume.
They help us create wonderful relationships with clients that are much more broad-based.
But from a mortgage banking standpoint we have not put a lot of emphasis on that category frankly we put more emphasis on growing the accounts receivable management business – the cash management business – Or our funding business.
And other types of fee incomes like swap fee incomes loan fee income.
The other thing that the mortgage business does for us is that it helps us – help support the warehouse mortgage business which we think is a very strong earning asset category and as a lot of upside opportunities depending on the level of lines so we have on the warehouse side with the breadth of the clients.
Okay.
So should we – is that taking all that into consideration I guess what did you have for – like $9.4 million or so in 2014 and $6 million plus or $5 million whatever – the first half of the year is that – we are looking to see that line drop do you think as we go forward? Or I’m sure you will hold the line given just some of the other components of it that you are talking about Jack? So remember that – remember that the first quarter this year had in it mortgage banking and it did have in it the some incremental revenues from the loan sale that we did that and that compressed press.
Yes that compressed greater loan sale activity that would have been normal for the first quarter of the year.
The numbers obviously in mortgage banking is always seasonal right so more houses get bought and sold in the second and third quarter than do in the first and the fourth.
So the way to think [Technical Difficulty] about that is the numbers that you saw for the second quarter this year are much closer to the run rate of what the – what you will see in the latter part of the year.
So are you going to do better than the $9.4 million from last year? We will.
But we are not going to annualize the – what I will call the 6-month run rate and use that for a year – use for a year.
So we will do better than $9.5 million but it's not going to be just first half of the year annualized.
Perfect.
Okay.
That's great.
Thank you guys.
Sure.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I will turn the conference call back over to Mr.
Kopnisky for a closing remark.
Yes.
Just thanks again for joining us and look forward to continuing to grow the company.
Thank you very much.
And once again we would like to thank you for your participation on today's Sterling Bancorp 2015 second quarter conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Sterling Bancorp Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kopnisky Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us to discuss our results for the third quarter ended September 30 2015.
Joining me on the call is Luis Massiani our Chief Financial Officer.
Over the past four years we have been very deliberant in building a high performing business oriented commercial bank serving the Metropolitan New York City market.
We have been focussed on building the company that provides strong returns to our shareholders great service and value to our clients and a high energy results oriented environment for our employees.
In the quarter we have demonstrated the achievement of several meaningful financial objectives.
First excluding the impact of securities gains the termination of our defined benefit pension plan and other charges co-earnings were $32 million and co-diluted earnings per share were $0.25.
This represents growth of 76% and 14% respectively over the same period a year ago.
Secondly our core return on average tangible assets was 121 basis points and core return on average tangible equity was 14.3%.
We have been targeting 120 basis points on assets and 14% on equity to be achieved by the end of our consolidation of Hudson Valley Bank targeted at December 31 2016.
Third our core efficiency ratio was 49% for the quarter.
We continued to focus on the creation of positive operating leverage in our model.
We have targeted efficiency levels to be at 50% or below.
Fourth we have been strategic in our growth and management of our balance sheet targeted commercial loan growth for the quarter was $290 million which represents annualized growth of 19.1% where [Indiscernible] the balance sheet to add targeted high quality loans or leveraging the strong low cost deposit base.
Lastly we are working to continue to diversify the revenue mix in the company as we grow accounts receivable management cash management and our sources of commercial fee income.
Turning to the integration of Hudson Valley and additional investments we have made for future growth.
We are ahead of schedule in the integration of Hudson Valley and we continue to drive further efficiencies through ongoing facilities consolidation and rationalizing expenses.
We have already achieved a run rate decline of $29 million in operating expenses relative to the fourth quarter of 2014.
We are leveraging the terrific deposit base we acquired to support loan growth we have enjoyed.
During the quarter we added two new teams one focussed on healthcare and a second will provide syndication services.
We will continue to invest in high performing targeted commercial teams and exit non-strategic lower performing functions.
Of course our opportunity is to continue to meet and exceed the financial metrics we established on a consistent basis.
By executing effectively against our objectives where confidence is the model we have developed and will provide strong shareholder value.
Now let me turn the call over to Luis to detail the financials.
Thank you Jack and good morning.
Turning to Slide 4 let's review key balance sheet and income statement metrics for the quarter and compare them to the same quarter a year ago.
As of September 30 2015 our total assets were $11.6 billion which represent a growth of approximately $4.3 billion over the past 12 months and includes $3.5 billion in total assets acquired in the Hudson Valley transaction.
At September 30 our total loans increased to $7.5 billion and our total deposits were $8.8 billion.
We continue to invest in hiring new teams and expanding our loan originations and deposit gathering platforms.
We anticipate we will continue to generate significant growth in loans and deposits going forward.
Compared to the same quarter a year ago net interest income has increased approximately $34 million to $93 million.
We continue to work on deploying the excess liquidity that we acquired in the Hudson Valley merger.
As of September 30 our total loans to deposit ratio was 86% and our securities comprised 22% of total assets.
As we continue to deploy this excess liquidity we will also rebalance our earning assets to have a higher proportion of loans versus securities.
On the bottom of the page we detail our key performance metrics which show continued strong operating momentum.
Net interest margin was 3.8% which represented 1 basis points decline from a year ago.
Included in interest income was $5.8 million or the accretion of the credit mark on prior acquisitions which compares to $2 million of accretion in the same quarter a year ago.
Excluding the impact of the purchase accounting mark accretion net interest margin was 353 basis points in the third quarter.
We anticipate that our net interest margin will benefit going forward as we rebalance our earning assets to high quality loans and continue to invest in our speciality lending businesses.
Our core operating ratios have continued to improve year-over-year.
Our core return on average tangible assets was 1.2% and core return on average tangible equity was 14.3%.
We are continuing to make steady progress towards achieving our long term performance goals.
Turning to Slide 5 let's review the reconciliation of GAAP to core EPS.
Our GAAP reported earnings were $24.2 million or $0.19 for the third quarter and were impacted mainly the termination of our defined benefit pension plans.
We will review the impact of the termination on the next slide.
This compares to earnings to $16.3 million and $0.19 for the same quarter a year ago.
Our core earnings were $3 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.25 compared to $18.2 million or $0.22 a year earlier.
Core net income increased approximately 76% and core diluted EPS increased 13.6% over the same quarter a year ago.
Our tangible book value per share as of September 30 2015 was $6.94 which increased from $6.70 in the prior quarter.
Turning to Slide 6 let’s go to the termination of the defined benefit pension plans.
Pension accounting is many moving pieces so we will summarize the impact that the termination had on our income tangible book value and tangible book value per share.
As we announced on previous calls we made a decision to terminate the legacy Sterling and legacy Provident pension plans in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Over the last two years we have been working on obtaining the required regulatory approvals to terminate the plans which we received in July of 2015.
As you will recall we had already retired a portion of the pension plan liabilities related to plan retirees in prior period but this now represents a full termination of all pension plan obligations.
This will not have a major impact on run rate operating expenses as our pension plans had already been frozen and participants had seized the total benefits.
However the full termination will eliminate volatility in our tangible book value and will simplify our compensation plan structure.
Moving onto the numbers the impact of the balance sheet includes adjusted -- to reflect fair value of the pension plan assets on the date of termination and expenses incurred with the actual termination of the plan.
This reduced the fair value of pension asset which are recorded in other assets by $4.1 million.
Pension accounting rules require that unrealized pension expense be recorded as accumulated other comprehensive losses which reduces stockholders equity.
At September 30 2015 the balance of unrecognized pension expense that had been recorded as a cumulative other comprehensive loss was $5.4 million.
So the termination eliminates this balance and increases shareholders equity by the same amount.
This also results in the elimination of 4 million of deferred taxes associated with the pension plan AOCI.
From an income statement perspective we end up recording a pre-tax charge of $13.4 million which includes the following items.
The reduction in the fair value of the pension plan assets of 4.1 million and the elimination of the pre-tax amount of the AOCI which was $9.3 million.
The result of the reduction of $9 million in our GAAP net income however given the other balance sheet adjustments that we detailed above including the reversal of the AOCI loss that had previously been recorded the net impact on stockholders’ equity was $3.7 million or just $0.03 per share.
Turning to slide 7 let’s take a look at our loans.
We experienced strong growth across all of our asset classes.
Total portfolio loans were $7.5 billion which represented annualized growth rate of 15% over the prior quarters.
Our mix of business continues to be diverse across C&amp;I CRE and consumer asset classes.
Approximately 40% of our total loan portfolio consists of C&amp;I loans including our specialty finance business lines.
We believe these asset classes provide attractive risk adjusted returns and position us well for a raising rate environment.
Yield on loans declined 8 basis points year-over-year to 4.75%.
Without purchase accounting accretion yield on loans was approximately 4.5% for the three months ended September 30 2015.
Turning to our deposits on the next page total deposits were $8.8 billion at September 30 2015.
Our deposit mix is attractive with 36% of our deposits consisting of non-interest bearing demand accounts and over 18% consisting of interest bearing demand accounts.
Over 92% of our deposits were core deposits and our cost of deposits was 24 basis points.
Our loans for deposits ratio was 86%.
We intend to continue using our excess deposits upon high quality loan growth.
We anticipate that long term we will continue to grow loans in the mid teens range and deposits in the high single digits range as we create a more efficient balance sheet targeting a loans for deposits ratio of approximately 95% overtime.
On slide 9 let’s look at our fee income the figures on the slide exclude the impact of securities gains which were $2.7 million for the quarter.
As we realized gains in connection with the repositioning of our securities portfolio post merger with Hudson Valley.
Total fee income was $16.1 million which was up from $13.2 million in the linked quarter and $12.3 million in the same quarter a year ago.
Our fee-based specialty finance businesses are growing both organically and through acquisitions.
Accounts receivable and factoring commissions and other fees grew $947 000 or 25% year-over-year and grew $326 000 over the linked quarter.
The acquisition of Damian services cooperation and FCC factoring portfolio are performing as we had anticipated.
In aggregate these acquisitions are on pace to generate approximately $12 million in total revenue including interest income and fee income over the next 12 months.
These acquisitions have been efficient as we have been able to increase revenue with limited incremental operating expense.
The Public Finance sector team has also had success originating loans and deposits.
As of September 30 2015 their total loan balances were over $100 million with a robust and diversified line of new opportunities.
We anticipate this team will also become a fee income contributor going forward.
We have consistently communicated our long term goal 20% or more fee income to total revenue.
Due to Hudson Valley business mix we took a step back from previous levels and fee income was 14.7% for the quarter.
We will build from this point.
On slide 10 you can see the steady progress we have made over the past 12 months in driving operational efficiencies.
We achieved a 49% core efficiency ratio for the third quarter of 2015 which represents 570 basis points of improvement over the year ago period.
On the right side of the page you can see the improvement we have made on total operating expenses and how this has begun to progress towards merger with HVV.
This is a result of the HV merger and an ongoing rationalization of expenses and facilities consolidation.
In Q4 2014 which was the last quarter that was unaffected by the merger both companies had total operating expenses of $247 million excluding the impact of A.R.
Schmeidler which was Hudson Valley’s investment management subsidiary that was sold in January 2015.
For the quarter our total core operating expenses were $54.5 million which represent an annualized expense run rate of $218 million.
This represents a decrease in total combined operating expenses of $29 million between the two periods.
As we have announced previously we continue to invest in personal systems and risk management as we have profit and billion asset sized thresholds which will increase operating expenses going forward.
However we have made significant progress on delivering the cost savings we had previously identified and we are still in process of executing several of these expense initiatives.
We are progressing nicely towards the overall operating expense targets we have announced upon full phase in of the cost savings.
Let's review asset quality on Slide 11.
This quarter's performance shows continued progress and strong metrics across all our key credit quality indicators.
Charge-offs against the allowance were $1.7 million or 9 basis points of average loans and were level relative to their prior quarter.
We continue to add to our allowance for loan losses as our provision expense was $5 million driven mainly by the need to provide for organic loan growth and loans from prior mergers that are now part of our allowance.
The allowance for total loans and the allowance to NPLs were 63 basis points and 70%.
Please remember that these ratios do not include the impact of the remaining fair value mark of $48.5 million recorded in previous acquisitions.
Our special mention loans increased by approximately $25 million quarter-over-quarter mainly due to one credit relationship that has continued to perform but is demonstrating signs of stress.
We have continued to work through our substandard and doubtful loans which decreased by $5 million relative to the linked quarter.
Jack.
Thanks Luis.
Let me summarize the quarter for everybody.
So we continue to have strong momentum in core earnings and profitability.
Core earnings were up 76% over the same time last year and up 50% over the linked quarter.
The core return on average assets was 121 basis points and core return on average tangible equity was 14.3%.
Operating inefficiency ratio improved 570 basis points from last year to 49%.
Commercial loans grew $290 million.
This represents an annualized growth of 19.1% and fee income from our accounts receivable management businesses increased by 24.8% year-over-year reflecting both organic growth and acquisition.
Finally we were pleased with our integration of Hudson Valley to date.
We are in the process of systematically executing a well designed integration plan.
On the revenue side we will continue to transition the approximate in $600 million to $700 million in liquidity on our balance sheet into loans over the next five quarters.
The former Hudson Valley teams are off to a terrific start in bringing the combined bank resources to our clients.
We will continue to grow the strong deposit base to create more opportunities for growth and we will increase productivity across all distribution points.
On the expense side we will meet and exceed the $34 million target for expense savings by consolidating the back office expenses and consolidating the number of financial centers.
We are already ahead of our plant to reduce expenses.
Overall we are well positioned to continue to improve profitability and drive growth.
Thanks to everyone that is been part of this growth story and please finance shareholders and advisors.
Now let’s open up the line for questions operator? Certainly.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Casey Haire with Jefferies.
I wanted to start out on the expenses so on slide 10 the 218 run rate by my math that puts you guys at over 80% of your cost save goal.
I was wondering I mean and it sounds like you guys still have a number of things that you're working on is there an expectation that you guys do better than that 45% target and it’s so how much? Yeah we do expect so thanks Casey.
We do expect to do better.
As we get – we get into this each of these opportunities have presented themselves and we target a certain number and then as we get into the actual operating – operating entity and consolidating the company we find generally more operating efficiencies to be gained.
So we do expect to exceed the $34 million and we expect it to be in kind of the 10% plus in excess range.
Got you.
And then just reconciling so you have a bullet on that slide long-term non-interest expense target of 230 to 235 and if I run rate including the amortization of intangibles if I run rate that – this quarter I am at 232 so you're basically in your comfort zone is that what you're trying to say or? We are Casey we are in the comfort zone but as we've talked about a lot in the past going over $10 billion does bring with it significant investments as well.
So even though there is still noise of potential amount of savings and expense initiatives that we have in connection with both merger as well as just organic initiatives that we have underway we will also spend you know we do have to invest so in building out infrastructure risk management the personal and systems that we're talking about as we went through the slide.
So we're close to the numbers that we provided before the 230 to 235 is the same information and target that we had announced in the prior quarter’s earnings call and feel good about tracking to that bogie and doing a little bit better than what we had anticipated.
Okay.
Great.
And just switching to deposits you guys are coming off the deposits were down slightly on a quarter come off a very strong core operating performance in the second quarter.
Just wondering if you can was there good underlying core organic growth that was offset by maybe Hudson Valley attrition or decay from the team that was lost earlier in the year? Just some color on the push-pull on deposit growth.
Yes.
So the deposit growth has been very well managed.
So we really haven’t experienced any type of attrition in the things that you mentioned.
It really has been really focused on managing the deposit base.
So what we're trying to balance in to give you more color on this we're trying to get and enable the commercial teams to drive more commercial deposits that are core as we look at consolidating some of the retail branches and deposits.
So that's the magic to this is one we're trying to leverage the overall balance sheet by creating a higher loans to deposit ratio and two we're trying to manage the positive base to gain more core commercial deposits and by the way about 75% of our total deposit base are more institutional 25% as a retail.
We want to continue to manage that mix higher so that it becomes the higher percentage of institutional than retail as time goes on.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Just last one from me on the special mentioned optic.
It sounds like this was nothing systemic.
I was just wondering what kind of sector or exposure that credit was and if there was any charge off taken on that credit this quarter? No.
There wasn't any charge-offs taken on this.
So we've been managing.
So this is category of Medallions so we have about $65 million worth of Medallion exposure to four clients.
There are businesses that – businesses are individuals that owned Medallions that sublet them the ultimate user.
So we don't have exposure directly to the actual users.
These are businesses that frankly in many cases have other cash flows.
The loaned values as it grew when we got into this we're around 55% if I remember correctly.
The loaned values today are kind of in the 80% range.
This was one credit that is current but as seen some decline in their financial metrics.
Okay.
So the corporate-owned New York City Medallion? Corporate-owned New York City Medallion.
That's right.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Darst with Guggenheim Securities.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi David.
Hi David.
Hi.
So Jack could you run through the $130 million or so of C&amp;I growth and maybe talk about what's in their specialty categories versus the new C&amp;I teams in the New York Market? Yes.
So it really has been fairly balance across all the sectors.
One of the great things about this operating model is we've tried purposely from the very diverse in the asset categories.
So we've actually had pretty strong growth across all of those sectors in C&amp;I.
So it starts with traditional middle market C&amp;I and that's frankly we've invested more and more into that category.
But then it includes everything from -- there are some warehouse lending to some moderate on the asset on the asset base to factoring and payroll finance come into that as well as equipment finance.
But generally for this quarter it has been traditional middle markets C&amp;I New York City based C&amp;I balances.
Okay great.
And then the commercial real estate is that primarily brought through these C&amp;I teams or are you doing any multifamily in more of a centralized manner? Yes.
So what's little bit unique in our model is each of the teams have the ability to do commercial real estate in its non-owner occupied and owner-occupied CRE along with multifamily.
So as you would imagine some of the teams more concentrate on CRE and certain types of CRE than others that create C&amp;I.
So this comes again from Metropolitan New York City CRE generally owner or non-owner occupied some degree of multifamily.
I would tell you one of the things we've modified are looking at things like cap rates on and appraised value.
So we have been concerned about cap rates where they've gone into obviously valuations that come out of this so we have picked up our credit criteria around looking at higher quality CRE loans with in essence is lower loan to value ratios.
So David it's not broker-originated multifamily if that's a question.
Its relationship driven CRE multifamily originated through teams not through brokers.
Yes.
Good point if that where we you were going.
Indirectly yes so the production around $300 million is that the right way to think about is your target run rate for growth over the next couple of quarters? That is.
We've been very mindful – what we've been to estimate and to provide clarity on is we do have this billions and billions in a quarter of excess liquidity that we've acquired in Hudson Valley merger.
And so since we announced that transaction in the last couple of quarters we have been creating $250 million to $300 million of additional loan growth capacity.
And so therefore you annualize that to December 2016 that's how you get to the loans to deposits ratio targets that we put out there closer to 92% to 95%.
So yes that's the metric to use.
So we're not as focused on the growth rate percentage itself.
It just having -- continuing to maintain that absolute dollar amount of growth that allows us to get to those types of loans to deposit ratios.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew Kelley with Piper Jaffray.
Hi guys.
Hi Matt.
Just a question on the expenses is there been any change in your outlook of the cost that's going over $10 billion compared to what we've been talking about for last couple of months? No.
The cost is about what we estimated and we feel comfortable at that level.
Okay.
And then can you help us just on the ramp on fee income from the specialty lending segments and maybe talk a little bit more about where you are in kind of the accretion for those business units that you brought on line and acquired relative to the capital rates maybe little bit just an update there of how that's proceeding? Yes.
We're still pretty much in the same place we were I think in the last call.
So it cost us $0.07 to $0.08 relative to raise the money.
We are comfortable that we are probably $0.08 to $0.09 $0.10 in that range kind of $0.08 to $0.10 relative to what we feel like we've covered and started to earn back from this.
And we still have lots of opportunity relative to investing in other businesses.
We've looked at a kind of fee income opportunities and frankly have passed on vast majority of these because the prices that are being asked frankly and the returns that we expect are matching with our criteria.
So we're going to be appropriately cautious on this.
But we feel comfortable that we will see opportunities to get us to the rate the run rate in that kind of $0.12 to $0.15 run rate that we've talked about at the beginning of the year.
Okay.
Got it.
And then on the syndication banking team that you brought on board during the quarter more recently.
Talk about what we should expect there for fee income and then loans that you're retain as part of that process? Yes.
So one of the great things that we've been able to create again this diversified balance sheet has enabled us to look at different classes and categories of loans and we are at the point now where we have the opportunity to take some of them off the balance sheet and sell them.
So for example the Municipal Finance Group that we brought in about six months ago has done a great job of originating credits.
We are going to keep some of them on the balance sheet and we are going to securitize some of them.
So frankly we haven't put out an exact dollar amount relative what that fee income is out externally but I think again what we're trying to do is balance the balance sheet growth and the productivity of our teams which we feel very good with with how to create sources of fee income to improve that mix of revenue and get us closer to that 20% target that we've had on this.
So we believe that securitization business will enable us to do that in a much more professional way than we were doing it previously.
Okay.
And then just last question going back to the margin if we're in a flat interest rate environment do you think that the remixing of the balance sheet earning asset-based will be enough to kind of get the margin steady or up a little bit.
What's your outlook for the margin in a flat rate environment? The flat rate environment Matt it's going to be within the range of guidance that we provided before that 340 to 350.
We do believe that there – so there's obviously continue to be margin pressure in specific parts of the portfolios specifically on the CRE side in the longer dated fixed-rate assets.
The good thing about specialty business lines the traditional C&amp;I business is that the vast majority of the pain from the perspective margin compression has already been felt because all of those assets price off of a 30 60 90 days and they're already at kind of there what I would call their low rate benchmark indices.
So there is some compression still but as you rebalance and continue to focus on getting that loans to deposits ratio up and remix that securities to -- proposition securities to total asset and you get that low and increased number of loans yes the 340 to 350 guidance that we provided for core then we still feel pretty good about it.
Okay great.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Next question is from Collyn Gilbert with KBW.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up on a couple of things that have already been discussed let me just touch on the very last one in terms of the NIM.
I think Luis you has said that the loan yield this quarter accretion was 450.
Is that right? That's right.
Okay.
And how does that compared to what you're seeing on just a blended origination yield for new loans? Closer to 3.9% to 4% it depends obviously on a quarterly basis that will change depending on what's the mix of business is but we had a little bit bigger commercial real estate growth on a proportional basis this year than what we've had in prior quarters.
So it was right just under 4%.
Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just in terms of the accretion part can you kind of give us a little bit of color as to how you're thinking about that going forward.
I think – so obviously you had $5.8 million this quarter.
I think is the balance somewhere around $50 million is that right for Hudson Valley or just kind of talk about how you see that line trending over the next few quarters? Sure.
Including all of the fair value marks of all of the acquisitions including Gotham because there is still the sale on Gotham there's still sale on Sterling and then obviously the vast majority of it is related to the Hudson Valley merger its $48.5 million today.
So the $5.8 million that we had this quarter is going to stay at those levels for next three or four quarters it will start coming down a little bit from there.
But it's still going to be a meaningful number of $5 million plus for the foreseeable future.
The thing that you always have to remember is that the reason that we had to take a $5 million dollars provision this quarter which is 3x 2.5x almost 3x our charge-offs is that we had to now provides for loans that are coming into the allowance that were not part of the allowance because they had their fair value mark.
So we're very mindful of it.
We don't want to have – we don't want to be stuck in a position where you have these very nice accretable yields that then all of a sudden goes away and the decrease in that NIM sort of hit the bottom line.
So what we're going to see going forward is that as that accretable yields starts to come down the provisioning expense and the provision requirement will also come down.
So as the dollar per dollar impact on EPS our net income is not going to be – its not going to be dollar per dollar decrease in the total in the absolute dollar amount of accretable yields.
Does that make sense? Yes.
It does.
So we should be – okay… So looking at the model I think the – you have to think about it is we're going to have higher so the accretable yield will stay at those levels but your provision expense should be close to what we had this quarter.
And if you go – if you look back at what our provision expense was when we first did the Sterling merger so the fourth quarter of 2013 first quarter of 2014 you'll see that we were again $5 million to $5.5 million or so provision expense.
And then that provision expense decrease through the course of 2014.
You should expect to see similar trends because accretable yield will come down but the provision expense will also come down.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just going back to the fee discussion for a minute Jack I think you kind of gave some color there in terms of what your intentions are for the syndication team.
And you guys have talked about this 20% target obviously it was -- came under pressure just because the nuances with Hudson Valley is there time line you guys have in terms of wanting to build back up to that 20% level? Yes.
We have said that we want to do this within the next three years obviously.
So we have a plan to improve the accounts receivable management business.
We have a plan under our cash management.
And we have which by the way in acquiring Hudson Valley the resource is on the cash management side are significant and meaningful opportunities.
And then we have a plan for a series of commercial fee income opportunities one of which is syndication.
We've been starting to do more swaps.
We've been starting to do more FXs.
So it's in those three general buckets that we are moving from 15% to the 20% over that period of time.
The downsize on this is I don't like the volatility in the mortgage business which factors into the overall fee income side.
So we have to figure out how to smooth out that volatility over a period of time and our mortgage team has done a lot of those things over the past year or two.
But so on the affirmative side of it it's really those three categories accounts receivable management cash management cash management service charges and other commercial fee income that will drive achievement of that number.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And that actually leads to my question maybe about more sort of near term trends because there is so much seasonality in your factoring business just kind of maybe if you could give us some thoughts on what you're expecting maybe in the fourth quarter on the fee side? Or just remind us of the seasonality I think go ahead? Yes.
The seasonality the stronger months for the factoring business are September October November.
So for the fourth quarter we were at $16.1 million of fee income in this quarter excluding the$ 2.7 million of securities gains $16 million to $16.5 million we feel -- and you're obviously you have to – there's various component to it as well the mortgage banking business will have a solid fourth quarter than it has.
So there's seasonality in a couple of different places.
But for the fourth quarter $16 million to $16.5 million we continue to feel pretty good about.
And then in the first quarter of next year second quarter you do see a little bit of drop off especially in those accounts receivable line items.
So year-over-year when you look at there's been double-digit growth in that line item.
You're at little bit before about the proportion of that 20% it's obviously becomes a little bit of an uphill climb because net income interest income has grown significantly as well right.
So in order for those two to catch up we have those various initiatives that Jack was alluding to you before but that percentage of 14.7% 15% of fee income the total revenue is likely going to decrease somewhat in earlier part of next year and then over time that time frame that Jack talked about three-years you'll start seeing that catch up and that growth accelerate..
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I just want to make one final clarification.
The 230 to 235 you were talking about on the expense front.
That does include cost tied to the $10 billion correct? That does yes.
It does.
Okay.
Very good.
That's all I had.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we have a follow-up question from Matthew Kelley with Piper Jaffray.
Yes.
Just a question on the provision how much of the provision was related to the increase in special mentioned Medallion loans just to be clear? I don't have that number off the top of my head Matt but it is not a specific – it was not a -- the increase in the provision was not related to that loan in particular.
It's related to organic growth and more so of the new loans that are coming into the provision from prior acquisitions.
The Medallion loans are well provided for and we are not anticipating increase provision based on Medallion portfolio at this point.
And they present less than 1% of the total loan portfolio? Yes.
Got it.
And then on the special mentioned increase that we saw just sequentially $27 million sequential increase how much of that was related to Medallion loans? The vast majority of it so about $20 million of that $27 million I think it was little bit less than $27 million so it's about $20 million of it was Medallion related.
And the important -- so the credits continue to perform today but obviously they are showing signs of stress just with everything that's happening in the Medallion sector which is why we decided to down rating the special mentioned but today continue to be in a position where we're cash flowing and we're having daily conversations and weekly conversations with [Indiscernible] continue to make sure we're on top of it.
Okay.
Got it.
And then by the time we reach this time next year so summer fall of next year the fee income run rate should be $5 million or $6 million higher annually with the addition of all these transactions on a specialty lending segment correct? Because I mean $12 million of revenue lift is the outlook there and I think its split about 50-50 between spread income and fees is that correct? Little bit more – its 60% so its 60-40 60% spread 40% fee but yes pretty close.
Okay.
Got it.
And what you have in place now when would you anticipate being a full run rate production on both loan generation and fee generation for the businesses you have in place now? When we'll be in full….
You mean account receivable management or do you mean overall the whole company? As a result of the acquisitions the deals that you put on over the last couple of months when would you anticipating we're at a full run rate getting the $12 million that you've targeted? On the Damian side for example the Damian and the First Capital side those are already at revenue run rate but those revenue run rate should continue to increase organically now.
But there has been no drop off or attrition from a client perspective up to this point in neither one of those our public finance sector team is probably half way there from where there – from what we're envisioning their loans outstanding are going to be.
We treat them similar to how we treat other commercial teams and what we put forth from a perspective of targets for loans to deposits so they're probably 40% or 50% of the way there.
As we mentioned in the past that team also becomes a loan participants and syndicator as they build their portfolios so they'll start contributing to fee income as well not just to the loan side of the equation.
And then on the asset-based healthcare side and the loan syndication side those are brand new teams so it will take them a while to ramp up but by the end of next year and fourth quarter 2016 there should be a meaningful contribution from both of those teams to the fee side of the equation as well.
So run rate with the businesses that we have today in the new hires so you're looking probably three to four quarters before they're hitting on all cylinders.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Sure.
And there are further audio questions at this time.
Great.
Appreciate everybody's interest and attention and look forward to talking you soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect your phone lines.
Welcome to the Sterling Bancorp Q4 2015 Conference Call.
Let me turn the call over to Jack Kopnisky Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us to present and discuss our results for the fourth quarter and year-end 2015.
Joining me on the call is Luis Massiani our Chief Financial Officer.
We finished 2015 with strong financial results and are well positioned strategically for the future.
As we have discussed on prior calls we have been focused on building a high-performing sustainable Company that provides strong returns to our shareholders great service and value to our clients in a high-energy results oriented environment for our employees.
For the quarter core earnings were $33.5 million and core diluted earnings per share were $0.26.
This represents earnings growth of 71% and EPS growth of 13% over the same period a year ago.
On a linked quarter basis earnings increased 4.7%.
For the year ending December 31 2014 core earnings were $105.4 million and core diluted earnings per share were $0.96.
This represents earnings growth of 58% and EPS growth of 21.5% compared to 2014.
Our financial metrics for the quarter were strong.
Return on average tangible assets was 122 basis points and core return on average tangible common equity was 14.6%.
Core efficiency ratio continued to improve to 47.6%.
Revenue increased by 2% and expenses declined 1% to create continued positive operating leverage.
Capital ratios and credit metrics continued to be solid.
We had strong commercial loan growth in the quarter of $334 million or 20.4% on an annualized basis.
We leveraged the core deposit base to fund this growth moving the loan to deposit ratio to 92%.
Core average deposits grew approximately 5% in the quarter and we will continue to accelerate core deposit growth to fund our asset generation objectives.
The Hudson Valley acquisition has now essentially been fully integrated.
We're well ahead of our plan and are seeing meaningful results from the acquisition both on improved productivity and increased efficiencies.
We have consolidated eight financial centers since the completion of the merger and we'll consolidate additional locations in 2016.
Finally we added four new commercial teams in the quarter focused on specific client segments including healthcare loan syndications community development and real estate cash management.
We also added incremental professionals to existing teams to enhance productivity.
We now have 30 commercial banking teams that are measured on economic value and are focused on providing exceptional expertise to targeted client segments.
Now let me turn the call to Luis to detail the financials.
Thank you Jack and good morning.
Turning to slide four let's review and compare key balance sheet and income statement metrics for the linked quarter and the same quarter a year ago.
Performance for the quarter was strong.
As of December 31 2015 our total assets were $12 billion which represents a growth of $4.5 billion over the past 12 months and includes $3.5 billion in total assets acquired from Hudson Valley.
At December 31 our total loans increased to $7.9 billion; our total deposits were $8.7 billion; and our core deposits were $7.8 billion.
We continue to invest in hiring new teams and expanding our loan origination and deposit gathering platforms.
We anticipate we will continue to generate significant growth in loans and deposits going forward.
Net interest income for the quarter was $95 million increasing $35 million over the same period a year ago and $2 million over the linked quarter.
We have deployed the excess liquidity that we acquired in the Hudson Valley merger.
As of December 31 our total loan to deposit ratio was 92% and our securities comprised 22% of total assets.
On the bottom of the page we detail our key performance metrics which show continued strong operating momentum.
Net interest margin was 3.7% which represented a 2 basis point decline from a year ago.
Included in interest income was $7 million of the accretion of the credit mark on prior acquisitions which compares to $5.8 million in the linked quarter and $1.2 million in the same quarter a year ago.
Excluding the impact of accretion net interest margin was 241 basis points in the fourth quarter compared to 253 basis points in the linked quarter.
NIM performance in this quarter was impacted by low repayment activity and lower collection volumes on loans that had been previously charged off by legacy Sterling and Hudson Valley.
Assuming no additional interest-rate increases during the year we anticipate that full-year 2016 net interest margin would be approximately 360 basis points.
Our core operating ratio continued to improve year-over-year.
Core return on average tangible assets was 1.2% and core return on average tangible equity was 14.6%.
And we achieved a core efficiency ratio of 47.6%.
We're continuing to make steady progress towards achieving our long term performance goals.
Turning to slide five let's review the reconciliation of GAAP to core EPS.
Our GAAP reported earnings were $32.8 million or $0.25 per share for the fourth quarter.
This was a clean quarter as non-core items were limited to a small loss on the sale of securities and the ongoing amortization of noncompete agreements recorded in prior mergers.
Our core earnings for the quarter were $33.5 million and diluted earnings per share were $0.26 which compares to $19.6 million or $0.23 a year earlier.
Core net income increased approximately 71% and core diluted EPS increased 13% over the same quarter a year ago.
For the full year our GAAP reported earnings were $66 million $0.60 per share compared to $59 million or $0.70 per share for 2014.
We had two significant adjustments between GAAP and core earnings which were the merger related items in the quarter in connection with the HVB acquisition and the pension plan termination.
Excluding these items core earnings were $105 million or $0.96 per share compared to $67 million or $0.79 per share in 2014.
This represents growth of 58% and 22% respectively.
Our tangible book value per share as of December 31 was $7.05 increasing 9% year-over-year.
Turning to slide six let's take a look at our loans.
We experienced strong growth across all of our commercial asset classes.
Total portfolio loans were $7.9 billion which represented an annualized growth rate of 20% over the prior quarter.
On an organic basis which excludes the loans acquired in the Hudson Valley transaction we grew loans $1.3 billion or over 27% in 2015.
Turning to the next slide our mix of business continues to be diverse across C&amp;I CRE specialty finance and consumer asset classes.
Over 39% of our total loan portfolio consists of C&amp;I loans including our specialty finance business lines.
We believe we're well positioned for a rising rate environment if it does occur as the majority of our specialty finance loans are short duration floating-rate assets.
Yield on loans was 4.65% and excluding the impact of purchase accounting accretion the yield on loans was approximately 4.3% in the three months ended December 31.
Turning to our deposits on the next page average total deposits were $8.8 billion for the quarter which represents a growth of 6% on an annualized basis compared to the linked quarter.
Our average core deposits increased $123 million in the period which also represented an annualized growth rate of 6%.
At the period end of December deposits of $8.6 billion declined $225 million relative to the prior quarter end.
This was mainly due to fluctuations in our municipal deposit.
Municipal deposits reached their peak at the end of September in connection with tax collection season and then declined late in the fourth quarter.
Our deposit mix is attractive with close to 50% of our deposits consisting of demand accounts.
At December 31 91.2% of our deposits were core deposits and our cost of deposits was 26 basis points.
Our loans to deposit ratio is just under 92%.
We anticipate that long term we will match our loan to deposit growth more evenly as we create an efficient balance sheet targeting a loans to deposit ratio of approximately 95% over time.
On slide nine let's look at our fee income.
Excluding the impact of securities losses which were $121 000 total fee income was $16.2 million which represents a growth of 16% over the same quarter a year ago and represented 14.5% of total revenue.
We have a diversified fee income mix as our fee-based specialty finance businesses are growing both organically and through acquisitions.
For the year accounts receivable and factoring commissions which includes our factoring and payroll finance businesses grew by $2 million or 14% over 2014.
Our public finance sector team has also had success originating loans and deposits.
As of December 31 2015 their total loan balances were approximately $190 million with a robust and diverse pipeline of new opportunity.
We anticipate this team will also become a fee income contributor in the first half of 2016 along with their new syndications and swaps and cash management teams and businesses.
On slide 10 you can see the progress we made this year in driving operational efficiencies.
We achieved a 47.6% core efficiency ratio for the fourth quarter of 2015 which represents an improvement of 640 basis points over the same period a year ago.
You can also see our continued improvement in driving core operating leverage.
We grew revenue by 2% quarter over quarter and were able to decline our operating expenses by 90 basis points.
Our current core noninterest expense base of $54 million equates to $216 million in total OpEx on an annualized basis.
We're maintaining our guidance on target operating expenses for 2016 of $220 million to $225 million.
We have continued investing for future growth and in recent months have hired four new teams and added capabilities in several existing businesses.
We're also investing in personnel systems and risk management infrastructure as we're now over $10 billion in assets.
We remain committed to growing our revenues at least twice the rate that we grow our expenses.
Let's review asset quality on slide 11.
Charge-offs against the allowance was $3 million or 15 basis points of average loans which compares to $1.7 million and 9 basis points of average loans in the linked quarter.
The increase in charge-offs was mainly due to the resolution of two relationships in our equipment finance and CRE portfolios.
We continue to add to our allowance for loan losses and our provision expense was $5.5 million driven by the need to provide for organic loan growth as well as the Hudson Valley loans that are now part of our allowance calculation.
The allowance of total loans and the allowance to NPLs were 64 basis points and 75%.
Please remember that these ratios do not include the impact of the remaining fair value market of $42 million recorded in previous acquisitions.
There were no material changes in our taxi medallion exposures.
One of these loans was classified as substandard during the quarter.
We're working with our borrowers and closely monitoring collateral values cash flows and the performance of each one of these loans.
Jack.
Thanks Luis.
Let me summarize the quarter.
We continue to have strong momentum in quarter earnings and profitability.
Core quarterly earnings were up 71% over the same time last year and core annual earnings were up 58% over 2014.
The core return on average assets was 122 basis points and core return on average tangible common equity is 14.6%.
Operating efficiency improved 610 basis points from last year to 47.6%.
Commercial loans grew $334 million in the quarter.
This represents an annualized growth of 20%.
Average core deposits increased 6% in the quarter.
Over 90% of total deposits are demand savings and money market accounts.
The total deposit base is approximately 80% commercial deposits.
We have done a very good job in retaining the Hudson Valley deposit base.
We're now really focused on growing the overall core deposits as we begin to leverage the balance sheet.
Fee income is 15% of total revenue.
Our objective continues to be to improve the mix to 20% over the next several years.
Costs continue to reflect the strong expense management process and our ability to reallocate cost to higher revenue opportunities.
The run rate costs as Luis said upon full integration excluding amortization of intangibles are in the $220 million to $225 million range.
At the end of the day we're well-positioned to continue to improve profitability and drive growth.
As we close the 2015 chapter of Sterling I would really like to thank everyone who has been part of this strong performance employees clients shareholders and advisors.
Now let's open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from Casey Haire with Jefferies.
I wanted to start on the NIM outlook.
Understanding that there was some drags from lower prepay penalty and lower collection income from Hudson Valley.
Is this 430 run rate -- has [Technical Difficulty].
-- kind of a couple one-time items.
We have a couple of very large 1031 exchange businesses that matured from a deposit standpoint towards the end of the year.
So we're very comfortable that we will be able to grow deposits in a meaningful way to match the loan side of this thing.
We have managed the balance sheet to lever the loan to deposit ratio up to that early 90% range.
We have been very comfortable.
We have retained the great customers that Hudson Valley acquisition brought us and we have the ability now to really leverage the good deposit base that we have to continue to grow.
I know you were targeting 95% by year-end.
You made a huge step this quarter.
Is 95% are you going to stop there or would you go above that? We may slightly above that but that's our target.
95% is really our target and our preference is to not ever go above 100%.
So different things happen through the quarters and the months but that's -- 95% is our target.
Your next question comes from David Darst with Guggenheim Securities.
Luis on the expenses will we see a step up in the first quarter from the new hires that you had in December or is there an expected savings that will offset that? You are going to see a slight increase but it's not going to be -- it's not like a new plateau is being reached.
So you do have a continued investment on the hires that we've announced on that front but there are merger-related items and cost savings from the full integration that will offset partially.
So you are not going to see a significant increase or a big jump in the first quarter.
It will be more of a gradual increase over the course of the year as you continue to build out infrastructure and continue to hire teams and invest for growth.
Okay and so the $222 million to $225 million that is your operating number excluding any intangible amortization.
Is that right? That's right.
Okay.
And then on the fee income it sounds like you've got a couple things that are happening in the first quarter that ought to drive some fee income growth.
But when we look at the factoring business year-over-year what would you say is new earnings from the acquisitions that you've done and then has the legacy business run off or did you change that in a manner that you've really replaced it with new business? So the new business the majority of the growth when you look at full year and there's always seasonality from quarter to quarter and that's why in that business we always like to look at and compare year-over-year versus either linked quarter or quarter in between because remember that this is a business that generates every 30 days where you are discounting new receivables and so forth so there's always a little bit of seasonality in them and there might be fluctuations and peaks.
The majority of the growth between 2014 and 2015 was merger-related and we haven't really lost anything on the organic front but we have seen some margin compression in those businesses as well.
So the increase -- the organic increase that we've had in volume has been essentially offset by margin compression as there's been new entrants into the market there's both new banks as well as independent specialty finance companies that have jumped into this business as well.
So it's a competitive environment.
The growth has been mostly M&amp;A when you look at year-over-year but we haven't really -- the organic side of the house has attrited.
It has just had pressure from a margin perspective that have been offset by new volume.
For the most part the volumes in both payroll and factoring have been what we expected.
The margin compression in both of those businesses is what we have experienced.
So we're either trying to outrun it in the volume side or find better niches or higher profitable niches from a margin standpoint and those are the shifts in businesses that we're doing right now.
Okay got it.
And I guess Jack when you look at the New York market so many of your peers are growing through multi-family and real estate lending.
You've chosen C&amp;I.
What types of institutions are your new hires bringing their books of business over from? So we've tried to be very very balanced in both growing CRE and C&amp;I.
So our particular belief is that the diversity of the balance sheet matters and it especially matters through different interest rates and different credit segments -- sectors.
So we have tried to create a fairly good equivalency between current C&amp;I and CRE and you can see from one of the slides about the growth organically in virtually each one of the categories.
So we have tried to be smart about doing that.
So to answer the question about the teams the teams are generally coming from the larger banks and the teams come from different levels of expertise.
We have very strong execution capabilities on the commercial real estate side and obviously the market gives you lots of opportunities.
So our predominance of hires are more on the C&amp;I and frankly the deposit gathering side but they are coming from a lot of the larger institutions that have broad-based service and product set and frankly very strong professional expertise.
Your next question comes from Matt Kelley with Piper Jaffray.
Maybe just a little bit of follow-up where are some of the new commercial real estate loan production yields that you are coming in where are the yields coming in at for CRE? Yes so they are mostly coming in to the non-owner-occupied and owner-occupied facilities.
So whether it's -- we have some office building we have some centers commercial centers.
We have a good amount of owner-occupied meaning existing C&amp;I clients that want to borrow around that.
We do by the way we do have a number of multi-family transactions but they are coming indirectly not through brokers.
So the difference with us is we tend not to have deals coming in through brokers.
We tend to have deals coming in through an existing client that we want to fuller relationship with.
So between owner-occupied office/centers and multi-family relationship-oriented that's where we're getting the growth in commercial real estate.
And the yields on that production? The yields are going to be higher than the multi-family broker originated things.
So they are going to be in the 350s to 4.25% range.
So it depends Matt it depends on product it depends on term but when you aggregate we do things at a five-year fixed-rate seven year fixed-rate on aggregate for the fourth quarter CRE yields were slightly above 4%.
So I think where you're going from a NIM am perspective the book of business that is rolling off continues to be at a higher rate than the book of business that's being put on which is one of the things that pending to further rate hikes will continue to have.
There will be a little bit of downward pressure on NIM from that perspective.
And then in some of your national type of lending portfolios specialty lending segments can you size up for us any exposure to the energy commodity industrial kind of complex that is in the crosshairs? And any way to give us a sense of how much aggregate exposure you have in some of those lending segments and then what are your thoughts on provisioning expenses going forward? From an oil gas energy perspective Matt it is all -- it is a very small exposure that's concentrated in our equipment finance business.
It is less than $15 million today.
So that is not -- the areas of the economy that are showing stress are not places where any of those businesses are really any of our specialty lending businesses are really exposed to so we're not that -- we do not see that as a concern that should impact us this year.
And the provision? Sorry Matt what was the second question? Just thoughts on provisions relative to within $5 million $5.5 million the last two quarters about the same level or--? About the same level for the next couple quarters and then as the accretable yield starts rolling off in the second half of 2016 you should see a corresponding decrease in provisioning levels.
Okay.
Then last question on your comments on the quarter to quarter period end flows on deposits you had mentioned you had some 1031 exchange business had matured.
Is there any read through there to just slowdown in the volume of commercial real estate multi-family type transactions that those real estate organizations are involved with? I'm sorry I'm not sure I'm following you on the question Matt.
Just the balances of deposits the 1031 exchange industry maintains at your bank.
Was there a larger outflow than you anticipated there that could be just related to any type of slowdown in volume of transactions in their business lines? Got it.
No actually in this particular case we had a significant amount that just matured during that period of time.
There's still a significant amount of activity in the markets and the corresponding deposit.
Frankly one of the things we're trying to do is smooth out that sector so we have at any one time we have several hundred million dollars' worth of 1031 exchange money.
Instead of having ups and downs we're trying to smooth this out and frankly manage it and we didn't particularly do a great job of managing it this quarter.
So are trying to smooth out.
It is not reflective of slowdowns of people doing transactions.
It's more reflective of just the nature of the types of clients we have.
Your next question comes from Collyn Gilbert with KBW.
Just to tie back to your last comment Jack that there's still a significant amount of activity that you are seeing in the market can you just correlate that to what you think the loan growth expectations would be for 2016? Yes so we continue to believe that we can originate mid-teen commercial loan growth.
So to be specific about it it is commercial loan growth and we do believe that it is balanced across C&amp;I and CRE.
Again one of the attributes of the balance sheet as you know is we've really created optionality in the balance sheet to grow different sectors when they provide better yields and credit metrics and frankly to say no to areas that do not.
So we do believe mid-teen types of commercial loan growth.
And then Luis just back to the comments around the NIM and the balance sheet mix shift I guess I was thinking that there would be -- the ability to absorb the liquidity would occur more in the year than it all happening this quarter.
I mean securities grew this quarter.
Was there some sort of strategic change in the way you were thinking about managing that excess liquidity or maybe you could just sort of talk through that a little bit.
No I don't think there was a major change in anything from a strategy perspective or a balance sheet management perspective.
I think that we have been -- the growth in securities for the quarter is just being optimistic and taking advantage of where we see relative value and where we're presented opportunities to invest.
I think you're going to see us materially changing the composition of the investment portfolio over time to be a little bit less focused on corporate bonds and being a little bit more focused on MBS and [indiscernible] which we think over time is going to lead to a better risk return trade-off and position the balance sheet a little bit better.
But the usage of the -- I think that the NIM and -- again in a world in which we grew loans at an average basis and a period end basis by $250 million and there's -- and the origination yields continue to be below where the existing book of business is you're going to see a little bit of that margin compression but fortunately that gap between the existing yield and the yields coming on is kind of getting narrower and narrower.
So I do see light at the end of the tunnel from that perspective.
What I do want to make sure folks that we make clear is that we're taking a conservative approach because we don't know what's going to happen from a rate perspective with the recent uncertainty.
So I think we're very well positioned for a rising rate environment as there's two more rate hikes over the course of the year.
I think that we have a diverse set of businesses that are going to be big beneficiaries of something like that but the ability to grow NIM and to expand it it can't only be mix shift it does have to be aided with some -- the mix shift discussion has a finite feel to it.
Eventually it does have to be -- the new origination yields have to contribute to that.
It just can't be mix shift and I want to make sure that we explained that clearly and that we're taking a conservative approach.
I would probably add to what Luis said just from a macro standpoint so we're managing to certain types of returns and certain types of outcomes relative to earnings and earnings per share.
There are lots of levers that we pull along the way.
So for the quarter we saw opportunities to lever the balance sheet even more.
We're constantly looking at our expense base for example and looking at expenses that are less productive or have a lower per margin associated with the allocation of those expenses and trying to reallocate those [Technical Difficulty] to higher levels.
So the simple example that you all know is what we're doing with the consolidation of the branches and [Technical Difficulty] commercial side of it but we're doing that throughout the Company and again the net result of that whether it is NIM balance sheet growth yields provision all that is we're trying to manage to the expectation of delivering consistently strong returns and earnings and earnings growth.
And then just one final question Jack maybe could you just talk a little bit about your appetite for [Technical Difficulty].
-- has gotten a little bit out there but we continue to look at two pieces -- so one on the commercial finance side of it where we could have something that is incrementally accretable in businesses we're generally in today so we can get more efficient and effective in the commercial finance world.
We look at two or three deals every month and we've said no to an awful lot of them because they either don't have the credit levels that we're interested in or the prices are not right.
On the bank side of it there's only really a small list of folks that would make sense on our side and we look at a couple criteria.
One the banks would have to be deposit heavy not asset happy.
So they'd have to be the types of deposits that frankly HVB products brought us.
Secondly they'd have to be more commercially focused than kind of retail focused.
We can go in and consolidate lots of branches but if a bank has a predominant 90% retail environment it probably doesn't make sense.
And then third we would look at anything that would allow us to create incrementally more positive operating leverage.
So where we go in and we increase productivity or create more efficiencies and I guess our teams that came from Hudson Valley as an example this last deal they've been significantly incrementally more productive in this environment because they have a broader product set to deal with their clients.
So very proud of the team that we've brought on from Hudson Valley.
And we've been effective about creating the efficiencies and the economies of scale in terms of taking cost out of this.
So one way to answer your question and by the way some of the deals that have been announced probably go farther than what we would go in terms of book value dilution and things like that.
Even though we more look at earnings accretion the book value dilution in some of these things would be greater than what we would expect.
Your next question comes from Casey Haire with Jefferies.
Just wanted to touch on the tax rate.
34% expected this year.
I think you guys had said 36% last year.
Is that good for next year as well? I know you had that REIT benefit lapse.
I'm just trying to get a good look going forward.
For 2016 and 2017 yes 34% is a good number.
There are no further questions.
Thanks for your time everybody.
Have a great day.
That does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.