Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's call is copyrighted all rights are reserved.
The call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without express written authorization from State Street and the only authorized broadcast of this call is housed on State Street's website.
At the end of today's presentation we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Now I'd like to introduce Kelley MacDonald Senior Vice President for Investor Relations at State Street.
Before Jay Hooley our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Ed Resch our Chief Financial Officer begin their remarks I'd like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on Risk Factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today April 19 2011 and the corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
I'd also like to remind you that you can find the slide presentation regarding the corporation's investment portfolio as well as our first quarter earnings release which includes reconciliations of non-GAAP measures referred to on this webcast in the Investor Relations portion of our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jay.
Thanks Kelley and good morning.
I'm pleased to report that 2011 is off to a strong start.
This morning I'll review some of our recent accomplishments as well as provide more detail behind the strength we're seeing in our core businesses.
This strength is enabled by our vast global reach and is being driven by our industry and product leadership in key areas such as alternative asset servicing investment manager operations outsourcing and exchange traded funds.
During 2010 we established a strong foundation by putting some issues behind us while continuing to drive growth in our core businesses.
Some of our recent accomplishments that support this point include: in our Core Asset Servicing and Asset Management business our new business wins continue and the pipeline remains robust reflecting significant business opportunity.
We completed the Federal Reserve's capital plan review and have increased our quarterly common share dividend to $0.18 per share and announced the Board's authorization for us to purchase up to $675 million of our common stock in 2011.
We continue to maintain our strong capital position and believe we now meet or exceed the 2019 Basel III capital ratios as we understand them and also are in position to respond to acquisition opportunities that are consistent with our overall strategy.
Our Investment Servicing business that we acquired from Intesa Sanpaolo and the acquired Mourant International Financial Administration businesses are exceeding the goals we've set with opportunities for cross-selling.
As a result of our expanded capabilities we have added new clients in both of these businesses.
We acquired Bank of Ireland's Asset Management business in January and that team has began to work with SSgA to leverage our extensive Global Distribution network.
We started to implement the operations in IT transformation program we announced last quarter and expect to see modest net savings this year.
We expect this program to enhance service to our clients and accelerate our ability to bring new products to market.
Just looking at the quarter briefly we achieved positive operating leverage comparing the first quarter of 2011 with the first quarter of 2010 on an operating basis.
During the first quarter of 2011 we added about $300 billion of new servicing mandates.
We have already installed about $115 billion and expect to install a remaining $185 billion in 2011.
Of the $390 billion left to be installed as of December 31 2010 we still have about $275 billion remaining to be installed in 2011.
So a total of about $460 billion yet to be installed in 2011.
These wins are diverse in terms of product service and geography.
Of the $300 billion we won in the first quarter $87 billion or 29% were from U.S.
and $213 billion or 71% were from non-U.S.
mandates.
$170 billion from European clients $36 billion from Asian clients and $7 billion from non-U.S.
North American clients.
Significant new wins include servicing for mutual funds wealth management hedged funds as well as investment manager operations outsourcing in particular Deutsche asset management just renewed its long-term contract with us as did Lufthansa.
First Data of Australia signed a new servicing agreement with us and Martin Currie just signed a new investment manager corporations outsourcing agreement with us.
In Europe we're seeing considerable request for potential clients for hedge fund servicing usage for funded administration and investment manager operations outsourcing.
From the Middle East and Africa we've seen $17 billion in new wins this quarter.
Among the many encouraging themes I see in the new business pipeline the demand for servicing alternative assets remains a highlight.
In this quarter we added 46 new clients in our Alternative Investment Servicing business and our assets under administration increased from $660 billion as of December 31 2010 to $772 billion as of March 31 2011.
According to the ICFA annual fund survey we're the largest provider of alternative investment servicing in the world.
Hedge funds asset for which we provide administration grew to $459 billion as of March 31 2011.
Kenneth Heinz President of Hedge Fund Research predicts that hedge funds and hedge fund to funds will easily exceed $2 trillion by the end of 2011.
Asset owners are increasingly allocating to this asset class and a record number of new funds are being created.
In addition to hedge funds private equity assets for which we provide administration totaled $243 billion and real estate assets administrated totaled $60 billion as of March 31 2011.
In the first quarter SSgA won net new business of $29 billion which excludes the acquisition of Bank of Ireland's Asset Management business.
Closed new mandates totaled $107 billion in the first quarter of which $17 billion are to be installed later this year.
The wins are globally diverse and represent a variety of investment strategies: $109 billion from the U.S.
$45 billion from Europe and $14 billion from Asia as well as $2 billion from Canada.
Most of the new business continues to be in passive equity strategies.
Overall I continue to be encouraged by the volume and diversity of new business prospects as well as the impressive records of wins in competitive situations.
I want to take a minute and comment on our Foreign Exchange business.
We have a very comprehensive range of foreign exchange services that we offer to our clients.
First we execute foreign exchange transactions with clients and investment managers that contact our trading desk directly.
These are executed at individually negotiated rates and we term them direct foreign exchange.
Next clients choose to execute foreign exchange transactions through one of our electronic trading platforms like Currenex.
And thirdly clients where their investment managers may elect to route foreign exchange transaction through our Asset Servicing business.
We term this type of transaction indirect foreign exchange.
The revenues from our Indirect Foreign Exchange business have been relatively stable throughout 2010 and through the first quarter.
We enhanced the manner in which we have been disclosing our execution trade details to clients in the fourth quarter of 2009.
In our view clients select indirect foreign exchange because it provides considerable benefits to them and their investment managers including mitigation of operational and settlement risk and operational efficiency particularly with respect to smaller size transactions.
Ed will provide additional detail about the sizing of our Indirect Foreign Exchange business shortly.
Let me now share our view of the current economic environment.
The recovery of the United States appears to be strengthening but is partially overshadowed by the continuing weakness in housing prices as well as increases for the consumer in food and gasoline prices.
Market economists are now forecasting real annualized GDP growth in the United States of about 3% for 2011.
In addition Europe and the Middle East continue to present financial and political uncertainties.
The ongoing weaknesses in Portugal Ireland and Spain are of global concern and the tragic earthquake and tsunami in Japan are adding to the uncertainty.
Addressing the devastation to Japan I want to take a minute and recognize the exceptional performance of our employees in Japan who worked under extraordinary circumstances to meet the needs of our Asia-Pacific clients who themselves were coping with an incredibly difficult situation.
They worked for their clients benefit whether from home or from the office without consideration for their discomfort.
I specifically want to commend them for their efforts and their dedication to our clients.
I'll now turn the call over to Ed who will provide further detail about our financial performance in the first quarter.
And then I'll return to provide comments affecting our outlook for 2011.
Then we'll open up the call for questions.
Ed? Thank you Jay.
Good morning everyone.
This morning I'll review three areas.
First the results for the first quarter.
Second the investment portfolio investment decisions we made in the first quarter as well as our outlook for worldwide interest rates and the impact on our net interest margin; and finally I'll review our strong capital position.
First the results for the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first and fourth quarters of 2010.
This morning all of my comments will be based on our operating basis results as defined in today's earnings news release.
First the general overview of the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010.
The growth in core revenue was due primarily to the three recent acquisitions the growth in new business and improved equity markets as well as an increase in trading services revenue.
The improvement in net interest revenue was primarily due to deposits associated with the Servicing business we acquired from Intesa Sanpaolo and stronger deposit flows from other clients.
Trading services revenue improved from the prior year's first quarter primarily based on stronger foreign exchange revenue as well as strength in both electronic trading and transition management.
Securities finance revenue continued to be weak primarily due to lower volumes offset partially by higher spreads.
Turning to expenses.
Expenses increased from the first quarter of 2010 primarily due to the impact of the three acquisitions.
We earned $0.88 per share on an operating basis a 17% increase from $0.75 in the first quarter of 2010 on a revenue increase of more than 10%.
Now for a detailed look at the results of the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our Servicing Fee revenue increased by 3% due to a higher average equity valuations and new business installed.
Asset management revenue increased 7% due to favorable average month-end equity valuations and the impact of the acquisition of the Bank of Ireland's Asset Management business in January 2011 providing further details on trading services and securities finance.
Foreign Exchange revenue declined 6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 primarily due to lower volatilities offset partially by higher volumes.
Brokerage in other revenue increased 2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 primarily due to an increase in electronic trading.
Let me amplify Jay's remarks on our foreign exchange services.
I'll review the three principal ways in which we execute foreign exchange transactions with our clients.
First we enter into foreign exchange transactions with clients and investment managers that contact our trading desk directly.
These trades are all at individually negotiated rates.
We refer to this as direct foreign exchange.
The second way clients may choose to execute foreign exchange transactions is through one of our electronic trading platforms.
Our compensation is based on a transaction fee for this service.
And finally clients where their investment managers may elect to route foreign exchange transactions to our dealer or sub-custodians through our asset servicing operation which we refer to as indirect foreign exchange.
We enter into those trades as a dealer and set rates based upon a published formula.
We believe our clients value our indirect foreign exchange service offering because indirect foreign exchange is primarily used by clients and investment managers for smaller value transactions so they can take advantage of a highly efficient trading execution which mitigates settlement and operational risk and offers potential pricing advantages by determining execution prices for each investment manager on a net basis.
Among other things for indirect trades we aggregate multiple orders or lots determine how much of each currency is needed set net rates and take care of execution and settlement.
As a result the customer obtains a net rate and avoids the cost of managing the process of executing what generally would be a series of smaller value transactions and we take responsibility for the risk of errors and settlement failure that otherwise would remain with the customer.
Let me size the portion of the total foreign exchange revenue derived from indirect foreign exchange.
Total revenue at State Street in 2010 for all types of foreign exchange transactions was approximately $825 million about $335 million or 41% of the total foreign exchange revenue was due to indirect transactions.
Approximately $215 million or 64% of the revenue from indirect transactions was from U.S.
clients.
And of that U.S.
indirect revenue about $22.5 million or 10% was sourced from U.S.
pension clients.
I hope this information helps you better evaluate our Foreign Exchange business.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 securities finance revenue in the first quarter of 2011 declined 4% to $66 million due primarily to lower volumes offset partially by higher spreads.
Securities on loan averaged $359 billion for the first quarter of 2011 down from $368 billion for the fourth quarter of 2010 and down from $412 billion for the first quarter of 2010.
Average lendable assets for the first quarter of 2011 were about $2.34 trillion up slightly from $2.28 trillion in the fourth quarter of 2010 and from $2.29 trillion in the first quarter of 2010.
As of March 31 2011 the duration of the securities finance book was approximately 21 days up from 17 days in the fourth quarter of 2010 and flat with the level of the first quarter of 2010.
Processing fees and other revenue increased 30% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
The increase is primarily due to revenue from various sources none of which is individually material.
Net interest revenue declined slightly about 1% in the first quarter of 2011 compared with the fourth quarter of 2010 despite a slight increase in earning assets.
The decline was primarily due to lower yields on fixed rate assets following the repositioning of the investment portfolio in the fourth quarter as well as two fewer days in the first quarter offset partially by lower funding costs.
The net interest margin in the first quarter of 2011 was 166 basis points up 1 basis point from 165 basis points in the fourth quarter.
Including conduit-related discount accretion of $62 million in the first quarter of 2011 net interest margin was 185 basis points compared to 207 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2010.
As of March 31 2011 of the approximately $1.3 billion in discount accretion we expect to accrete into interest revenue of the remaining terms of the assets.
We continue to expect about $200 million including the $62 million in the first quarter to accrete in 2011.
As you're undoubtedly aware a significant number of assumptions go into our estimate of future discount accretion over the remaining lives of the assets including that we hold the assets to maturity estimated prepayment speeds expected future credit losses across various assets and sales.
In the first quarter of 2011 we recorded about $4 million in net gains from sales of available-for-sale securities and separately about $11 million OTTI resulting in $7 million of net losses related to investment securities.
The OTTI was primarily due to changes in the timing of expected cash flows.
We maintain tight controls on expenses due to continuing uncertainty in the global markets.
However our salaries and benefit expenses increased 4% or $39 million from the fourth quarter of 2010 to $974 million due primarily to the timing of benefits expenses which included higher payroll taxes.
Our other expenses line increased about 10% to $231 million due primarily to the impact of $40 million of insurance recoveries in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our operating basis effective tax rate for the first quarter was 28% down from 29.5% in the fourth quarter of 2010 due to a favorable geographic mix of earnings.
We expect the operating basis effective tax rate in 2011 to be about 28%.
Now let me turn to the investment portfolio.
Our investment portfolio as of March 31 2011 increased about $9 billion to $103.9 billion compared to December 31 2010.
During the first quarter we invested about $15 billion in highly rated securities at an average price of $99.82 and with an average yield of 1.17% and a duration of approximately 1.13 years.
The $15 billion was primarily composed of the following securities: 96.2% of which are rated AAA; $3 billion in U.S.
Treasury bills; $4.5 billion in agency mortgage-backed securities; $6.6 billion in asset-backed securities including about $1.9 billion of foreign RMBS mostly U.K.
and Dutch issues; about $1.8 billion in securities backed by credit card receivables; and about $1.6 billion in student loans.
The remainder was invested in smaller amounts in various asset classes.
The aggregate net unrealized after-tax loss in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios as of March 31 2011 was $352 million an improvement of $152 million from December 31 2010 an improvement of about $1.9 billion or 85% from December 31 2009.
The improvement in the unrealized after-tax loss compared to December 31 2010 was due primarily to improvement in spreads partially offset by higher rates.
In our investment portfolio slide presentation we have updated the data through quarter-end for your review.
As of March 31 2011 our portfolio was 90% AAA or AA rated.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 the duration of the investment portfolio is about 1.59 years down from 1.70 years due to the sale of longer dated fixed rate securities and the purchase of floating rate securities.
The duration gap of the entire balance sheet is 0.4 years down from 0.53 years at December 31 2010 due to both the shorter portfolio duration and the issuance of long-term senior debts to prefund next year's maturities.
Despite additional downgrades of certain of our securities from major rating agencies the effect on our investment portfolio was not meaningful and the securities affected are performing well.
The majority of the downgrades were in non-agency ABS and MBS asset classes.
I'll now review some of the assumptions we used in determining our 2011 outlook for net interest revenue and net interest margin.
We continue to believe we should invest through the cycle and to invest in U.S.
Treasury securities and very highly rated agency mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities.
As of March 31 2011 57% of our investment portfolio was invested in floating rate securities and 43% in fixed rate securities.
We now expect the net interest margin in 2011 to be in the upper half of the 155 to 165 basis point range down from the level of 168 basis points achieved in 2010.
Our assumptions include that the Bank of England rate remains at 50 basis points; that the ECB incrementally increases rates a total of 75 basis points in 2011; the first 25 basis points of which occurred on April 7 2011; that the Federal Reserve keeps the overnight Fed funds rate at 25 basis points for all of 2011; and that the yield curve retains its current steepness.
We continue to expect the S&amp;P 500 to average about 1 265 in 2011 up about 11% from 1 140 the average in 2010.
Finally I'll briefly review our capital ratios.
In the first quarter State Street Corp's capital ratios under Basel I remained very strong.
As of March 31 2011 our total capital ratio stood at 21.6% our Tier 1 leverage ratio stood at 8.7% our Tier 1 Capital ratios stood at 19.6% and our TCE ratio was 7.4%.
Based on our understanding of the Basel III proposed regulations and the information published by the Basel Committee we estimate our capital ratios under Basel III as of March 31 2011 to be our total capital ratio 12.6%; our Tier 1 leverage ratio to be 6.3%; our Tier 1 Capital Ratio to be 11.4%; and our TCE ratio to be 7.4%.
In conclusion as we begin 2011 we continue to face headwinds from the low interest rate environment and increasing regulatory clause.
However we are pleased with our operating basis results for the first quarter of 2011.
These results testify to the strength of our revenue in servicing and investment management as well as our success in managing net interest revenue and our ability to control expenses.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jay to conclude our remarks.
Thanks Ed.
I believe that we took steps over the past two years to improve our risk position and the results of the first quarter testified to the strength of our core business and the expense controls we put in place.
We were pleased to increase our dividend and receive Board approval to repurchase up to $675 million of our common shares in 2011.
The U.S.
recovery seems to be moving ahead and several of the European markets are showing signs of recovery.
However the issues in the Middle East and Japan as well as several European countries are waiting on a broader global recovery this year.
We're making progress against our plan to transform our operating model through technology improvements and have been recognized in the industry as a leader in the deployment of private cloud computing.
We continue to deepen our relationships with existing clients and to add new clients globally as you can see by our results in the first quarter.
I'm also very proud of the gains we've made from a corporate social responsibility standpoint.
Most recently we were named among the top 20 greenest banks in the world for our environmental practices which is an increasingly important area of focus for our clients our shareholders and our employees.
Overall I'm pleased with our performance in the first quarter and remain confident in our ability to continue to drive growth in our core businesses.
Now Ed and I are happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Ed I was wondering if you could just run through again the amount of in the servicing side especially the conversions that happened this quarter versus the amount won and then kind of just your forward pipeline on conversion activity.
Ken let me start that one.
I think the -- what we try to do in the script was to build from the commitments in the fourth quarter of last year that are yet to be installed which would be installed in 2011 combined with the uninstalled portion of the first quarter.
And we get to I think it's $460 billion in assets that will -- that are to be installed.
And I'd say you could probably use the next couple of quarters as the likely timeframe when they'd be installed.
Is that -- that's your question? Inc.</strong> Yes.
I just want to try to get a kind of a timeframe pace as far as how that layers in over the course of the year and versus how much was actually installed in the first quarter.
Yes the -- of the $300 billion that was committed in the first quarter $115 billion was installed.
And we expect to install another $185 billion.
I don't have that for the fourth quarter.
And as you know the nature of these commitments are pretty varied which is why I think you can generally look at a one to two quarter lag from commitment to implementation.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Okay.
My second question just for Ed.
Ed the core margin was obviously just up a tick I think most had expected it to be slightly down.
And you're talking to the upper half of the range now.
So do we now get the slippage or I guess what would cause any slippage of the margin from here and what factors are in your control to even maintain it from the current 166 level? Yes.
Let me take you through the reasons for the over-performance on the margin in the first quarter certainly what -- against what we expected.
And the flip side of a lot of these will be risks to the margin for the rest of the year.
But the 166 in the quarter was driven by a couple of things.
One we invested well ahead of what we had planned.
We invested $15 billion out of the $26 billion that we had to invest coming in to the year.
We saw good opportunities both in the U.S.
and Europe to put some trades on and we did that so that contributed.
We saw a stronger than anticipated client deposit flows and obviously if those continue for the rest of the year that underpins our assertion that we'll be in the upper half of the range for the year.
And we also saw related to that obviously earning assets being higher than what we thought coming in.
And the last factor is that we saw a steepening at the short end of the euro curve.
And that's pretty important to the performance for this quarter and the rest of the year given that most of the European assets are floaters.
So we got some pickup there.
Inc.</strong> To follow up so then I would presume that the euro hike from this quarter that's not really fully run rated.
And I guess then one of the factors that would lead to the margin dripping it all from the current 166? What do we still need to consider if anything as far as either reinvestment roll over or what -- any other factors you want to point out to? Well I mean I think it's again the -- if stronger client deposit flows which we're assuming will continue do not assume that -- do not continue that will be a drag on the margin.
If for some reason the ECB doesn't increase 75 basis points as we have assumed that will be a drag on the margin.
If for some other reason supply is less than we anticipated in terms of getting the remaining $11 billion invested that could also pull it down.
But our assumption now is that those things will play out and that's the basis for the upper half guidance on the margin.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I guess I'm just struggling then to see why it wouldn't even just stay above the high end.
Like why would it even reach broaching the low end if you're starting above the high end? Well I mean we fought coming into the year 155 to 165 was a good peg for the margin based on what we did in terms of the portfolio repositioning and the effect of that coming in.
We assume the pace of reinvestment that we've exceeded because opportunities have presented themselves.
And we assume that the ECB would stay flat all year and they've -- that's not been the case for the first 25 certainly.
And based on recent comments we think it's going up.
So our view has changed.
But we're still cautious relative to the rest of the year.
Inc.</strong> Okay I understand.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Jay in your earlier comments you alluded to the fact that expense savings might start coming through in the net basis I guess in 2011.
I guess our understanding was that we're not going to see much of that until 2012 and beyond.
Can you just give us an update of how much I guess of net savings you could see from your restructuring plans this year and beyond? Sure.
The ops and IT initiative which we announced in the fourth quarter 2011 is a year where in the early part of the year we're doing some investing and then we're starting to generate some of the improvements towards the back end of the year so on a net basis it's slightly positive I think is what we'd say with the greater gains coming in the out years.
The only thing I'd add to that is since we announced the plan we announced the plan with some previous activity leading up to it we're really tracking to that.
I think we'll the slight improvement in '11.
And we feel very confident about the long-term plan as well.
Got you.
And then just a question on capital clearly continues to build quite naturally here in Tier 1 Common over 10% at the Basel III.
I understand you're doing a little bit of a buyback this year.
What are the plans I guess longer term? And what steps do I guess you need to take to buy back more stock even potentially this year? I think the way we look at capital and the way we look at it through the capital plan review was more at a total return to shareholder which combines the dividend and the buyback.
And I think if you looked at the banks that went through the capital plan review we're in line with the return to capital of those banks.
I guess the way we look at it prospectively is we look at acquisition opportunities versus share buybacks.
And I continue to think that we'll see some acquisition opportunities particularly as you think about the core custody franchise and some of the subscale players that largely are in Europe.
So we're trying to stay nimble delivering returns delivering capital to shareholders to the vehicles I mentioned.
And yet also be well-capitalized should acquisitions come about.
Got you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo from CLSA.
So just to clarify 3% of your FX revenues relate to U.S.
hedging clients is that correct? I believe that's right.
Here 22 and 8 25.
Correct.
That's of the indirect as we described.
So would that mean you don't see a decline in FX margins as structural? Keep going.
In other words I mean FX the decline this simply -- it's down 6% link with you guys.
Is this just a seasonal blip volatility is not as strong? Or is there something more permanent taking place here? No no.
I think it's just to me it's volatility.
I think we've seen volumes were reasonable during the quarter.
And I think you've seen volatility was slightly off in the fourth quarter.
So I don't see anything structural there.
And the pretax margin do you see that coming down? Just in FX.
The pretax margin in FX.
No I think that the -- I commented it over the preceding five quarters.
The revenues around and again indirect FX has been relatively stable.
And your acquisition of Currenex does that differentiate you versus other -- is that helping or is that not much of a factor? It's absolutely helping in that I think we've tended to focus on a pretty narrow aspect of the foreign exchange marketplace.
I think we're differentiated in that we have a comprehensive range of foreign exchange capabilities.
Currenex being just one but FX Connect also being a market leader in the aggregation and netting of trades.
So we've seen those electronic trading businesses grow at double-digit rates close to 20% for years.
And a separate question.
You have $460 billion of business yet to be installed divided by $22 trillion of assets under custody.
So should we expect a 2% boost in your assets under custody in the first quarter -- in your second quarter? Sorry.
I think -- as I mentioned earlier it's difficult because you've got -- tends to be the longer the duration of the implementation cycle the meatier the revenues just because the nature of middle office and the likes of -- it's hard to make it that linear.
And Mike remember some of the wins are cross sell so we already have the custody.
We've sold them an additional service like Investment Management or Operational Outsourcing for example.
If they didn't have it before then we're just adding that service.
We're going to get more revenue for it.
But you won't see it impact the assets under custody.
And then last question is a big picture conceptual question.
Looking back a number of years if in the past State Street had had a 1% ROA with leverage of 17x and that allowed you to have a 17% ROE how do you get a 15% of ROE if you still have a 1% ROA with say 10x leverage? That would imply an ROE of under 15%.
Should we expect ROAs to improve from the 1% historical level? Well Mike I think that that still is an answer that's to be determined based on what the regulators do relative to capital.
Too early to tell.
And as we've said previously once we get certainty in terms of what the new rules are for capital we'll update our ROE guidance.
How about just the ROA trends? I mean is there any reason to think your return assets would be better in the future than it's been in the past? I mean that depends a lot on the environment right? If you look in it it depends how far you back in the past too I guess.
But I don't think I really want to go down the path of ROA prospectively versus ROA historically until we get the total picture laid out for us.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell from ISI Group.
Speaking on FX just looking to ask two quarters for example your FX sequential growth rates have outperformed basically all the peers.
Can you talk about things that you're doing organically to improve that? Or is there something else that's driven the line in the revenue capture rate? I think Brian it's probably a follow-on to the prior comment which is foreign exchange can be executed many different ways depending on the customer the circumstance and the people trade to think [ph] contemplated.
And I think having the full suite of capabilities allows us a greater opportunity to capture foreign exchange in whatever form it's being traded in.
So that's probably where I'd leave that.
Okay.
And I guess my question too -- are you effectively or have you effectively cross sold FX in the last two quarters to new clients that came on during 2010? And also Intesa Sanpaolo if you effectively increased your cross over? Yes I get the question.
Yes I think so.
I mean I think -- I don't think anything has changed.
But one of the consequences of the pipeline and the new business and the new customers is the ancillary activity that connects with that.
So I would say in a more traditional add-a-customer or add-a-service I think we're doing a pretty good job of penetrating the cross sell.
I think in the case of probably more in case of Intesa Sanpaolo's customers again it's probably still early days.
But we're doing a pretty good job of getting in and understanding what other capabilities we could sell.
And we have a pretty good track record of past roll ups or acquisitions to do a pretty good job cross-selling.
So it's early days but we're making some headway.
Great.
And then on the pricing in the Asset Servicing business for the new wins that you're bringing on are they coming on generally higher fee realization rates versus the Legacy business? I would say Brian it's hard to say broadly they're any different than -- I would say though that more of the deals these days we just in fact we just announced a deal today that's representative of this with Martin Currie represent this middle office componentry which where we have an excess of 60% market share across the globe more and more investment managers are looking to their suppliers for a deeper level of outsourcing.
We're well positioned there.
And as I said before the more involved and integrated the sale is the greater opportunity we have for margins.
So I would say the more complex the better the margins the more simple the tighter the pricing.
Okay okay.
And then just lastly on the expense side Ed the other expenses were lower than I expected this quarter.
Was that totally due -- I know we had the $40 million insurance recovery.
But was the remainder totally due to lower processing errors? And is that 230 run rate a realistic run rate for the remainder...
So I mean the main driver was both the lack of insurance recovery as you noted Brian.
But we did have a very good quarter from a processing standpoint so there's a little bit of contribution there.
And as far as that line going forward you know it can move around and it's a line that we focus on a lot.
And I don't want to go too far out and start making predictions about that line on a quarterly basis for the rest of the year.
But it is a line that has performed pretty well and we put a lot of emphasis on it.
And then just one last one.
Just on the comp side we should expect comps to go down in the second quarter I would assume given your retirement eligible options expense in the first? Is that...
Yes.
Yes again assuming consistent performance I mean I think that the way to think about the comp line relative to revenue over the entirety of the year is in that 40% range that we talked about.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stilmar from SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question with regards to your balance sheet.
We've obviously seen a pretty big growth in securities and that obviously flows through to the net interest margins.
Can you talk to how that happened over the quarter? And whether that still is persistent and whether that's just a general flight to quality or something else that we should be thinking about in terms of the longer term for the business? Well I mean we look at the balance sheet as being a customer-driven balance sheet.
So we get the customer deposits mainly out of our Asset Servicing business and have to invest in the portfolios the vehicle by which we do that.
We had a very busy quarter on the investment portfolio front.
I'd say a very productive quarter.
We got ahead of what we thought of our plan called for in the quarter coming into the year because of opportunities presenting themselves.
We had a big challenge given that we did the portfolio repositioning in the fourth quarter.
That as you may recall was an incremental $11 billion that we needed to redeploy.
We've invested about $15 billion of the total that we had facing us this year.
That's $26 billion in total $11 billion on the redeployment and $15 billion of regular portfolio runoff.
And we've been following the same strategy we've historically followed which is AAA AA asset-backed mortgage-backed in U.S.
Treasuries.
So portfolio has been performing pretty well.
As you know in the quarter the OTTI levels were fairly fairly small.
And we are obviously dependent on what market opportunities presents as to what we invest in going forward.
But our plan is to follow the same strategy.
John I would just add that the -- one of the reasons that we highlight so frequently the new business flows and new activities is that if there's custody involved deposits flow.
So I think there's some correlation between the new business the growth the new custody assets and the deposit volumes that flow in.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you.
And then with regards to servicing fees and -- can you give us some context in terms of new business wins whether you're winning them from existing clients whether the wins are coming from relationships that the new clients had with previous custodial banks? Or whether it's just really providing ancillary services.
On a prior call we're given a statistic about new business wins being kind of 2/3 from where we're stealing market share.
I was wondering if you could share some context about that and whether it's just really -- and if there's any sort of geographic footprint that also influences your answer.
Thank you.
Let me just try to give you a little color on that John.
I'm not sure we can be precise with the percentages.
But a couple of points one I referenced the alternatives I think hedge fund and private equity.
That's been a big growth area for us.
And I think if you look at in fact just recent as this week there the forecast about the growth of hedge funds we see our asset owner customers increase in the allocated the hedge funds.
In the hedge fund world I would say that sales there tend to be -- take away from the competitors or more often it's an internal hedge fund outsourcing activity.
So that would be expansion of market or new business.
With regard to -- if I focused on the new business the higher into the new business the bigger deals let's say.
I would say it tends to be a customer consolidating positions with a single provider.
So and I would go back to because it's recent I think we just put it out very recently Martin Currie is a little bit of a prototype in that we had a small portion of their business.
They in-sourced middle office they took a look at their business and decided that they wanted to outsource the middle office and select a single provider.
I think it was with three or four different providers.
And so they elected to consolidate all of that with us.
The other thing I would say is that particularly in the upper end of the market where there's a middle office component involved it's rare that if we really want that customer that we won't be successful in a competitive bid situation.
So I think our product set is comprehensive and we're doing quite well competitively.
Inc.</strong> Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy from RBC.
LLC</strong> Jay a follow up on the middle market comments.
When you pitch your customers what kind of cost savings do they normally see if they decide to consolidate into one provider? That's hard to say Gerard.
And I think it happens in two ways the -- probably the obvious way is economies in scale if you consolidate from four providers to one there's probably some pricing advantage you're going to get in the marketplace.
But I would say the bigger and more subtle change here is that even in Martin Currie that the overhead that they have to deal with four different suppliers four different data feeds the cost that they achieve internally by going single supplier is pretty significant.
And I would guess probably outweighs the cost of the marginal improvement in pricing they get from suppliers which is why it's happening.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Right.
In terms of the new business that you had this quarter how much of it was middle-market related business? Well we had Martin Currie then we renewed Deutsche.
There was one other one we can't mention yet.
I would say Gerard again you look at the bigger deals there's probably 70-30 a 70-30 split between the bigger deals driving more of the activity.
You look at half to 2/3 of it with a middle office component in increasing.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Is there any way that we as outsiders can look at your numbers and figure out what percentage of the business is coming from middle market? If this is potentially the growth area maybe over the next five to 10 years? You know we try to give you a little direction on that of the $24 trillion in assets that we administer there's up to $8 trillion now.
Is that right Kelley? It's about $8.1 trillion.
$8 trillion has the middle office component to it.
If you would attract the growth in total AUA versus growth in middle office you'd see a stark difference AU [ph] or the middle office growth being considerably higher from a percentage standpoint.
Let us think about that as we go forward if there's a way to give you a little bit more color on that.
LLC</strong> Sure.
And then question for Ed.
With the news with Standard &amp; Poor's yesterday putting the U.S.
on a negative credit watch.
If they actually downgraded the U.S.
to AA from AAA would that change your views on how you would invest putting your money to work in U.S.
Treasuries? And also does it affect the weightings on the risk weighted assets being on the capital allocation under Basel III if it is down -- if they are downgraded to AA? I mean it wouldn't change our outlook our approach.
I mean we have about at the end of March about $6.4 billion in U.S.
Treasuries across the maturity spectrum.
Obviously we hope that that doesn't happen.
But it would not change our view in terms of how we invest.
And relative to the risk weighting there's no effect modest but very small effect.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Hopson from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> On the pricing environment it seems that given the pressure that all of the competitors are seeing there's maybe a little more religion but can you comment on the behavior of the markets and your ability to eventually potentially offset some of the negatives that you've seen in terms of interest rates et cetera to more appropriately price the business that you're providing? Yes.
As far as the pricing environment I think it's become more visible to our customers through our dialogues around the need to in the case of existing customers improve the economics and relationships given some of the fall-off in market-based revenues.
We've actually had some fee increases recently as a result of that.
And in addition the discussion more likely goes to less additional services we can provide to those customers.
So I think that we've been dealing with this market environment for a while.
So it's more visible to customers.
And I think that the way we go forward with this is additional cross sell additional activities to customers pricing increases where we can get them.
I haven't seen -- I think your question Jeff has there been any meaningful change in competitive pricing in the last quarter? I haven't really detected that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Just a couple of follow-ups one on NIM.
As you mentioned the 155 to 165 not really changing that range and I understand that your view on European rates was improving.
Is there anything that happened that is coming in lower than expected in that outlook? Or you're just being conservative? Well there's nothing that's come in that has disappointed us in the first quarter relative to our going-in view of the NIMs for the year.
Okay.
And then on the buybacks have you already started your buyback program? We don't want to comment on that.
Okay.
I was just wondering if there's anything related to understanding the siffy [ph] buffer first before you're going to start that.
Or is there anything related to your timing around whether or not you end up at what level of siffy [ph] buffer.
No we don't think we need to have clarity on the siffy [ph] buffer before we were do anything.
Okay.
Super.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Chen from Suisse.
Thanks for the commentary on the ECB hike.
Is there a way to more specifically frame the potential impact and timing of that benefit to the overall NIM Ed? Yes.
I mean I would think it would ramp during the year.
If you remember Howard we thought that there would be a slight degradation in terms of the ramp for the NIM over the year based on our going in assumptions for the year from the 168 in the fourth quarter slightly down on a sequential quarter basis throughout the year settling within our 155 to 165 range if it plays out the way that we are now assuming and the ECB goes up to 175 ratably over the year.
Two more 25 basis point hikes I would expect to not see that ramp down that we saw.
But an improvement to settle in for the average for the year between 155 -- I'm sorry the upper half of the range 160 to 165.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just within the context of that what's your current thinking on the deployment of that excess liquidity that you have in Europe? And what do you want to see to more aggressively deploy that? Well I mean we're still conservative in our thinking about Europe.
We still have some money at the ECB at the end of the quarter.
We're going to proceed with our plan.
Our longer-term objective is to build out the non-dollar portfolio we've been doing that for several years.
And we'll continue to do that.
But only investing in AAA and AA asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities.
So it's continuing what we've been doing.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just finally staying on the theme on Europe.
Just -- I know you mentioned you thought that the deals that you've done in 2010 were going well but can you give us a little bit more detail on just facing of client retention or versus your accretion targets at the time? That would be helpful.
Thanks.
Yes.
I would say on that Howard.
The -- we're above expectations almost on all fronts.
The bringing on the integration of the business is well underway now that we've got several quarters of experience with both of those businesses.
The client retention has exceeded expectations which were high anyway.
And as I commented on earlier the cross sell is progressing well.
But there's more to do there.
So I think that they're well under way.
They're in a position where if something else were to come along I don't think that finishing up those integrations are an impediment to any another activities we might pursue.
Great.
Thanks a lot Jay.
And your last question comes from the line of Rob Lee from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Thanks for taking my question.
I know you're pressed for time.
I apologize if you mentioned this earlier in the call but I jumped on a little bit late.
But can you talk a bit about trends in the Asset Management business kind of what you saw in the quarter? How you see that playing out? And if we look beyond the recent acquisition of the Bank of Ireland's business kind of what your appetite is for acquisitions within asset management or where that could be? Sure.
I'm happy to do that Rob.
We reported net new business of $29 billion and SSgA on the asset management side.
And little bit more color on that still good flows into passive $31 billion is our passive number $5 billion in ETFs a little bit less on the cash side.
So I think consistent with this barbell approach that many investment managers are pursuing which is more allocation to the alternatives more allocation to the passive.
We continue to pick up mandates on the passive side.
We closed the Bank of Ireland asset management acquisition in early January that's come on as expected and we're trying to take that fundamental active strategy and deploy it through our distribution network at SSgA.
With regard to acquisitions or other outlook I think we're in a good space relative to our quantitative passive EPS solutions orientation.
But if there was something that made sense we always consider ways to incrementally improve our product set or address a new geography.
So kind of open-minded on that front.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And if I could ask maybe one follow-up question.
I know you've talked about it for today and then prior calls as have some competitors that the fair amount of new business is existing clients kind of consolidating well two things consolidating business with one provider but also this trend towards middle office outsourcing which has been going on for a while now.
And I guess it appears to have accelerated post crash or crisis.
If you look at your book of business considering how important it is to your net new business kind of mining that if you think of middle office outsourcing in particular do you feel that there's just still a lot of kind of pipeline out there clients who just haven't gone step point or is there any way you think that hey there's another year or two of this trend and then the people who are going to do it have done it and you've got to kind of look somewhere else for some incremental growth.
How do you think of that kind of pipeline? Yes.
It's a -- I would say anecdotally the pipeline field is strong as it's ever been.
So I don't think that there's -- it feels like it's ending anytime soon.
I guess -- let me just give you some high level metrics this might help.
The custody base of business that the global custodians have faced off against is in the $110 trillion kind of range.
And we're north of $8 trillion in middle office.
It was 60% of the market that's outsourced.
So that gives you some sense of dimensioning.
I do think that the middle office tends to be more appropriate for the larger more complicated asset managers although not exclusively.
We've seen it across the spectrum.
So I think it's a trend that as you rightly point out that has accelerated through the recent global financial crisis.
And I think it's going to run for a while.
That concludes our Q&amp;A session.
Do you have any closing remarks? No.
Just we look forward to talking to you at the close of the second quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for attending today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This call is being recorded for replay.
State Street's call is copyrighted all rights are reserved.
The call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without expressed written authorization from State Street and the only authorized broadcast of this call is housed on State Street's website.
At the end of today's presentation we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Now I'd like to introduce Kelley MacDonald Senior Vice President for Investor Relations at State Street.
Thank you Wes.
Before Jay Hooley our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Ed Resch our Chief Financial Officer begin their remarks I'd like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on Risk Factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today July 19 2011 and the corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
I'd also like to remind you that you can find the slide presentation regarding the corporation's investment portfolio as well as our second quarter 2011 earnings press release which include reconciliations of non-GAAP measures referred to on this webcast in the Investor Relations portion of our website.
Jay? Thanks Kelley and good morning.
I'm pleased with what we've achieved in the first half of 2011 led by continued momentum in our Core Asset Servicing and Asset Management business and supported with second quarter by seasonal strength in securities finance.
This morning we'll provide more detail behind the strength we're seeing in our core business which is primarily driven by 3 competitive advantages.
First our global footprint which is unmatched in the industry.
Second our industry leadership in important growth areas such as alternative asset servicing investment manager operations outsourcing and exchange traded funds.
And third our relentless commitment to continue to develop new solutions for our customers.
I also want to update you on our capital position.
While we learn further details from the Basel Committee recently regarding the requirement for a capital buffer for global Systemically Important Financial Institution which appears to be in a range of 0% to 2.5% we still await requirements from the Federal Reserve may place on Systemically Important Financial Institutions in this country and to what extent State Street may be affected.
Our capital position remains strong in the second quarter and we continue to believe we need to exceed the 2019 Basel III capital ratios today as we understand the proposed rules.
We initiated our share purchase program in the second quarter buying about 4.9 million shares.
We also raised our regular dividend -- quarterly dividend to $0.18 per share.
Due to the strength of our capital position we were able to take these measures while retaining the flexibility to respond to appropriate acquisition opportunities should they become available.
Regarding our recent acquisitions the Investment Services business that we acquired from Intesa Sanpaolo in the Mourant International Finance Administration business continue to exceed the goals we've set.
In addition the acquisition of Bank of Ireland's Asset Management business continues to perform in line with our expectations.
Just this morning in a press release we updated our progress in executing our multiyear business operations in IT transformation program.
We assigned expanded agreements with 2 long-standing service providers IBM and Wipro to provide maintenance support for our IT infrastructure.
As a result of these expanded relationships approximately 320 non-client facing State Street IT employees will transition to become employees of either IBM or Wipro.
Another 530 non-client facing IT employees will be provided with severance and outplacement service as their roles are eliminated over the course of the next 12 months.
By expanding our relationships with IBM and Wipro we can strengthen the focus of our IT organization on research and development while lowering the cost of IT maintenance support.
This focus on research and development will extend our leading position in developing new products especially those that focus on data and analytics.
We continue to meet all the financial parameters that we announced when we first launched the business operations in IT transformation program.
In the second half of the year we expect to record between $110 million and $130 million associated with the announcement made today.
As of June 30 2011 we've recorded in total about $165 million due to headcount reductions and real estate consolidations associated with this program.
We continue to expect to achieve modest savings from this program this year in pretax run rate savings of between $575 million and $625 million by the end of 2014 excluding the expected restructuring charges of between $400 million and $450 million.
We expect these savings to be approximately ratable over the next 3 years.
Let me turn now to provide some highlights of the second quarter.
We achieved positive operating leverage comparing the second and first quarters of 2011 on an operating basis.
During the second quarter of 2011 we are awarded about $280 billion of new servicing mandates which represent about 105 wins.
We've already installed about $130 billion of this business won in the second quarter and expect to install about $150 billion during the remainder of 2011.
We continue to experience a broad range of wins in terms of products service and geography.
Of the $280 billion we won in the second quarter $185 billion or 66% were from the U.S.
$95 billion or 34% were non-U.S.
mandates $41 billion from Europe and Middle Eastern customers $49 billion from Asian clients and $5 billion from Canadian clients.
Significant new wins included servicing from mutual funds wealth managers and hedge funds.
In particular F&amp;C Asset Management a leading investment manager in Europe awarded us a long-term contract to provide investment manager operations outsourcing as well as custody fund accounting trustee services and securities lending.
In Europe we're seeing increased demand for hedge fund servicing investment manager operations outsource -- outsourcing and UCIT IV servicing.
And in the Asia Pacific region we've recently introduced a new hedge fund service offering in response to increased market demand.
From the Middle East and Africa we generated $10 billion in new wins this quarter particularly fueled by our strong position servicing the sovereign wealth fund sector.
In the alternative servicing area demand remains strong.
According to Hedge Fund Research hedge fund assets passed the $2 trillion level in the first quarter of 2011 with the launch of nearly 300 new funds.
And according to Preqin the average hedge fund allocation from public pension plans has increased to nearly 7% up from 3.6% in 2007.
This quarter we had a 38 new mandates in our Alternative Investment Servicing business and our assets under administration increased from $772 billion as of March 31 2011 to $789 billion as of June 30 2011.
In the second quarter SSgA had negative net flows of $27 billion but this is primarily due to the U.S.
Treasury redeeming investments over the year.
Without the Treasury redemptions net flows would have been $10 billion positive this quarter.
Gross new mandates totaled $141 billion in the second quarter of which $30 billion is scheduled to be installed later this year.
The SSgA wins are globally diversed and represent a variety of investment strategies: $53 billion from the U.S.
$50 billion from Europe and the Middle East and $16 billion from Asia as well as $22 billion from Canada.
Continuing a theme from recent quarters most of the new business came from passive and ETF strategies.
Of note however is a large active equity mandate we won from AP2 in Sweden.
This win was won after we acquired the Bank of Ireland's Active Management business.
Overall I'm encouraged by our continued success in driving new business growth and would expect this trend to continue given a considerable new business pipeline that exist across the different business lines.
One of the main ingredients that fuels our new business success is our ongoing investment in new product development.
Some of the new products introduced in the second quarter include a collateral tracking product that monitors aggregates and reconciles actual collateral movements and reports on all pledged and posted collateral positions and locations.
It's most useful to large global asset managers and into the exposure monitor available through mystatestreet.com that provides a 360-degree view of an institutional investor's daily exposure to legal entities that's counter parties and issuers across a wide range of their investment activities.
Also we're developing a product called Springboard that extends the capability of mystatestreet.com to mobile users as an app to an iPad.
We believe it's the only all-in-one information delivery platform that will be available to institutional investors shortly.
In addition this year we've introduced 24 ETF products including 14 new ETFs in Europe.
We also launched 2 ETFs that provide diversified access to emerging market government debt one of which was in the U.S.
the other which was in Europe.
Let me now share our view on the current economic environment.
The recovery in the United States is slower than the second quarter affected by continued weakness in housing prices as well as a weak labor market and lackluster demand from the consumer.
Market economists are now forecasting real annualized GDP growth in the U.S.
of about 2.6% for 2011 with a slight acceleration in the second half of the year.
In addition despite the supportive actions of the European Central Bank the potential of default in Greece hangs over the European market and may affect the peripheral countries such as Portugal Spain and Italy.
Japanese industrial activity seems to be recovering from the tragic events of March but the outlook is for little growth in 2011.
And in addition there's growing unease in the global market about the pending U.S.
Government debt ceiling.
Let me now turn the call over to Ed who'll provide further detail about our financial performance in the second quarter and then I'll return to provide closing comments and then we'll open the call for questions.
Ed? Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll review 3 areas.
First the results for the second quarter.
Second the investment portfolio investment decisions we made in the second quarter as well as our outlook for worldwide interest rates and the impact on our net interest margin.
And finally I'll review our strong capital position.
First the results of the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011.
This morning all of my comments will be based on our operating basis results as defined in today's earnings news release.
First the general overview of the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010.
The growth in core revenue was due primarily to the 3 acquisitions as well as the growth in new business and improved equity markets.
Securities finance revenue was up due to a higher spread as well as the impact of the European issuers' increasing dividends this year compared to the past few second quarters.
The increase in net interest revenue was primarily due to the near full-quarter effect of the increase in rates from the ECB that occurred in early April and the growth of client deposits added in connection with the Intesa acquisition.
Trading services revenue was down about 5% from the prior-year second quarter primarily based on weaker foreign exchange revenue.
Revenues from brokerage and other trading services were flat.
Turning to expenses.
They increased about 20% from the second quarter of 2010 primarily due to the impact of the reduction in incentive compensation in that quarter related to the securities lending charge.
In addition the second quarter of 2011 included merit increases the ongoing impact of the 3 acquisitions and contract employee cost associated with the business operations and IT transformation program.
We earned $0.96 per share on an operating basis a 3% increase from $0.93 per share in the second quarter of 2010 on a revenue increase of about 14%.
Now for a detailed look at the results of the second quarter compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Our Servicing fee revenue increased by 3% due to net new business installed as well as the slightly higher average equity valuation.
Asset management revenue increased 6% due to the impact of net new business as well as slightly favorable average month-end equity valuations.
Providing further details on trading services and securities finance.
Foreign exchange revenue increased 6% compared to the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to higher volumes and slightly higher volatilities.
Brokerage in other revenue was flat with the first quarter.
Compared to the first quarter of 2011 securities finance revenue in the second quarter of 2011 increased 108% to $137 million due to seasonality.
As usual we expect these revenues to decline in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.
Securities on loan averaged $379 billion for the second quarter of 2011 up from $359 billion for the first quarter of 2011 and down from $421 billion for the second quarter of 2010.
Average lendable assets for the second quarter of 2011 were about $2.37 trillion up slightly from $2.34 trillion in the first quarter of 2011 and from $2.2 trillion in the second quarter of 2010.
As of June 30 2011 the duration of the securities finance book was approximately 18 days down from 21 days in the first quarter of 2011 and up slightly from 17 days in the second quarter of 2010.
Processing fees and other revenue decreased 24% from the first quarter of 2011.
The decline is primarily due to lower revenue from joint ventures and structured products.
Net interest revenue increased slightly about 1% in the second quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to an increase in client deposits and lower funding costs.
The net interest margin in the second quarter of 2011 was 161 basis points down 5 basis points from 166 basis points in the first quarter.
Including conduit-related discount accretion of $51 million in the second quarter of 2011 net interest margin was 176 basis points compared to 185 basis points in the first quarter of 2011.
As of June 30 2011 of the approximately $1.25 billion in conduit-related discount accretion we expect to accrete into interest revenue over the remaining terms of the assets we continue to expect about $200 million including the $130 million in the first half of 2011 to accrete in 2011.
Of course a significant number of assumptions go into our estimate of future discount accretion over the remaining lives of the assets including that we hold the securities to maturity estimated prepayment speeds expected future credit losses across various asset classes and sales.
In the second quarter of 2011 we recorded about $62 million in net gains from sales of available-for-sale securities and separately about $35 million of OTTI resulting in $27 million of net gains related to investment securities.
The OTTI was primarily due to continuing weakening in the housing market.
We maintained tight control on expenses due to continuing uncertainty in the global markets.
However our salaries and benefits expenses increased 4% or $35 million from the first quarter of 2011 to approximately $1 billion due primarily to merit increases that went into effect on the 1st of April and increased contract employee costs associated with the business operations in IT transformation program.
Other expenses increased about 5% to $243 million due primarily to increased regulatory costs.
Our operating basis effective tax rate for the second quarter was 27.5% down from 28.0% in the first quarter of 2011 due to a favorable geographic mix of earnings.
We expect the operating basis effective tax rate in 2011 to be slightly below 28%.
Now let me turn to the investment portfolio.
Our investment portfolio as of June 30 2011 increased about $2.5 billion to $106.4 billion compared to March 31 2011.
During the second quarter we invested about $16.3 billion in highly rated securities at an average price of $100.35 and with an average yield of 1.01% and a duration of approximately 1.25 years.
The $16.3 billion was primarily composed of the following securities 95% of which are AAA rated: $8.9 billion in U.S.
Treasury securities; $1.2 billion in agency mortgage-backed securities; $4.9 billion in asset-backed securities including about $1.5 billion of foreign RMBS which is mostly U.K.
and Dutch issuances; about $1.9 billion in securities backed by credit card receivables; and about $0.6 billion in student loans.
The remainder was invested in smaller amounts in various asset classes.
The aggregate net unrealized after-tax loss in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios as of June 30 2011 was $94 million an improvement of $258 million from March 31 2011 and an improvement of about $410 million from December 31 2010.
The improvement in the net unrealized after-tax position compared to March 31 2011 was due primarily to lower rates partially offset by wider spreads.
In our investment portfolio slide presentation we have updated the data through quarter end for you to review.
As of June 30 2011 our portfolio was 90% AAA or AA rated.
Compared to the first -- the end of the 2011 first quarter the duration of the investment portfolio was about 1.33 years down from 1.59 years at March 31 2011 due to the sale of longer dated fixed rate securities and the purchase of floating rate securities.
The duration gap of the entire balance sheet is 0.28 years down from 0.40 years at March 31 2011 due primarily to the shorter portfolio.
Despite additional downgrades of certain of our securities from major rating agencies the effect on our investment portfolio was not meaningful and the securities affected are performing well.
The majority of the downgrades were in a non-agency MBS asset class.
I'll now review some of the assumptions we used in determining our 2011 outlook for net interest revenue and net interest margin.
We continue to believe we should invest through the cycle and to invest in U.S.
Treasury securities and very highly rated agency mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities.
As of June 30 2011 60% of our investment portfolio was invested in floating-rate securities and 40% in fixed-rate securities.
We continue to expect our net interest margin in 2011 to be in the 160 to 165 basis point range down from the level of 168 basis points achieved in 2010.
Should rates continue to decline we still expect our net interest margin to be under slight pressure so that it may average nearer to the lower end of the 160 to 165 basis point range.
Our assumptions include that the ECB incrementally increases rates a total of 75 basis points in 2011 the first 25 of which occurred on April 7 2011 and the second 25 of which on July 7 2011; that the Bank of England raises rates by 25 basis points near the end of 2011; that the Federal Reserve keeps the overnight Fed funds rate at 25 basis points for all 2011; and that the yield curve retains its current steepness.
Another key assumption affecting our outlook for revenue in 2011 is that we continue to expect the S&amp;P 500 to average about 1265 in 2011 up about 11% from 1140 the average in 2010.
Finally I'll briefly review our capital ratios.
In the second quarter State Street Corporation's capital ratios under Basel I remained very strong.
As of June 30 2011 our total capital ratio stood at 20.7%.
Our Tier 1 leverage ratio stood at 8.6%.
Our Tier 1 capital ratio stood at 18.9%.
Our TCE ratio was 7.3% and our Tier 1 common ratio was 16.8%.
Based on our understanding of the Basel III regulations and the information published by the Basel Committee we estimate our capital ratios under Basel III as of June 30 2011 to be -- our total capital ratio to be 14.6% our Tier 1 leverage ratio to be 6.3% our Tier 1 capital ratio to be 12.9% and our Tier 1 common ratio to be 11.8%.
In conclusion as we complete the first half of 2011 the economic outlook has deteriorated from the beginning of the year and we continue to face headwinds from the low interest rate environment.
However we are pleased with our operating basis results for the first half of 2011.
These results testify to the strength of our revenue in servicing and investment management as well as our success in managing net interest revenue and our ability to control expenses.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jay to conclude our remarks.
Thanks Ed.
The momentum of new business wins continued in the second quarter as you heard.
As a result we achieved strong revenue growth.
At the same time we're very mindful of the various global economic challenges and so we have been and will continue to be focused on expenses.
As we reported to you earlier this morning we're making progress in executing our business operations in IT transformation program.
The 2 new agreements we signed recently with IBM and Wipro represent important milestones in the program's implementation.
We generated a modest amount of savings in the second quarter from the program and expect to accelerate as we begin our work with these 2 partners.
Our capital position remained strong during the quarter positioning us well for new capital standards and maintaining flexibility with the right acquisition presents itself.
Overall I think we've performed well during the first half of the year.
And as we have continued to execute our strategy we're adjusting to this challenging environment.
Now Ed and I are happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Howard Chen of Crdit Suisse.
Jay in your comments you mentioned the concerns increase and a broader peripheral Europe.
We're just hoping you could kind of weigh some of the pluses and minuses for the franchise.
The plus side I know you've done acquisitions in the region before obviously and on the negative side maybe thoughts about some of the counterparty risks as you see it.
Sure Howard.
Let me weigh in and I'll ask Ed to chip in too.
Well from the standpoint of the situation in Europe peripheral countries most notably we don't have any direct sovereign exposure so that's point one I guess on our portfolio.
I can let Ed comment a little bit more on some other business exposure we might have in Europe.
I'd say generally we're concerned and cautious and watching it closely.
I think from a counterparty credit standpoint we have been monitoring for several quarters now the situation in Europe and tend to have counterparty credits focused in the larger better credits in Europe.
And that's not a recent change that's been that way for the last year.
We focused intensely on collateral arrangements to make sure that we're well positioned against the better credits in Europe from a bank standpoint and also that we're watching it carefully so that if something goes against us we're able to respond.
So I'd say that's the monitoring process that we have in place.
I feel pretty comfortable about that.
To the other side of the equation I think two points I'd make.
One is that the question often comes up.
It came up last year on Italy as we're making the Intesa acquisition: How did the events in Europe affect our core business? I think we continue to see with some exceptions savings rates stable if not improving so that's really what drives the core of our business.
So core business-wise I don't see the events in Europe affecting servicing or management fees in a meaningful way.
I think the other question I think you're probably indirectly asking is the whole consolidation/acquisition scenario in Europe and I think that's still under pretty close watch.
We would expect that as the European banks recapitalize or deal with capital deficit should they have them that they'll look at peripheral businesses and potentially there'll be opportunities for us.
The screen that we put on that situation is first and foremost it has to be strategic.
So it has to be either in a market that we don't have exposure to or a product that we don't have access to at the moment.
And it has to have the right economics associated with it.
So we continue to impose a pretty high economic accrual rate on acquisitions that we're considering.
So having said all that I think we're optimistic that we're well covered on the downside and that there will be opportunities that will emerge out of Europe as a result of the current crisis.
Ed I don't know if I...
Yes let me give you a couple of additional facts relative to the investment portfolio Howard which may amplify some of what Jay said.
And as you said there's no sovereign exposure to the peripheral countries in the portfolio.
We do have RMBS positions.
They're concentrated in the U.K.
Netherlands and Germany.
They total about $17 billion in total.
They have about 0.5 year duration on average and they're 90% overall AAA rated 5% AA rated.
We do have some immaterial exposure to RMBS in the peripheral countries.
In Greece Portugal and Ireland there's nothing more than $150 million in RMBS positions and in Italy in Spain it's slightly higher than that.
Overall we feel very comfortable for the investment portfolio's position given the European situation.
And just one further comment now for the bank placements non-Central Bank European deposits of a little bit over $6 billion.
These are normal course-type deposits that we always place.
They're with the large banks Deutsche's Standard Chartered HSBC BNP.
So overall again to amplify what Jay said we feel comfortable with where we are in terms of our assets relative to Europe.
And sorry if I missed this in the prepared remarks but could you just update us on the new business pipeline and thoughts on -- just broad thoughts on timing of event installation? Yes we didn't comment other than broadly Howard.
We did comment on the $280 billion that we booked in the second quarter and I think half of that was installed half of that it's to be installed in the remainder of the year.
But I would say consistently and I emphasize that the makeup of the sole business is pretty diversified.
We continue to see opportunities across the board.
So our pipelines are I'd say above average.
And I'd also say that our success ratio in deals that we're very interested in is quite high.
Helpful.
And then Ed one final one on the numbers.
It looks like your Basel III RWA saw 8% during the quarter and on a Basel I basis is up 6%.
I guess I'm wondering what's specifically driving that Basel III reduction? And what's specifically driving the delta on a B1 versus B3? Yes the driver on Basel III Howard is that the securitization reduction positions that we have have declined fairly dramatically.
That is largely due to us getting some securities that were previously not rated and subject to the deduction actually rated.
And that's the main contributing factor to that.
I would also point out that overall would be improvement in the mark.
That drove the very significant increase in the Tier 1 common ratio up to 11.8%.
And just on that point Ed do you see more opportunity to get things rated and continue to drive down that RWA figure? Well we're working on it.
I wouldn't expect it to be of the same magnitude that we've already achieved.
There's some incremental positions that we're in the process of attempting to get rated.
But probably most of that improvement is behind us from that perspective Howard.
Your next question comes from Glenn Schorr of Nomura.
So I appreciate all the color around Europe I just want to see if those comments are inclusive of what the SEC lending portfolios might be exposed to? I'll give you some detail on the SEC lending which -- all my comments previously Glenn were on the portfolio and the [indiscernible] position that we have on balance sheet.
So in terms of SSgA securities lending and cash portfolios okay we have no exposure to sovereign debted peripheral countries in those portfolios.
And we have no exposure in U.S.
2a-7 registered funds to banks in peripheral countries.
We have a small amount of exposure to -- in non-U.S.
registered funds to banks in peripheral countries around $3 billion in Italy and a little over $1 billion in Spain.
The maturities are short a little bit over 2 months on average.
And in terms of SSgA's fixed income exposure we own fixed income instruments at the benchmark weighting okay? So overall we feel like we have a pretty well-diversified mix of assets with the most credit-worthy entities.
We're comforted somewhat by the relatively positive outcome of the European stress test.
And SSgA is in a we believe a fairly good position relative to the European situation.
And this is a hard one but maybe just trend-wise.
For SEC lending you obviously get a big bump up on the quarter.
Any way to break out what is the seasonal normal course of business component versus some commentary on the underlying trends new clients leverage reinvestment portfolio? It is a hard one.
I think probably the best indicator would be backward-looking sequential quarter to see what the second quarter bump looked like in years past.
I would say that the underlying metrics of the business remained stable if not slightly improved.
You saw the on-loan numbers go up a little bit spreads move a little bit and pretty stable.
So I'd say stable to slightly up as far as the core business metrics.
But from a financial modeling I think it's probably -- the best way to do that is to look backward and look at how the second quarter peaks.
And Jay maybe just one last one a big picture question of -- so you got good new business trends you have some revenue growth you're controlling the expenses so you got the positive operating leverage.
Put all that together that's pretty reasonable story.
I've always scratched my head on how much capital you have to run with and what that means for an ROE because decent quarter and you put up a 10% ROE maybe -- am I looking at the wrong metrics? How do you think about the business on want qualifies as adequate returns or good returns? Yes.
I'll scratch my head but I have -- I share your frustration on that.
We're -- we still -- the question is really the equity question which is: How much capital should a trust bank be required to hold to execute its business model? And I think that quickly gets bound up in Basel Basel III SIFI G-SIFI and the most encouraging point around that is I think the issue seems to be clarifying.
I think once we get to the point where we know what capital we'll need to hold if we're at SIFI if there's a top-off charge then we'll be able to zero in on what we are managing to as far as a return on equity.
So I -- you probably know most of that I wish I could be more insightful.
Meanwhile we're modeling different scenarios recognizing that investors need a reasonable return.
And so we're -- part of the effort you see around our expense reductions not only short-term but structural expense reductions are aligned around making sure that once the capital question clears we can deliver a good return on capital to shareholders.
Do you have any idea on timing on the SIFI comments? Because I thought we would get something out for comment like soon like in the next week because the rules had to be in place by October is that right? Yes.
I don't think there's a date certain for the rules to be in place.
I think the sequence has been in a little bit of global local Basel put out.
When I interpret the 0% to 2.5% to be a global SIFI top-up I think the Fed and other governments around the world need to weigh in and interpret that for their set of banks.
My best guess Glenn would be end of year and that's just me guessing based on talking to different regulators.
Your next question comes from Kenneth Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> So understanding that you did show positive operating leverage in the quarter but I just wanted to dig into the comp line and your outlook a little bit more.
There were definitely some things in the first quarter that didn't recur and then you mentioned the salary increase in the second quarter.
But I'm wondering can you clarify how much was the step-up in the restructuring-related costs? And is that in fact obviously coming in ahead of the cost saves? I'm just wondering and even related to the plan are you spending ahead of the saves? And then how do we expect that to really to layer in over time? And it seems like expenses were still a little bit higher than many people expected.
Yes Ken let me ask Ed to give you a little color on that break that down.
Yes.
The spending relative to the contract employees that I referred to Ken for the of ops in IT transformation work is sometimes and this quarter is one of those times ahead of the saves okay? So we will have periods of time and all of this is included in our comments on what we expect to get out of the program over the years we will have periods of time where some expenses are increased in order to execute on the program.
And to put that in term -- in dollar terms for you in the first quarter that was about $15 million for first to second quarter okay? So that's a large piece of the ramp-up from Q1 to Q2.
So that will happen and when it happens we'll obviously talk about it in the periods in which it happens.
Inc.</strong> So is this going to be even building from here? Can you give us just a little help in terms of -- I think you generally had said that over the course of the year it will be net positive but clearly it's net negative in the second quarter.
So just -- does it become net positive in the third or in the fourth quarter incrementally? Overall relative to the program for this year it does yes because we're going to have net -- a slightly net savings to the company.
As we get into 2012 and beyond it will be even more so because we'll be generating more savings by the actions that we're taking in excess of any ramp we have in expenses to execute the program okay? Inc.</strong> And my second question just relates also just the comp.
Comp to revenue still closer to 41 than to that longer-term goal you have of 40.
I know you never have pinned it necessarily on a point-to-point.
But can you just talk us through how you think about comp to revenues? And again this $15 million delta is going to be a piece of that.
But I guess what's you're broader expectation on that if we think about a -- should we be thinking about a 40% on a full year basis? Or is it just trending above again because of these costs? Yes I mean our thinking long-term Ken is that it should be around that 40% level.
Again we may have periods or even a year where it's above.
We've had some years where it's below.
But our thinking is that it should be around that level so this year is no exception to that.
I would think we trend down.
We've trended down from the first quarter which was 41.8% down this quarter to 40.8% so 100 basis points down on that.
And our thinking really hasn't changed.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then my last question just on expenses.
You mentioned the regulatory-related cost step-ups.
Can you dig -- can you just give us a little bit more color in terms of what explicitly are those costs? And also if there's any litigation-related costs in other as well as you think about the lawsuits that are outstanding? Yes nothing incremental relative to litigation.
I mean we have legal expenses that we incur every quarter but there's nothing outstanding in this quarter versus the first.
I'd say the 2 main drivers of the regulatory costs that we're talking about is number one the new FDIC kicked in effective April 1.
And that is a modest uptick for us on a quarter-by-quarter basis over the year.
If you remember we originally thought perhaps it would be even greater than what it turned out to be but there's still a modest uptick and that is part of the increase sequential quarter.
And then the other piece of it is professional services consulting fees that we've incurred incrementally for Dodd-Frank implementation analysis.
We like others have a lot of work going on trying to figure out what it precisely means for us.
We're using consultants to do that.
And then we have some professional services costs associated with the operations and IT transformation program.
So FDIC and consulting costs are the 2 main drivers of Other.
Hey Ken let me just go backwards for a minute on the selling and benefits this might be helpful.
We based on your collective questions we continue to think about how better to portray the IT and ops transformation program.
And we're going to be coming back to you with some thoughts over the next few quarters.
But the 1 400 headcount reduction that we announced in December about 2/3 of those employees have left the organization 1/3 yet to leave largely will happen in the second half of this year.
Of the 850 that we announced this morning 320 of which moved to vendor partners and the other 500 exit the organization.
The 320 will probably move over the next 3 to 6 months.
The 520 will largely be laddered in throughout the 2012 concluding in 2013.
That just gives you some other sense of how the costs will decline as employees leave the organization.
Your next question comes from Alex Blostein of Goldman Sachs.
I just want to go back to comp maybe ask it slightly differently.
So if we look at the first quarter number I think you guys mentioned before there was about $56 million of kind of one-offs seasonal costs in there.
So if you exclude that you're looking at $918 million or so last quarter.
It's still a pretty significant step-up I think on a link quarter basis.
So maybe can you just within that $1 billion can you just break down how much of that was the merit increase? And then I guess you said $15 million was the extra outsourcing folks.
And then when we think about the next few quarters is that $15 million going to start dropping off? Or is that going to be sort of the same level? I think that that $15 million will probably be in the range of $10 million to $15 million over the remainder of the year per quarter and that's an estimate at this point.
So there's a certain level of run rate especially earlier on as we're ramping this year for execution on the project.
But to give you the other element of the quarter-to-quarter increase our merit increases were in the range of $20 million in fact for the quarter.
So the $20 million plus the $15 million is for the contractors is the increase for the quarter.
Got it.
Also it just feels like historically the quarters you guys had a big securities lending gain like you did this quarter.
Obviously all of that is a very high margin revenue.
So I guess just a little bit surprising that more of that did not flow through to the bottom line this quarter.
Well again I think we've talked about a couple of the main drivers of the expense increase the salaries and benefits line that I just touched on and the other expenses.
Those are the main elements on the expense side.
We had transaction processing increase 7% linked quarter but that's actually a good thing.
That demonstrates volume increases and that's reflective of increased revenue in the top line.
So that's a net positive to the NIBT.
You have to remember too that securities finance at a $137 million for the quarter is while it's up significantly over the first quarter that's a relatively modest level of achievement given what that business has historically performed.
Great.
Okay maybe shifting gears a little bit.
Jay could you talk about the momentum you guys are seeing in the asset management business.
I think you gave out kind of like a net flow number of $10 billion excluding some of the Treasury run-off.
But I was hoping you could maybe break it down by bucket equity fixed income what you guys are seeing on a product level? Let me see if we can pull that information up.
So I would say it's really not distinctive across asset classes ETFs fixed income equities pretty much contributed evenly to the increase.
I would say maybe one comment would be the re-risking that we began to see in the latter half of '10 and beginning of '11 seems to have subsided.
So passive cash passives through ETFs seems to be the trend more recently and I guess would be consistent with what feels like a declining confidence in the investors in the investor world.
And if that helps? That's helpful.
And then just one more for me.
On the buybacks it sounds like you guys bought back about 5 million shares in the quarter.
Can you talk about the timing of that? Because obviously the average diluted share count did not really tick down so was it really just all happened in the back like in the back half of the quarter? And how should we think about the buyback into the second half? Yes.
We started in mid-May so your suspicion is correct.
So we'll have obviously the full quarter effect in Q3 of what we bought back in Q2.
I would also point out that one of the reasons why average shares may not have gone down as much as you would have thought was because we had to get the effect of the employee-related compensation issuances that we made in the calculation.
The next question comes from Brian Bedell of ISI.
Maybe if -- going back to the comp issue and then also maybe the restructuring charges if you can talk a little bit about maybe just sort of quantifying where the $165 million of implementation expenses are hitting on the P&amp;L Ed.
And then the $110 million to $130 million that you announced this morning that part of the $400 million $450 million is that correct? I'm sorry Brian I didn't hear the second part of that.
Yes I'm sorry I'm going to get off my headset.
The $400 million -- the $110 million to $130 million that you announced this morning that's part of the $400 million to $450 million correct? That's correct.
Right right.
So the $165 million that you talked about in the first half so far in terms of what you spent so...
Brian if I can interject okay? The $165 million is a life-to-date number if you will.
$155 million was taken last year and there's been $10 million taken as restructuring charges in the first half of 2011.
So that's $165 million in 2011.
And it's showing as a one-line item.
Okay.
So the implementation costs like you said on the staff line about $10 million to $15 million are we going to run around about $10 million to $15 million a quarter over the next couple of quarters is that correct? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
And then you do expect net savings for the full year so just going back to I guess the third and the fourth quarter run rates on that is that mostly fourth quarter loaded? Or do you think we'll start to see some net savings in the third quarter? Probably more towards the end of the year more back-loaded this year.
But I mean again we're talking about what we call -- we've termed and estimate to be modest savings this year overall.
Right right.
So as we move into 2012 though I mean that -- I mean what you think you would see a pretty significant improvement in the comp to revenue ratio I mean assuming revenue trends have sort of normalized -- it shouldn't be normalized but maybe if we have this type of a macro environment even moving into 2012 given that sort of the implementation cost versus the savings shouldn't we see that comp to revenue ratio improve significantly from the...
All else equal Brian relative to this ops in IT transformation project yes.
A lot of the benefit that we expect to see will manifest itself in the salary and benefit line.
Right okay.
So that $15 million run rate will obviously come way down significantly? Yes I mean yes we have some costs that we're incurring that we're calling operating costs.
They're included in all of our numbers and we view them as temporary costs okay? We're ramping up.
We have some potential overlap during the period of implementation.
And those costs once the project moves along will go away.
Right okay.
And the $110 million to $130 million is the second half that fall in the restructuring line is that correct? Yes that's correct.
Right okay.
Okay great.
And then just a couple of other things.
On the new business conversions the 280 that you've won and the 150 that's converted in the -- that is to be converted in the second half I guess from the F&amp;C deal has any of that been converted yet? Or is that all in that 150? No that's all in the back-end loaded portion second half of the year.
Okay.
And do you expect to conclude the F&amp;C integration by the end of the year or some of that in 2012? Yes I think substantially Brian it should be concluded.
Okay okay.
And then end-of-period share count and the comments on plans for buybacks versus what you got approved for from the Fed I guess in the second half.
I think we're in an annual cycle based on the stress test and so I think the buybacks that the Board has approved what we plan to execute through the end of this year and then I think we'll queue up again for a set of stress analysis and capital request as we exit the year and enter 2012.
I think that feels like the cycle that we're in with the regulator.
Right okay.
And then just so the end-of-period share count...
What is it? Yes yes exactly.
Hold on.
501? 501? Yes that's I think that's what we reported Brian.
501.
Your next question comes from John Stilmar of SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question for you with regards to momentum of the ability to reprice.
You guys just went through a very successful win with CalPERS and they selected you all and if you look to the transcripts obviously one of the things that was talked about was pricing of that new business.
And it seemed to be much better than sort of the other competitors.
The question I have is simply one of the thesis that we've laid out for a long time is that we're increasing pricing to cover for lower activity fees such as FX and SEC lending.
Is that trend still happening? And without getting into specifics because I'm sure you won't with CalPERS but is the trend at least in terms of -- are such wins because of the low-cost approach to pricing more a reflection of you being -- potentially a service for being an incumbent? I'm just wondering because it seemed like some of these counterflows of information seemed a little bit different.
I was wondering if you could provide a little more clarity on that.
Yes let me take a shot John.
One we are thrilled to have CalPERS as an ongoing customer.
They're a wonderful investment manager.
They challenge us as evidenced by their resigning.
I'm pretty pleased with what we do and where we're heading.
I wouldn't put a lot of credence into a lot of the stuff you read in the press about pricing competitive deal.
We're pleased with where it came out.
I think to your I guess to your other question the environment has changed the world knows that securities lending isn't driving up the economic benefit that it once was nor is NIR.
So I'd say in new deals whether as incumbent or as a bidder it feels like pricing is getting a little better at least.
The recognition that the traditional components of revenue have shifted.
And so I see at least stability if not some slight improvement there.
And we're firming up our position in several of these deals to make sure that we have deals that make economic sense.
We've even seen more recently largely on the back of a customer relationship that had a securities lending dependency some fee increases.
So I would say I know don't if that's helpful to your question but I would say if anything it's feeling a little firmer getting a little better both sides of the table understand that the trough created by low interest rates NIR and securities lending most notably.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then busting on the concept of competition revenues just a question with across your platform is volatility in the global markets itself accelerate some of the investment outsourcing opportunities that you had? Or is it more of we'd like a more accommodating environment where asset prices move up? Which is a better environment for your platform to grow revenues at least given that you provide a lot of -- a broader array of consulting or back office support? I'm just curious as to which one of those environments is most opportune for revenue growth.
Yes I think both is the answer.
We've got the 10% 2% market-to-revenue equation which I think still generally holds up.
So market growth upwards provides the 10% 2% equation to revenues.
The volatility more specifically affects foreign exchange trading probably most notably less so securities lending less so the core servicing or Asset Management business.
So I guess hearing that explanation we'd rather see asset prices go up over time.
The volatility would have a more direct connect to the foreign exchange and some of the other trading-related businesses.
Inc.</strong> And maybe volatility was a poor choice of words but does the angst about global growth accelerate investment outsourcing in back office? It sounds that we could start to see if we are in a prolonged period of sort of low asset growth that back office and some of the middle office wins that you've have could start to accelerate given the pressure on operating margins of the asset managers? Absolutely.
And I would say it cuts several ways.
It cuts against the need to if you're an asset manager making expenditures for compliance or risk management it cuts against -- markets until recently have performed pretty well.
It's pretty uneven if you look across the asset management landscape and several folks aren't getting flows or stable if not have downward pressure on their AUMs.
And so they're desperate to find ways to rationalize their cost base.
So all those factors have and I predict will continue to drive outsourcing activity and you've seen that over several of the recent quarters.
That's what's driving the pipeline and that's what's driving a good deal of new business activity.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And my very last question and I apologies for beating a dead horse but going back to salaries and employees' benefits and relative to your revenues I understand the idea of investing to be able for the cost initiatives.
Is there a point in which when you can look out forward? Or is this the quarter in which we have that comp to revenue zenith? Is that a kind of a peak? I know you've always kind of targeted the 40% range.
But it sounds like with your cost initiatives you're going to be potentially below that.
And it seems to me that part of the momentum that you're advocating for us on the expense line item is for the actual dollar cost savings.
So I'm wondering is this a zenith and really how should we start to move forward? Or when can we expect that peak and what's sort of relative flow? Yes let me try that one.
I don't know if it's a zenith or a peak but certainly as we get through the second half of the year we would expect the salary and benefit-to-revenue relationship improve.
And that was a smaller increment as we exit the year.
And I think that's what Ed is getting at with the first quarter the second quarter slight improvement.
We'd expect some slight improvement as we get to the end of the year.
I think importantly the IT and ops transformation plan roughly we would expect $200 million in savings in '12 '13 and '14.
I think you can expect that particularly in '12 that gets a little back-end loaded and that's the result of whether it is implementing or executing the transition of staff to IBM and Wipro today whether it's the time it takes to exit staff who are associated with that activity.
And then it's also embedded in our IT and ops transformation plan and some movement of staff to a lower cost environment.
When you do that there's a redundancy of costs that you incur for a quarter as you transition staff to let's say Poland.
You ramp up in Poland and then it takes a quarter for you to ramp down.
So some of this front-end loading of expense are things like that.
So I don't know if that gives you some time sequence of second quarter end-of-year expectations for '12 '13 and '14 and some of the underpinnings of for that.
And our final question comes from Mike Mayo CLSA.
So expenses in the second half are they likely to be up or down with everything that you said or flat? My commentary was more on the salary and comp line.
Ed take a look at some numbers here.
I guess what I'm asking is the IT project should be additive this year and so far it looks like it's not additive.
Yes I think that's fair.
Is your confidence the same or is it a little bit less about it being additive this year? I have confidence it will be additive this year slightly.
Okay which means we should see more significant benefit in the third and fourth quarters to offset the first half front loading of expenses.
Yes Mike I think generally second half in the range of flat maybe up a little bit but flat flattish.
Okay.
And then my question we've heard a lot about new business wins.
You've had a lot of new business wins.
You've talked about them but then we see assets under custody up only 1%.
And I'm wondering if there's something unique add to that number this quarter.
Or why isn't it up more? I mean you can't have big increases every quarter but you'd thought it might have been up more after hearing your positive comments last quarter? I think it's largely mix Mike.
The investment operations outsourcing asset for instance wouldn't necessarily have custody associated with it yet it's revenue-driving.
So I don't think there's anything unusual in the quarter.
Sometimes the mix drives higher custody growth sometimes less so.
So I think that will wrap up the second quarter call.
We look forward to talking to everybody at the end of the third quarter.
Thanks.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes our conference call for this morning.
We appreciate your time.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corp.'s Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's call is copyrighted.
All rights are reserved.
The call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without expressed written authorization from State Street and the only authorized broadcast of this call is housed on State Street's website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I'd like to introduce Kelley MacDonald Senior Vice President for Investor Relations at State Street.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Before Jay Hooley our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Ed Resch our Chief Financial Officer begin their remarks I'd like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on Risk Factors concerning any forward-looking statements we may make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today October 18 2011 and the corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
I'd also like to remind you that you can find 2 slide presentations: one regarding the corporation's investment portfolio and the other about our progress in executing our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program as well as our third quarter 2011 earnings news release which includes reconciliations of non-GAAP measures referred to on this webcast in the Investor Relations portion of our website Now I'll turn the call over to Jay.
Thanks Kelley and good morning.
Before reviewing our earnings results for this quarter I'll briefly address the recent white paper released by Trian Fund Management a shareholder of State Street's on Sunday October 16.
Trian's white paper suggested ways we could improve shareholder value many of which have been underway at State Street for more than a year.
We continually search ways to drive  value across our operations and always listen to ideas and shareholders.
In that spirit members of State Street senior management have met with representatives of Trian on a number of occasions to discuss our business.
Despite the challenging operating environment over the past several years our business has remained resilient.
We have continued our track record of profitable growth and have maintained the strongest capital position among our closest peers.
With the approval of the Federal Reserve and within the context of growing our business we intend to continue to return capital to our shareholders.
We believe our third quarter earnings results underscore the underlying strength of our franchise.
With that said I want to emphasize that the purpose of today's conference call is to discuss these results.
We will not be taking any questions on Trian.
I'd like to now return the focus of today's call to our earnings results.
I'm pleased with what we've achieved in the third quarter of 2011 in the face of volatile equity markets and continued uncertainty in Europe.
Compared to the third quarter of 2010 revenue from our fee-generating businesses increased 18% and our total operating basis revenue increased 12%.
Compared to the second quarter of this year our fee revenue declined about 3% due primarily to a decline in Securities Finance revenue from the seasonally strong second quarter.
We added about $245 billion in new assets to be serviced in the asset servicing business and had negative $15 billion in net flows at State Street Global Advisors excluding $35 billion of planned asset sales and accounts we manage for the U.S.
Treasury.
This morning I'll provide more detail behind the wins we achieved in the third quarter as well as the installation timing.
I'll also comment on our outlook for the global economy with an emphasis on the situation in Europe our progress in executing against our Business Operations and IT Transformation Program as well as our capital plans.
Let me turn now to provide some highlights of the third quarter and recent trends we've observed.
Of the $245 billion of new servicing mandates won in the third quarter we've already installed about $65 billion of the business won and expect to install about $180 billion during the fourth quarter of 2011.
We continue to enjoy a broad range of wins in terms of clients services and geographies.
Of the $245 billion we won $42 billion or 17% were from the U.S.
and $283 billion or 83% were non-US mandates $156 billion from Europe and Middle Eastern clients $32 billion from Asian clients and $15 billion from Canadian clients.
Volatile markets have made U.S.
consumers nervous due to concerns about Greece European banks and the pace of the U.S.
recovery.
As a result they have continued to move out of equities over the past 5 weeks into bonds and municipal funds.
Similarly in Europe investors are avoiding equities that have been selling out of emerging markets after having been overweight in both 2010 and 2011.
In both Europe and Asia investors are investing closer to their home countries and are limiting their cross-border investing.
Cash continues to collect in bank deposits as investors stay on the sideline until the euro-zone reaches some decisions on the sovereign debt crisis as well as the recapitalization of the banking systems.
Another trend we're observing is clients moving toward alternative investments in particular private equity and real estate funds both of which we service through our alternative Investment Servicing business.
Clients were also looking to outsource more services so our pipelines remain strong reflecting significant business opportunities.
From the Middle East and Africa we generated $18 billion of the quarter's new wins fueled by our strong position serving the sovereign wealth fund sector.
In the alternative servicing area demand remains strong.
This quarter we added 25 new mandates in our alternative Investment Servicing business and our alternative assets under administration increased from $789 billion as of June 30 2011 to $793 billion as of September 30 2011 despite a general contraction in equity markets.
At State Street Global Advisors gross new mandates totaled $88 billion in the third quarter of which $12 billion is scheduled to be installed later this year.
We continue to benefit from our concerted effort to cross-sell products between asset servicing and asset management.
For example of our top 100 Investment Servicing clients about 75% have a portion of their assets managed by SSgA.
In addition SSgA's portfolio of solutions offering is attracting Investment Servicing clients especially pension funds and a significant majority of our hedge fund and mutual fund clients invest in ETFs managed by SSgA.
Like our Investment Servicing business the SSgA wins were globally diverse and represent a variety of different investment strategies: $36 billion from the U.S.
$43 billion from Europe and the Middle East and $9 billion from Asia.
Continuing a trend from recent quarters most of the new business came from passive and ETF strategies.
Let me now share our outlook for the global economy.
While growth has slowed in the U.S.
principally due to the continuing weakness in the housing market and the stubbornly high unemployment rate most of the focus now is on Europe especially the peripheral countries and the uncertainty created by the debt crisis.
As investors worry about the stability and safety in the European market during the third quarter our clients place with us on average an incremental $15 billion of deposits compared to the second quarter.
In Europe very recent news suggests that the leaders there are working to fashion a fiscal solution for weaker countries.
But should this initiative fail it will continue to weigh heavily on the capital markets and economies of Europe.
As a result with our investment portfolio we continue to focus our euro-denominated investment activities in stronger northern European countries and in higher-quality asset classes.
This outlook only underlines the slow and somewhat fragile global recovery.
I continue to believe that with the slow growth rate concern about the financial institutions in Europe should result in consolidation in the financial sector consolidation which we are prepared to take advantage of with our strong capital position.
Our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program is progressing well in fact ahead of schedule.
When we first launched the program we indicated that we expected the 2011 expense savings would be slight.
We now expect those savings in 2011 to be approximately $80 million since we were to accelerate some of the projects within the program.
Through this program we continue to expect to achieve a 400 basis point improvement in our operating basis pretax margin compared to 2010 by the end of 2015 all else equal.
I'm pleased with the progress we're making with this program and I'm confident in our ability to execute against it.
It is going to substantially transform State Street both in terms of service to our clients more rapid development of new products as well as a significant reduction in our expenses.
In a few minutes Ed will provide more specific information about the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program.
I also want to update you on our capital position which remained strong in the third quarter.
We continue to await the capital requirements for systemically important financial institutions.
At this time we expect to know those requirements by the end of this year enabling us to evaluate the effect on State Street and on our expectations for return on equity.
In the third quarter we purchased approximately $5.8 million of our common shares which brought the total shares purchased in 2011 to $10.7 million leaving about $225 million from the original plan yet to be purchased in 2011.
We also announced a quarterly dividend of $0.18 per share in the third quarter.
Due to the strength of our capital position we were able to take these actions while retaining the flexibility to respond to future acquisition opportunities should they become available.
Regarding our recent acquisitions the Investment Servicing business that we acquired from Intesa Sanpaolo and Mourant International Financial Administration (sic) [Mourant International Finance Administration] business continue to be in line with the goals we announced.
In addition the acquisition of Bank of Ireland's asset management business continues to perform well and in line with our expectations.
We recently announced 2 small acquisitions: Complementa in Switzerland and Pulse Trading in the United States.
Based in Switzerland Complementa provides investment performance measurement and analytics to asset managers banks pension funds family offices and insurance companies primarily in Switzerland and Germany.
With this acquisition we'll significantly strengthen and differentiate our investor service capabilities across the European continent.
This transaction closed on October 3 2011.
The Pulse Trading acquisition enhances our electronic trading capabilities by adding an equity crossing platform which we plan to cross-sell to our existing client base.
This transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2011 pending regulatory and other closing conditions.
I'll now turn the call over to Ed who will discuss our results for the third quarter provide further details about our Business Operations and IT Transformation Program discuss the performance of our investment portfolio and our capital position.
Then I'll return to make some final remarks before we open the call to questions.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
As Jay said this morning I'll review 4 areas: first the results for the third quarter; second our progress in executing the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program; then I'll summarize the performance of an outlook for the investment portfolio as well as worldwide interest rates and the impact on our interest margin; and finally I'll review our strong results comparing the third quarter to the second quarter of 2011.
And this morning all of my comments will be based on our operating basis results as defined in today's earnings news release.
Our Servicing Fee revenue decreased by 2% due to weaker average equity markets offset partially by net new business.
To put this decline in context daily average equity markets as measured by the S&amp;P 500 and the MSCI EAFE index were down about 9% compared to the second quarter.
Asset management revenue declined about 8% due to the weaker average month-end equity valuations offset partially by the impact of net new business installed.
For comparison average month-end equity markets as measured by the S&amp;P 500 and MSCI EAFE index declined about 11% compared to the second quarter.
Regarding trading services and Securities Finance foreign exchange revenue increased 21% compared to the second quarter of 2011 due to higher volatility.
Brokerage and other revenue declined 8% compared to the second quarter due primarily to weaker revenue from transition management.
Securities Finance revenue in the third quarter of 2011 decreased about 38% to $85 million in comparison to the seasonally strong second quarter.
Securities on loan averaged $368 billion for the third quarter of 2011 down from $379 billion for the second quarter of 2011 and from $382 billion for the third quarter of 2010.
Average lendable assets for the third quarter of 2011 were about $2.28 trillion down 4% from $2.37 trillion in the second quarter of 2011 and up 5% from $2.17 trillion in the third quarter of 2010.
As of September 30 2011 the duration of the Securities Finance book was approximately 12 days down from 18 days in the second quarter of 2011 and from 24 days in the third quarter of 2010.
Processing fees and other revenue increased 29% to $90 million from the second quarter of 2011.
This increase was primarily due to $22 million of gains related to real estate and leases.
Net interest revenue increased slightly about 2% in the third quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to an increase in earning assets driven by an increase in client deposits.
Compared to the second quarter in the third quarter clients left an incremental $15 billion in average deposits with State Street the impact of which contributed to slightly higher net interest revenue and a lower net interest margin.
Including these incremental deposits operating basis net interest margin in the third quarter of 2011 was 144 basis points.
Excluding those deposits net interest margin would have been about 157 basis points compared to 161 basis points in the second quarter.
We maintained tight controls on expenses.
Our salaries and benefits expenses decreased 4% or $44 million in the second quarter of 2011 to approximately $965 million due to reductions in incentive compensation and benefits achieved from the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program.
Salaries and benefits included about $13 million in nonrecurring costs related to the implementation of this program with another $5 million recorded in several other expense lines of the income statement.
We continue to make progress against our annual compensation to revenue target of 40%.
In the third quarter of 2011 salaries and benefits expense was approximately 40.0% of total revenue down from 40.8% in the second quarter which was down from 41.8% in the first quarter.
As of September 30 2011 our year-to-date ratio was 40.9%.
Other expenses were $258 million up about 6% compared to the second quarter due to increased securities processing costs.
Included in other expenses are certain costs to meet the increased regulatory compliance requirements we face.
In the third quarter we recorded about $65 million in restructuring charges and have recorded $75 million year-to-date associated with the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program as well as about $20 million of integration costs associated with Intesa Mourant and Bank of Ireland acquisitions.
We expect additional restructuring charges of between $45 million and $65 million in the fourth quarter associated with the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program.
We continue to expect a total of $400 million to $450 million of restructuring charges over the life of the program.
As of September 30 2011 we have recorded aggregate restructuring charges of about $230 million composed of severance associated with headcount reductions information technology vendor transition costs and actions taken with respect to real estate consolidations resulting from the implementation of this program.
In response to your requests now I'd like to provide additional detail about the net savings we expect to achieve through the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program.
We have provided a presentation in the Investor Relations section of our website for your reference.
On the third page of the presentation I list the goals of the program positioning us for accelerated growth with the financial goal of achieving annual run rate pretax savings of between $575 million and $625 million by the end of 2014 for full effect in 2015.
We continue to expect to achieve 400 basis points of improvement in our operating basis pretax margin compared to 2010 all else equal in 2015.
By implementing this program we also intend to enhance service excellence and innovation deliver operating efficiencies standardize and further automate processes and increase the efficient use of technology for product development.
To describe this program we have divided it into 2 components: business operations transformation from which we expect to achieve approximately $440 million of annual pretax run rate expense savings by the end of 2014 for full effect in 2015; and information technology transformation from which we expect about $160 million in annual pretax run rate expense savings over the same period.
These estimates are based on improvement from operating basis expenses in 2010 all else equal.
And again we expect the full effect to be experienced in 2015.
For convenience we have used the midpoint of the range of expected expense savings.
For your reference on Page 4 in the presentation I list the expected performance of the entire program most of which we have previously disclosed.
The next page Page 5 describes the 3 drivers of the business operations transformation transforming and standardizing our processes continuing to automate our key business processes and developing additional Centers of Excellence around the globe shown in the first 3 rows on the chart.
Relative to the first driver in order to transform our business operations we expect to standardize 14 core processes at State Street primarily by continuing to execute our successful lean methodology and then to further automate those processes.
Lean is a process that we embraced about 3 years ago.
It is similar to Six Sigma which you may be more familiar with.
We estimate this driver should account for about 10% of the projected $440 million pretax run rate expense savings.
The second driver.
We intend to further automate our business processes in order to eliminate as much manual processing as possible which is expected to reduce cost as well as operational risks to both State Street and our clients and which should account for about 30% of the projected $440 million.
The third driver.
We've already begun a program of establishing Centers of Excellence using a globally distributed footprint to balance our workload in a more flexible global operating model.
We expect this driver to account for about 60% of the projected $440 million expense savings.
Approximately 95% of the projected $440 million expense savings from this component of the program are expected to be reflected as a reduction in the salaries and benefits line.
On the next page Page 6 we have listed the 3 drivers of transforming our information technology across State Street as shown in the first 3 rows on the chart: one introducing new technology architecture; two optimizing our IT processes; and three optimizing our workforce.
Regarding the first driver in order to transform our information technology we are planning to move hundreds of core applications to a private cloud leveraging new technology architecture which will reduce cost and improve our ability to deliver new business products and services to our clients.
We estimate that we will achieve about 20% of the projected $160 million in savings from this component of the program.
The second driver.
We intend to deploy lean methodology to all of our IT processes across State Street and with our strategic servicers.
This is consistent with what we have been doing in our business operations for the past several years.
These benefits are estimated to be about 40% of the projected $160 million in expense savings expected from this component of the program.
Regarding the third driver as we announced in July we have expanded our information technology service provider relationships with IBM and Wipro in order to support components of our technology infrastructure and application maintenance as well as support systems.
Finally we intend to leverage the benefits of these relationships to more efficiently and effectively deploy our IT services globally a driver which we estimate will save us about 40% of the projected $160 million expense savings we expect from this component of the program.
Approximately 165% of the expense savings from the information technology transformation component are expected to be reflected as a reduction in salaries and benefits due primarily to the implementation of the expanded IBM and Wipro relationships.
Information systems and communications expense is expected to increase by an amount equal to approximately 65% of the total IT transformation benefits partially offsetting the expected improvement in salaries and benefits.
Onto Page 7 the financial benefits of these 2 programs.
We have previously said we expect slight savings in 2011 originally about $30 million.
However given the difficult environment we accelerated some of our projects and were able to migrate some job functions to lower-cost locations and we now expect to achieve about $80 million in annual pretax run rate expense savings this year and to still achieve about $200 million pretax run rate expense savings by the end of each of the next 3 years as shown in the bottom row of this table.
As shown on the far right the estimates in the table are based on a pretax run rate expense savings of about $600 million by the end of 2014 for full effect in 2015.
$600 million represents the midpoint of the estimated $575 million to $625 million range we provided when we announced this transformation program.
On average we expect to get about 75% of the total annual pretax run rate savings or $440 million in 2015 from the business operations transformation component.
The other 25% of the total pretax run rate savings in 2015 is expected to come from the information technology transformation component.
From this component of the program we expect to achieve annual pretax run rate savings of about $160 million in 2015.
So you can see that we expect to achieve $540 million in annual pretax run rate savings by the end of 2014 for a total annual run rate savings of about $600 million in 2015.
105% to 115% of the program's overall expense saves are expected to come from a reduction in salaries and benefits partially offset by an expected increase in information systems and communications expense of between 10% and 20% reflecting the incremental costs of the enhanced strategic service provider relationships.
The Other Expense and Occupancy categories on our income statement are estimated to decrease by an amount equal to 5% of the overall pretax net operating benefits.
These estimated savings only refer to the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
Actual company expenses may increase or decrease due to other factors.
We plan on updating these numbers quarterly assuming no material changes and we'll also report an actual savings in relation to the estimates on an annual basis.
On Slide 8 this slide provides our expected achievements in 2012.
14 key business operations processes are to be substantially affected by hundreds of initiatives that are to be implemented through the Business Operations and Information Technology Program.
We expect to establish 2 additional Centers of Excellence so we have a total of 7 overall achieve 20% of our targeted automation benefits and establish 2 new low-cost locations to balance our global footprint.
We also expect to scale the cloud computing platform rationalize the IT application portfolio and enable major application migrations in 2013 and 2014.
We intend to realize 20% of the benefits from streamlining our IT applications in 2012.
By the end of next year we expect to have substantially completed the transition of the relevant information technology maintenance and support functions to our strategic service providers.
Now let me turn to the investment portfolio.
Our investment portfolio as of September 30 2011 increased about $700 million to $107.1 billion compared to June 30 2011.
During the quarter we invested about $10 billion in highly rated securities at an average price of 101.85 and with an average yield of 1.94% and a duration of approximately 2.08 years.
This is a lesser amount than we have invested in the previous 2 quarters because as we have discussed with you we invested early in 2011 to capture what we perceive to be good investment opportunities.
The $10 billion of purchases was composed of the following securities: $1.6 billion in U.S.
Treasury securities; $3.8 billion in agency mortgage-backed securities; a $3.2 billion in asset-backed securities including about $1 billion of foreign RMBS which were mostly U.K.; and the remaining $2.2 billion were invested in U.S.
securities backed by credit card receivables student loans and floating-rate auto receivables.
The remainder was invested in smaller amounts in various miscellaneous asset classes.
The aggregate net unrealized after-tax loss and our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios as of September 30 2011 was $259 million a deterioration of $165 million from June 30 2011 and an improvement of about $245 million from December 31 2010.
The deterioration in net unrealized after-tax position compared to June 30 2011 was due primarily to a modest widening in spreads partially offset by lower interest rates.
In our investment portfolio presentation we have updated the data through the quarter-end for your review.
In this quarter's investment portfolio presentation you will note that on Page 5 we had an additional column to capture the impact on treasury and agency securities that were downgraded by S&amp;P in August.
Excluding this column the additional downgrades are primarily in non-US RMBS.
The effect on our investment portfolio was not meaningful and the effect with securities are performing well.
As of September 30 2011 our portfolio is 89% AAA- or AA-rated.
The duration of the investment portfolio was 1.09 years down from 1.33 years at June 30 2011 due to the sale of longer-dated fixed-rate securities purchase of floating-rate securities and an overall lower level of interest rates.
The duration gap of the entire balance sheet was 0.9 years -- I'm sorry .09 years down from 0.28 years at June 30 2011 due primarily to the previously mentioned shorter portfolio duration.
We're often asked about the potential impact on State Street of the uncertainty in the euro-zone.
We do not own any sovereign debt from the peripheral countries of Greece Spain Portugal Italy or Ireland in our investment portfolio.
In our RMBS book we hold about $1.1 billion in securities from those peripheral countries: about $400 million from Italy about $400 million from Spain and about $100 million each from Ireland Greece and Portugal.
All are performing well.
All are prime mortgages and the mortgages backing the securities all have relatively low loan-to-value ratios.
On Page 11 of the investment portfolio presentation we list all of our holdings and show the average rating as well as the asset types we hold.
Our primary non-US holdings are in British Australian German Canadian and Netherland securities totaling 91% of the non-US investment portfolio.
I'll now review some of the assumptions we used in determining our 2011 outlook for net interest revenue and net interest margin.
We continue to believe we should invest through the cycle and to invest in U.S.
Treasury securities and very highly rated agency mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities.
As of September 30 2011 61% of our investment portfolio was invested in floating-rate securities and 39% in fixed-rate securities.
Excluding any impact from the unusually high level of deposits placed with us as a result of the recent market disruption and given third quarter performance and our expectations for the fourth quarter we still expect our net interest margin to average near the lower end of the 160 to 165 basis point rage in 2011.
Our assumptions for 2011 are based on several factors: first the ECB did not raise rates another 25 basis points and it also appears that the Bank of England may not raise rates another 25 basis points by the end of the year.
Both assumptions have been expected last quarter.
The ECB and the Bank of England holding rates at their current levels reduced net interest income by about $35 million to $40 million annually all else equal.
The Federal Reserve has indicated it intends to keep the overnight fed funds rate at 25 basis points into 2013 and that the yield curve retains its current steepness.
While it's a bit premature to provide an outlook for net interest margin in 2012 given the persistent low rate environment we expect it to decline slowly much as it is expected to do for the rest of this year.
You'll recall that our operating basis net interest margin in 2010 was 168 basis points and we are expecting it to be in the lower end of the 160 to 165 basis point range in 2011 excluding the impact of the unusually high level of client deposits in the third quarter.
Excluding the impact of the retention of those deposits and all else equal we expect the 2012 net interest margin to behave similarly to that of 2011.
Another key assumption affecting our outlook for revenue in 2011 we continue to expect the S&amp;P 500 to average about 12.65 in 2011 up about 11% from 11.40 the average in 2010.
Finally I'll briefly review our capital ratios.
In the third quarter State Street Corp.'s capital ratios under Basel I remained very strong.
As of September 30 2011 our total capital ratio stood at 19.6% our Tier 1 leverage ratio stood at 7.8% our Tier 1 capital ratio stood at 18.0% our tangible common equity ratio was 7.1% and our Tier 1 common ratio was 16%.
Based on our understanding of the Basel III regulations and the information published by the Basel Committee and the Federal Reserve we estimate our capital ratios under Basel III as of September 30 2011 to be: our total capital ratio 14.5%; our Tier 1 leverage ratio to be 6.0%; our Tier 1 capital ratio to be 12.8%; and our Tier 1 common ratio to be 11.7%.
So in conclusion the economic outlook has continued to deteriorate over 2011.
Pressure from economic uncertainty coupled with the headwinds created from a low interest-rate environment and with expected increased compliance costs has led us to focus intensely on growing revenue executing our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program as well as controlling expenses in general.
We believe we have done a good job on all of these 3 measures in the first 9 months of 2011.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Jay.
Thanks Ed.
Since the global economy is recovering much more slowly than economists originally predicted we're being increasingly vigilant about expense control.
Given the difficult environment I'm pleased that we achieved positive operating leverage compared to the second quarter of 2011 a testament to our attention to controlling expenses.
The momentum of new business wins across all geographies in both servicing and asset management remains strong.
As expense pressures intensify for our clients they are increasingly looking to outsource more services to us.
At the same time clients are facing regulatory pressures and look to us for additional products and services to support them.
We are continuing to invest in new products which address these client needs while continuing to differentiate us from our competitors.
I'm pleased with the progress we've made in executing our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
As we reported this morning the pace of the program is ahead of forecast.
Our capital position remains strong positioning us well for new capital standards while maintaining flexibility if the right acquisition present itself and enabling us to increase our returns to shareholders.
Overall I believe that it is the steady execution of our strategy that has enabled us to perform well during the first 9 months of this challenging year for the markets and for our industry.
Before we begin taking questions I'd like to remind you once more that the purpose of today's call is to discuss our third quarter earnings and we ask that you please limit your questions to topics involving our financial and operational results.
With that now I'd now like to open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So quickie I heard all your comments on the new business front which is still great considering the backdrop.
On the deposit front can you give us a two-parter: one where are the deposits coming from and two what do you do with them? In other words what kind of duration are you thinking in your mind with these deposits and what do you do on the asset side? It's a conundrum.
Yes Glenn.
It's Ed.
In the third quarter our average deposits were in our estimation about $15 billion over what the normal level is.
They're around $33 billion as opposed to $18 billion which is more normal.
Most of this is DDA.
Most of it is coming from U.S.
customers.
We've consistently been treating excess deposits around quarter-end for the last several years as transitory deposits and as a result we leave them at the Fed or the ECB or the Swiss National Bank as the case may be.
In this quarter they were left at the Fed and we are 25 basis points on them.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So does that mean it's a quarter-end phenomenon and they come in and out? Yes.
And that's been the case throughout the last couple of years.
Glenn if you recall going back to a couple of years ago year-end '08 I think we had $70 billion and that's a point estimate not an average.
I gave you the average in my earlier numbers.
But yes they ebb and flow and we treat them as though they're going to be not here for a long period of time.
Research Division</strong> It's interesting.
So given just the economic unrest in Europe I've been under the assumption that we'd see some deposit growth there as well as some new business flow.
It looks like you got a little bit on the new business flow side but you're not really seeing a heck of a lot of flight-to-quality on the deposits side.
In this quarter it happened to be more U.S.
In prior quarters other quarters it's been weighted more towards Europe.
It just depends on the way things go in the quarter.
I think on the new business side we do see a flight to quality with regard to our pretty consistent performance around acquiring new assets and new customers.
Research Division</strong> On that front is the pre-pipe pipe conversations picking up given everything that's going on? I know if I was an administrator I'd probably be looking around right now.
Is your question pipeline visibility? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes I'd say consistently strong and I wouldn't say in it's way up or down.
But we continue to have a broad range of conversations everywhere from traditional investment managers to I continue to report in the alternative asset classes.
A lot of that business is previously in-sourced with a private-equity real estate firm being outsourced.
So I would say that the other side of this depressed environment is that it is good for business because our customers whether they're pension funds investment managers or alternative managers are looking for some relief around either expense responding to new regulatory reporting.
So the core business is good.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ed could you just take us back through the margin comments? I think I understood you saying that 2011 margin was excluding the weight from the liquid deposits? But I guess my questions are can you just confirm that and what it means for the fourth quarter margin as a starter? Yes I gave you both numbers with and without.
The 144 basis point number included the excess deposits the $33 billion average number if you will okay? If we take those out for the third quarter it was 157.
Okay? Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know what it was but I'm saying your guidance for the low end of 160 to 165 is based on using that 157 not the 144.
Yes that's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the question is I would presume that those deposits are going to be pretty sticky even though you consider them transitory.
So can you give us a thought on just presuming that's now kind of a run rate for now what gives you the confidence that the margin can only drip given that in the last 2 quarters you've reinvested $25 billion at around a 1% reinvestment yield with the portfolio still in the 2.5-ish type of range? Well we're not assuming that those deposits stay and that's a conservative assumption.
We're not taking them and putting them into the portfolio to any long duration or anything like that Ken.
So we continue to have them at the Fed.
Just as a point of information through this call through as of last night the deposit level has stayed a little bit elevated okay? So that's the point of information for you the first couple of weeks of this quarter.
In terms of why the margin won't decline more precipitously to your question it's mainly because of the effect of us being 61% in floaters and that's principally driven in Europe [indiscernible] getting the benefit by this quarter-end of the broker being somewhat elevated.
So while the U.S.-based [indiscernible] security will decline [indiscernible] to reinvest in the low-rate environment we're getting an uptick in Europe which will modify the decline in U.S.-related margin.
So that's why we feel pretty comfortable with what we're saying about the margin overall declining slowly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
This last thing can you just give us some clarity on if the ECB cuts from here what's the risk to the margin if the ECB were to cut? If the ECB were to cut and all else equal in terms of the -- we're talking about a roughly $20 billion non-dollar investment portfolio.
That's worth about $20 million in NIR annually per 25 basis point of cut.
That's not something Ken that really will impact 2011.
That's more a 2012 comment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Of course if it happened in November December the run rate on an annual basis is helpful just to understand that.
Great.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify once again on the 2012 NIM outlook when you said behave similarly to 2011 and we look at sort of 1Q '11 starting out at about 166 on a core basis and drifting down to the 157 area basically are you saying that under the scenarios that you've outlined we should expect around say about roughly 10 basis points of NIM pressure from current levels through say the end of 2012? A little early to give precise guidance Brian but our comments were intended to guide you that way okay? I don't want to comment on whether it's 10 points or 12 points at this point.
We'll give some guidance on the fourth quarter call more specifically.
But the slow decline that has been evidenced over the last year is what we're trying to signal.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's good.
Okay great.
And then just on the cost save program the 400 basis points operating margin what operating margin are you using for 2010? I know there's a lot of different ways to calculate that but what's the actual number that you're basing it from? We're using our operating basis pretax margin of 28.8.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay great.
And then just a couple of things on the quarter.
The core servicing fees were very good.
Was there any negative impact from the dollar strengthening? Immaterial.
I mean on average for the quarter the dollar strengthened 2% against euro and 1% against sterling so no material effect.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the securities processing costs they were a little -- I guess they would imply they're about $15 million higher in the third quarter versus second based on your comment of that being responsible for the delta.
Do you view that as an elevated level or do you think you can improve upon that? Well I think the securities processing costs as we talked about over time can move around a bit.
They depend quarter to quarter on exactly what happens.
So I wouldn't say that's a run rate by any means.
We've had some quarters this year and in recent years where they've been actually pretty low.
So a $10 million or $15 million increase in the quarter is not a big delta there.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then just lastly on the $13 million of nonrecurring comp and I think you said about $5 million in some other buckets.
Should we be adding that to the $85 million restructuring cost number to get at a more sort of nonoperational run rate? Well I mean that's money we're spending in order to execute on our Business Operations and IT Transformation Program.
And we're trying to highlight that as being something that's in the run rate that probably goes away once we're done executing.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That's part of that 15 to 20 that you've  been talking about.
Right exactly.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the additional color on the new business wins and I think it's very helpful.
And I guess just since we're always going to ask for more is it possible to get some additional insight on the $200-odd billion to $245 billion wins kind of a breakdown by alternative pension fund just any color around kind of just in a general sense typically what kind of maybe a typical kind of revenue mix would be with $5 billion of alternative new wins kind of equivalent of like $100 billion of pension or any kind of metrics along those lines? Rob it's hard.
The mixes vary.
And actually that's the good news which is there's no one single engine firing.
I think we're firing globally across asset classes.
You saw a big European component this quarter which I think is encouraging and probably indicative of the times.
The alternatives continue to be a strong theme throughout this.
I'd say the mix of business the preponderance of it is multiproduct kind of complex deals.
The other thing I would add is I didn't mention specifically but you may remember Scottish Widows was an early outsourcing deal that we had in the U.K.
They've recently concluded to re-up that deal and add a number of additional assets.
So some of the context is customers concentrating more of their activity with us.
But it's really hard to give you 2 or 3 summary points.
It's quite varied in a number of ways which again I think is the strength in it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I'm just curious.
I mean of course M&amp;A has been a consistent part of how you think of capital.
Just curious of everything going on in Europe.
Are you starting to finally see that activity tick up? It kind of felt like it was kind of a lot of expectations but maybe not a lot actually going on.
You're actually starting to see people say "Okay now I need to see to do something " and pace of conversations is accelerating? I would say without being specific it feels to me like we're getting closer to that time.
I think if you -- we're all following the plight of the European banks and their need to either recapitalize or strengthen capital levels and I think that most of that has been more discussion and less action.
But I think as that moves to action it's likely that we'll see opportunities.
I assume your reference is to the custody books of business in Europe.
So it just feels like we're moving in a positive direction.
On a smaller scale I mentioned the Complementa acquisition as well as the Pulse Trading.
To me those in a different sort of way represent some of the pressures that the world is feeling small companies that no longer have the ability to invest or leverage from a revenue side their product.
And in both of those cases I think they're small but nice pickups which add great enhancement to our product mix and through which we should be able to leverage pretty materially the revenue side.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one last quick question for Ed.
I'm just curious a little bit more of a near-term modeling question but of your $80 million run rate I mean any sense of how much of that is kind of in the numbers as of Q3? On the savings? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Q3 numbers have about $18 million in there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So there's a little bit of a back-end loading I guess in Q4 from the...
A little more in Q4 in terms of run rate yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on expenses.
If we just kind of think about it maybe a little bit differently so you guys are currently running with about $1.7 billion per quarter in expenses.
Can you give us a sense how much of that is sort of fixed versus variable expenses? And then can we just assume that the bucket that's sort of fixed will just subtract the run rate numbers in savings that you guys have given out sort of in 2012 the $170 million number? Well it obviously depends over what period of time you're trying to define fixed and variable expenses Alex so in terms of...
Research Division</strong> Just on a year-to-date basis.
Yes I mean on a year basis I think what you're proposing is fair in terms of taking the salary and benefit savings out of that number.
Again we have to anchor them all back to 2010 as our starting point and the business has grown since 2010.
But I think if you look at over a year and call the salary component and the related benefit costs variable I think that's a fair characterization of it.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
So of the $1.7 billion total expenses you would I guess think of salary and benefits as 100% variable? Well over a year within the context of the business ops and IT program yes.
I mean we're saying that most of the savings more than 100% of the savings for the program will be coming out of that line over the life of the program.
Research Division</strong> All right understood.
And then on capital deployment and I guess obviously the situation with the regulator is always fluid but can you talk about your preference looking out into next year? Dividend raises from current levels are like $0.18 a quarter versus buybacks.
And then if you could also address the acquisitions in Europe more from a perspective of potential size of how big or small you guys will be looking for.
Sure.
Let me start that one Alex.
Just to reframe the parameters here we'll go into at the end of this year the next annual stress test.
We'll get parameters in December and then deliver off our own self-evaluation stress test in January and should hear by the end of the first quarter from the regulators how they view those stress test and capital available for deployment.
With regard to preferences and priorities I'd say it's always a point-in-time assessment but we would like to get more capital back to shareholders.
So buybacks are a bit of a priority for us.
I'd also say that from an acquisition standpoint the other part of your question if you look at the landscape of what's possible and try to size those acquisitions very broadly $0.5 billion to $2 billion is kind of a broad range of -- if we're talking about -- I suspect your question is pointed at custody roll-up acquisitions.
They'd be in that broad framework of $0.5 billion to $2 billion.
Does that answer your question? Your next question comes from the line of Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Jay just a follow-up on that last point on capital planning because you made some fairly constructive commentary within the release.
Just given the strength in underlying business and the stock price just hoping to get your thoughts on maybe taking up the payout ratio.
I know you can only speak for yourselves but we're seeing other firms not put up nearly as much profitability as you all but seemingly taking up kind of their payout ratio or capital return in the back half of the year.
The back of this year Howard? Research Division</strong> Right like right now.
Yes I mean I think if I understand your question I mean the Fed guidance is annual guidance.
And so we get our next shot at having that discussion at the end of this year leading into next year.
The payout ratio with regard to capital I think was pretty consistent among the banks.
We think based on the strength of our capital the relative risk of our business profile that we should be in pretty good shape going into this year's stress test and we'll argue for more flexibility with regard to returning capital to shareholders.
I think the factors that -- so those are the factors unique to us.
I think the other factor would be how the regulator views the broad environment and what criteria that they put forward against which we'll run our stress test.
But we feel pretty good going in.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Ed just another follow-up on the NIM and sensitivities.
I realize the environment's fluid.
You mentioned the sensitivity to an ECB cut but what about potential sensitivity of things like the benefits of what we see into LIBOR and twist in the states? Is there any sort of potential offset there? Well we haven't seen much of an effect on us and specifically our mortgage-backed element of the portfolio because of twist.
It looks like spreads are about 10 basis points tighter when all's said and done so far based on twist so not a huge effect.
I think with 3-month LIBOR widening out a bit and Fed funds staying where it is there's a little bit of potential upside on securities lending for example if that would maintain itself and volumes would stay where they are.
But I mean overall our interest rate risk position is fairly low with where we are with floaters as the mixture of floaters and fixed and our shock and ramp tests are pretty low a little bit bigger than they were in June given that we have a larger balance sheet.
But overall we're in a pretty low interest-rate risk position so the sensitivity would not be that great.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally thanks for all the details on the long-term efficiency program in the slide deck.
I'm just realizing this is an invest-to-ultimately-save initiative.
Can you provide a bit more details on maybe sort of the gross spending and net saving by year or quarter? I think that'd be helpful if possible.
Let me just  [indiscernible] that question up.
Howard I'll just remind you that I think it's often loss because of the focus on expense saves during this time but I believe this is going to transform this company with regards to how it delivers new products to the market and how it responds to -- how it picks up the pace of responding to industry needs.
So I don't want you to lose sight of that.
But with that Ed do you want to comment on...
Sure.
Howard if you look at Page 7 okay what we're trying to present there is by year by component of the program what we believe the net benefits to be before nonrecurring project-related expenses okay? So we break out the nonrecurring in order to show those expenses that we're incurring in order to execute the program but we think we'll drive to 0 as you see out in 2015 and their costs basically incurred to execute on the program.
Everything that we are spending that we believe will be an offset to our savings i.e.
it's a permanent increase in expenses in order to execute the program or for whatever reason relative to this program is included in the net benefit numbers in the 2 lines business operations transformation and information technology transformation.
The only other element of cost other than the nonrecurring that we're probably breaking out are the expected restructuring charges which I've already talked about.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify the pipeline? I guess you talked about installed business but your total pipeline where is that now and how does that compare to the start of last quarter? I don't know that we give necessarily pipeline visibility but if you go back Mike 3 quarters we've been running as far as committed business in the $250 billion  to $350 billion a quarter.
I think last year it's probably closer to $350 billion down at $250 billion.
So if I look at the visible pipeline that doesn't seem like an unreasonable rate going forward as far as translating prospects to clients.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So it's pretty similar to what it's been? Yes it's very steady and good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And your comment about consolidation in Europe so you're still looking to do some deals in Europe perhaps? I think the screen that we put over that is the strategic screen.
I mean we make these acquisitions because we think it positions us for future growth.
And then I think given the environment we'll be ever more discerning about price paid.
So if it falls into the strategic sweet spot and it meets our hurdle rate for pricing then we're a buyer.
Research Division</strong> What about the tradeoff between repurchasing more of your own stock versus acquisitions? I mean where is that tipping point? When your stock is really low maybe it makes sense to buy more stock.
If the stock goes up to $50 maybe it makes sense to do more deals.
How do you think about that? Yes I mean we think about it as a point-in-time assessment.
We're constantly looking at acquisitions.
We're trying to measure the flexibility that we'll get through the stress test as far as our ability to purchase shares.
And I think we -- at a point in time you'll look at stock price and make that determination but we're obviously very focused on that.
Research Division</strong> And then separately you get this question all the time if you take all the expense savings that you expect and add it to the pretax margin your margin would be even higher than I guess the 33%.
What you're saying you're saying 400 basis points higher than what it was in 2010.
That was 29%.
Add 400 basis points you get to 33%.
So I guess it could be even higher.
So I think just looking at this it implies that you're going to reinvest 1/3 of the savings and let the other 2/3 hit the bottom line.
Am I reading that correct? No.
I think what we're saying is that that 400 basis points of margin lift pretax margin lift from 10 to 15 is a translation of that $600 million on a direct basis.
So we're saying kind of all else equal -- which is we're in this constrained environment from a standpoint of equity markets interest rates and the like but all things being equal that $600 million translates into 400 basis points of margin lift.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're assuming it all kind of hits the bottom line then? Yes.
Research Division</strong> So I guess you're okay maybe assuming some revenue loss or I guess you don't want to give forecast so many years out but how do you think about the revenues? Because that goes into the assumption.
Yes I mean I think the revenues if you break down the revenue equation I think that we have demonstrated that we've performed pretty well in the core line items.
We would expect that to continue.
And over time they get some help from markets and interest rates and cross-border investing and spreads which help our securities lending and other businesses.
So we would project that we can continue to run at this rate from a revenue standpoint with hopefully some upside.
Research Division</strong> And then last question.
You said of your top 100 servicing clients 75% of them have some portion of their assets with SSgA.
Can you give the dollar amount of the overlap in revenues those assets that are managed by SSgA for 75% of the top 100 servicing clients.
What's the dollar amount of revenues of that business? I wouldn't have that off the top of my head.
But what I would say is that you can assume that those top 100 customers are some of the top 100 financial institutions across the globe.
So the SSgA comment is that not only it's a cross-sell but I think when you look at SSgA's business and its upside a lot of it's about cross-sell.
So once you have a relationship with the big financial institution and you get your foot in the door that's generally the best prospect for the next asset class to sell.
Your final question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jay you mentioned that you expect to hear about the SIFI buffer by the end of the year.
Are you guys expecting to be a global SIFI or just a national SIFI? The expectation for the end of the year is largely tied to the Dodd-Frank-legislated SIFI systemically important financial institution.
And further that would be -- we think a designation which would largely have Tier 1 capital in the 7% to 9.5% is going to be broadly thought to be the range.
I think the global SIFI which is -- my understanding doesn't add additional capital but puts you into a different club on a global scale much less visibility on -- other than the broad considerations of size complexity interconnectedness and the like.
So we really don't have any visibility on what the thinking is of trust banks in that group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And assuming you're just a national SIFI what are you guys comfortable with in terms of the buffer? What do you think is appropriate for you folks? You just gave us a range which is commonly talked about for the bigger banks.
Where do you think you guys fit in? I wouldn't comment on that.
I think that you've got to look at -- and you can do this yourself.
You look at the above-$50 billion financial institutions or banks in this country and look at the range of types and complexity and the regulators are going to slot us in some way there I'd be guessing to put us in a certain bucket.
LLC Research Division</strong> And on the expense savings that you guys talked about and you detailed in great detail what you expect the $600 million.
From a static basis using your year-end '10 noninterest expense number of just around $6.8 billion do you actually think your numbers would decline when we get to the final number or is it just going to reduce the rate of growth? Well I mean when we get to the final number hopefully what we've done has been to grow the company in the interim and take the $600 million of expense out.
So I would expect that the overall level of expense in 2015 will be higher than what it was in 2010.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally just going back to your net interest margin comment about the operating margin in '10 being 168 basis points and if you exclude out those extra deposits you're going to be in this range of 160 to 165 for this year at the lower end.
If we keep those deposits in as you pointed out last night they're still there where would you think that margin would be if those deposits end up staying for most of the quarter? Probably in the range of 5 to 8 basis points lower for the full year.
That concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll hand the program back over to management for any further comments or closing remarks.
No we would just say thank you and look forward to speaking with you at the end of the fourth quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's call is copyrighted.
All rights are reserved.
The call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without expressed written authorization from State Street and the only authorized broadcast of this call is housed on State Street's website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I'd like to introduce Kelley MacDonald Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at State Street.
Good morning.
Before Jay Hooley our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Ed Resch our Chief Financial Officer begin their remarks I'd like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on Risk Factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today January 18 2012 and the corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
I'd also like to remind you that you can find a slide presentation regarding the corporation's investment portfolio as well as our fourth quarter 2011 earnings news release which includes reconciliations of non-GAAP measures referred to on this webcast in the Investor Relations portion of our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jay.
Thanks Kelley and good morning.
Our full year 2011 results which include double-digit growth in our total fee revenue and earnings per share as compared to 2010 reflect the strength of our franchise in the face of volatile equity markets and continued uncertainty in Europe.
In addition to remarks about the 2011 and fourth quarter results this morning I'll make some comments about the economic outlook our continuing success generating new business in our core asset servicing and asset management businesses the ongoing progress of our business ops and information technology transformation program as well as our plans for leveraging our strong capital position.
As we began 2010 like many others anticipated the first half of the year would be challenging and that the U.S.
and European economies would improve in the second half increasing our prospects for growth.
After a strong first half Europe weakened in mid-May and a major rating agency downgraded the credit rating of the U.S.
resulting in very challenging and extremely volatile markets in the second half with the U.S.
market recovering at the very end of the year.
This second half environment significantly affected investor confidence and we saw a broad-based derisking of our clients which put pressure on our servicing and management fee revenue.
Compared to the third quarter our fourth quarter revenue for trading services also declined due to the weak environment in the capital markets.
Based on the weakening global market environment at year end we accelerate our expense control program.
In particular our compensation and benefit expenses were reduced by about $145 million or 7% comparing the second half with the first half of 2011.
Part of this reduction is due to the successful execution of our business operations and information technology transformation program and the remainder due to incremental actions we took regarding incentive compensation.
We expect this weakness in the capital markets to continue into 2012 and so this morning we announced measures that will result in a further reduction in the run rate of expenses in our capital markets-facing businesses.
As part of our annual review of all of our businesses we also recently announced our withdrawal from the fixed income trading initiative.
This decision reflects a number of factors including continuing market turmoil and regulatory changes both in the U.S.
and Europe that likely would have required us to increase capital and expenses associated with this initiative.
Despite the challenging environment we continue to add new business to the core franchise.
In the fourth quarter we added about $590 billion in new assets to be serviced and had $109 billion in gross new business at State Street Global Advisors.
One notable anticipated departure in SSgA assets was the $41 billion of planned assets from -- planned asset sales from accounts we manage for the U.S.
Treasury.
For the full year 2011 of the $1.4 trillion in new service wins about $560 billion or 40% were from non-U.S.
clients and of the $109 billion wins in U.S.
in SSgA $39 billion or about 36% were from non-U.S.
clients.
Among our large and new mandates was AllianceBernstein for investment manager operations outsourcing for more than $360 billion in assets.
In addition we also won a mandate from American Century which awarded us custody accounting and fund administration for its '40 Act Mutual Funds totaling about $90 billion in assets.
Also PEMCO renewed its long-standing relationship with us for investment manager operations outsourcing services for assets totaling approximately $1.3 trillion.
The state of Washington renewed its agreement with us for servicing and securities finance for $75 billion in assets.
SSgA was awarded a mandate to provide fixed income management for EUR 82 billion for the BNL-BNP Paribas employees pension fund one of the largest pension funds in Italy.
Regarding the timing of installations as of December 31 2011 we had installed $1.1 trillion of the $1.4 trillion in new asset servicing wins this year.
We expect to install the remaining $300 billion in 2012.
In the alternative asset servicing area demand remained strong.
This quarter we added 38 new mandates in our alternative investment servicing business and our alternative assets under administration increased from $793 billion as of September 30 2011 to $816 billion as of December 31 2011.
At State Street Global Advisors of the $109 billion in gross new mandates in the fourth quarter $20 billion is scheduled to be installed in 2012.
We continue to benefit from the concentrated effort to cross sell products between asset servicing and asset management.
Illustrating the power of the franchise 77 of the top 100 clients of State Street are clients of both investor servicing and SSgA.
Those 77 clients generated 40% of SSgA's total 2011 revenue.
Let me now share our outlook for the global economy.
We expect G7 economies to grow modestly about 1.5% in 2012 similar to the slow growth experienced in 2011.
Additionally we expect a slowdown in emerging market economies resulting in weak expectations for the capital markets.
All major central banks are on hold or are easing.
The potential fallout from the European debt crisis remains as a significant risk factor and the market remains cautious.
Destruction of household wealth due primarily to a drop in housing prices as well as the decline in equity valuations is limiting growth in consumer spending.
Therefore in the U.S.
we expect a very slow but sustainable recovery.
As we indicated when we announced our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program in November 2010 we expected the expense savings in 2011 would be slight.
However when the global economy weakened in mid-year we accelerated our program and our total expense savings in 2011 excluding restructuring costs were approximately $86 million.
Through this program we continue to expect to achieve 400 basis point improvement in our operating basis pretax margin compared to 2010 by the end of 2015 all else equal.
In 2012 we expect to add 2 additional global centers of excellence to balance our global footprint.
The cloud computing infrastructure has been installed and is in production.
We continue to scale this technology as we migrate major systems through 2014.
In 2012 we also expect to have substantially completed the transition to the 2 strategic partners we announced in mid-2011.
As a result of these activities in 2012 we expect to achieve an annual pretax run rate expense save of $94 million bringing the anticipated annual pretax run rate expense savings to $180 million compared to the expense rate in 2010 all else equal.
This program is going to substantially transform State Street both in terms of service to our clients more rapid development of new products as well as significant reduction of our expenses.
I also want to update you on our capital position which remain very strong in the fourth quarter.
We continue to await the capital requirements for globally systemic important financial institutions.
At this time we expect to know these requirements by the end of 2012 enabling us to evaluate the effect on State Street and on our expectations for return on equity.
In the fourth quarter we purchased approximately 5.6 million of our common shares which brought the total shares purchased in 2011 to 16.3 million.
This completed the $675 million program announced in March 2011.
We also announced a quarterly dividend of $0.18 per share in the fourth quarter.
We've submitted this year's capital plan to the Fed Reserve and expect to hear back in March.
And we continue to prioritize increasing return of capital to shareholders through dividends and our share repurchase program.
Due to the strength of our capital position we were able to take these actions while retaining the flexibility to respond to future acquisition opportunities should they become available.
Regarding our recent acquisitions in 2011 we added 2 small acquisitions both of which strengthen our product capability.
Complementa in Switzerland which provides performance measurement and analytics to asset managers and banks pension funds and insurance companies primarily in Switzerland and Germany and Pulse Trading in the United States which enhances our electronic trading capabilities by adding an equity crossing platform that we can cross sell to our client base.
I'll now turn the call over to Ed who will discuss our results for the fourth quarter the performance of our investment portfolio and provide additional details on our capital position.
Then I'll return to provide some final remarks before opening the call to your questions.
Ed? Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
As Jay said this morning I'll cover 3 areas: first the results of the fourth quarter; second I'll summarize the performance of and outlook for the investment portfolio as well as worldwide interest rates and the impact on our net interest margin; and finally I'll review our strong capital position.
I'll present some of the more significant results first comparing 2011 with 2010 and then comparing the fourth quarter to the third quarter of 2011.
And this morning all of my comments will be based on our operating basis results as defined in today's earnings news release.
First comparing full year 2011 with 2010.
The revenue from almost all of our businesses increased.
Our servicing fee revenue increased by 11% due primarily to net new business and the impact of market appreciation as well as acquisitions.
Our asset management fee revenue increased 11% due primarily to stronger equity markets and the impact of an acquisition.
Regarding trading services and securities finance.
Foreign-exchange revenue increased 14% brokerage and other fee revenue improved 6% and securities finance was up 19% due primarily to improved spreads.
Net interest revenue increased 6% due primarily to an increase in lower cost deposits offset partially by lower yields.
Our net interest margin averaged 152 basis points in 2011 or 160 basis points excluding the impact of excess deposits in the second half of 2011.
Comparing the results of the fourth quarter 2011 with the third quarter.
Across both our asses servicing and asset management businesses we have seen investors become more risk-averse given economic uncertainty in Europe and the continued volatility in equity markets.
Investors are shifting from global and emerging market equity strategies into more conservative lower-risk asset classes such as money market funds and insured deposits.
Servicing fee revenue declined 4% to $1.05 billion due to mix shifts and negative flows as a result of investors' risk-averse behavior the impact of the strong dollar and lower valuations in the European equity markets.
To put this decline in context the daily average valuation of the S&amp;P 500 was flat compared to the third quarter and the MSCI EAFE was down about 7%.
The VIX which measures the change in equity market volatility was near its historical average at 23 to close the quarter at 23.40 after starting the quarter at an elevated level [ph] 43.
Similarly the 3-month U.S.
dollar LIBOR rate closed the quarter at about 58 basis points having begun the quarter at about 37 basis points and averaging about 48 basis points in the quarter.
Investors reacted to these worldwide economic events by adjusting their portfolios thereby affecting the mix of assets under custody as well as investment management flows.
Investors transitioned from higher-risk strategies such as those in international and emerging markets to cash and fixed income.
In either case they remained in our assets under administration but the revenue was lower.
Investment management fee revenue declined by 12% to $202 million due primarily to negative flows and active equities fixed income and cash.
The latter was the result of lower demand and securities finance.
The average of the 3-month end valuations as measured by the S&amp;P 500 was up about 3% compared to the third quarter and the MSCI EAFE was down 5%.
In total in the fourth quarter we experienced $89 billion of negative net new business which was comprised principally of the $51 billion decline in cash assets and the planned $41 billion redemption by the U.S.
Department of the Treasury.
ETFs however had one of their best quarters adding about $12 billion in flows.
While cash assets under management excluding securities lending cash in the fourth quarter was about the same as the third quarter the revenue decline was affected by a mix shift from prime money market funds into U.S.
government funds which reduced revenue.
As a result of this shift we expect our money market fund fee waivers to increase from about $5 million per quarter to about $10 million per quarter should this trend be maintained.
Trading services revenue declined 18% to $273 million.
Foreign-exchange revenue declined 26% to $150 million due to weaker volumes and lower volatility.
In foreign exchange for the first time we are experiencing a decline in indirect foreign-exchange products as this area of the business has come under increased scrutiny.
Some clients have chosen to move to electronic exchange which we offer through our Street FX product or through Currenex or have decided to transact using our direct services.
We have several different ways through which a client may choose to transact foreign exchange with us and so while the type of transaction may be changing the clients find one of our other services to be a value to them.
Brokerage and other fees declined 5% to $123 million primarily due to weaker transition management revenue.
Securities finance revenue increased 6% to $90 million based on an improvement in spreads.
In the quarter the 3-month LIBOR to Fed funds effective spread was 40.6.
Securities on loan averaged $340 billion for the fourth quarter of 2011 down from $368 billion for the third quarter of 2011 and from $368 billion for the fourth quarter of 2010 both declines due to reduced demand.
Average lendable assets for the fourth quarter of 2011 were about $2.23 trillion down 2% from $2.28 trillion the same level in the third quarter of 2011 and the fourth quarter of 2010.
As of December 31 2011 the duration of the securities finance book was approximately 17 days up from 12 days in the third quarter of 2011 and flat with 17 days in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Processing and other fee revenue declined 50% to $45 million due primarily to the fair value adjustment relative to the positions in the fixed income trading initiative that we are exiting.
The large decline from the prior quarter was also the result of $22 million of gains in the third quarter related to real estate and certain leases.
Net interest revenue of $577 million increased about 2% in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to an increase in earning assets driven by an increase in lower-cost client deposits offset partially by lower investment yields.
We continue to benefit from clients leaving additional deposits with us in the fourth quarter.
In the fourth quarter clients left on average about $23 billion of excess deposits compared to $15 billion in the third quarter.
The additional deposits contributed to slightly higher net interest revenue in the fourth quarter.
An average of $19 billion in increased client deposits was left with State Street in the second half 2011 compared to the first half.
Including the excess deposits left with State Street in the fourth quarter operating basis net interest margin in the fourth quarter of 2011 was 140 basis points.
Excluding those deposits net interest margin would have been about 158 basis points compared to 157 basis points in the third quarter.
This increase in net interest margin from the third quarter was primarily due to the improved yields on the fixed income securities purchased in the fourth quarter.
We maintained tight controls on expenses.
Our compensation and benefits expenses decreased 10% or $93 million from the third quarter of 2011 to approximately $872 million due primarily to lower salaries and employee benefits achieved partially from the acceleration of the business operations and IT Transformation Program as well as reductions in incentive compensation.
Compensation and benefits expenses included about $13.5 million in nonrecurring costs related to the implementation of this program with another $13.8 million reported in several other expense lines on the income statement.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 compensation and benefits expenses were approximately 38.1% of total revenue down from 40.0% in the third quarter which was down from 40.8% in the second quarter which was down again from 41.8% in the first quarter.
For the year ended December 31 2011 our full year ratio is 40.2%.
Other expenses were $274 million up about 6% compared to the third quarter primarily due to increased fees for professional services including nonrecurring costs incurred in executing the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
As Jay said our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program is proceeding as planned.
As we said when we announced the program in November of 2010 we expect the run rate of nonrecurring expenses to peak in 2012 averaging about $25 million per quarter up from an average of about $20 million per quarter in 2011.
The amount of net pretax run rate incremental savings for 2012 is expected to be $94 million slightly higher than the update we provided on our third quarter call due to the acceleration of this program.
Our investment portfolio as of December 31 2011 increased about $2.7 billion compared to September 30 2011 to $109.8 billion.
During the fourth quarter we invested about $12.9 billion in highly rated securities at an average price of 102.31 with an average yield of 2.34% and a duration of approximately 2.56 years.
This is less than we have invested in the prior 3 quarters of 2011 because as we have discussed with you we invested early in 2011 to capture what we perceived to be good investment opportunities.
The $12.9 billion of purchases was composed of the following securities: $1.1 billion in U.S.
Treasury securities; $6.3 billion in agency mortgage-backed securities; $3.8 billion of asset-backed securities including about $2.1 billion of foreign RMBS mostly in the U.K; with the remaining $1.7 billion being invested in U.S.
securities backed by credit card receivables student loans and floating rate auto receivables.
The remainder was invested in smaller amounts in various miscellaneous asset classes.
The aggregate net unrealized after-tax loss in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios as of December 31 2011 was $374 million compared to a net unrealized after-tax loss of $259 million as of September 30 2011 and an improvement of about $130 million from December 31 2010 when we -- the net unrealized after-tax loss was $504 million.
The deterioration in net unrealized after-tax position compared to September 30 2011 was due primarily to a modest widening in spreads.
In our investment portfolio presentation we have updated the data through quarter end for you to review.
And as of December 31 2011 our portfolio was 89% AAA or AA rating.
The duration of the investment portfolio was 1.49 years up from 1.09 years at September 30 2011 due primarily to purchase of agency mortgage-backed fixed-rate securities.
The duration gap of the entire balance sheet was 0.36 years up from 0.09 years at September 30 2011.
This duration is in line with our historical duration gap which we target to be a maximum of 0.5 year.
Regarding European assets.
We do not own any sovereign debt from the peripheral countries of Greece Spain Portugal Italy or Ireland in our investment portfolio.
Of our non-U.S.
assets we hold about $1.2 billion in securities from those peripheral countries primarily RMBS and all floating-rate securities.
About $500 million from Italy $400 million from Spain and about $100 million each from Ireland Greece and Portugal.
All are performing within expectations and remain current as to principal and interest.
Substantially all our prime mortgages and the mortgages backing these securities all have relatively low loan-to-value ratios.
On Page 7 of the investment portfolio presentation we list all of our non-US investments and show the average rating as well as the asset types we hold.
Our primary non-U.S.
holdings are British Australian German Canadian and Netherlands securities totaling 93% of the non-U.S.
investment portfolio.
At SSgA our Eurozone exposure in the investment funds is consistent with client mandates.
We hold the non-U.S.
fixed income portfolios at their benchmark weightings ratings and our actively managed cash portfolios have minimal exposure to the peripheral countries.
Regarding pre-tax conduit-related accretion we expect to record a total of about $1.1 billion in interest revenue from January 1 2012 through the remaining terms of the former securities including about $140 million in 2012.
These expectations are based on numerous assumptions including holding the securities to maturity anticipated prepayment speeds credit quality and sales.
As of December 31 2011 59% of our investment portfolio was invested in floating-rate securities and 41% in fixed-rate securities.
Now for our outlook on net interest margin.
First of all let me emphasize that we continue to believe that we should invest through the cycle.
We also intend to invest in highly rated AAA- or AA-rated securities agency mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities.
I'll now review some of the assumptions we used in determining our 2012 outlook for net interest revenue and net interest margin.
We believe that the Federal Reserve will leave interest rates on hold through at least mid-2013 and possibly beyond.
The ECB has cut rates to 100 basis points and we expect them to hold that level through the end of 2012.
If the ECB rate declines further we estimate our NIR will decline by approximately $25 million on an annual basis for each 25 basis point reduction.
We believe the Bank of England will hold its base rate at 50 basis points through 2012.
We project a potential reduction of 25 basis points from that rate by the Bank of England with lower net interest revenue by about $5 million annually in 2012.
With these rate assumptions in mind should our client deposits return to a more normalized level then we would expect our average net interest margin for the full year 2012 to be between 145 and 155 basis points.
Should the current level of excess deposits remain on State Street's balance sheet for which we receive a low rate of interest then our net interest margin could be at the lower end of this range.
In the fourth quarter State Street Corporation's capital ratios under Basel I remained very strong.
As of December 31 2011 our total capital ratio stood at 20.5%.
Our Tier 1 leverage ratios stood at 7.8%.
Our tier 1 capital ratios stood at 18.0%.
Our TCE ratio was 7.1% and our Tier 1 common ratio was 16.0%.
Based on our understanding of the Basel III regulations and the information published by the Basel Committee and the Federal Reserve we estimate our capital ratios under Basel III as of December 31 2011 to be: total capital 14.5%; our Tier 1 leverage ratio to be 6.0%; our Tier 1 capital ratio to be 12.8%; and our Tier 1 common ratio to be 11.7%.
For 2012 we expect the S&amp;P to average about 1328 an increase of 5% above 2011's daily average of 1268 and the EAFE to decline 7.2% to 1494 from 1609 based on our view of little growth and market disruption in this region in 2012.
In conclusion while the economy in the United States appears to be very slowly repairing the global economic outlook has continued to be uncertain.
The headwinds created from the low interest rate environment new regulatory requirements increased compliance costs and the outlook for weak capital markets have led us to focus intensely on growing revenue executing our business operations of information technology transformation program and controlling expenses in general in 2012.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jay to conclude our remarks.
Thanks Ed.
Given the difficult environment during the second half of 2011 and the effect it had on investor confidence we remain cautious about 2012.
Should the improved U.S.
markets we saw at the end of the year and so far this year be sustained we'd expect investors to re-risk improving the outlook for growth.
Given our outlook we intend to continue to exercise expense control and to successfully execute on our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
We expect our core business momentum to continue.
Our new business wins in 2011 were strong and our prospect pipeline again looks good going into 2012.
As has been the case for the past decade our cross-sell revenue has been robust demonstrating the power of our franchise.
Our capital position remains strong positioning us well for the new Basel standards while maintaining flexibility if the right acquisition presents itself and providing the resources to increase our returns to shareholders.
I believe that in 2011 the resilience of our strategy allowed us to achieve strong results and enabled us to achieve a capital position among the highest in our industry.
We intend to apply the same principles to our business in 2012 in what we expect to be a continuing difficult environment.
Before opening up the call to your questions I remind you that our annual investor and analyst meeting will be held on February 9.
During that meeting we'll provide additional comments on our outlook for 2012.
Now Ed and I are happy to entertain your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You continue to see great balance sheet growth during the quarter.
Just curious as the macro-environment says fairly choppy are you seeing anything kind of unique and interesting about some of these continual frictional or nonfrictional inflows? Well we saw a continuation of the third quarter into the fourth quarter with actually some increase Howard.
As I noted we went from an excess deposit position of $15 billion in Q3 to $23 billion on average in Q4.
We actually as the year has started are seeing a bit of a return to back to a more normal level on those deposits but it's only been a short period of time.
So hard to extrapolate a trend from that.
But that's where we are short time into the year so far.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then thanks for all the detail on the NIM outlook.
I guess there's debate that the ECB will cut further ahead of quantitative easing measures.
I'm just curious from your point of view is there anything you can and would do to shift around some of the asset liability management given either that view and what we're seeing in the U.S.
in terms of the rise on the short end of the curve? No not really.
I mean we feel pretty comfortable where we are around that 60 40 floating fixed level Howard.
Again our investment plan is predicated on the rate forecast I gave you for the year.
So I don't think we're anticipating much of a change from that.
Research Division</strong> And then my final one's on just on capital return and payout.
Ed you walked through all the strength of the ratios at the end of the year.
Maybe Jay I'm just hoping to get your appetite and potential ability to potentially increase that payout ratio in 2012.
Yes sure Howard.
Let me comment on that.
As you know we've recently submitted our CCAR plan.
And as we expressed our capital ratios is strong and getting stronger and we think on a relative basis some of the strongest in the industry.
Based on that it would be our hope to increase both our dividend payout as well as the level of share buybacks that we're -- that we had in 2011.
So our hope would be to increase on both fronts.
Research Division</strong> And is there a sense of where you would like to take that Jay in the upper bounds? I won't say right now Howard.
Just that given the capital that we have we think that increasing both of those is appropriate and we'll see what the regulator's reaction is.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for you.
First a follow-on on Howard there.
As part of the CCAR and then your outlook for other uses of capital management you've commented on this last quarter but just given that you've now submitted maybe you have a better understanding.
You have an expectation of hoping to get some decent amounts of dividends and buybacks in the CCAR plan.
Can you talk to us about how M&amp;A would be either included within that plan? Would it be a crowd out to buyback activity or could it be incremental? And as a part of that then second part of the question is just then how is the European landscape continuing to evolve and opportunities that you see out there? Sure Ken let me -- short answer is we would view it as incremental.
So as you know the CCAR process really attempts to assess existing capital position and we make judgments about any distributions for 2012.
Doesn't really deal with existing capital levels or ability to take on acquisitions.
So our view is that we should be able to increase the dividend and the buyback while leaving sufficient capacity to take on any acquisition within reason.
I've given you in the past within the investor services or custody space we would view most acquisitions to be in the kind of $0.5 billion to $2 billion range.
So based on our assessment we think we could do all those things.
And Ken I think the other part of your question was really just the environment...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The other part of the question is just regard to appetite and what -- obviously the European dislocation disruption continues banks are now formally shedding assets.
What -- how do you look at the landscape? Do you think this is going to be an active year? Are there going to be opportunities on the table for you guys? Yes I do think it will be an active year I think for all the reasons that you've mentioned.
We've got European banks recapitalizing continued pressure on capital ratios.
So -- and we've seen I guess some evidence in 2010 not necessarily in the trust and custody space of European banks -- 2011 shedding assets.
I think that will continue and we remain poised.
So I think the environment is a positive one and we think we're better positioned than anybody.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question is for Ed.
Ed you mentioned this in your prepared remarks about why some of the revenues in core business servicing and management were down because of customer derisking.
But I just want to try to understand the juxtaposition between new business versus where the market's active versus transaction activity.
So just how much of the decline in revenues was really related -- I guess -- trying to get the best way to ask it.
Just the net of all those things was obviously negative but how much of it was just the transactional activity versus the markets and then the positive and new business? I'd say if you're looking for an attribution in terms of the -- for the quarter right? Sequentially the stronger dollar and market attribute about 1/3 of the delta.
And I'd say the other factors which you're calling customer activity client activity is the other 2/3.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And would you say that's the same in both servicing and -- that's more for servicing.
Is it the same in -- and in asset management it was more just flows? Much more skewed toward the client activity 10 versus 90 something like that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And so is that the type of thing that can reverse pretty quickly or if this environment stays where it is that kind of level of activity could stay as low as it was? I think it is environmental dependent.
If the environment does reverse we could see a return back to more normal customer flows and levels.
But if this environment continues the way it unfolded in Q4 we could see these types of levels being maintained.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to go back to the previous question.
But it feels like you guys are winning new business and sort of higher fee revenues and I get that activity levels were a little bit lower.
But do you think if we just kind of think about the custody business and the fee rate that you're earning today on a go-forward basis is that a decent run rate? And then a similar question for the asset management.
It feels like the big runoff you guys had in the treasury win was extremely low fee so it feels like the fact that you had some outflows there should actually benefit the fee rate not drive it lower.
So what's -- do you think the fourth quarter I guess is a good run rate on a fee rate basis for both of those businesses? Tough to prognosticate into the future.
I mean our market assumptions for next year are on average as I said the S&amp;P up about 5%.
So I would think that there could be some uplift if that actually materializes Alex.
I mean we are a little more cautious on EFA as I noted in terms of our market assumption.
I think rates are pretty well and certainly in the U.S.
a given.
I think most people accept the fact that the Fed's going to stay at 25 for a protracted period of time.
So assuming those environmental factors play out I would not feel comfortable saying that the fourth quarter is a run rate to extrapolate into the future.
I mean certainly we plan on having the business grow and that's always the way we approach a year going in from a budget standpoint.
So it is though partly dependent on the markets the environment and how customers feel about risking or rerisking or continuing to be in a relatively derisked position.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay and the next question so speaking of budgeting expenses it feels like this is probably a decent run rate on a quarterly basis.
So Ed when you're thinking about next year off of this kind of like a $1.6 billion per quarter run rate what do you think is a normal growth and kind of like your core expenses? And then should we just think about the incremental $90-plus million savings that you've highlighted kind of -- just on top of that from an overall dollar perspective for next year? Well again I don't want to predict quarterly levels but -- in terms of expenses but I think that the way to think about it is broadly as you said that we have an incremental contribution coming from the ops and IT transformation which needs to be factored into the run rate.
Obviously the expense run rate is in large part calibrated based on the revenue performance of the company.
And we're cognizant of that as we think about both our budget and our -- any adjustments we need to make either way up or down.
The other thing that I think you need to factor into your thinking is that we still see some headwinds from a regulatory cost and a compliance standpoint.
That number is -- we estimate to be around $30 million annual next year.
So that's going up from a $50 million number this year as we continue to work through the new regulatory landscape figure out the effects of Dodd-Frank et cetera.
So -- and the other point that I mentioned in my comments Alex is that we expect the costs associated with implementing the ops and IT program this year to increase next year.
So that would be an increment to the run rate.
They will peak in 2012 at about $25 million a quarter.
So there's a couple of moving pieces on the expense side but I'd say if you look at all of those things and then try to calibrate them to how the revenue environment is shaping up that should give you an idea of what we're probably going to do on the expense side.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So put in another word $90 million in savings but the offset is drag of $30 million and maybe a little bit more in the implementation maybe net savings of I don't know call it $50 million to $60 million and then the core will grow on revenue.
Yes I mean I think that's generally okay.
But again you have to look at the fourth quarter.
We moved the incentive compensation down reflective of results.
I mean if the opposite is true we may move some of that up.
If you look at the first quarter we have a bump in comp in the first quarter based on the accounting associated with our bonuses for the early-retirement eligible people.
So it's a little tough to just take a quarterly average and kind of run it out through 2012.
There's some peaks and valleys potentially.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then my last one just on your comments regarding foreign change.
I think this is the first time we heard of Charlesbank [ph] kind of talk specifically about some clients deciding to shift into other areas.
So you alluded some of the decline this quarter 26% was partially driven by the shift in call it client mix.
How much more of a drag do think this could be for you guys going forward given how much money you're currently generating from the indirect business? I would say it's hard to predict.
I would say though that for 2 years now this has been a subject of discussion and debate and customers have talked to us about the various ways of executing foreign exchange.
And what you saw this quarter although it was not a major driver was more of a decline in volumes of volatility.
But we saw some evidence of clients moving to different options.
And as I've said repeatedly we have all the options that are necessary so no customers are leaving.
And I'd expect over time you'll continue to see some movement in that direction.
What we're planning to counteract that is we're looking to drive more volume in the foreign exchange business not only with our existing customers but new customers as well.
So where that all levels out it's hard to say but not surprising that were seeing some movement in the direction of alternative execution platforms.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just on the lines of the FX question before what was the proportion of FX revenue from the indirect channel in the quarter? Ed's going to look that up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess while he's looking on that just another housekeeping.
On the run rate savings the $180 million the way we should be thinking about that is $180 million lower expenses in the fourth quarter of '12 versus the fourth quarter of 2010 is that correct? Yes that would be right Brian.
So full effect run rate at end of year.
Brian the answer to your question is about 50-50.
Research Division</strong> 50-50.
Okay.
That's up from last quarter.
Okay.
And then on the excess deposits.
Ed in your comments on the net interest margin did you include any more aggressive investment of the excess deposits? I guess if they stick around a little bit longer is there a possibility you could invest that in longer duration or do your assumptions basically assume continued very short investment in those excess deposits? Yes it assumes more the latter in terms of keeping any excess deposits we have at central banks.
We are though assuming more of a normal level of excess deposits if I could say that and probably about half the level of the fourth quarter.
We averaged $23 billion in the fourth -- $23 billion in the fourth quarter.
Our planning for 2012 is about half of that so we're on $11 billion on average.
So it's more driven by that.
Research Division</strong> And is there any chance you could invest at a longer duration or would you definitely continue to keep it short? I think we're of the view to keep it short.
I mean it's pretty transitory for the most part.
I mean just to put that in perspective our point estimate at 1231 for excess deposits was $50 billion 5-0.
All right? So we're pretty cautious about where that -- where we put that.
Research Division</strong> Where you invest that okay.
And then you gave us your assumptions on the short-term rates globally but can you talk a little bit about where you see intermediate rates say a 2- to 3-year treasury and a 10-year treasury for 2012 in terms of your NIM assumptions? About it is now where it is now [indiscernible] have changed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jay can you talk about the timing of the new businesses installments and the -- what was installed in the fourth quarter and what you have left to install in 2012 given the business that you've won so far on the custody side? Well Brian I think the number for the fourth quarter was $590 billion on the asset servicing business and I believe there's $300 billion to be implemented.
I'd say the majority of that in the first a little leakage into the second quarter so it's kind of front part of the year loaded.
Research Division</strong> $300 billion to -- in the first half.
And then was $590 billion installed? No no.
$590 billion was won in the fourth quarter right? $590 billion was won in the fourth quarter and off that so $290 billion was installed in the fourth quarter and $300 billion flows over into 2012.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
Okay.
And then on the processing fees you mentioned a couple of different obviously onetime items.
Should we be thinking of that run rate at around that $70 million level or lower given the new business -- or I'm sorry given the exit of the business the fixed income business and...
Yes there's been some noise in that line both ways in the last couple of quarters Brian some gains that were nonrecurring and we would expect that fair value adjustment that I referred to as being nonrecurring in that line.
So I think the -- kind of the average is probably better around that $70 million level something like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly just to Jay you did hit about 10% EPS growth on an operating basis in 2011 if we use the $0.93 for the fourth quarter.
What's your thought about -- I know you try to grow your EPS about 10% to 15% annually and you try to hit that every year.
Obviously we're in a tough revenue environment.
What's your thought about controlling expenses to try to make that 10% EPS growth again in 2012? Yes we -- I mean I guess I'd begin by saying that we consider this to be a little bit of an abnormal environment in 2012 where we think we did a good job in generating EPS in 2011.
It was driving the expense line.
It was driving revenue.
It was returning capital to shareholders.
Now that -- to me that theme is going to carry forward in 2012 where we're driving revenue on all fronts looking at new business cross sell examining fee schedules fee increases new products.
So we're driving on all fronts there.
And I think you've seen particularly evidenced by the fourth quarter that we're prepared to take expense action in order to make sure that we calibrate to the environment from the standpoint of generating earnings.
So expect more of the same for 2012.
And we'll give you a little bit more insight when we get together in February at the investor and analyst conference as far as some of the underlying assumptions which drive top line bottom line and EPS.
But I'm not in a position to do that right now.
Brian just to circle back to your FX question in the interest of completeness.
50-50 is FX excluding the electronic execution.
If you include the electronic execution indirect's about 1/3 [indiscernible].
Okay? Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jay can you share with us -- in the past you've talked about going back to the installed base and renegotiating maybe some pricing for your products.
How is that proceeding? And are you having better luck with smaller clients or larger clients on winning price increases? Yes Howard -- sorry Gerard.
I would say it's a journey.
I think we've been at it for a while.
I think -- when I look at call it broadly pricing power the way I think about that is first and foremost we need to continue to develop and create new products so that we can differentiate ourselves.
Because without differentiation it's hard to get fee increases or pricing power.
So combined with that the more complex the deal the better opportunity there is for differentiation and therefore pricing leverage which naturally takes you to the larger end of our client base.
I think in the smaller end of the client base we can increase price through pricing increases and it's probably easier to do but it's got less impact.
So our focus is really on looking at -- I think we have very good customer base profitability metrics and all of our account teams know what target margins are and they're using all their tools within their power cross-selling fee increases to make sure that we get paid for the value that we're creating.
And I think there's been some evidence of the ability to increase fees.
I'd say some of the more common areas would be in things like securities lending where we can shift the split or in some cases straight pricing increases.
So let's say it's -- as each quarter rolls on and as the environment continues to be constrained we're working harder and harder and more aggressively on making sure that we're capturing the right level of economics for the services that we're providing.
So ongoing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
You talked about potential acquisition opportunities should some of these European banks in particular look to raise capital by selling off maybe custody businesses.
Are you guys seeing any evidence that there are some banks that may just have to throw in the towel because they're too small to compete with yourselves and JPMorgan Chase or Bank of New York who are real giants in the industry? Is there any evidence of that? Or do you guys see any of that in your day-to-day business wins where you continue to win from the smaller guys? Yes I'd say a couple of points there.
One pretty clear to me that this group of organizations that you're referencing are not growing.
They're not gaining any shares.
So we compete.
It's rare that they show up in a meaningful competition.
So I think from the standpoint of if you're looking from inside one of those let's say universal banks looking out you wouldn't be seeing growth.
I think the reason that these assets have not come out before now is that there's some perception that the deposit base provide some stability to their funding so I think that's one of the reasons that a bank might be looking at potential assets for sale that this would be not in the first wave or first phase.
I think we're getting past the first phase.
I think the need to raise capital overwhelmed.
The belief that the deposits provide a good source of funding for these banks.
So I think it's just a slow process.
But they're not growing from what I can tell.
They're not being funded so new product investment is likely to be low.
So I just think it's a little bit of a waiting game here but it will eventually happen.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then finally on the return of capital approach clearly the Federal Reserve for you and your peers will have a dominant say on what can be returned to shareholders.
If next year meaning spring of 2013 if companies like your own get your final Basel III Tier 1 common ratio target with the SIFI Buffer by the end of '12 and you exceed that during the stress test do you -- would you guys be comfortable in giving back to shareholders more than 100% of earnings if you exceed the Basel III Tier 1 common ratio under stress test conditions? And do you think the Federal Reserve would allow you to do it if you do exceed it? I would say a couple of things.
One up 'til now the stress tests have really been geared around the following years capital generation and how that might be deployed for things like buybacks or dividends.
I don't know out a year whether that -- I think that eventually changes where you look at total capital and look at use of capital look at -- not use of capital but look at capital under stress.
And you'd expect over time you'd see more flexibility.
Too early to tell.
I guess from another standpoint we'd look at that from a standpoint of kind of the point in time.
What does the acquisition environment look like? How much capital should we hold on the side to make sure that we didn't get shut out of that.
And then what our stock was trading at and whether or not it would be attractive to buy back shares at what price.
So it's very hard to project out over a year what the environment might look like.
It's also hard -- although I think over time the Fed will relax rules around capital.
And that will probably be a factor of the environment.
If the environment looks feels more stable if Europe appears more predictable it's likely we'll see more flexibility with -- from the regulators.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stilmar with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just really quickly.
You showed an impressive amount of expense control this quarter.
I'm wondering in terms of the motivation.
Do you look at -- because of the environment do you look at specific verticals of businesses and then choose not to continue like you did in some of the FX? Or are these regulatory businesses that you have changed your perspective around the opportunity? Or thirdly is it something where the environment has caused you to look at other things in your business processes like overhead and essential expense base to the platform that may not be as directly tied to a specific business line and take kind of that next level of expense cut? I'm wondering if you could kind of prioritize that in terms of how you look at businesses versus expenses.
Sure.
Let me take a swing at that.
I would say -- the first thing I would say is almost a couple of years ago I think we got out in front of this a little bit by anticipating the environment was going to be challenging and so we put in place the IT and ops transformation plan which is pretty broad-based and far reaching throughout the organization.
We anticipate upon execution we'll -- it'll affect close to 10% of the expense base of the company.
So it's pretty pervasive it's structural.
It's recurring.
It's hard to do but will provide many benefits.
So I'd say that's kind of the centerpiece.
I would say beyond that every year every quarter we review business lines look at expenses against revenues.
And there's a certain amount of calibration you can make there largely around headcount around some of the other fees that are associated with delivering those products and services.
I'd say the third dimension of how we view expense control is -- there are more short-term things we can do -- tend to be around things like consultant expense in this quarter.
Incentive compensation there are adjustments you can make in a quarter.
So I would say we look at it across I think 3 dimensions: one broad organizational structural changes in the cost base and those will continue; two at a product or a business line level making sure that the product or business line is returning the right level of economics to the corporation; and then within a period within a quarter there are certain adjustments we can make.
And we're focused on all 3 of those levers.
Brandy we'll take one more question.
Your final question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just what are your new expense initiatives in light of your more cautious outlook? Well I think the -- so I just mentioned I just talked about the IT and ops which is the 4-year plan.
I think the -- we made a decision this quarter to shut down our fixed income rates initiative which we just thought wasn't going to allow us to achieve a hurdle rate that we thought we could achieve we felt we needed to achieve.
So we're constantly looking at business line level our products reaching the hurdle rate.
Other than that we're looking at personnel efficiencies across the organization.
We're looking at other expenses how we -- what we pay for consultants what consultants we use.
So it's a little bit of my response to the prior question Mike.
It's structural it's business line and it's at a point in time within a quarter things that we can moderate in order to reflect the environment that's occurring in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> I guess in terms of your outlook is there any chance you can show positive operating leverage in 2012? Just have revenues go faster than expenses even if it's a decline? Or is it just too tough of an environment? I would say it would be tough.
I mean I've said before that if we approach again more normalized environments 10-plus percent revenue growth you'd expect a couple of percent of operating leverage as you get to a mid-single range.
Maybe it's a percent as you get into the kind of 0 to 5 growth rates.
It's -- things have to happen the right way in order to get operating leverage.
Research Division</strong> And I wasn't clear.
Is the FX decline shifting is that a structural change or away from your firm or to other places within your firm? Yes Mike.
No it's within the house.
It's just we have I think 4 different products within FX depending on how people interact with us.
And they're just moving from one option to another.
But it's all staying within State Street.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of EPS guidance for 2012.
I know you'll talk about that but you're giving such a negative outlook.
Don't you just want to get it out now? I mean some sense? I think I'm not trying to give necessarily a negative outlook just a realistic outlook around the challenge of the second half of last year.
And I don't think anybody's ready to predict that the most recent markets are going to sustain themselves.
If they sustain themselves then my outlook changes.
I think we're just being cautious.
The most recent market action looks good.
We still worry about Europe.
So we're just trying to be realistic about the environment that we're operating in.
And also being I think straightforward in our disclosure that we intend to keep adjusting the expense base to make sure that if the environment continues to be constrained that we can continue to generate earnings.
So we will look forward to seeing hopefully most of you at our investor and analyst meeting in February.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's call is copyrighted.
All rights are reserved.
The call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without expressed written authorization from State Street and the only authorized broadcast of this call is housed on State Street's website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I'd like to introduce Kelley MacDonald Senior Vice President for Investor Relations at State Street.
Before Jay Hooley our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ed Resch our Chief Financial Officer begin their remarks I'd like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on Risk Factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today April 17 2012 and the corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
I'd also like to remind you that you can find a slide presentation regarding the corporation's investment portfolio as well as our first quarter 2012 earnings news release which includes reconciliations of non-GAAP measures referred to on this webcast in the Investor Relations portion of our website.
Now I'll turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Kelley and good morning.
Overall I believe we're off to a good start this year amid continued economic headwinds.
First we achieved solid growth in both fee and total revenue compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our earnings per share however were particularly impacted by the seasonal accounting effect on the first quarter of the annual equity incentive compensation for our retirement-eligible employees as well as payroll taxes.
Second we maintained strong new business momentum with $233 billion in assets to be serviced and net new business at SSgA.
Third we received the results of the CCAR stress test released by the Federal Reserve in mid-March.
As a result we were able to increase our quarterly common stock dividend to $0.24 per share consistent with its previous split-adjusted high.
In addition our board approved a $1.8-billion common stock purchase plan which we expect to begin to execute this month.
In addition to remarks about the first quarter results this morning I will address the economic outlook our continuing success generating new business in core asset servicing and asset management the ongoing progress of our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program as well as our strong capital position.
As markets improved in the first quarter a number of our clients began putting their cash back to work.
The level of excess deposits left on our balance sheet declined and the performance of our core business improved compared to the fourth quarter.
At the same time investors remained cautious especially in view of continuing uncertainty in Europe.
We continue to control expenses.
Other than compensation and employee benefits all other expenses on an operating basis were held in check.
The seasonal impact of equity-based incentive compensation for retirement-eligible employees was $76 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $40 million in the first quarter of 2011 an increase of $36 million or $0.05 per share.
We continue to add new business to the core franchise.
Of the $233 billion in assets we won in the first quarter about 2/3 were in the U.S.
We had $10 billion in net new business at State Street Global Advisors.
One notable planned reduction in SSgA assets was the $31 billion of asset redemptions from accounts we manage for the Department of the U.S.
Treasury.
Excluding this redemption net new business at SSgA in the first quarter was $41 billion.
Among our larger new servicing mandates was an award for QSuper an Australian superannuation fund with more than 500 000 members and over $32 billion of assets under management for which we'll provide a broad range of custody administration and accounting services.
This new mandate further builds on our previous wins with Sunsuper in November 2011 and REST Industry Super in January 2011.
State Street now services 3 of the top 10 superannuation funds in Australia.
The integration of the Intesa Securities Services acquisition has met our stated targets and this business continues to attract new wins.
In fact just recently we've been appointed custodian to the Fondo Pensione Banco di Napoli with EUR 700 billion pension fund for the employees of Banco di Napoli.
Also the state of Washington renewed its agreement with us for servicing and securities finance for $80 billion in assets.
Regarding the timing of installations during the first quarter we installed $205 billion $90 billion of which was awarded in the first quarter and $115 billion which was awarded in 2011.
Of the total business award in the first quarter about $143 billion remains to be installed.
In the alternative asset servicing area demand remains very strong.
This quarter we added 42 new mandates in our alternative investment services business and our alternative assets under administration increased from $816 billion as of December 31 2011 to $895 billion as of March 31 2012.
SSgA has been awarded new business from several U.S.
public plans including those from Michigan Nevada Oklahoma Indiana and Missouri.
Now let me share our outlook for the global economy.
We expect the U.S.
to continue its slow recovery with 2012 GDP growth slightly above 2%.
Recent consumer confidence has improved slightly but housing prices continue to slide as unemployment continues to be a challenge.
In Europe the picture is mixed.
In the U.K.
GDP declined in the first quarter consumer confidence eroded and the housing market weakened.
Germany's rate of unemployment continues to decline but retail sales in the first quarter were weak.
Other Eurozone countries exhibited some consumer strength in the first quarter.
And in Italy wage inflation appears to be stabilizing.
However manufacturing overall appears to be in decline.
The long-term refinancing operation by the ECB relieved some of the liquidity pressure in the region but the debt status of Greece and Spain continues to weigh on the equity markets.
On balance our cautious outlook is consistent with the moderate improvement in U.S.
markets.
However we remain guarded primarily due to European uncertainty which can affect the U.S.
recovery.
We continue to be on track in executing our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program and expect to achieve approximately $94 million in annual pretax run rate savings this year excluding restructuring charges.
This brings the total annual run rate savings anticipated to be achieved since the inception of the program through the end of 2012 to approximately $180 million compared to the expense run rate in 2010 all else equal.
Returning capital to our shareholders has been a priority for us.
As I mentioned earlier this morning we're pleased that the Federal Reserve did not object to the increase both in our common stock dividend and in our common stock purchase program that we proposed.
We believe the return of capital to our shareholders projected by our post-CCAR capital actions announced in March 2012 is among the highest among major financial institutions also executing on the corresponding post-CCAR announced capital actions.
Due to the strength of our capital position we expect to be able to take these actions while retaining the flexibility to respond to future acquisition opportunities should they become available.
I'll now turn the call over to Ed and then I'll return to make final remarks before I open the call to questions.
Ed? Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll review 3 areas: first the results for the first quarter; second I'll summarize the performance of and outlook for the investment portfolio as well as worldwide interest rates and the impact on our net interest margin; and finally I'll review our strong capital ratios.
I'll present some of the more significant results comparing the first quarter of 2012 to the first quarter of 2011 as well as to the fourth quarter of 2011.
And this morning all of my comments will be based on our operating basis results as defined in today's earnings news release.
Fee revenue in the first quarter was approximately flat compared to the first quarter of 2011 and was up 7% from the fourth quarter.
Compared to the first quarter of 2011 servicing fee revenue was down 2%.
The decline in servicing fees from the first quarter of 2011 was due to the impact of weakness in non-U.S.
markets in the second half of 2011 and mix changes offset partially by net new business and a slight increase in the daily average of the S&amp;P 500.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 servicing fees increased 2% due to higher average equity valuations and net new business.
Management fees were flat with the first quarter of 2011 and increased 17% from the fourth quarter due to higher month-end equity market valuations and net new business.
We believe that the implementation of the LTRO in Europe had a positive impact on global investor sentiment as we saw evidence of U.S.
investors beginning to put cash back to work.
During the quarter our investment servicing clients began putting cash back into the market albeit mostly into conservative short-term and fixed income investments.
At SSgA we were awarded $10 billion of net new business even after the planned $31-billion redemption by the Department of the U.S.
Treasury.
Net new business was composed of 3 main elements: one flows into ETFs which had one of their best quarters adding about $10.8 billion in net inflows.
We also added about $8 billion net into institutional funds primarily passive and added net flows of $23 billion into cash strategies.
Many of these cash flows went back into prime money market funds from U.S.
government funds reversing last quarter's trend.
Our fee waivers declined about $2.4 million from $11.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 to $9.1 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Regarding trading services and securities finance.
Trading services in the first quarter of 2012 declined 7% compared to the first quarter of 2011 but were up 3% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Compared to the year ago quarter first quarter foreign exchange revenue decreased 7% due primarily to lower volatility partly offset by higher volumes.
Brokerage and other fee revenue was down 8% due primarily to lower transition management revenue.
Compared to the fourth quarter foreign exchange revenues decreased slightly and brokerage and other increased 7% due primarily to an improvement in revenue from transition management.
In foreign exchange in the first quarter of 2012 the percentage of total foreign exchange revenue represented by indirect and direct foreign exchange services remained approximately consistent with the fourth quarter.
We continue to expect however that some clients over time may choose to reduce indirect FX transactions in favor of other execution methods either directly or through electronic trading.
Compared to the first quarter of 2011 securities finance revenue increased 47% in the first quarter of 2012 and was up 8% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Both increases were due primarily to higher spreads.
In the first quarter of 2012 the average of one-month LIBOR to the Fed Funds effective rate was 14.4 basis points and the 3-month LIBOR to the Fed Funds effective rate was 39.9 basis points.
Securities on loan averaged $331 billion for the first quarter of 2012 down from $340 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011 and from $359 billion for the first quarter of 2011 both declines due to reduced demand.
Average lendable assets for the first quarter of 2012 were about $2.36 trillion up 1% from $2.34 trillion in the first quarter of 2011 and up 6% from $2.23 trillion in the fourth quarter of 2011.
As of March 31 2012 the duration of the securities finance book was approximately 16 days down from 21 days in the first quarter of 2011 and down from 17 days from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Processing fees and other revenue was up about $49 million in the first quarter of 2012 from the fourth quarter of 2011 due to the positive impact of fair value adjustments as we successfully exited our fixed income trading initiative.
As you may recall last quarter we announced the withdrawal from our fixed income trading initiative.
And as of March 31 2012 we have substantially closed out all trading positions.
Operating-basis net interest revenue of $607 million increased about 5% in the first quarter of 2012 compared with the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to higher yields on fixed income securities in the investment portfolio and higher spreads on floating-rate securities.
In the first quarter excess deposit at the Federal Reserve and other central banks averaged about $18 billion compared to $23 billion in the fourth quarter.
We continue to expect the excess deposits to trend down on average for the full year 2012.
Including the excess deposits operating-basis net interest margin was 152 basis points in the first quarter of 2012 compared to 140 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Now turning to expenses.
Compared to the first quarter of 2011 compensation and benefit costs were up $90 million or 9% primarily due to the $36-million effect of changes in employee demographics on equity-based compensation for retirement-eligible employees with the remainder of the increase resulting primarily from merit increases and employees added as part of new business and acquisitions.
Our compensation and benefits expenses increased 22% or $192 million from the fourth quarter of 2011 to approximately $1.064 billion due primarily to the seasonal accounting impact of annual equity-based compensation for our retirement-eligible employees and additional payroll taxes which together accounted for $105 million of the increase.
In the first quarter of 2012 compensation and benefit expenses were approximately 44.3% of total operating-basis revenue up from 38.1% in the fourth quarter.
For the full year we continue to target a reduction of the ratio of compensation and benefits to total operating-basis revenue by about 100 basis points compared to the 40.2% ratio we had in 2011.
Other expenses were $244 million up 6% compared to the first quarter of 2011 due primarily to higher regulatory costs and were down 11% compared to the fourth quarter primarily due to lower professional fees and lower securities processing costs.
As Jay said our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program is proceeding as planned.
We continue to expect the amount of annual pretax run rate savings for 2012 to be approximately $94 million compared to the pretax run rate in 2010 all else equal.
In our operating-basis expenses we incurred $22 million of nonrecurring costs relating to the program consisting of $17 million in salaries and benefits and $5 million in several other expense lines on the income statement.
As you may recall we have previously indicated that we expect our nonrecurring costs to peak in 2012 at an average of about $25 million per quarter.
Now let me turn to the investment portfolio.
Our investment portfolio as of March 31 2012 of $113.7 billion increased about $4 billion compared to December 31 2011.
During the first quarter we invested about $9.2 billion in highly rated securities at an average price of $103.28 and with an average yield of 2.34% and a duration of approximately 2.90 years.
Our primary investments during the quarter were in agency mortgage-backed securities which represented $4.3 billion of new purchases at an average price of $105.60 with an average yield of 2.93%.
In the first quarter we have opportunistically invested ahead of this year's plan given the environment.
The aggregate net unrealized after-tax loss in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios as of March 31 2012 was $81 million compared to a net unrealized after-tax loss of $374 million as of December 31 2011.
The improvement in the net unrealized after-tax position compared to December 31 2011 was due primarily to tighter spreads offset partially by higher rates.
In our investment portfolio presentation we've updated the data through quarter end for you to review.
As of March 31 2012 our portfolio was 89% AAA or AA rated.
The duration of the investment portfolio was 1.57 years at March 31 2012 up from 1.49 years at December 31 2011 due primarily to our purchase of agency mortgage-backed securities during the first quarter.
The duration gap of the entire balance sheet was 0.49 years up from 0.36 years at December 31 2011 and this duration gap is in line with our internal guidelines.
As of -- excuse me March 31 2012 58% of our investment portfolio was invested in floating-rate securities and 42% in fixed-rate securities.
Regarding European assets.
We have no direct sovereign debt exposure to the peripheral countries of Greece Spain Portugal Italy or Ireland in our investment portfolio.
Of our non-U.S.
assets we hold about $1.2 billion in securities from those peripheral countries primarily RMBS and all floating-rate securities.
And they are comprised of about $500 million from Italy; $400 million from Spain; and about $100 million each from Ireland Greece and Portugal.
All are performing within expectations and remain current as to principal and interest.
On Page 7 of the investment portfolio presentation we list all of our non-U.S.
investments and show the average rating as well as the asset types we hold.
Our primary non-U.S.
holdings are British Australian German Canadian and Netherlands securities totaling 92% on the non-U.S.
investment portfolio.
At SSgA our Eurozone exposure in the investment funds is consistent with client mandates.
We hold the non-U.S.
fixed income portfolios at their benchmark weightings and our actively managed cash portfolios have no exposure to the peripheral countries.
Regarding pretax conduit-related accretions.
Looking forward we expect to record a total of about $1.1 billion in interest revenue from April 1 2012 forward through the remaining lot -- terms of the former conduit securities excluding the approximately $49 million we recorded in the first quarter of 2012.
These expectations are based on numerous assumptions including holding the securities to maturity anticipated prepayment speeds credit quality and sales.
Now for our outlook for net interest margin.
First of all let me emphasize that we continue to believe that we should invest through the cycle and we also intend to invest primarily in highly rated AAA or AA agency mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities.
I'll now review some of the assumptions we used in determining our 2012 outlook for net interest revenue and net interest margin.
We believe that the Federal Reserve will leave interest rates on hold through the end of 2014 that the ECB has cut rates to 100 basis points and we expect them to hold at that level through the end of 2012.
If the ECB rate declines further we estimate NIR would decline by between $20 million and $25 million on an annual basis for each 25-basis-point reduction.
We believe the Bank of England will hold its base rate at 50 basis points through 2012.
We project a potential reduction of 25 basis points in that rate by the Bank of England would lower net interest revenue by about $5 million annually.
Based on these rate assumptions and our first quarter results if our client deposits return toward more normal levels our net interest margin for the full year 2012 will likely be in the upper half of our 145- to 155-basis-point range.
Finally I'll briefly review our capital ratios.
In the first quarter State Street Corporation's capital ratios under Basel I remained very strong.
As of March 31 2012 our total capital ratio stood at 20.6% our Tier 1 leverage ratio stood at 7.8% our Tier 1 capital ratio stood at 19.1% our TCE ratio was 7.5% and our Tier 1 common ratio was 17.1%.
Based on our understanding of the Basel III regulations and the information published by the Basel Committee and the Federal Reserve we estimate our capital ratios under Basel III as of March 31 2012 to be total capital ratio 16.0%; our Tier 1 leverage ratio to be 6.2%; our Tier 1 capital ratio to be 14.4%; and our Tier 1 common ratio to be 13.2%.
We were pleased with the results of our CCAR submission and with the return of capital we are projecting to make to our shareholders.
So in conclusion while we are beginning to see signs of improvement particularly in the U.S.
economy the global economic outlook has continued to be uncertain.
The LTRO has improved liquidity in the European banks but it has also restrained growth in new issuances.
We still face a low interest rate environment new regulatory requirements and increased compliance costs.
We need to continue to drive fee revenue growth while maintaining cost controls and we intend to reduce the compensation-to-revenue ratio in 2012 compared to 2011 and also to continue to execute on our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
And now I'll turn the call over to Jay to conclude our remarks.
Thanks Ed.
While we're encouraged by the early signs that investor confidence in the U.S.
is rebuilding we remain cautious especially around the uncertain environment in Europe.
During the first quarter the momentum in our core business returned.
The increase in the core business was supported by the installations of new business won last year and new business wins in the first quarter.
The flows into SSgA in the first quarter were very encouraging.
I'm also pleased with the growth in our ETF assets which exceeded $300 billion as of March 31 2012 up more than 12% from December 31 2011.
We intend to continue to exercise expense control and to successfully execute on our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
Our capital position remains strong allowing us to return capital to our shareholders in the form of increased common stock dividends and a substantial increase in our common stock purchase program.
Our outlook of cautious optimism for 2012 is restrained by the continued uncertainty in Europe.
However our pipeline of new business potential is very healthy and we expect to contribute to further growth in 2012.
Now Ed and I are prepared to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ed I was wondering if you can just kind of walk us through the comp guidance.
This quarter comp revenues ratio was even -- we had the 105 and then plus a lot of excess so it was more like 44%.
So to get down to that low 39s got to presume a well-below 39% comp-to-revenues ratio over the next few quarters.
So I was wondering if you can help us understand what else either comes out of the comp ratio on the expense side.
And also should we imply that there's also a meaningful step-up in revenues expected? It just seems like a pretty big big leap to get down to 39% full year.
Well I mean it's what we're targeting Ken.
And you're right.
I mean it is largely predicated on revenue.
We said at Investor Day that assuming revenue grew modestly that would be our target for the year to bring it down to around 39.2% for the full year.
We -- obviously we're cognizant of the first quarter step-up which is just timing when we made that comment in February.
We're proceeding with the ops and IT transformation as we indicated on the call and we're going to target around 39.2% plus or minus a bit even recognizing the first quarter step-up which was significant because of the early retirement accounting.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondarily just wanted to tease out a couple of the transaction-based areas.
It looks on the surface that it was a soft volume quarter yet you guys did really well in terms of total trading fees.
Sec lending was up sequentially.
Can you talk about what you saw in terms of -- was it market share gains? Or was there anything specific to the types of transaction that you guys enjoyed? I would say a few things Ken.
The trading was up 3% sequential quarter.
And the -- I would say the drivers were foreign exchange pretty good performance against lowering volatility in the quarter.
I think that was a question of just volumes.
We saw our volumes go up Q4 to Q1.
I think it's just the result of whether you can interpret share gains out of that.
It's hard in that market.
But we're pleased with the volume growth to offset the volatility shortfall.
The brokerage line I think it was up 7% sequential quarters.
Transition management which is again hard to get market share data in that segment of the market but we think we're performing pretty well as far as capturing our share of transition.
And then securities finance was really more a story of largely holding on to current outstanding and the LIBOR -- the 3-month LIBOR increase.
So I think that roughly covers the transitional line items in the quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then asset management had a really strong rebound.
I'm just wondering how much of that was just the market which we can kind of tease out versus the re-risking that had gone against you last quarter? And I guess it's a question for custody as well.
Just the amount of re-risking.
Where are we in that kind of -- it was a kind of a sharp decline in the fourth.
And how did it re-base as we came to the first? Yes let me -- I'll start that and Ed can jump in as well.
Very pleased with SSgA performance in the first quarter up 17% sequential quarter -- on a sequential quarter basis.
And it was really a combination of both the markets which is the obvious point and very good net new business growth.
So if you exclude that Treasury redemption which was planned $41 billion in net new flows in the first quarter which is as strong a quarter as we've had in a while.
Highlighted by ETF we continue to talk about ETF as a focus and a theme for us.
We continue to add new products.
We saw -- I think it was $8 billion in new flows in the first quarter into ETFs as well as passive.
So I'd say on the -- let me come to servicing fees and then comment about the risking.
On the servicing fee side a little bit of a different story.
We were up -- service fees were up 2% sequentially.
You'll recall back at the end of the last call we talked a little bit about the de-risking in the last half of 2011.
We saw that start to come back in the first quarter but it was -- frankly it was more back-end quarter loaded than front-end quarter loaded so I think the service fee line reflects that more than the asset management fee line.
In the re-risking Ed mentioned this in his comments it was a little bit less than one might expect and that was mostly in the fixed income instruments.
So we really didn't see a move back and this is broad strokes back to cross-border and emerging markets.
But we did see good intra-quarter flows into the servicing line.
Does that help? Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great Jay.
And just one final little thing.
The processing and other improvement it was $49 million.
I'm just wondering if you can tell us how much of that $49 million was the actual kind of recapture of the fixed income marks.
Virtually the entire delta Ken.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So look the LTRO was mostly a good thing for everybody involved.
But I get a sense that it slowed down the deleveraging process and the business unit rationalization.
And I think for a while now you and we all have gotten a sense that there would be business freed up and maybe some consolidation on the heels of this.
Has that just come to a halt as well given the LTRO and the time that it buys some of these institutions? Yes Ken -- I mean sorry Glenn.
I would say that it has slowed it down so I think that your question I think is pointed at custody consolidation in Europe.
And we -- so the European banks many European banks were under capital pressure and there's been a slow move towards recapitalize.
I think there are some deadlines upcoming in 2012 which may create a stimulus for that.
I think the one thing that we observed not universally but in several cases is that European banks who had custody books of business in 2011 were very concerned about funding and liquidity.
And the custody banks even though it might not be strategic with any universal banks provide a stable source of funding.
And therefore I think there was a little bit of a slowdown.
So you could say the LTRO potentially relieved that with funding being provided by the ECB maybe less pressure on the core funding.
We would hope if that sustains itself that it might unlock some of those properties in Europe.
Haven't seen any recent evidence but would expect that over time you'd see that.
Research Division</strong> So you still have expectations of the bigger trend of consolidation? Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One more strategy question.
In asset management land you're clearly on pole position in passive land.
And I just thought we'd revisit State Street's I guess expectations or aspirations on the active side.
And you have more capital than you have approval for so you've got a big buyback coming.
But just thoughts on the active side of asset management business.
Yes I think we -- our asset management business is probably somewhat misunderstood and that there's a fair amount of quantitative active within that $2-trillion-ish pool of assets that we manage.
And we think that's a growing segment the quant active scientific if you can use those terms.
With regard to kind of fundamental active we have very little.
As you recall we acquired Bank of Ireland's Asset Management business which gave us a little bit of fundamental active.
That's been a good transaction for us.
We've been able to leverage our institutional distribution to grow that.
We'll continue to selectively look at different asset classes whether they be active or fundamental active as I interpret your question or other places where we have gaps.
I think that as I look at the franchise as you point out it's got a solid footing in the passive space.
I think ETFs gives us another vehicle to create a little bit more product creativity within asset management.
And I think we also have as a core competency great institutional distribution and some emerging intermediary distribution through the ETFs.
So if we can through acquisition was your question selectively acquire asset classes that we think we can leverage up and distribute through our distribution system we think that would be a smart thing to do.
Research Division</strong> Super.
One last one and just a numbers question for Ed.
On the deposit outflow side I totally get the environment thawing and therefore some of that money that was parked with you for safety reasons goes out.
Can you just talk through what percentage of that piece of the business you think you're through? And then maybe the rate differentials so we can back into our own NIM estimates between the core deposits that you have and those temporary deposits? Yes I mean our thinking for the year Glenn full year 2012 is that we basically have the excess deposits that we had in the fourth quarter.
So from $23 billion on average down to let's say around $11 billion or so for the full year okay? And it was predicated on that that we gave you the 145 to 155 and said that -- for NIM guidance and said that if the deposits stuck around longer we'd be toward the lower end of that range.
And obviously the converse is true.
If they leave more quickly we'll probably be toward the higher end of that range.
So I'd say moving from $23 billion down to $18 billion we're maybe 1/3 to 1/2 of the way there based on our expectations for the full year.
But it can move around obviously depending on sentiment.
But it seemed like there was some thawing some improvement as you note in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on your comments on capital.
So it looks like you guys are returning 100% of earnings roughly.
Still lots of excess capital even if you kind of compare that 13% to your sort of self-imposed 10% capital ratio.
How should we think about deployment I guess of that excess because it feels like you can continue to do 100% of earnings and still grow capital? So should we be thinking special dividend or something like that? Or this is just kind of like excess capital for potential acquisitions in the future.
I think the way you should look at it Alex is that we want to have some capacity to execute on acquisitions in a world that we think is going to deliver attractive opportunities.
Whether it's the European banking situation whether it's selectively in the asset management world we think we're well situated to maintain that flexibility.
And we think by increasing the dividend and authorizing -- the board authorizing a buyback we're providing some relief to shareholders.
On the other hand we think it's prudent to stay flexible given what's likely to be an opportunistic future from the standpoint of acquisitions.
And we think we struck that balance.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Ed one for you on expenses.
So it looks like the clean number this quarter was probably around $1.7 billion.
Can you walk us through with cost cuts coming through probably in a bigger way towards the back half of the year how we should think about the progression of that kind of $1.7-billion expenses total run rate currently into the second half between growth in the business plus the net savings coming through? Yes $1.7 billion is taking out the early retirement accounting effect Alex.
Is that what you're -- I'm assuming there.
Research Division</strong> Yes because that's really seasonal first quarter thing right? Yes right.
I mean we're assuming that the business will grow this year.
We haven't put a revenue guideline out there for you as you know.
We are assuming some level of growth so there'll be some related expense growth associated with that.
And that's factored into our progression for the year.
We also expect as we noted to get in about another $90 million $94 million of savings from the ops and IT program.
That will be principally in the -- as a reduction to salary and benefits line which is part of our planning for moving that comp-to-revenue ratio down over the year.
So I mean the progression from the starting point of $1.7 billion as you said is really a function of what the revenue growth is.
I mean we have as I said plans to grow the company.
We're not planning on staying flat or down for the year.
But I mean it's hard to give you even a range for the year based on the potential variability of what the revenue outcome is.
But I would say that if you started at $1.7 billion you'll be probably looking at tracking up a little bit from that as we assume our revenue growth comes in per quarter.
Research Division</strong> Right so up slightly despite the fact that the savings will be coming through in a bigger way towards the back half? Yes I think net -- yes that's our thinking again assuming that revenue grows modestly for the year as we said.
And that's consistent with our thinking on the comp-to-revenue ratio again.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just looking out do you expect the usual strength in securities lending in the second quarter? Yes we would -- we don't see anything that caused us to believe we won't see that cyclical second quarter positive cyclical second quarter.
Research Division</strong> And you have the new buyback authorization and shares were flat.
So what's going on there? Why not be more aggressive? We didn't buy any shares back in the first quarter Mike.
Research Division</strong> And what sort of pace do you expect to have? Again you have new authorization.
If you think your stock's inexpensive wouldn't you be buying aggressively? Or how do you think about buying back stock? Well I mean we can't get too far into our plans for that.
But we're going to -- the way to look at the buyback is the remaining 3 quarters of this year and then the first quarter next year which is the new piece of the program for this year versus last year.
So for the remainder of this year the plan is around $1.35 billion of stock to be bought back with the remainder in the first quarter of next year.
That was the program that we put out.
And we'll act opportunistically within the constraints of the marketplace...
Research Division</strong> You can't front-load it? Well I mean there are requirements to -- based on volume as you know and there's also the particulars of the plan that we submitted to the Fed and the Fed did not object to it.
So it's not something where we can just all decide if we wanted to to front-load it to an extremely large degree let's say that.
Research Division</strong> And then switching gears.
You've said in the past you're a big beneficiary of higher equity markets and the S&amp;P was up 10% depending how you look at it.
Your assets under custody were up 7% and the custody fees were up only 2%.
That seems like awful a sequential increase in the custody fees relative to the market and your assets under your custody.
So what's happening there? Yes I think it's -- probably the best explanation for that Mike is the re-risking which underlies the issue of servicing fees and growth.
We actually saw intra-quarter growth from front to back.
And so I think the 2% probably is light if you were to average the back end of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> So second quarter should be better due to some sort of lag impact? Yes I mean I think if you assume that equity markets keep the same pace as the first quarter you'd expect that there is some lag effect which would filter into the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Even if there is a lag effect that still doesn't seem like it's keeping pace with the market.
Yes we have broadly -- I mean it's hard to pick a line item.
But we say 10% equity markets 2% revenue growth on a total basis.
And that -- so you look at the asset management side of the business and we're up 17% sequentially.
So 2% seems a little light but I don't think extraordinarily light given the trend intra-quarter that I mentioned.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly the comp ratio.
I mean you're 44% in the first quarter and you're looking for 39% for the year.
So should we look at 37% or 38% in the second quarter? And are you looking for an absolute reduction in personnel expenses? Because I don't recall this being overly dependent on revenue growth and now I'm hearing Ed say well we need revenue growth to meet our comp rate.
And there's a general concern that the customers of State Street are treated well and the employees are treated well but the shareholders aren't.
And today the market's up over 100.
You're the only stock down and so I think there's a general concern about getting the comp and expenses in line.
So can you give any reassurances that they will be? I think -- let me start with that and Ed can jump in.
I think that I'd point to 2011 which was really the first year that the IT and ops really had an effect.
And we were able to drive the comp-to-revenue ratio down very focused on it.
In the first quarter we have the seasonal expense which we've spoken about.
So I think between internal focus execution of IT and ops which we have high confidence in we think with moderate revenue growth we should be able to drive that down again this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Ed was going to follow up or...
Sure.
Yes I mean I'd just repeat what I said earlier Mike.
I mean I think that the math depending on what level of revenue you want to pick is in the right range.
I think the earlier question was somebody saying 39% in future quarters.
But clearly it's got to be below 40% in a meaningful way to drive to 39.2% for the full year.
It's something that we're focused on.
And as Jay said it's something that we delivered on last year.
If you recall the sequential quarter decline in the comp-to-revenue ratio was something that we targeted and we delivered and we brought it to 39.2% -- I'm sorry 40.2% for the full year.
So it's something that we believe we're going to get.
And relative to my statement about revenue I mean revenue obviously is a piece of the function here.
So my only comment there is that if revenue were for some reason and we don't anticipate this to be soft okay in a meaningful sort of way that revenue would be a significant challenge for us to get for the full year.
But again we don't anticipate revenue being soft and we are planning on modest growth and will drive to the 40 -- the 39.2% approximately for the full year.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Jay can you talk a little bit more about the investment servicing? Obviously the lower yield on the asset -- on the custody and administered assets is to some degree a factor of the revenue mix that you alluded to.
And you also implied that it's getting better as we move to the back half -- back end of the quarter into second quarter.
But can you also comment on to what degree pricing or through servicing mix impacted that? And when I say servicing mix I mean mid-office versus custody mandates and things like that.
Yes sure Brian.
Let me try to give you a little color.
From a mix standpoint nothing really extraordinary.
We commented on the Australian superannuation business where we've made nice strides in the last 6 months.
That's kind of a typical mix.
We also had a big deal around real estate administration.
Again shouldn't have been a real change in mix.
So I don't think mix was dramatically different within the quarter.
I think that there was the lag effect of when people were re-risking.
I think that had some effect.
And regarding pricing I would say that we continue to almost quarter-to-quarter get more aggressive or more aligned around pricing strategies with our customers.
So in the last couple of quarters you've seen some effect but we would expect that as we continue to make sure that all of our relationships are appropriately priced that pricing will be a -- more of a factor in time.
So I don't think you can point to the quarter and say pricing was a factor but I would leave with you the notion that we're pretty focused on pricing and we would expect over time to that -- for that to be a contributing positive.
Research Division</strong> So as we move through the year if we think about a little bit of re-risking in the business mix maybe a little bit of sort of sequential traction in pricing we should expect that revenue yield on administered assets to improve as we move through the year? Yes I would say again all else equal we continue to see good markets.
All of those things.
The mix may be a little lesser effect.
But other than that yes I think that's probably a fair assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the FX business you mentioned that obviously this is a strong quarter and very consistent on the indirect versus the direct but you do expect a headwind.
Any way to frame what type of headwind we should expect? I know it's almost impossible to do on a quarter-to-quarter basis but say over -- on an annualized basis over the next 1 to 2 years? This is the headwind from moving from -- from clients moving from direct to -- or indirect to direct rather.
Let me give you the strategic response to that and then if Ed has anything he can add.
Our strategy has been to -- we've got a broad range of FX offerings and -- is to drive volume.
And we can drive volume not only in existing customers but in -- in existing servicing customers but in non-servicing customers because of the variation of foreign exchange offerings that we have.
So I think you can see some of that in the first quarter where we're driving volume in the case of this quarter outrunning volatility changes.
We would hope over time that in the mix shift from indirect to direct or other electronic means that we could overrun -- outrun that with volume.
So that's what we're attempting to do.
And Ed I don't know if you'd...
Yes just on indirect Brian it's clearly something that we're focused on as are other people given the publicity around it.
We had a $4-million to $5-million sequential quarter decline in Q3 -- in Q4 from Q3.
This quarter actually the indirect revenue picked up to bit.
So there's no -- there's clearly no evidence of a trend from Q4 to Q1.
But it is something that we're monitoring.
The business overall though is performing pretty well and we'll keep you posted as to if any trends from a client standpoint develop.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then just on the processing fees Ed.
I think we were thinking about $70 million being a normalized run rate on a quarterly basis after the fourth quarter $25-million write-down.
And obviously we're much higher than that in this first quarter.
What should we think about for a normalized run rate over the next 3 quarters? Yes I mean that number as we've said many times can move around.
But I think if you're thinking in the range of $70 million to $75 million for kind of a "normalized level" for that line that's probably a good range to pick Brian.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to the processing fee line that moved around this quarter.
It was up $49 million.
But then last quarter if I recall correctly there were some markdowns on some of those securities.
So how should we think about that as kind of a good kind of run rate number because some of that won't stay around obviously? Well I mean it was all related to our decision to exit a fixed income trading initiative that we had looked at in the last couple of years Andrew.
So on a go-forward basis given that we're done with the exit there should be no effect to that line for those types of market value adjustments.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But then last quarter it was unusually low if I recall in the fourth quarter right? Right.
Research Division</strong> So if we adjust for that and adjust for the upward revisions this quarter based on kind of the -- my quick take on it it looks like kind of in the mid-70s or low 70s should be kind of a good run rate.
Is that fair? Or am I missing something in terms of...
Yes yes -- no that is fair.
I just answered that to a question previously.
But yes I think if you strip out the fourth quarter and first quarter impact of this exiting that we undertook yes $70 million to $75 million is probably a good estimate for that line on a normalized basis.
I mean that line can move around as we've said.
But that's probably a good range.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just to back up a little bit on -- a lot of focus obviously on expenses this quarter and going forward but -- in your comp revenue target.
But can you just give us a sense of kind of overall this year is it achievable? Or is it possible to achieve positive operating leverage in this environment given we're still not into kind of the heavy lifting on the IT cloud initiative yet? Or do we have to wait until next year? Yes again I think it's in large part a function of how the revenue picture unfolds for the full year.
And as we've said if revenue does not grow in a robust way operating leverage will be a difficult thing for us to achieve with obviously the opposite being true that if revenue grows 10-plus 12-plus percent on an annual basis the operating leverage should move rather easily onto the page.
So I think it's too early to say what our prediction is for the full year Andrew but at a relatively modest level of revenue growth I think it's fair to say that operating leverage will be difficult to achieve on a full year basis assuming the market-driven revenues continue to be in something of a trough.
And our final question comes from the line of John Stilmar with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Gentlemen just with regards to your operating expense initiatives.
One of the things that you've talked about is not just the dollars of expense savings and the potential operating leverage past 2012 but also new business wins that could drive the top line.
Are you seeing evidence that -- or can you share with us progress at least in terms of potential new business wins or new areas that we might think about for the top line because of capabilities and functionality that you've created from your operating expense initiatives? Yes John we have started to see some of that.
In fact this quarter we introduced a couple of new products.
They tend to be data- and analytics-oriented new products and services which were enabled based on moving to the cloud environment.
So I think it's early days.
But the evidence is quite strong that in the cloud environment we'll be able to not only improve the speed with which we deliver new services but the flexibility around information and analytics services which are in great demand by our customers.
We should be able to be a little bit more creative and innovative on the information side.
And we did introduce I think 2 products in particular in the first quarter that fit that bill.
So I think appropriately the IT and ops transformation is focused on executing against the cost saves.
But your question just -- does draw out a point which is we think it's transformational because we think that we're doing something that no one else in this custody group is doing and it will over time enable us to differentiate more on the product side and we see evidence of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess your answer dovetails back into my second question which is many of us analysts -- and we've repeatedly asked on this call.
The yield or fees per assets under custody which for lack of a better term has shown less of volatility during down markets and doesn't necessarily trend up as well during bullish markets which leads me to think that the services business or the custody business has a greater proportion of fees that aren't necessarily tied directly to assets.
If that's -- one would you agree that over the past 2 years or so that there's been a greater composition of custody revenues that aren't necessarily tied to assets? And if so how should we think about that unfolding for the next couple of years? And when you say -- are you isolating servicing fees or overall fees? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just the asset custody fees fees per AUC.
Yes it's -- unfortunately the mix is so varied whether it's alternative whether it's long-only whether it's U.S.
non-U.S.
whether it has a middle office component.
It's hard to isolate those variables to give you a clear direction on that.
Our strategy is to as you know by our 80% of new revenues coming from existing customers to cross-sell a wide variety of products and services.
And we think over time if we do that and customers are successful and assets grow not only will we be the beneficiary of the revenue growth but we can also further penetrate some of the transactional service fees.
But it's hard to isolate specifically for that question.
Thanks John.
We look forward to talking to all of you at the end of the second quarter call.
Thanks.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's call is copyrighted.
All rights are reserved.
The call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without expressed written authorization from State Street and the only authorized broadcast of this call is housed on State Street's website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I'd like to introduce Kelley MacDonald Senior Vice President for Investor Relations at State Street.
Please go ahead.
Before Jay Hooley our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ed Resch our Chief Financial Officer begin their remarks I'd like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on risk factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speaks only as of today July 17 2012 and the corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
I'd also like to remind you that you can find a presentation regarding the corporation's investment portfolio as well as our second quarter 2012 earnings news release which includes reconciliations of non-GAAP measures referred to on this webcast in the Investor Relations portion of our website.
Also in the addendum to the news release on the last page you will find some specific estimates of our Basel III ratios giving effect to the notices of proposed rulemaking issued in June 2012.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jay.
Thanks Kelley and good morning and thanks to all of you for joining us on the call this morning.
Overall our financial results improved in our second quarter from our first quarter of 2012 with a 20% increase in operating basis earnings per share but were affected by increasing weakness in international markets reflecting global concern about the stability of the Eurozone.
We remain cautious in our outlook for the second half of the year and very focused on delivering value-added solutions to our clients and controlling expenses.
Our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program has contributed to our results in a difficult market environment while positioning us favorably when the economic outlook improves and has also enabled us to accelerate new product development for our clients.
In addition the reduction in compensation expenses and strong expense control coupled with business momentum enabled us to achieve positive operating leverage in the second quarter compared to the first quarter of 2012 on an operating basis.
The ratio of compensation expenses to total operating basis revenue improved to 38.8% in the second quarter as a result of the absence of the seasonal accounting effects related to retirement-eligible employees recorded in the first quarter and a continuing success of the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
Our capital position remained very strong and allowed us to repurchase 480 million of our common stock in the second quarter of 2012 and to increase our quarterly common stock dividend in 2012 to $0.24 per share.
In addition to remarks about our second quarter results this morning I'll address our continuing success in generating new business in our core asset servicing and asset management business our economic outlook the ongoing progress of our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program as well as our strong capital position.
The growth of both our fee-based businesses and our total revenue in the second quarter compared to the first quarter was affected by the derisking activity of our clients in the second half of the second quarter.
Our results reflect stronger U.S.
equity valuations early in the quarter as well as the seasonal strength in securities finance but equity markets became more volatile later in the quarter and remain so today.
Capital markets affecting foreign exchange and trading were weak throughout the quarter.
Compared to the first quarter the impact of the new business we won and installed plus the business we won in past quarters provided some strength in our core business revenue in the second quarter.
We continue to add new servicing business to the core franchise.
Of the $133 billion in assets we won in the second quarter about 48% were from the U.S.
and 52% from international markets.
The Board of Trustees of the $36 billion Maryland State Retirement and Pension System renewed its global custody contract.
We won a significant mandate for servicing collective funds from a Middle Eastern client to service their conventional and Sharia-compliant fund umbrellas.
Mitsui Fudosan a Japanese real estate firm has extended its relationship with State Street to include administration registrar and trustee services for 2 additional Jersey property unit trusts.
The endowment fund at Emory University has expanded its custody and accounting services now including risk analytics services for its $5 billion endowment.
The integration of the acquired Intesa Securities Services business has met our stated targets and our presence in Italy continues to attract new business.
Just recently SSgA was appointed as investment manager for EUR 110 million in assets for the Italian pension fund of employees of Rai the Italian public television network.
SSgA has also been selected by family investments to manage a combination of passive equity and fixed income strategies for GBP 1.5 billion in asset as well as the tactical asset allocation overlay for the majority of these assets.
Regarding the timing of asset servicing installations during the second quarter we installed $130 billion $79 billion of which was awarded in the second quarter and $51 billion was awarded previously.
Of the total business award in the second quarter about $55 billion remains to be installed.
In the alternative asset servicing area demand remains strong.
In the second quarter we added 32 new mandates in our alternative investment servicing business and our assets under administration were $877 billion as of June 30 2012.
We announced the proposed acquisition of Goldman Sachs' hedge fund administration business early today.
This business had a total of $200.6 billion in assets under administration as of March 31 2012.
This acquisition would increase our alternative assets under administration to a level which solidifies our lead in servicing this fast growing asset category.
We expect this acquisition to be accretive in earnings in the first year of operation on a cash basis excluding one-time costs.
Let me now share our outlook for the global economy.
The lack of stability in Europe seems to be dominating every macroeconomic headline for the past 2 months.
The election in Greece was positive but the outcome has not been persuasive enough to alleviate concerns that Greece may exit the euro.
Questions were also raised in the market about the stability of Italy and Spain.
The decision by European leaders in late June to create a single supervisory body to oversee the recapitalization of euro area banks alleviated some of the concern but until the European stability mechanism is in place and functioning the uncertainty in Europe will overhang the economy.
Looking forward we expect global GDP to rise at somewhat anemic 3.2% in 2012 reflecting slow growth in the advanced economies and more marked slowing in the developed ones.
We expect the U.S.
recovery to remain lackluster with 2012 GDP slightly -- growing slightly above 2% up from 1.7% in 2011 but slow by historic standards.
While we currently believe that the GDP may increase in 2013 our view of 2013 is dependent on a likelihood of legislation to extend the Bush tax cuts and reductions in the federal budget.
Although consumer confidence in the U.S.
has improved slightly and there are signs that housing prices are stabilizing unemployment continues to be a problem with a worsening in the expected rate of unemployment for 2012.
In the U.K.
the GDP declined in the first 2 quarters of 2012 the number of unemployed increased and so technically the country has slipped back into recession.
The Eurozone economy rebounded in the first quarter but then stagnated in the second.
Based on our current outlook we expect the GDP in the Eurozone to contract about 0.5% in 2012 followed by a slight improvement in 2013.
On balance our outlook is cautious primarily due to European uncertainty and the effects that it may have on the U.S.
economy.
The performance of our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program continues to meet our expectations.
In 2012 we expect that we'll achieve approximately $94 million in annual pre-tax run rate operating basis expense savings resulting in a total of $180 million of pre-tax run rate operating basis expense savings since the beginning of the program.
In 2012 we expect the greatest benefit to come from the business operations transformation as we deploy automation and reconfigure our operations to more efficiently meet the needs of our global client base.
We are also focusing on transferring certain aspects of our IT management to our service providers as we prepare for the migration of many of our existing and new applications to the cloud environment in 2013 and 2014.
We are training our IT developers on cloud technology and are currently running application using this technology in our production environment.
Our capital ratios remained strong after paying a $0.24 per common share quarterly dividend and purchasing $480 million of our common stock in the second quarter.
In addition we announced the proposed acquisition of Goldman Sachs' hedge fund administration business at a purchase price of $550 million which we expect to close in the fourth quarter subject to regulatory approval.
I'll now turn the call over to Ed then I'll provide some final remarks before we open the call to your questions.
Ed? Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll review 3 areas.
First the results for the second quarter.
Second I'll summarize the performance of an outlook for the investment portfolio as well as worldwide interest rates and the impact on our net interest margin.
And finally I'll review our strong capital ratios.
I'll present some of the more significant results comparing the second quarter of 2012 to the second quarter of 2011 as well as to the first quarter of 2012.
This morning all of my comments will be based on our operating basis results as defined in today's earnings news release.
Our total revenue was down 2% compared to the second quarter of 2011 and increased 1% compared to the first quarter of 2012.
The year-over-year decline was primarily due to the effects of weaker international markets.
The quarter-over-quarter increase was due to seasonality in securities finance and strength in net interest revenue offset partially by weakness in international markets.
Fee-based revenue in the second quarter was down 6% compared to the second quarter of 2011 and was approximately flat with the first quarter.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 servicing fee revenue declined 3% primarily due to the impact of weakness in international markets and the effect of the weaker euro offset partially by net new business and a 2% increase in the daily average of the S&amp;P 500.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 servicing fees increased 1% due to net new business offset partially by weaker international daily equity valuations.
In our servicing business clients derisked their investment preferences later in the second quarter primarily moving from U.S.
domestic and emerging market equity funds to fixed income and government funds.
Management fees were down 2% from the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to weakness in month-end international equity valuations offset partially by new business and increased 4% from the first quarter due to new business offset partially by weaker international month-end equity valuations.
Given the continued weakness in international markets we are adjusting our assumption for the 2012 EAFE average to decline to about 1 400 for the full year down 12% from 1 590 in 2011 and revised from our assumption of 1 490 earlier this year.
At SSgA net new business was a negative $6 billion.
This was composed of inflows into ETFs adding about $7 billion in net inflows with about $1 billion net into institutional and fixed-income funds which were primarily passive offset partially by $12 billion in cash outflows primarily due to the reduced positions in securities lending collateral as the seasonal impact of the dividend season in Europe dissipated and $2 billion of outflows from active and enhanced equity funds as clients derisked.
Our money market fee waivers were $7 million a decline from $9 million from the first quarter of 2012.
Regarding trading services and securities finance trading services in the second quarter of 2012 declined 18% compared to the second quarter of 2011 and declined 9% compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Compared to the year ago quarter and the first quarter of 2012 second quarter foreign exchange revenue decreased 24% and 13% respectively with both declines due primarily to lower volatility reflecting weak capital markets offset partially by slightly higher volumes.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 brokerage and other fee revenue declined 11% and 4% respectively due primarily to weaker revenue from sales and trading.
In foreign exchange the second quarter of 2012 the percentage of total foreign exchange revenue generated by our indirect offering decreased about 12% from the first quarter compared to a 15% decline in revenue from the direct foreign exchange services both of which reflected overall weakness in the capital markets.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 securities finance revenue increased 4% in the second quarter of 2012 due to higher spreads offset partially by lower volumes and increased 47% compared to the first quarter of 2012 due primarily to the normal second quarter seasonal increase.
In the second quarter of 2012 the average 3-month LIBOR to Fed funds effective rate was 30.2 basis points compared to 16.1 basis points in the second quarter of 2011 and to 39.9 basis points in the first quarter of 2012.
Securities on loan averaged $337 billion for the second quarter of 2012 down from $379 billion for the second quarter of 2011 due to lower demand and up from $331 billion for the first quarter of 2012 due principally to seasonality.
Average lendable assets for the second quarter of 2012 were about $2.36 trillion down 0.5% from $2.37 trillion in the second quarter of 2011 and flat with the first quarter of 2012.
As of June 30 2012 the duration of the securities finance book was approximately 18 days flat with the second quarter of 2011 and up slightly from 16 days in the first quarter of 2012.
Processing fees and other revenue was $48 million down 31% from $70 million in the second quarter of 2011 due primarily to a gain on a early termination of a lease in the second quarter of 2011 and additional amortization expense in the second quarter of 2012 related to our tax-advantaged investments.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 processing fees and other revenue decreased 49% from $94 million due primarily to the positive first quarter 2012 impact of fair-value adjustments related to positions in the fixed-income trading initiative and second quarter 2012 amortization expense related to our tax-advantaged investments.
Operating basis net interest revenue of $629 million in the second quarter of 2012 increased about 14% compared to the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to a higher level of earning assets including a larger investment portfolio as well as lower funding costs partially offset by lower yields on our earning assets.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 operating basis net interest revenue increased 4% primarily due to lower funding costs and a larger investment portfolio partially offset by lower yields on assets generally.
In the second quarter excess client deposits averaged about $15 billion compared to $18 billion in the first quarter.
Our operating basis net interest margin was 154 basis points in the second quarter of 2012 up slightly from 152 basis points in the first quarter of 2012.
Now turning to expenses.
Compensation and benefit expenses decreased 7% or $67 million to $942 million from the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to the impact of cost savings resulting from lower incentive compensation and 11% or $122 million from the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to the impact of the seasonal accounting effects of approximately $105 million of equity compensation for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes in the first quarter.
Additionally both periods benefited from the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program savings which were offset partially by the effect of merit increases effective April 1 2012.
In the second quarter of 2012 compensation and benefits expenses were approximately 38.8% of total operating basis revenue down from 44.3% in the first quarter.
For the full year we continue to target a reduction of the ratio of compensation and benefits expenses to total operating basis revenue by about 100 basis points compared to 40.2% in 2011 assuming a modest increase in total operating basis revenue an outlook which appears less certain now than in the first quarter.
The increases of 5% and 9% in information systems and communications expenses compared to the second quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 respectively were due primarily to the transfer of certain IT functions to our service providers as part of the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
Operating basis other expenses were $291 million up 20% compared to the second quarter of 2011 and up 19% compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Both increases were due to higher securities processing costs and increased professional fees driven by regulatory initiatives.
Our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program is on track.
You can particularly see the progress we are making in the reductions in compensation and benefits expenses.
In our operating basis expenses we incurred $25 million of nonrecurring costs related to the program consisting of $20 million in compensation and benefits expenses and $5 million in several other expense lines in the income statement.
As you may recall we have previously indicated that we expect our nonrecurring costs to peak in 2012 at an average of about $25 million per quarter.
Now let me turn to the investment portfolio.
Our investment portfolio as of June 30 2012 of $114.4 billion increased about $8 billion compared to June 30 2011.
During the second quarter we invested about $7.9 billion in highly rated securities at an average price of $102.5 and with an average yield of 1.95% and a duration of approximately 2.54 years.
During the quarter we invested about $3.3 billion in agency mortgage-backed securities and $2.7 billion in asset-backed securities.
The remainder was primarily invested in small denominations of commercial mortgage-backed securities and in corporate and municipal bonds.
The aggregate net unrealized after-tax loss in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios as of June 30 2012 was $54 million compared to a net unrealized after-tax loss of $81 million as of March 31 2012.
The improvement in the net unrealized after-tax position compared to March 31 2012 was due primarily to the benefit of lower rates offset partially by the impact of wider spreads.
In our investment portfolio presentation we have updated the data through quarter-end for you to review.
As of June 30 2012 our portfolio was 89% AAA or AA-rated.
The duration of the investment portfolio was 1.59 years at June 30 2012 up slightly from 1.57 years at March 31 2012.
The duration gap of the entire balance sheet was 0.41 years down from 0.49 years at March 31 2012.
And this duration gap is in line with our guidelines.
As of June 30 2012 57% of our investment portfolio was invested in floating-rate securities and 43% in fixed rate securities.
Regarding the European assets.
We have no direct sovereign debt exposure to the peripheral countries of Greece Spain Portugal Italy or Ireland in our investment portfolio.
Of our non-U.S.
assets we hold about $900 million in securities from 4 of those peripheral countries primarily RMBS and all floating-rate securities.
These entail $400 million of securities from Italy; $300 million from Spain; and about $100 million each from Ireland and Portugal.
All of these securities are performing well except for a few bonds.
We sold all of our Greek securities during the second quarter about $91 million worth and recorded a non-operating pre-tax loss of about $46 million.
On Page 7 of the investment portfolio presentation we list all of our non U.S.
investments and show the average rating as well as the types of assets we hold.
Our primary non-U.S.
holdings are British Australian German Canadian and Netherlands securities totaling 91% of the non-U.S.
investment portfolio.
At SSgA our Eurozone exposure in the investment funds is consistent with client mandates.
We hold the non-U.S.
fixed income portfolios in line with our benchmark weightings and our actively managed cash portfolios have no direct exposure to the peripheral countries.
Regarding pre-tax conduit-related accretion.
We recorded $123 million in the first half of 2012.
Looking forward we expect to record a total of about $900 million in interest revenue from July 1 2012 through the remaining terms of the former conduit securities.
These expectations are based on numerous assumptions including holding the securities to maturity anticipated prepayment speeds credit quality and sales.
Now for our outlook for net interest margin.
First of all let me emphasize that we continue to believe that we should invest through the cycle.
We also intend to invest almost exclusively in highly rated AAA or AA agency mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities.
I'll now review some of the assumptions we use in determining our 2012 outlook for net interest revenue and net interest margin.
We believe that the Federal Reserve will leave interest rates on hold through the end of 2014.
The ECB has recently cut rates to 75 basis points and adjusted its deposit facility rate to 0%.
We expect these 2 actions to reduce our net interest revenue in the second half of 2012 by about $20 million.
We expect the ECB to hold these rates through the end of 2012.
We believe the Bank of England will hold its base rate at 50 basis points through 2012.
If the Bank of England were to lower its base rate by 25 basis points it would lower our net interest revenue by about $5 million annually assuming market rates fall in relation to administered rates.
Based on these rate assumptions and our second quarter results if our excess deposits remain at the current level our net interest margin for the full year 2012 will likely be in the middle of our 145 to 155 basis point range.
Finally I'll briefly review our capital ratios.
In the second quarter State Street Corporation's capital ratios under Basel I remained very strong.
As of June 30 2012 they were -- our Tier 1 risk-based capital ratios stood at 19.9% our total capital ratio stood at 21.5% and our Tier 1 common ratio was 17.9%.
Our Tier 1 leverage ratio stood at 7.7% and our tangible common equity ratio was 7.2%.
The impact under Basel I of the acquisition of Goldman Sachs' hedge fund administration business is expected to reduce our June 30 2012 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio by 75 to 80 basis points.
I'll now direct your attention to the last page of the addendum including in this morning's news release.
Column A shows our Basel I capital ratios.
Column B shows our estimated Basel III ratios applying the rules effective as of January 1 2013 to our balance sheet on June 30 2012 and are calculated consistently with our disclosure of these ratios in prior quarters.
Our Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was estimated to be 13.9%; our total capital ratio 15.5%; our Tier 1 common ratio 12.7%; and our Tier 1 leverage ratio 6.1%.
For ease in the following discussion I will just refer to our Tier 1 common ratio unless otherwise noted although Basel III will have an impact on all the ratios.
The Federal Reserve recently published 830 pages of notices of proposed rulemaking or NPRs to implement Basel III in the United States.
Like our peers we are still reviewing the potential impact of these proposals and the table on the last page of the addendum and my comments reflect our best estimates as of June 30 2012 of the impact of these proposed rules.
It is important to note that the rules recently proposed in the NPRs are not final and once finalized are expected to be phased in over several years.
The regulators have specifically asked for comments regarding the inclusion of the mark-to-market on certain available-for-sale securities in other comprehensive income for the purposes of calculating regulatory capital.
We intend to comment on this proposal.
Based on our understanding of the proposals we believe that the simplified supervisory formula approach or SSFA that deals with the risk weighting of securitized assets is expected to be implemented on January 1 2015.
These proposed regulations have both positive and negative implications.
As written today higher quality assets are being disproportionately penalized in that they receive a higher risk weighting compared to the previous Basel III proposals moving from 7% to 20% or higher depending on the securities.
In contrast those securitized assets with lower ratings such as those rated below BB- received more favorable treatment under the NPRs than under the previous Basel III proposals adjusting the risk weightings from 1 250% to as low as 20%.
During the comment period we intend to present the regulatory authorities the disproportionate effect of these rules.
In Column C on the last page of the addendum we display the estimated impact of these proposed changes to our Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III including our estimate of the proposed impact of the SSFA as we understand it today.
These estimates are subject to change based on regulatory clarification and further analysis.
The implementation of the SSFA without giving effect to asset run-off in the investment portfolio or any management actions is expected to reduce our Tier 1 common ratio to 9.8% approximately 290 basis points lower than the 12.7% ratio as calculated prior to the recently published NPRs and as shown in Column B.
Column D shows our estimate of our Tier 1 common ratio after getting effect to both the SSFA and the investment portfolio runoff and assumes reinvestment of $16 billion of relevant securitized assets.
As you can see runoff alone is expected to bring the ratio back up to 12.0%.
Finally Column E shows that management actions if needed are expected to lower our risk-weighted assets to approximately $96.2 billion and fully restore our Tier 1 common ratio to 12.7%.
Therefore based on our current understanding of the proposed rules the net effect of the risk weighting of the securitized assets under the SSFA after investment portfolio runoff and with the potential management actions is expected to be neutral to our Tier 1 common ratio by the assumed implementation date of January 1 2015.
We believe that 10% continues to be a reasonable long-term target for our Basel III Tier 1 common ratio using the same assumptions we outlined at our investor and analyst forum in February of this year.
This 10% ratio is the foundation for our 12% to 15% target range for our operating basis return on common equity goal.
In conclusion while we saw signs of improvement in the U.S.
during the first quarter that improvement seemed to slow a bit during the second quarter given the uncertainty that exists in the Eurozone.
We still face a low interest rate environment new regulatory requirements and increased compliance costs.
We remain focused on growing our revenue modestly controlling expenses and executing on our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jay to conclude our remarks.
Thanks Ed.
Although we maintain business momentum through the second quarter the increased weakening of global macroeconomics later in the quarter especially the situation in Europe leaves us with a cautious outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Our clients reacted to the uncertain environment by reducing risk in their investment choices moving from U.S.
and emerging market equities to bond funds.
However we did achieve positive net new business in the servicing segment of our business.
We're pleased that our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program is on track with our plans and is contributing to the achievement of our 2012 goals.
Our capital position remains very strong allowing us to return capital to our shareholders in the form of a quarterly common stock dividend stock buybacks and through strategic acquisitions.
We look forward to closing the acquisition of the Goldman Sachs' hedge fund servicing business which we believe will benefit our shareholders over the long term and which enables us to expand our hedge fund client base in this fast-growing market.
Now Ed and I are happy to entertain your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick wrap-up on the Goldman deal makes plenty of sense strategically in line with everything you've done in the past and you've got a lot of capital sitting around so I get it.
I'm sorry if I missed it but did you tell anything about revenue earnings impact and any of the main assumptions you get to on the -- be accretable in the first year? No we didn't report that.
We just reported it was some $200 billion in assets under management 150 customers.
But just reported the conclusion.
On a cash basis it's accretive in the first year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I should stop trying on the spot [ph] assumptions right? I have a bunch of follow-up questions on that? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
And then on the Basel III.
I think this got a lot of attention so far this morning.
I was just wondering if you could oversimplify it for us.
Walking from the 12.7% to the 9.8% and back to the 12.7% in that great table you laid out what are the securities that are getting the biggest increase in the risk weighting? And that -- is that just a runoff of them getting back to the 12.7%? And over what period of time do you get the bulk of that? Yes Glenn.
I mean it is basically the effect that I explained in my comments where the higher rated securities apparently we have a lot of AAA-rated securities that are adversely treated under this proposal may serve to increase our risk-weighted assets.
Okay? And offsetting that are some of the lower-rated securities the ones that are currently subject to the securitization deduction under current rules that actually benefit us from a risk-weighted asset perspective.
Okay? So you have 2 opposing comments going on there in terms of the risk-weighted asset calculation.
And that is what's moving the ratio down to the 9.8%.
And conversely going back up to the 12.7% there's 2 things going on.
One the portfolio runoff that is scheduled to occur between now and December 31 2014 so another 1.5 years or so before the -- I'm sorry 2.5 years before the implementation date of 1/1/15.
As well as if we need to potential management actions to get the ratio back to the 12.7% which is where we started from.
Research Division</strong> I guess the main thing is this is highly likely included in your CCAR plan and approved and you're not changing the way you conduct business.
I know I'm putting words in your mouth but is that correct? Well it's not included in the CCAR plan that was just approved because the rules have just been issued.
I would expect that it will be factored in to the next CCAR.
But more importantly the bigger point that you raise is right we're not changing the way that we conduct business based on this.
We feel like we have ample capital enough room to react to this if we need to.
Remember the rules are proposed they're not final.
And a lot could change between now and implementation date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up on the Greek securities sale and I apologize if I missed this too.
But did you say what exactly they were? What -- where they were held? And if all the mark-to-market was taken this quarter? I didn't but I'm happy to go into it with you.
There were 5 bonds.
They were all RMBS.
They were held in our investment portfolio and held to maturity.
They totaled $91 million of principal amount and we booked a $46 million loss on them.
It's a total exit of our Greek position.
We thought that given the uncertainty in Europe and more specifically the extraordinary events in Greece that it was wise -- and we did this before the election on June 17 it was wise for us to exit the position.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I take it you're assessing the other periphery -- the securities held in the other periphery on the same basis right now? Well yes I mean obviously there is still a lot of disruption in the Eurozone.
We have about $900 million of securities in the peripheral countries they are virtually all RMBS.
They're all performing well with the exception of a handful of a couple of bonds that are on our watch list.
But we don't think that the situation as it relates to those specific securities that we hold is anywhere close to our analysis of what we saw as the potential on the Greek position which is why we sold the Greek position and we still are holding securities in the other peripheral countries.
Research Division</strong> Okay now that's very helpful.
Last one is just curious...
Glenn we really need to move along.
We've kind of given you a little bit of our time.
But you can get back to me Kevin or Valerie later today and we could be helpful.
Yes.
I'm happy to get back on Glenn.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on capital.
I just wanted to -- from a big picture perspective you've got the NPR changes 75 to 80 basis points also from the deal today.
So as you look forward does this at all change the way you're looking at the buyback? Will you continue to pour through the buyback as planned in this year's allowable? And then will it change at all the way you think about capital return into next year and acquisitions as well? Yes Ken let me pick that up.
The proposed acquisition of Goldman Sachs' hedge fund administration business will go through a regulatory approval process.
And we'll conclude based on that the deal hopefully in the fourth quarter is our current plan.
I guess the point about capital decisions I go back to the kind of point in time we plan to continue to execute the buyback.
But should other acquisition opportunities come along we would evaluate those from a standpoint of shareholder return versus continuing to buy back our stock based on what's outstanding and where the stock is trading.
So our plan is to continue it but it could be interrupted by other possible acquisition opportunities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But that will -- okay.
So -- and that's my second question was just related to -- you're talking about using 75 80 basis points of capital on something that will be cash accretive but GAAP dilutive next year.
First of all can you talk about when this deal will turn to GAAP accretive and any magnitude if you can help us on that? And then secondly how do you think through that deals versus buyback? Is it in fact the trade-off? I thought it was always supposed to be kind of separate from however you think through your buyback? And what changed? Did something change with this NPR restatement? Yes.
I mean nothing has changed in terms of our thinking relative to the NPR Ken.
The deal on a GAAP basis is slightly dilutive currently.
It will turn to be accretive out in 2014 2015 in that timeframe.
But the thinking has not changed.
I mean we're in a bit of a unique position I think in that the pure numerical analysis of buyback versus acquisition is somewhat constrained because of the CCAR and the plan that we have approved okay? So it's not a pure analysis of one versus the other.
The way that we looked at this transaction was it made sense.
It was strategic.
It was opportunistic.
Obviously it may not necessarily been here in the future.
And we had a CCAR plan approved.
So we thought it made sense to do it.
Going forward as I said before it depends how the Fed factors the Basel III proposals and I underscore proposals into the next CCAR and what effect that has on any potential capital distribution next year or any potential acquisitions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Okay.
And then last little one just on other expenses was much higher this quarter versus last anything you can point out in there? Sure.
Yes.
Other expenses are really 2 things going on.
One was our securities processing costs.
We're comparing a low quarter Q1 actually had a credit for those securities processing cost a small credit but it's relevant to a higher level of securities processing expenses in Q2.
So you've got that delta.
And then you have a ramp up in professional services Q1 to Q2.
That's driven by 2 things.
One these regulatory initiatives were talking so much about.
We're spending on -- spending money on professional services in order to evaluate them.
And two the expenses associated with the transformation program.
Those also incur some professional services some consulting costs.
So those 2 things are the drivers.
Your next question comes from Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You're making really good progress on the long-term transformation program.
But could we just get an update on the asset servicing competitive landscape or the conversations on pricing changing or the composition of what clients are asking for a change and all? Sure.
Let me take a good shot at that Howard.
The -- on the asset servicing second quarter you saw that revenues were up 1%.
We just begin to frame the question.
S&amp;P was up slightly quarter-to-quarter.
The EAFE average daily was down I think 7%.
So that performance was constrained by the market.
The -- I'd say from a standpoint of market activity pipeline deal flow pretty constant through the quarter.
I'd say the demand is high and pretty consistent from a standpoint of customer deal flow and prospect pipeline.
I'd say on the pricing point which is the other point you raised the longer this environment hangs around and the more constraining it is on some of our revenue lines the more aggressive I'd say aggressive or the more formalized our plans are to make sure that we're capturing fair economics from our customers.
So we have a pretty broad-based effort underway across obviously only those customers that require some remediation to get the margin up to our target margin internally and have gone out to customers with requests for increases in fees broader servicing relationships in order to correct some of those situations.
So I would characterize that as more of a journey as far as the pricing environment.
From a standpoint of the competitive pricing environment I would say it's mixed.
It's probably mix by geography mix by asset class but generally it doesn't feel that changed from prior quarters.
Did that capture Howard your -- the essence of your question? Research Division</strong> Yes that was very comprehensive.
And Ed on the NPR you focused a lot of your commentary on the risk weightings for securitized assets and the non-investment grade securities.
But putting those 2 elements aside do you have any thoughts on some of the other factors that we heard about including counter-party risk and the supplemental leverage ratio and potential impact on you all? Well our analysis so far on those other elements is ongoing.
And our view is that a lot of them are immaterial to us and net probably don't have much of an effect on us.
The 2 things that I mentioned in the call are the ones that we're the most focused on and I think potentially have the most effect which is the mark OCI and the SSFA Howard.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final one you have both been really conservative about the FX outlook and what mix shift you might see.
I guess with all that said I would have thought maybe we could see a sequential quarter-on-quarter lift to given international dividend season? I mean could you just put a little bit more content around what you already said in the prepared remarks Ed? Yes I mean we saw both the sales and trading and the indirect FX both down sequential quarter.
It was across-the-board in both of the areas.
Indirect FX volumes were down a bit.
The FX sales and trading which includes direct the volumes were up a little bit.
But overall it was a quarter where it was tough in our FX business Howard.
And our FX business would be proportionately more tied to the core asset servicing business.
So some of the derisking or the lack of risking that went on with regard to emerging market investing and global investing obviously had a bearing on that.
Your next question comes from Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just one more on the Basel III.
I assume the ratio out to 2015 of 12.7% that assumes no -- or I guess what level of buyback does that assume? Is it really just at the second quarter share levels and assumes no buybacks? Or do you have an assumption in there? Continuing at the current rate.
Research Division</strong> Continuing at the second quarter pace through that through the end of 2014? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
Okay.
And Ed going back to your comments on the revenue growth -- and maybe this is a question for both Ed and Jay.
So in terms of your new modest revenue growth assumption obviously a little bit at risk with the environment being a little trickier.
What -- to what degree do you think the comp revenue ratio will be pressuring that? You were saying obviously trying to get to about 39% if we have a more say flat to slightly up revenue year in 2012 versus 2011 what would -- roughly what would you envision the comp revenue ratio to be? And then adding onto that for Jay if you can talk a little bit about client derisking at the end of the second quarter.
If you think that's a material impact to third quarter realization rates and the servicing business? Yes I'll take the first one Brian.
I mean we start off at 40.2% the last year's ratio.
We said we'd target 39.2% for this year assuming modest revenue growth.
Now the first half of this year versus last year revenue growth is about 0.6%.
So it's pretty modest 6 months year-to-date which is why I said that if second half is relatively weaker the 39.2% target is going to be very very difficult to achieve.
It's hard to put a point estimate on it.
But I mean I would think we're talking about 39.5% 39.6% something like that if revenue in the second half of the year is challenged.
I mean we're not going to do anything relative to compensation just to hit 39.2% if revenue is not strong.
I mean we have to balance out the needs of everybody shareholders employees et cetera to make sure that we're maintaining the appropriate level of staffing for the business.
Research Division</strong> And that's still year-on-year progress isn't that? I would regard that as good.
And Brian to your other question.
The volatility here just continues.
If you think back to the first quarter the first quarter started out slow and then the back end of the first quarter clients began to re-risk as we get into the second quarter.
Mid-point the re-risking went to derisking.
So I just think we are cautious because as we look out from where we sit here we have worries about the U.S.
the election cycle the fiscal cliff.
Europe is at times day-to-day if not week-to-week.
So we sit looking forward saying "It's hard to envision a short-term scenario where there will be a shift back to re-risking." That could happen but we're not planning for it which is why we make the cautious comments.
Research Division</strong> Right right that's helpful.
And then just lastly on the securities processing costs Ed.
Can you frame how much that impacted the second quarter in terms of higher level versus the credit in the first quarter? In the range of $0.03.
Your next question comes from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So wanted to go back to the capital question just one more time I guess.
In previous discussions I think we talked about potentially the regulators looking at Basel III framework a little bit more in determining how they will allow banks return capital in 2013 and beyond.
How does that change? How does this revision I guess change your view on whether or not you might be able to return the same level of capital kind of post this year? Well I mean we don't know.
We have to see how the rules evolve what the comments are.
I've outlined what we're planning on commenting on at this point the 2 big items I noted.
And we have to see how the regulators factor these proposals or maybe some revisions to the proposals in their thinking about the next CCAR.
We just don't know at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then on net interest margin and I appreciate guidance you guys give around some sensitivity into the back half of the year.
But I guess looking at the balances can you give us a little bit more granularity on maybe where the deposits sort of sit with you guys with which central banks versus the Fed or the ECB just to get a sense of the sensitivity from here if there's further rate cuts? Yes they're mainly with the Fed but they're also in part with the ECB.
And they can ebb and flow Alex.
It depends where those deposits actually come in.
Right now the excess deposits are largely DDA in the U.S.
So we're leaving them at the Fed principally.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question that I have for you guys is just on bigger picture on the margins which you look at over the last call it 2 quarters.
Your pre-tax margins is in the high 20s call it 28% 29%.
If you go back to when you announced the program you were kind of in this high 20% range still.
It feels like call it $100 million of the program on a net savings basis is already in the run rate.
That's a good chunk I think of what the -- of the total savings that you outlined.
But the margin hasn't really moved.
So I guess what gives us some -- can you give us some confidence I guess around that 400 basis points of margin expansion given the fact that so far we really haven't seen any? Yes.
I mean remember we pegged that margin improvement off of the 2010 results.
And obviously the world has changed since 2010.
So the answer is a complex one but I'll try to take you through it because we breakdown how we think about the margin in terms of various categories to try to frame the changes from 2010.
So starting with the effect of transformation.
We think we've gotten around 100 basis points of transformation.
This is June year-to-date 2012 versus June year-to-date 2011.
So that's the relevant -- that's the right way we think to look at it 6 months versus 6 months.
So there's 100 basis points of improvement there.
You have some one-timers which need to be adjusted for.
Those reduce the margins by about 90 basis points.
So they roughly offset the effect of transformation right there.
And then if you look at the core business which includes market impact that's down in terms of margin about 1.5% given the environment that we're operating in.
Okay? So those are the 3 broad buckets Alex that we look at in terms of the margin effect giving recognition to the achievement of the ops and IT transformation savings.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I guess said another way if you look at -- to get to your 400 basis points of margin expansion I guess what did you guys assume for revenue growth for the next few years? We assumed various levels of revenue growth and just struck a number.
And it really didn't matter much frankly.
We just assumed revenue growth grew at pick a percentage Alex 5% 6% 7% 8% 10% whatever.
And we also increased expenses at the same growth rate.
Not making any assumptions about operating leverage.
Okay? Just to simplify things.
Obviously we target operating leverage we say that every year.
But just for this model bring expenses and revenue up at the same rate from 2010 and add in the $600 million savings and then you'll see that approximately the margin increases by around 400 basis points.
It doesn't matter what revenue growth you took as long as expenses grow at the same rate.
Your next question comes from Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Firstly one small clarification.
Let me get that out of the way.
There was a securities loss in your reported earnings but a securities gain in the operator can you just clarify why the difference and what causes that? Sure.
We recorded the Greek exit as nonoperating.
Our thinking there was that it was unique extraordinary given the circumstances in Europe and particularly Greece.
And we exited an entire position in the country Vivek.
Okay? So it's something that we think is more appropriately viewed as nonoperating given that our view of operating should be to give the reader a view of the core earnings power of the company.
And I think if we're talking about exiting a position or several -- 5 positions specifically in Greece at the class of item is operating that would be in my view anyway not the appropriate way to look at it.
In operating earnings we have both purchases and sales some gains some losses that are at the margin if you will.
And we've done those over time and we report them as part of the core earnings of the company and we had that this quarter too.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay okay.
That's an easy one.
Let's go back -- I want to go back to the buyback question that's been asked.
So looking at your 9.7% Basel III Tier 1 common ratio that would be I guess 9% if the acquisition were pro forma that of June 30.
And you said you've continued to buy back at the current pace that you have in the second quarter you intend to continue that.
But if you do that that would have no growth in the capital ratios because essentially you're buying -- you bought back almost as much as you made in net income.
And given that your target at your Investor Day was to try and keep your Tier 1 common at 10% can you reconcile how you get to 10% if you're going to be -- when would you get to 10%? Since I know you've said there's going to be some runoff in securities.
But clearly looking back over the last few quarters it hasn't run off that fast that it's led to any improvement in the capital ratio.
Your Tier 1 common didn't really change if we adjust for OCI quarter-over-quarter from Q1 to Q2? Yes I mean it's not much of an OCI effect right? But the growth from the 9.7% up to 10% and over 10% will occur over the next 2.5 years from the mid-point this year to the end of 2014 as those securities that are subject to the higher risk weighting run off.
Research Division</strong> And so are these what the AAA's subprime asset-backed that you have moved into your -- that were part of the conduit that have been moved to held to maturity that you're hoping will pay down over time? And does it come more in '13 or is it more back-ended? Can you give any more color? No it's not those securities at all Vivek.
It's some of our actually higher rated we believe higher-quality RMBS securities.
Some mostly foreign that are driving the increase in risk weighted assets.
And that is actually offset by a benefit on some of the securities that I think your question refers to.
Okay? Some of the lower-rated securities that some of which we sold in 2010 in order to reposition the portfolio.
Those securities are actually benefiting in this calculation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're thinking that your 9.7% goes to 9%.
And then you still intending to stick to the 10% target? Yes.
And 9.7% going to 9% is just layering in the Goldman Sachs' acquisition in those calculations right? Research Division</strong> And how long do you think does it take for you to get back to 10%? 1 year.
1 year.
Certainly by the end of 2013.
Our final question comes from Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just on the derisking commentary.
It sounds like it wasn't fully reflected in this quarter's run rate.
How do we think about the go-forward implications from the derisking stepping down and maybe put in the context of what we saw last year if possible? Yes.
It's a hard one to answer Andrew.
I attempted to do that a few questions ago by talking about -- the first quarter had the same dynamic which is the derisking started slow and then people re-risked in the second half of the first quarter and now we've cycled back down again.
So I think you should look at it more from a go-forward perspective of the U.S.
and European markets and whether the confidence steps down again or whether it remains where it is right now.
I mean that's really what I'm signaling.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
It seems like in the fourth quarter even last year like that was maybe more reflective kind of in the numbers.
Is that fair? Yes that is fair.
Research Division</strong> Is that how we should think about it going forward? Or are we not there yet in terms of kind of just if you were to rank them or put them in a magnitude? It's just that it's hard to give you a signal on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then in terms of the comp to revenue target.
It sounds like modest revenue growth less confidence in that now.
How do you guys think about modest? What is the definition of modest? And why even kind of keep that target out there if there is less confidence? Well I mean I've used the term modest and the way that I have defined it without putting a point estimate on it Andrew is to say clearly 60 basis points first 6 months the first 6 months.
1% or 2% is not modest and 7% or 8% is above modest.
Okay? So it's somewhere in between.
That was our thinking coming into the year.
But based on the first half results that thinking is lower.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a ticky-tack question on the processing fee line.
It came in at $48 million this quarter I know there was some noise last quarter too.
How should we think about it going forward? Is that -- second quarter is some of that non-repeatable? Or should we go back to 70 75 type quarterly range or are we resetting lower? We're not resetting lower.
I mean I'd say again it's tough to predict the line.
But I think I've said in the past 70 75 per quarter is probably a good number to use.
This quarter was significantly below that for a couple of reasons that I think I touched on it in my script.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the tax rate just the last ticky-tack tax rate also lower? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Is it also reset lower.
Or should we also think about it kind of going back to the 27 28? No.
I think we're -- in our press release I think we signaled that we expect 25% to 26% effective for the full year.
And that's a combination of 2 things.
One the overall mix of revenue.
We're obviously getting some advantage there.
And then secondly we have and this is one of the benefits in the second quarter a renewable energy investment which is generating some positive tax effects and will be for the full year.
Thank you.
I appreciate all your time this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again after the third quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's call is copyrighted.
All rights are reserved.
The call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without expressed written authorization from State Street.
The only authorized broadcast of this call is housed on State Street's website.
At the end of today's presentation we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to introduce Valerie Haertel Senior Vice President of Investor Relations of State Street.
Thank you Christy.
And good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2012 earnings call.
You may have noticed that we made some changes this quarter to the presentation of information in our earnings materials as a result of feedback we received from many of you.
We hope that the new format of the earnings press release and the addition of the financial highlights slide presentation are helpful in enabling you to access the information you need quickly and to aide your understanding of our results.
Our third quarter 2012 earnings materials including the slide presentation that Jay Hooley our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ed Resch our Chief Financial Officer will refer to in their remarks and reconciliations of non-GAAP or operating basis measures to GAAP measures referenced in this webcast our financial trends package as well as other materials can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before Jay and Ed begin their discussion of third quarter results I would like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on risk factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today October 16 2012.
The corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
Now I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman President and CEO Jay Hooley.
Thanks Valerie and good morning.
Welcome.
I'd like to add my welcome to the third quarter call as well.
And as Valerie noted our remarks will follow the financial highlights slide presentation that we issued with our earnings press release.
And more specifically my comments will relate to Pages 3 and 4 of the slide deck.
We're pleased to report solid third quarter 2012 financial results which I believe reflect continued strong demand for our products and services across our global client base continued progress on our Business Ops and IT Transformation Program as well as other cost initiatives and our commitment to return capital to our shareholders.
As you can see the GAAP third quarter earnings per share were $1.36 and included a benefit related to claims associated with the 2008 Lehman Brothers bankruptcy and a few offsets that Ed will cover in his remarks.
But from my perspective resolution of the outstanding issues associated with the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy is a positive and we're pleased to have these matters substantially behind us.
If I go to operating basis earnings here where you can see we reported net income available to common shareholders of $473 million or $0.99 in earnings per common share.
And before I review our business results I want to make a few comments on the financial economic and business environment.
Since the end of the second quarter the environment is Europe feels a little bit better.
The ECB's commitment to buy bonds and the active discussion about common bank regulation in the Eurozone has given markets a sense that the probability of a tail risk event is declining which is I think a very big move.
I think that the European issues are far from resolved but I think the concern up until now had really been an event.
At the same time concerns about the U.S.
fiscal cliff are rising as we head into the elections and the year end all of which contribute to a lack of confidence both at the institutional and retail level.
Equity markets performed well in the third quarter with the daily S&amp;P average up nearly 4% and the daily EAFE average up approximately 3% from the second quarter.
And despite this recent strength in equity markets our clients global institutions mutual funds and their shareholders continue to have an aversion to taking risk in their asset allocations and continue to prefer fixed income and cash over equities which is a trend we've seen over the past several quarters.
If I turn to our results our momentum from new business wins continued in the third quarter.
New asset servicing mandates were $211 billion in the quarter split roughly 55% from the U.S.
45% from outside the U.S.
Again our alternative asset servicing mandates for the quarter totaled 32 and that excludes the Goldman Sachs Administration Services business.
If you include the Goldman Sachs Administration business we now service over $1 trillion in total alternative assets.
And as you've heard me say before we believe that the alternative asset category is going to grow proportionately better than traditional asset classes.
So we're pleased with our positioning there.
So our State Street Global Advisors.
Net new assets to be managed totaled $78 billion in the quarter which included a significant pass of fixed income mandate from an Asia Pacific client.
We also continued to have success in our ETF product line with approximately $13 billion of the $78 billion representing positive flows into ETFs during the quarter mainly into our larger ETF funds such as SPDRs gold and fixed income but also have noticed the success we've experienced in the 54 newer more complex ETF products we introduced over the past 18 months.
And as I say as I look ahead in both the asset servicing and asset management business lines the pipelines remain strong and well diversified from an asset class as well as from a geographical standpoint.
Our market-driven revenues remain under pressure due to client risk aversion and deleveraging in addition to persistently low interest rates in most part of the world.
Trading service and most notably foreign exchange trading continued to be weak with volatility at the lowest level over -- in the past 5 years.
And low interest rates are affecting our net interest margin which was 144 basis points on an operating basis in the third quarter.
Turning to expenses.
We're managing our expenses aggressively as you can see from our results while continuing to invest in the business.
Third quarter expenses on an operating basis declined 3.7% compared to the second quarter.
We achieved positive operating leverage compared to the second quarter of 2012 and the third quarter of 2011.
And we'll continue to manage our expense base in the face of a challenging revenue environment.
We continue to be pleased with the expense reductions generated by our Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program which remains on track to deliver the expected savings of $575 million to $625 million in pretax run rate savings by 2015.
And I continue to believe that this program will provide us with strategic advantages to our business over time.
Turning to capital.
We remain focused on returning capital to shareholders through our dividend and our common share purchase program.
In the third quarter we announced a $0.24 dividend per common share and we purchased $480 million of our common stock.
As of September 30 there were approximately $840 million remaining for purchase through March 31 2013 under our $1.8 billion authorization.
With respect to our capital ratios you can see on the chart that we continue to have very strong ratios under both Basel I and under the proposed Basel III standards based on our current understanding of the rules.
Before I turn the call over to Ed I just wanted to touch on our acquisition of Goldman Sachs Administration Services.
We're excited to have closed the transaction because it extends our leadership in this fast-growing product segment.
Importantly it brings to us a very attractive client base that will have access to a broad array of State Street services.
Since we announced the transaction as you'd expect we've had a chance to meet with most of the Goldman Sachs administrative services clients.
And their reactions have been very positive which continue to give me confidence in our ability to achieve our 90% revenue retention goal.
As we indicated last quarter we expect this business to be accretive on a GAAP basis excluding merger and acquisition costs in the first full year of operation.
Regarding acquisitions more generally we plan to be very cautious in our approach to acquisitions as we remain focused on our priorities that include leveraging the power of the core franchise managing our expenses carefully maintaining our strong capital position and returning capital to shareholders.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Ed.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
My comments this morning will follow the third quarter financial highlights presentation beginning on Slide 5.
As Jay stated the GAAP results include a net pretax benefit of $277 million which is composed of a $362 million benefit related to claims associated with the 2008 Lehman Brothers bankruptcy partially offset by a $60 million provision for the previously disclosed litigation arising out of the financial crisis and a special $25 billion contribution to fund the company's charitable grant-making activities.
Now turning to Slide 6.
I'll discuss our operating basis results as defined in today's earnings release and focus my remarks on the most significant sequential quarter and year-over-year quarter changes.
We performed well in a difficult global economic environment.
Comparing the third quarter of 2012 with the second quarter of 2012 and the third quarter of 2011 our total revenue declined 3.2% and 2.7% and expenses declined 3.7% and 2.9% respectively generating positive operating leverage relative to both periods.
Our third quarter return on equity was 9.6%.
We purchased $480 million of common equity during the third quarter resulting in 480 million average fully diluted shares outstanding during the quarter a reduction of 8.5 million average shares in the sequential quarter comparison.
Turning to a more detailed discussion of our income statement Slide 7 details our revenue.
The most significant revenue drivers for the quarter are noted in the far-right column.
The sequential quarter growth of servicing fee revenue was driven by higher equity markets and net new business.
Sequential quarter growth in management fee revenue was driven primarily by higher global equity valuations.
Money market fee waivers were down $2 million from $7 million in the second quarter.
The increases in our core businesses were not enough to offset the decline in trading services the seasonal decline of securities lending and the decline in net interest revenue due to the low interest rate environment.
Total trading services revenue compared to the second quarter declined 9% driven primarily by an 11% decline in foreign exchange revenue.
Compared to the third quarter of 2011 the approximate 44% decline in foreign exchange revenue was due primarily to lower volatilities offset partially by increased volumes.
In the third quarter while we saw an increase in total foreign exchange trading volumes compared to the second quarter as we have previously noted our foreign exchange revenue was affected by a decline in our indirect or custody FX volumes given the increased focus on this service.
We have several ways to execute foreign exchange transactions and are in a position to service clients through their preferred foreign exchange execution method.
Brokerage and other fees declined approximately 7% from the second quarter due primarily to weakness in transition management and declined 10% from the third quarter of 2011 due primarily to lower electronic foreign exchange trading volumes.
The volumes in electronic foreign exchange trading weakened in the third quarter compared to the second but this weakness compares favorably to industry data.
The rate of decline in the average daily volumes across all our electronic foreign exchange platforms was about 2% compared to larger industry-wide declines of 17% as measured on the electronic broking system platform and 11% as measured on the Thomson Reuters system.
Securities finance revenue declined 36% sequentially due to a decrease in activity from the seasonally elevated second quarter levels.
Securities on loan averaged $321 billion for the third quarter of 2012 a decrease of 5% from the second quarter due to lower seasonal demand and a decline of 13% from the third quarter of last year due to lower overall demand.
Processing and other revenue declined 50% from the third quarter of 2011 due primarily to a gain in the third quarter of 2011 and an increase in amortization expense related to tax-advantaged investments in 2012.
Our investments in tax-advantaged investments like renewable energy resulted in a tax benefit which was the primary reason for a decline in our operating basis effective tax rate from 27% in the third quarter of 2011 to 24.5% in the third quarter of 2012.
On a fully taxable equivalent basis these transactions are favorable to our overall results.
We now expect our effective tax rate for 2012 to average approximately 25.5%.
Net interest revenue on a fully taxable equivalent basis declined nearly 3% from the second quarter due to the lower yields on earning assets as a result of the persistent low interest rate environment.
As we have been discussing with you for several quarters higher-yielding fixed-rate securities in our investment portfolio are maturing or paying down and are being reinvested at lower rates while floating-rate assets are resetting at lower rates.
It's important to note that our investment portfolio is comprised of approximately 55% of floating-rate securities that adjust periodically with changes in market rates.
During the quarter excess deposits remain elevated averaging approximately $16 billion an increase from $15 billion in the second quarter.
Our net interest margin was 144 basis points in the third quarter of 2012 compared to 154 basis points in the second quarter of 2012 and 144 basis points in the third quarter of 2011.
Regarding our net interest margin.
We continue to expect to achieve an operating basis net interest margin near the midpoint of the 145 to 155 basis point range in 2012.
However should excess deposits remain elevated we may achieve slightly below the midpoint of that range.
With the announcement of QE3 and the continued low level of interest rates in 2013 we think we will probably be near the higher end of the 10 to 12 basis point range in terms of decline in our net interest margin assuming interest rates spreads and prepayment speeds remain at their current levels through 2013.
Turning to expenses on Slide 8.
You can see that overall expenses declined 3.7% compared to the second quarter and 2.9% from the year-ago third quarter.
The decline in compensation and employee benefits expenses compared to the second quarter of 2012 and the third quarter of 2011 was primarily due to lower compensation benefit costs associated with the execution of the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program.
Compared to the third quarter of 2011 and the second quarter of 2012 information systems and communications expenses increased as a result of the planned transition of certain functions to service providers as part of the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program.
In the third quarter compensation and benefits expense as a percentage of total operating basis revenue was 39.0% a slight increase from 38.8% in the second quarter.
I would like to remind you that our first quarter ratio was unusually high at 44.3% due to the impact of the effective employee demographics on equity compensation for retirement-eligible employees.
Revenue growth is an important factor in determining the comp-to-revenue ratio.
In setting our goal of improving the compensation-to-revenue ratio by 100 basis points for 2012 compared to 40.2% for 2011 we assumed modest revenue growth in 2012.
However revenue has declined on a year-over-year 9-month basis by approximately 50 basis points.
While core revenues have performed reasonably well market-driven revenues have been soft.
We've been working diligently on improving our expense base and taking action where we can and we are continuing to do that in the fourth quarter.
Despite the revenue decline our second and third quarter ratios stayed within targeted levels.
However if the overall revenue environment remains weak it will likely affect our ability to achieve our compensation-to-revenue goal for the full year 2012.
Our Business Operations and IT Transformation Program continues on track to achieve annual pretax run rate operating basis expense savings in the range of $90 million to $100 million in 2012.
The estimated cumulative pretax expense savings through the end of 2012 are expected to be approximately $180 million.
In the third quarter our nonrecurring expenses related to the Business Operations and IT Program were approximately $30 million and should peak in 2012 and trail off in 2013 and 2014.
Wrapping up my comments on this slide I just want to note that other expenses declined by 13% from the second quarter due to lower securities processing costs where those costs were above trend in the prior quarter as well as a decline in professional fees.
Turning to our balance sheet strategy and investment portfolio on Slide 9.
You can see that our strategy remains intact.
As outlined on the top half of the slide the key elements of our strategy that have worked well for us over time include: investing in primarily AAA and AA rated assets through the cycle; maintaining an investment portfolio duration of about 1.5 years; maintaining a balance sheet duration gap of between 1/4 and 1/2 a year; and targeting an investment portfolio allocation of fixed-rate securities between 40% and 45%.
Our investment portfolio as of September 30 2012 was $115 billion a slight increase compared to June 30 2012.
We have a solid credit profile of 88% of our portfolio securities rated AAA or AA slightly lower than our guideline of 90% due primarily to downgrades over time of certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities.
The duration of the investment portfolio is 1.52 years at September 30 2012 a decrease of 1.59 years at June 30 2012.
As of September 30 2012 55% of our investment portfolio was invested in floating-rate securities and 45% in fixed-rate securities.
The aggregate net unrealized after-tax gain in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios as of September 30 2012 was $577 million compared to a net unrealized after-tax loss of $54 million as of June 30 2012.
The improvement in the net unrealized after-tax position compared to June 30 2012 was due primarily to narrower spreads.
During the third quarter we invested about $7.3 billion in primarily AA-rated securities at an average price of $100.83 and with an average yield of 1.67% and a duration of approximately 3.89 years.
Of the $7.3 billion we invested about $0.2 billion in agency mortgage-backed securities $3.3 billion in agencies and asset-backed securities and $1.2 billion in foreign asset-backed securities primarily Dutch and U.K.
RMBS and German order receivables as well as $1.1 billion in Japanese government securities.
The duration gap of the entire balance sheet was 0.28 years down from 0.41 years at June 30 2012 due to the shorter duration of the mortgage-backed securities portfolio and longer duration of our client deposits.
Regarding European assets we have no direct sovereign debt exposure to the peripheral countries of Greece Spain Portugal Italy or Ireland in our investment portfolio.
Of our non-U.S.
assets we hold about $900 million in securities from 4 of those peripheral countries primarily RMBS and all floating-rate securities: about $400 million from Italy $300 million from Spain and about $100 million each from Ireland and Portugal.
On the whole these securities are performing well.
Turning to capital.
Slide 10 has a summary of our strong capital position.
Our capital ratios are displayed on this slide.
Our Basel I Tier 1 common ratio is 17.8% and our estimated pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio post the NPRs is 11.3% both ratios as of September 30 2012.
Also based on our September 30 2012 balance sheet and including the effect of the reinvestment of assets that are maturing or paying down and the acquisition of Goldman Sachs Administration Services business the estimated pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio as of January 1 2015 the assumed implementation date of the SSFA would be 11.9%.
We expect to complete our CCAR submission for 2013 early next year in which we expect to include a capital distribution program of dividend and share repurchases consistent with our strong capital position and earnings capacity.
The 2013 capital distribution of course will be contingent upon the Federal Reserve not objecting to our request.
Before I turn the call over to Jay I wanted to mention that during the quarter taking advantage of favorable market conditions we issued fixed-rate perpetual preferred stock and redeemed our floating-rate perpetual preferred stock.
In the third quarter we recorded preferred stock dividends of approximately $7 million on the floating-rate preferred stock and approximately $8 million on the newly issued fixed-rate preferred stock.
This latter dividend on the new issuance extends from August 21 through December 15 2012.
As a result we will not record a perpetual preferred stock dividend in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our very strong capital position allows us to make returning capital to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases a priority.
And now I'll turn the call back over to Jay.
Thanks Ed.
Let me briefly close so we can get to your questions with really 3 points.
The first is that I believe our third quarter results demonstrate our continued resilience amid the difficult environment as well as the strength of our business model.
Second we continue to invest in our business expanding the range of solutions we can deliver to our clients.
But we're balancing these investments with a clear focus on managing costs across the enterprise and I hope you'll agree the results of this focus are evident this quarter.
And finally I continue to have confidence in the secular trends that underpin the future prospects for growth in this business.
And I believe we're striking the right balance between continuing to invest for the future and aggressively managing costs during this challenging period.
As always we appreciate our ongoing dialogue with shareholders and look forward to continuing to update you on the progress of our company.
And with that I would open the call for questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So I want to ask this the right way.
There's been -- there's obviously changes on Wall Street on comp and the industry has adapted to the lower revenue backdrop.
You guys definitely get a bunch of questions on that.
And I wonder if you could speak to your views on how similar and how different obviously the business mixes are and what you can clearly control or not in the short run so just really focus on the comp side of the equation.
Yes.
Let me start that Glenn.
I would say we do have a different structure than what's traditionally referred to as Wall Street in that we don't have a high variable incentive component of our overall compensation.
It's a lot smaller than you'd find typically on Wall Street.
So having said that for us the key drivers in managing down costs tend to be headcount-driven efficiency in our core operating models as well as -- and you've seen some evidence of that this quarter managing the other cost category the cost that we incur from outside suppliers.
So those are really the big levers that we have.
And I think the reason I continue to go back to the IT and ops transformation initiative that we have is that I believe that that's fundamentally changing the cost drivers in this business.
And it's going to take some time but you'll find those changes will be durable and sustainable over time.
Research Division</strong> So you answered part of the follow-up in that not a big percentage of the comp base is all that flexible on a short-term basis.
I guess someone put this question to me recently so I want to put it to you.
Does it make sense that the business mix would have a thereabouts 40% comp ratio when you look at say asset managers or investment banks that these days actually have same or lower that attritionally are thought of as much more people-intensive comp-intensive businesses? Is it the scaling of certain parts of the business that will put that ratio as high if not higher than some of those other models? Yes.
I think that over time we've hovered around 40% for a long period of time.
And I think that maybe it's obvious but I'll say it anyway the fee-based components of the business the service fee and management fee I really look to the servicing fee-based business as the offset to that 40% whereas historically the market-based revenues and you know what they are they're the net interest revenue securities finance and foreign exchange have provided the upside.
So I would like to think that the moves that we're making today against a very constrained market-driven revenue should put us in a position where that 40% should go down over time as we achieve something near-normalized environmental factors which is consistent with the $600 million cost-save plan which we're 1/3 of the way into at the end of this year.
We should see that ratio go down.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
One last one I apologize if I missed it earlier.
But did you mention the one but not yet funded pipeline? We didn't but we will.
Ed do you want to cover that? Yes.
I'll give you those numbers Glenn.
Out of the $211 billion of asset servicing mandates that we announced this quarter $86.1 billion was installed in the quarter prior to September 30.
The remaining $125.2 billion is expected to be installed during the remainder of this year and later.
And then in the third quarter we also installed approximately $115.7 billion of new business and assets to be serviced that we were awarded in prior periods.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question I had I just wanted maybe a little point of clarification about next year's NIM guidance.
The 10 to 12 basis points is that off of where you expect this year to average or where you expect the year to end? It's off of where we expect this year to average Rob.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And maybe talk a little bit about the ETF business.
I know you touched on the strong flows there.
But clearly you've had Vanguard in their announcements some BlackRock make some strategic announcements in their iShares business yesterday.
So could you maybe talk about how if at all you think you are positioned within that relative to some of that changes your peers have made or how it's making you maybe rethink your approach to the business and if there's any changes you need to make in the direction or strategy? Sure.
Yes.
Happy to do that.
You've heard me say before and I think underpinning the BlackRock and the Vanguard statements have been an industry that's growing pretty rapidly and has a pretty attractive growth rate.
From our standpoint our strategy for ETFs and you've seen I think the last 3 quarters some pretty strong net flows including $13 billion this quarter has been really to have some positioning in what I would say is the commoditized end of the ETF space but most prominently SPDR which is our S&amp;P 500 fund and then really differentiate through new product introduction.
I referenced 54 new products.
Those new products almost all have quite a bit higher management fees associated with them.
So we think the strategy should be to compete in a commoditized area and in the newer area which tend to have higher revenues more innovation.
That's where we're putting a lot of our focus from a standpoint of investment.
Now the other thing I would say which I know part of your question is anchored around fees and the movement of fees our large SPDR fund has and has forever breakpoints in it.
So it's kind of a natural -- if somebody gets to a certain size in that fund they get a natural fee break associated with it which I think is a little bit of an unusual structure.
So we feel like we've structurally made those adjustments around volume and fees in the core products.
And as I say our orientation is primarily towards new product introduction and the other angle I would say is geographic growth.
So the ETF business still is largely anchored in the U.S.
I think Europe and Asia represent significant opportunities.
You won't remember this probably but we were the first to introduce an ETF in Asia.
We're building on that strength.
So we think it's a great product.
It's got good growth trajectory which should sustain itself.
And we're trying to make sure that we're innovative on the product side so that we're not racing to the bottom on the fee side.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question just regards to the NII outlook.
Ed on the 10 to 12 basis points for next year can you just -- I know it's really hard to forecast but can you try to give us some perspective of how you're expecting the balance sheet size to trend? Yes.
I mean we're expecting low- to mid-single digit growth in customer deposits which is our estimate at this point in time Ken.
I mean I would tell you that relative to QE3 which is I guess where you're going we feel that by putting the guidance at the top of the range 10 to 12 basis points use 12 for this discussion in terms of the decline next year that that captures the pressure that we're going to see on NIM.
We've talked about this before and our initial thinking already had the impact of lower rates included in it.
And since we have a limited amount of fixed-rate runoff next year and that's about a $6 billion number we feel like the estimated NIR impact from QE3 which would be incremental to the earlier guidance is in the range of $15 million to $20 million which is about 2 basis points.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So okay.
And then -- so when you talk about low-single digit core deposit growth are you also presuming at this point that the excess liquidity is sticky and that the balance sheet actually might see growth from where it currently is today? We expect some of that excess -- those excess deposits to transition away.
So we're not projecting a significant balance sheet growth next year.
No.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the core might offset the runoff of the excess? And then there's the -- the rub is just where that ends up in.
Yes rough.
I mean just like the rub this year Ken on the NIM is where excess deposits end up right? So that's the point of friction.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question just related to NII.
It just seems like you are extending duration a decent amount just hearing what you rattled off in terms of your incremental purchases.
So how are you balancing out again this QE3 balance with incremental risk-taking? It sounds like you're buying your very high premium bonds and extending pretty decently.
So what's the incremental risk you're taking on the interest rate side to get that extra yield? Well we're actually not taking much incremental interest rate risk.
I mean our duration gap is shorter this quarter than it was prior quarter 0.28 was the number at September 30 versus I think 0.41 the prior quarter.
And we have an offset with mortgage duration coming in with prepayments accelerating a bit because of QE3.
So we feel like we're taking appropriate levels of interest rate risk.
And when you see our Q you'll see the rate -- the ramp and shock are basically in line with prior quarters relative to the effect on our interest rate risk position.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last one is just servicing fees are still down year-over-year against a big improvement in the market levels and a lot of new business wins.
And Jay you touched on this in your written commentary in the release.
How much is the negative impact from low volumes and activity? And what do we need to really see that servicing line start to do what it can do? Sure.
You're right about the year-over-year and I would say it's -- the most material factor underpinning that is this -- a derisking that I tried to come on to which is as our customers shift their asset allocation more to less risky assets fixed income and money market versus equity global equity emerging market equity there is a meaningful change in revenue per unit of asset.
And that's not even including the foreign exchange associated with that.
So I think that it's a little bit frustrating particularly against a backdrop of better equity market although that equity market growth is based on some pretty thin volumes.
And we're just not seeing any broad-based movement to rerisking.
So I think the other question you asked Ken is what would it take to change that.
I intentionally in my prepared remarks talked a little bit about Europe which to me feels better.
I think that if we could -- if Europe looks like just a long grinding recovery versus high event risk and I think we're moving to that second phase where the likelihood of event risk declines.
And then I think the focus has moved to the U.S.
elections fiscal cliff.
You could paint a scenario that as Europe continues to reduce its tail risk and the U.S.
gets through the end of the year and the first part of next year if there was a scenario where the fiscal cliff got resolved I think the confidence level which underpins the thing that's pressuring our service fee revenue I think you could make an argument that that's a real positive.
And that would cause people to move into riskier assets which would have a pretty meaningful effect on our revenues.
So same assets but allocated differently and then you'd also bring on the foreign exchange volumes the volatility so so.
That tries to explain why the year-over-year is where it is and attempts to give you a scenario where maybe confidence improves rerisking occurs.
And that should result in some pretty meaningful upside to us.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
And his line disconnected.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Jay just as we see some time lines to U.S.
derivatives reform I was hoping you could update us on just where we are in some of these tactical opportunities that I know you're excited about and positioning the firm for in asset servicing side things like collateral management and derivatives.
How long is this going to take to play out in your mind? I think it's -- stubbornly it's taking a little longer than anybody thought.
The CFTC is pushing hard but the rulemaking has been a bit slow although steady.
We have -- and as you rightly point out we've put a fair amount of investment into both derivative-clearing initiatives as well as collateral management.
And we have customers onboard so we're even ahead of the final rules from the CFTC regarding derivatives clearing.
The buy side is moving to essentially clear some of these things even before they have to which maybe isn't surprising.
And so we're starting to see customers we're starting to see small amounts of revenue.
I think that as the rules get finalized with specific dates we should start to see a steady stream of revenue associated with these initiatives.
And we think it could be material over time.
So we still believe in it and the regulations have been slow but it hasn't deterred us from investing in the platforms and the expertise to position ourselves for it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Ed just follow up on the reinvestment environment.
Just looking at 2013 putting aside frictional deposit impact just how much of the floating portfolio do you anticipate is scheduled to roll off? And just what are some of the examples of securities you're investing in I mean that kind of land us at that 10 to 12 basis point compression? Yes.
About $9 billion or so of floating rate we expected to reset next year for a total of about $15 billion for the year Howard.
And the way that we get to the QE3 effect which again is incremental to what we said previously and puts us at about 12 basis point decline in NIM year-over-year is the following okay? Our fixed-rate runoff yield is about 3.2%.
Our new purchases that we expect next year about 1.2% principally mortgage-backed securities.
The difference is 2% obviously.
Already in the 10 to 12 basis point was about 150% so the effect of QE3 is an incremental 50 basis points.
And 50 basis points on the $6 billion of fixed-rate runoff is $30 million.
We're going to average that over the year so that's how I get the $15 billion.
And I say $15 million to $20 million of NIR effect.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just I mean given the challenging environment I mean are you all thinking about anything different on the funding cost side? Not really.
I think we're pretty low.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just final one from me.
With respect to the foreign exchange business I mean Jay you noted the low volatility.
But I mean you've been discussing kind of the channel mix shift within that business pretty actively for the past year.
I mean what inning are we in? How much left do you all see here? We see some movement away from -- well let me back up.
The movement from custody FX to its other forms our pricing is in the service we have daily electronic servicing tied to an index.
That movement has ground away for years it's accelerated a bit over the course of the last year or so.
Middle innings late middle innings yes.
So it's -- some of it is work-through.
I think I would say an additional way to look at it the way we're looking at it is there's some inevitability to these trading businesses as they go electronic.
And for us the objective is to retain the volume to move it to platforms that fit customer needs.
And by the way some customers believe that custody FX is the right fit for them.
And in addition if you look at the foreign exchange franchise that we have here there's a fair amount of noncustody business.
So we've demonstrated that we can grow that business independent of the custody franchise.
And we view this as an opportunity to gain share.
So we think we've gained share.
We know we have the widest variety of options to trade foreign exchange at least among the trust bank universe.
And so what we're doing is trying to gain more volume through more options to offset the natural compression spread that occurs from a voice-traded security to a electronic-traded security.
But probably middle innings.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just one more on the portfolio.
That was good color on the reinvestment side of it.
Just the 1.2% MBS reinvestment yield that you mentioned Ed for your sort of projections for next year.
Is that also the current yield that you would be investing in right now? Or are we a little bit lower than that right now? We're a little bit lower.
I mean it went down I think about 85 basis points when the QE3 was first announced.
And I think we're a little bit below the 120 level now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're assuming a little bit of steepening in that in your NIM guidance for next year? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
And then on the premium amortization the coupons that you're buying at are pretty -- or the premium that you're buying at is fairly low.
But was there a significant impact of premium amortization acceleration this quarter given prepayment speeds going up? Well we're not buying premium mortgages Brian.
No I mean we had some prepayments in the U.S.
in the quarter that served to actually depress our net interest revenue a bit in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just to switch back over to the comp-to-revenue outlook so can you just remind me then what that guidance implies for the fourth quarter comp-to-revenue ratio if the revenue environment let's say stays stable in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter? If the revenue environment stayed stable I think we'd probably be in the position where we're considering some adjustments as we work through the quarter.
So speaking on that basis with that assumption I'd say we're probably in the 39% or a little bit below type range for the fourth quarter Brian.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jay as you mentioned earlier going into 2013 to get the comp-to-revenue below 40% and obviously as the IT and ops transformation program helps that.
If we do stay in let's say a flattish revenue environment in 2013 do we still think you can get significantly below the 40%? Or would you be more right around 40% inclusive of that first quarter additional noncash comp? I would say it's probably a little premature to comment on that.
What I can say is as you know we've got I think it's $200 million of saves associated with IT and ops next year.
So that should be a big factor.
But we're still as you'd expect going through the overall planning for 2013 to determine where we'll peg revenue based on different scenarios and what expense actions we're going to take.
So I'd prefer to hold on that one until we get to the fourth quarter and give you maybe a more informed response to that.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sure.
No that makes sense.
And then just lastly if you can comment Jay on the repricing environment.
Obviously we continue to be in a fairly subdued market-based revenue environment as you talked about.
What is your outlook say over the next 6 to 12 months and sort of your ability to generate higher revenue realization rates off of the assets that you're administering? And if you can include comments of -- or include in that -- within that a cross-sell of additional services -- your expectation of cross-sell of additional services into that cost inside [ph] base? Yes.
I would say pretty good progress Brian.
I think I mentioned in a prior quarter that we've got a fairly structured and organized approach to client profitability where people fall below margins.
We've gone out with a couple of waves waves being groups hundreds of customers where we have proposed fee increases and the take has been good.
The clients largely have accepted fee increases as you'd expect where we're starting towards the lower end of our account base.
But we've been pleased with the response and so we're moving up the client base.
I think your cross-sell comment is pertinent here because we're a little bit indifferent to how we improve the economics of an individual account relationship.
And in fact we probably prefer to sell them more services which would collect the net income deficit that we have on our side and grow our revenue stream.
And I think we're particularly well positioned when you think about the range and breadth of product that we have to do that.
So you'll see -- I think you asked over the next 6 to 12 months.
Progressively we'll work up the account base and make sure that we get to all the relationships that we have.
And as I say I think we have the best toolkit available in order to remedy situations where client profitability has dropped below our target margin.
So good progress.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Ed I wanted to kind of touch upon something you talked about a couple of quarters ago which is once everything is said and done the pretax margin benefits should be about 400 basis points from the time you announced the program.
So given the fact that it feels like the revenue environment is a little worse especially in some of the higher-margin bucket NII FX declining et cetera do you guys still feel comfortable around that 400 basis point margin expansion? Or do you need to do more on the cost side to achieve that target? Well we're going to continue to work on the cost side.
As we've said many times on the call Alex the ops and IT transformation program is progressing on track.
But I think that you have to go back and look at the basis upon which we said the 400 basis points would be achieved.
And that was pegged off of the 2010 results with all else being equal.
And obviously the world has changed since then.
But let me try to break down for you where we think we are relative to the operating margin on a pretax basis given the success that we've had on the transformation program.
And I'll do it comparing September year-to-date this year versus September year-to-date last year.
And I think that's the best way to do it.
And given what we've done on the transformation program that should drive 120 basis points of margin improvement okay? We consider that to be part of the core of the company of the business.
You have to adjust secondly for the one-time items that occurred in both '11 and '12.
And that actually depresses margin by about 50 basis points and those are principally securities gains and some nonrecurring items that we've called out over time.
So you've got a depression of 50 basis points on the margin.
You have 120 basis points of improvement in ops and IT.
And that leaves you with the core okay including the ops and IT achievement of up about 40 basis points for your -- I'm sorry down about 40 basis points for about your 90 basis point decline in margin okay? So we break it down really those 3 buckets the ops and IT achievement the effect of that on the core and then the adjustment for the one-timers.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And my second question is Jay you mentioned we're heading back into CCAR times.
So when you guys think about the preference for dividend over buyback -- I don't know if it's too early to talk about it but clearly it feels like there's preference for dividends for some of the financial institutions that could pay it out.
What's your appetite for bumping up the dividend maybe closer to I don't know like a 30% payout versus what it is now or maybe even above that? Yes.
A good question Alex.
And as you pointed out we're in CCAR season almost into CCAR season.
And you'll also recall I think it's the fourth cycle that with regard to dividends the Fed has been -- has provided some guidance let's say around appropriate levels of dividends.
And 30% is the number that we've all been kind of managed to.
I think that as we go into the stress test my comments about Europe which I think have kind of broadly understood hopefully it will cause the Fed to as they have in the previous years provide a little more latitude or a little bit more nuance to banks that are very well capitalized such as ourselves versus others.
So we would expect more and more flexibility as time goes on.
The dividend versus the -- first off I should say that our expectation and I think Ed referenced this is that returning capital to shareholders is our #1 priority.
So the rate that we're running at today we would hope to at least be the same going into the next cycle.
And depending on what other signals we get from the Fed that could be adjusted.
With regard to the mix of dividend versus buyback we look at that every year.
If we have flexibility we'll look at whether or not it makes sense.
And by the way we derive a lot of our input from talking to shareholders over time.
We'll make that determination.
But up until now there hasn't been too much latitude.
I think you're aware of this.
The latitude changes then we'll assess the mix as well as the overall return level.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Ketron with UBS.
Research Division</strong> In terms of thinking about the revenue environment or the current environment and the impact that it's had on revenue go back earlier this year you'd made the comments predicated on moderate revenue growth you would have a certain comp payout ratio.
The fact that revenues have trended to more of a kind of a flat year-over-year growth basis is the way to think about the revenue opportunity being flat versus moderate growth more of that takeaway is due to just lower activity lower volatility levels and I guess impact on margin? And then if we did see that return that would get you back to more of the moderate revenue growth that you were maybe expecting earlier this year? Absolutely.
And I would further to that Greg say that this derisking thing which is a newer phenomenon in the past several quarters same applies.
So I take it back to confidence the world gets better investors more likely to take more risk.
As investors take more risk they move out into equity global equity emerging equity that drives higher revenues that drives higher activity volumes as in trading volumes higher FX.
So the other way of responding to your question is we're working very hard to make sure that the core revenue lines have the appropriate level of expense offset against them.
We're working in this constrained environment where low confidence levels low interest rates are casting a pall on many of our variable revenues.
I think as we move through this and get our -- right-size our expenses against those core revenues there should be a lot of leverage on the upside once things break and confidence restores.
And that's what we're playing for.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Thanks for the color on that Jay.
And then Ed maybe on the excess liquidity or if you look at the deposit levels do you have a sense for how much in excess deposits you have today and what kind of impact that is having on the margin? They're staying about where they were in the third quarter Greg.
No significant increase or decrease at this point so in that $15 billion $16 billion average range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how much that may be weighing on margin? Well I mean we said at the beginning of the year that we expected excess deposits to average about $11 billion for the year.
Unless something significant happens in the fourth quarter that probably won't materialize.
And predicated on that assumption we put the range of our NIM out for the year Greg 145 to 155.
So if excess deposits are higher which we probably expect above the $11 billion average that's the basis for us saying we'll probably be around the middle of the range for the year in terms of NIM.
If the opposite were true we'd obviously be in a higher position relative to NIM.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the charges that are out there potentially for deposits in certain parts of Europe do you expect that they have any meaningful or noticeable impact? You're talking about our announcement that we're going to charge negative rates relative to Swiss and krona? Research Division</strong> Yes.
No we don't expect that to have a significant effect.
They're fairly immaterial currencies to us.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Hopson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the asset management trends.
I know there were a couple of larger items.
But anything beyond the ETF business that we've already talked about anything else that would be driving the pipeline? And then on the asset management flows were those through the full quarter? I know the ETFs were particularly strong in September.
But was the other mandate in for the full quarter? Yes.
Let me take that one Jeff.
As far as overall trends a little bit of reflection of my broader comments which is we're seeing flows into passive asset categories cash.
I think cash was up $5 billion in the quarter.
So it tends to be the more conservative asset classes.
Having said that our new products the 54 new products that we introduced good flows into those too.
So mixed but anchored around lower-risk assets.
With regard to the large Asian-based passive fixed income mandate that was installed in mid-September so kind of later end of the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then finally on the expenses in Q4 in regard to the comp number anything that we should think about in terms of accrual adjustments et cetera that would affect the number otherwise? Well I mean we'll determine where we're going to set the incentive comp levels up the chain with the normal year-end process.
And out of that could come some accrual adjustments certainly.
It depends on how the year ultimately sorts out from a performance standpoint.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
I hand the program back over to Mr.
Jay Hooley for closing remarks.
Yes.
Thanks Christy.
And thanks everybody for your attention and good questions.
We look forward to talking to all of you at the end of the year.
Thanks.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This call's also being recorded for replay.
State Street's call is copyrighted.
All rights are reserved.
The call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without expressed written authorization from State Street.
The only authorized broadcast of this call is housed on State Street's website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to introduce Valerie Haertel Senior Vice President of Investor Relations of State Street.
Thank you Christy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings conference call.
Our fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings materials include a presentation that Jay Hooley our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ed Resch our Chief Financial Officer will refer to in their remarks.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP or operating basis measures to GAAP measures referenced on this webcast as well as other materials can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before Jay and Ed begin their discussion of our results I would like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements and as a result to various important factors including those discussions in State Street's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the section on risk factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today January 18 2013.
The corporation does not intend to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
Now I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman President and CEO Jay Hooley.
Thanks Valerie and good morning everyone.
As Valerie noted our remarks will follow the financial highlights slide presentation that we issued with our earnings press release this morning.
In this morning Ed and I will focus our remarks on the fourth quarter and make select comments regarding our full year 2012 financial results then we'll share some initial observations about our expectations for 2013.
While 2012 was another challenging year for the financial services industry due to the global economic backdrop and increased regulatory requirements we remain committed to our strategic and operational priorities.
In the fourth quarter we delivered on those priorities driving new revenue growth while leveraging the scale of our core business and returning capital to shareholders.
And as we begin 2013 I'm confident that we'll continue to deliver on these priorities this year.
I'm going to make a few comments on our performance which you can follow on the slide deck and I'll begin on Page 3.
On an operating basis fourth quarter 2012 earnings per share increased 12% to $1.11 from the third quarter and 19% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Revenue growth coupled with prudent expense control including the savings realized from our business operations and IT transformation program produced positive operating leverage on a sequential quarter year-ago quarter and full-year basis.
This morning we announced additional actions we are taking to lower our expenses going into 2013 to align with our business outlook for the year.
We announced the reduction of approximately 630 positions or about 2% of our workforce.
While decisions regarding our people are among the most difficult we make we fully recognize the need to adjust our workforce and locations around the globe in response to a challenging and changing revenue environment.
These reductions underscore our continuing efforts to create a linear more efficient and more profitable enterprise.
Now I'd like to make a few comments regarding the business environment equity markets and client activity.
The global equity markets rose during the fourth quarter with the EAFE daily average increasing 5.2% and the S&amp;P 500 daily average increasing 1.2%.
Those as opposed to the third quarter.
While the economic situation in Europe appears to be stabilizing concerns around the U.S.
fiscal cliff kept many investors on the sidelines in the fourth quarter.
But during the quarter equity markets improved but clients remain conservative until the back end of the fourth quarter when we saw a noticeable re-risking by some of our clients as they shifted allocations for more conservative fixed income investments to domestic and global equities.
As we begin 2013 client re-risking has continued as you see from recent data market data about equity flows.
In spite of what feels like a positive start to the year in client risk appetite we remain conservative in our expectations for the market and cautious regarding investors' willingness to take on additional risk.
If I turn to our revenue and new business results in the fourth quarter we continue to generate solid core fee revenue and experienced momentum from significant business wins.
Total operating basis revenue increased 3% to $2.46 billion from the third quarter of 2012 and 7% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our fourth quarter results include the acquired Goldman Sachs Administration Services business that we closed on October 2012.
Importantly we experienced some early cross-sell success as we introduced our new clients to an expanded range of State Street services.
Core fee revenue comprised of asset servicing and asset management fees increased 4% from the third quarter to $1.4 billion.
Our fourth quarter results reflect continued strong demand for our products and solutions across our global client base.
The fourth quarter was the strongest quarter of the year for new business and asset servicing.
New asset servicing mandates was $649 billion split roughly 86% from the U.S.
and 14% from outside the U.S.
And of that $649 billion $143 billion was installed prior to December 31 2012 and $506 billion is expected to be installed in 2013.
Also included in our new assets to be serviced are 92 new alternative asset servicing mandates.
If I turn to our asset management business State Street Global Advisors had a strong quarter and year due to improved global equity markets strong long-term flows into higher-yielding strategies and disciplined expense controls.
Net new assets to be managed totaled $24 billion for the quarter and that excludes net outflows in short-term cash collateral related to securities lending.
Of the $24 billion $13 billion went into ETFs with the remainder flowing into the institutional channel including passive equity strategies and fixed income as well as some money market assets.
With any ETF product line asset classes gaining new inflows with the SPDR S&amp;P 500 fund the gold fund and the high-yield fixed income fund.
Of note is that year-to-date ETF assets under management is at a record level of $340 billion reflecting a 24% increase year-over-year.
In both asset servicing and asset management our pipelines continue to be strong and well-diversified.
If I move you to Slide 4 market-driven revenue remains under pressure from subdued capital market activity low levels of volatility and low interest rates.
In trading services foreign exchange trading revenue for the fourth quarter increased compared to the third quarter due to higher direct FX volumes while volatility continues to be challenging.
Securities finance revenue declined in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter as a result of spread compression between the fed funds to 3-month LIBOR rate as well as lower volume.
Our net interest margin on an operating basis declined to 136 basis points from the third quarter due to persistent low interest rate environments and the continued high levels of excess deposits.
Now if I turn to expenses.
We continue to demonstrate good control over our expenses while continuing to invest selectively in the business to fuel future growth.
While fourth quarter operating basis expenses increased 3% we achieved positive operating leverage.
We're pleased with the expense reductions related -- generated to date through our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
And in the fourth quarter we were able to accelerate some expense savings from the program achieving $112 million in incremental pretax savings in 2012 and $198 million accumulative expense savings through the end of 2012.
Our transformation program remains on track to deliver the expected savings in 2013 and through the end of 2014.
I'm also pleased that we achieved a comp to revenue ratio of 39.4% for the full year reflecting our emphasis on strong expense control.
Let me now move you to Slide 5.
Our financial strength and disciplined approach to capital management have enabled us to maintain consistently strong capital ratios under Basel I and the proposed Basel III standards based on our understanding of the proposed rules.
In early January we submitted our 2013 CCAR plan to the Federal Reserve which included a capital distribution program of dividends and share purchases that we believe is consistent with our strong capital positions and earnings capacity.
The amount in form of our capital distribution is contingent upon the Federal Reserve not objecting to our request and we expect to receive the results of their review in mid to late March.
Distributing capital to our shareholders through common stock purchase and dividend programs remains a top priority as we continue to be very cautious in our approach to acquisitions.
In the fourth quarter we purchased approximately 11 million shares of our common stock for $480 million and we declared a $0.24 per share common dividend.
And as of December 31 there was approximately $360 million remaining available for purchase through March 31 2013 under our $1.8 billion authorization.
So in summary we're focused on growing revenue carefully controlling expenses and creating value for our clients and shareholders.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Ed to take you through the financials in a little more detail.
Ed? Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
I'll begin my comments on Slide 8 of the earnings presentation which shows a summary of operating basis fourth quarter results.
My comments this morning will be based on our operating basis results as defined in today's earnings news release.
GAAP results are presented earlier in the presentation and in the release.
Revenue increased 3.2% from the third quarter to $2.5 billion and 7% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Earnings per share demonstrated solid growth up 12% from $0.99 in the third quarter and up 19% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Additionally we generated positive operating leverage on a sequential quarter year-ago quarter and full-year basis.
Return on equity of 10.3% increased from 9.6% in the third quarter of 2012.
We purchased 480 million of common stock during the fourth quarter at an average price of $43.99 per share resulting in approximately 468 million average diluted shares outstanding during the quarter a reduction of 12.5 million average shares in the sequential quarter comparison.
Slide 9 shows a summary of our full year results.
Revenue for full year 2012 increased 1.7% primarily from net interest revenue servicing and asset management fees offset by lower trading revenues.
Our core asset servicing and asset management fees performed well in 2012 in a difficult economic environment with servicing fees up 1% and management fees up 8% from 2011.
Both increases are due to improved equity markets as well as new business partially offset by the impact of a stronger dollar.
2012 market-driven revenues included an approximate 10% increase in net interest revenue to $2.4 billion due primarily to higher interest earning assets partially offset by lower asset yields.
Our net interest margin for the year averaged 146 basis points compared to 152 basis points.
The year-over-year decline in our net interest margin was in large part driven by the $16 billion of average excess deposits in 2012 which was higher than we had originally projected at the beginning of last year and higher than the $10 billion we averaged in 2011.
2012 trading services revenue declined 17% from 2011 due to continued weakness in foreign exchange revenues.
Foreign exchange revenues for the year decreased 25% due to low volatility partially offset by higher volumes.
Expenses were well controlled in 2012 increasing 1.7% from 2011 slightly less than revenue growth resulting in 3 basis points of positive operating leverage.
Incremental expense primarily reflects new business and regulatory requirements.
Earnings per share increased 5.9% to $3.95 for 2012 and our ROE was 9.7% slightly lower than 2011.
For full year 2012 the company purchased approximately 33 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $1.4 billion.
Now let's turn to Slide 10 to discuss fourth quarter revenue drivers.
As you can see we continue to demonstrate strength in our core business.
Servicing fees increased 4.5% to $1.2 billion on a sequential quarter basis due to $24 million in revenue contributions from the acquired Goldman Sachs Administration Services business net new business and stronger global equity markets.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 servicing fees increased 8.8% due to the impact of a stronger global equity market net new business and acquisitions.
Investment management fees and SSgA were up 3.6% from the third quarter due to higher performance fees and stronger global equity markets.
Compared to the year-ago quarter investment management fees were up almost 29% driven by stronger equity markets net new business and higher performance fees.
Performance fees in the fourth quarter were $8.2 million up $4.3 million and $6.1 million from the third quarter and the year ago quarter respectively.
Money market fee waivers were approximately $5 million in the fourth quarter flat compared to the third quarter and down 60% versus the prior period.
Total trading services revenue compared to the third quarter of 2012 increased 4.7% driven by higher brokerage and other revenue including transition management and foreign exchange revenue.
Foreign exchange revenue increased 2.6% from the third quarter due primarily to a higher direct foreign exchange trading offset by lower volatility and a decline in indirect foreign exchange from the third quarter of 2012.
Our volumes in electronic foreign exchange trading increased in the fourth quarter on a sequential basis.
The increase in average daily volumes across all of our electronic FX platforms during the fourth quarter was about 5%.
In comparison to the same period the primary interbank foreign exchange platform vendors electronic broking system and Thomson Reuters reported an 8% and 12% decline respectively in the average foreign-exchange daily volumes traded across their platforms.
Foreign exchange revenue decreased 21% when compared to the fourth quarter in 2011 primarily due to lower volatility partially offset by higher volumes.
Securities finance revenues was $74 million a decline of 19% and 18% from the third quarter of 2012 and the fourth quarter of 2011 respectively.
The decreases from both periods reflect lower spreads and volumes.
Securities on loan averaged $305 billion for the fourth quarter of 2012 a decrease of 5% from the third quarter and 10% from the fourth quarter of last year due to lower overall demand.
Processing fees and other revenue has been adjusted in the fourth quarter and in all prior periods presented to reflect a tax equivalent adjustment related to tax credits generated by tax-advantaged investments such as renewable energy and low-income housing.
This adjustment enables management to compare revenue from all investments on a tax-equivalized or pretax basis similar to adjustments recorded to net interest revenue related to tax-exempt securities.
For your benefit we have included a table in Addendum B of the earnings presentation outlining the effective line items with and without the adjustment for the fourth quarter of 2012 as well as its effect on selected financial ratios.
The adjustments which are $36 million for the fourth quarter and $126 billion for the year are offset by an equivalent amount of income tax expense and has no impact on our net income or earnings per share.
Processing fees and other revenue increased 37% from the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to a $12-million increase in revenue from joint ventures which included a $7-million gain from the sale of an asset.
Additionally the quarter included a $10 million gain from the sale of a Lehman-related asset.
Processing fees and other revenue increased 92% from the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to a $25-million negative fair value adjustment related to exiting the fixed income trading initiative in the fourth quarter of 2011 as well as an increase in revenue associated with tax-advantaged investments.
Net interest revenue on a fully-taxable equivalent basis declined 1.8% from the third quarter primarily due to the lower yields on earning assets as the result of the persistent low interest rate environment.
As we have noted higher-yielding fixed-rate securities in our investment portfolio are maturing or paying down and being reinvested at lower rates while floating-rate assets are resetting at market rates.
Our net interest margin was 136 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to 144 basis points in the third quarter of 2012 and 140 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2011.
During the quarter excess deposits remained elevated averaging approximately $15 billion a slight decrease from $16 billion in the third quarter.
Turning to expenses on Slide 11.
You can see that overall expenses were well-controlled for the quarter.
Total expenses increased 3% compared to the third quarter an increase to 4.8% from the year ago quarter.
Included in expenses for the fourth quarter of 2012 is $13 million related to the acquisition of the Goldman Sachs Administration Services business that was closed on October 15 2012.
Compensation and employee benefits expenses were down slightly compared to the third quarter despite the incremental compensation assumed with the Goldman transaction and the support of new business.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 compensation employee benefits increased 4.9% due to higher benefit and incentive compensation costs merit increases granted earlier in the year and acquisitions partially offset by the savings realized from our business operations and IT transformation program.
In the fourth quarter the compensation-to-revenue ratio was 37.2%.
Excluding the taxable equivalent adjustment for tax-advantaged investments included in processing fees and other revenue the compensation-to-revenue ratio was 37.7% for the quarter.
Compared to the third quarter of 2012 and the fourth quarter of 2011 information systems and communications expenses increased 10.9% and 20.0% respectively.
The increases from both periods were primarily related to the planned transition of certain functions to service providers as part of the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program as well as additional cost to support growth in the business.
These expenses are expected to continue to ramp up with a slight increase over the fourth quarter run rate into 2013 as we finalize the program implementation and transition to our service providers.
The business operations IT transformation program continues to be on track.
Realization of expense savings accelerated during the fourth quarter and we achieved $112 million in incremental pretax expense savings for full year 2012 which is slightly ahead of our third quarter guidance of $90 million to $100 million of expected savings for 2012.
In the fourth quarter our nonrecurring expenses related to the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program were approximately $36 million.
These nonrecurring expenses should trail off in 2013 and 2014 as we near completion of the program.
The cumulative expense savings through the end of 2012 were $198 million.
For 2013 we continue to anticipate achieving approximately $220 million in incremental pretax expense savings resulting in approximately $418 million of cumulative savings.
For the entire program we expect to achieve consistent with our initial forecast cumulative pretax savings in the range of $575 million to $625 million by 2015 compared to year end 2010 all else equal.
Now turning to transaction processing.
These expenses were up about 5% from the third quarter due to both higher market levels and volumes in the asset servicing business.
Lastly other expenses increased approximately 5% from the third quarter of 2012 driven by higher legal and regulatory cost partially offset by a onetime Lehman-related client recovery of $14 million.
Now I will turn to the balance sheet investment portfolio highlights on Slide 12.
As outlined in the top half of the slide the key elements of our strategy remain unchanged.
Our investment portfolio as of December 31 2012 was $120 billion an increase of $5 billion from September 30 2012.
We have a solid credit profile with 89% of our portfolio securities rated triple or double A.
The duration of the investment portfolio was 1.7 years at December 31 2012 an increase from 1.5 years at September 30 2012.
As of December 31 2012 53% of our investment portfolio was invested in floating-rate securities and 47% in fixed-rate securities.
The aggregate net unrealized aftertax gain in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios as of December 31 2012 was $698 billion compared to a net unrealized after-tax gain of $577 million as of September 30 2012.
The improvement in the quarter was due primarily to narrower spreads.
During the fourth quarter we invested about $11 billion dollars in primarily AA-rated securities at an average price of 101.5 with an average yield of 1.75% and duration of 4.28 years.
Of the $11 billion we invested $6.2 billion in agencies and agency debentures and $3 billion in asset-backed securities with the remaining investments spread among various asset classes.
The duration GAAP of the entire balance sheet at year end was .36 years up from .28 years at September 30 2012.
The increase was primarily due to fixed-rate portfolio purchases.
Turning to capital.
Slide 13 has a summary of our strong capital position.
Our capital ratios are displayed on this slide.
As of December 31 2012 our Tier 1 common ratio was 17.1%.
Our estimated pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio under the Basel III NPRs as we currently understand them was 10.8%.
Also as of December 31 2012 the estimated pro forma Tier 1 common ratio under the Basel III NPRs including estimated effects of scheduled runoff and anticipated reinvestment of the securities affected by the SSFA through January 1 2015 would be 11.9%.
These estimates are subject to change based on several factors.
As you know the Basel III rules are not yet filed and certain of our models are still under review by the Federal Reserve.
As a reminder in the third quarter of 2012 the company issued fixed-rate perpetual preferred stock and redeemed its floating-rate perpetual preferred stock to take advantage of favorable market conditions.
As a result we declared and recorded 2 preferred dividend payments in the third quarter and accordingly did not record a dividend in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We expect to return to the normal pattern of declaring quarterly preferred dividends in the first quarter of 2013.
To summarize our fourth quarter our strong performance was driven by solid core fee revenue growth and a continued focus on controlling expenses.
There were several onetime items totaling approximately $36 million on a pretax basis that favorably impacted our results most of which I discussed when explaining sequential quarter changes.
Slide 14 outlines our outlook and assumptions for 2013.
Looking ahead to 2013 we expect to continue challenging market environment despite the recent rise in equity markets.
We are resuming for planning purposes for the S&amp;P to increase 5% above 2012's daily average and the EAFE to increase approximately 2% above the 2012 daily average.
With respect to net interest margin.
For 2013 we currently expect our average earnings assets to grow in a range of 1% to 4% and our operating basis net interest margin to be in the range of 130 to 140 basis points assuming interest rates spreads and prepayments fees remain at their current levels through 2013.
The impact of the expiration of the Transaction Account Guarantee program resulted in approximately $7 billion of deposits leaving our balance sheet since December 31 2012.
Given the expiration of TAG and absent any significant U.S.
debt ceiling impacts we expect to invest the remaining customer deposits in either highly liquid money market-type assets including central bank deposits or in investment portfolio assets depending on our assessment of the deposit characteristics.
We expect to remain on track to deliver an additional pretax savings of approximately $220 million in 2013 from our business operations and IT transformation program and we remain focused on controlling expenses across the company.
We expect the compensation-to-revenue ratio to continue to decline in 2013 as we realize incremental savings from our Business Operations and IT Transformation Program.
Our expectation is for a continued challenging operating environment in 2013.
In light of this uncertainty we will not provide a specific compensation to revenue target for 2013.
We'll continue to report the progress of our Business Operations and IT Program each quarter.
I would like to remind you that as in previous years the first quarter of 2013 compensation and benefits expense will be higher due to the effect of the accounting treatment of equity compensation for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes.
We expect the incremental amount attributed to equity compensation for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes in the first quarter of 2013 to be approximately $125 million up from the $100 million incremental amount in Q1 2012 over Q1 2011.
To align our expense base to the challenging environment in 2013 particularly related to our market-driven revenues we recorded acquisition restructuring cost of $139 million primarily related to a reduction force of approximately 630 positions.
Most of the reduction in the headcount will be completed by 2013 and we expect the payback period of about 1.5 years due to the timing of employee departures.
The effective tax rate on an operating basis for full year 2013 is expected to be generally consistent with the last 2 years in the range of 23% to 25%.
And finally and importantly we will continue to optimize our strong capital position and return capital on the form of share purchases and dividends.
Now I'll turn the call back to Jay.
Thanks Ed.
Let me briefly conclude our comments with 3 points: One in the fourth quarter we delivered solid results in a very challenging economic environment and demonstrated core business momentum.
We've continued to invest in our business expanding the range of solutions we are able to deliver to our clients balancing this investment with aggressively controlling our cost.
And I remain confident in the secular trends that underpin the prospects for growth in this business and I believe we have the right focus in the short-term to position us well for continued strong performance.
I'd like to say we appreciate our ongoing dialogue with shareholders and look forward to continuing to update you on the progress of our company.
And with that I'd like to open the call for questions Christy.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Howard Chen.
Research Division</strong> Jay you've read your commentary noting the recent re-risking that you've seen across the business.
I realize we're probably early in that process but can you help us size how much you believe that cumulatively maybe weighed on your servicing fees last year and how much you potentially have kind of recaptured so far with what you've seen? Yes I would say it's probably hard to size it Howard but I would just -- directionally we saw it at the back end of the fourth quarter kind of into December where there was a noticeable move of clients rotating from fixed income or lower-risk assets into equities and then as well as some cross-border assets.
Europe was a fair amount of that focus.
And then you've seen as we've turned the corner into 2013 you've seen some industry stats with regard to equity flows.
That trend continues.
I think your question is really pointed towards that effect in the fourth quarter of 2012 fairly moderate not a big factor given where it fell in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then separately I wanted to clarify the expense commentary.
On the additional workforce actions that you announced today what do you anticipate the savings relating to those are? And I wanted to confirm that that's incremental to the business Ops and IT transformation program that you've all been working on for a few years now.
Yes it is Howard.
It is absolutely incremental.
The savings are in the range of $90 million annualized so the payback's about 18 months on it.
And as I said driven by largely the timing of the departures of the employees.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So just a quick follow-up on that Ed.
If we put everything together your rate and market outlook for the year the acquisition that was done I know you won't -- don't want to guide to a comp ratio but how do we think about the puts and takes of overall expenses 2013 versus 2012? Well I mean again it's largely driven by the -- first of all operating leverage is paramount right? So our thinking coming into 2013 is we're driving toward a year where we have positive operating leverage.
Related to that though is the issue of how robust or not the market-driven revenues may or may not be in the year.
So that'll largely drive the expense performance I would say.
But we're not planning on robust market-driven revenues as I hope -- I've noted in my comments.
So our expectation is that we'll be able to drive -- our plan is to drive positive operating leverage notwithstanding that okay? Now there are puts and takes.
We're -- we expect to achieve $220 million on the Ops and IT.
We expect to achieve some benefit as I said on the reduction in force.
But I'm not in a position to give you a number for the full year on expense growth overall Howard.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ed I was wondering if you could just kind of walk us through the changes and some of the tax stuff and where it's located relative to the improvement on the forward tax rate that you're expecting.
How does that all net out versus just kind of a re-showing and restating? I mean was anything incremental? Or is this just a logical restatement and they're showing it differently? Well there's couple of things I think to your question Ken one in terms of the way in which we're presenting the tax-advantaged investments.
We think that's a more meaningful presentation so we're just presenting them similarly to how we present municipal securities i.e.
grossing them up to present them on a pretax basis okay? So the effect there is for the year to increase the processing fee and other line by $126 million okay and the related impact to the tax line so no net effect.
In terms of the tax rate for the year and moving forward we expect 2013 to be broadly similar in terms of the effective rate to 2012 okay? That is driven by an assumption of relatively the same mix and if the market opportunities present themselves an increase in tax-advantaged investment activity during 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the 24% 26% -- the 23% to 25% guidance there was definitely lower than you had been thinking about previously though? And but part of that presentation and part of that is what you're investing in differently? I'm sorry Ken can you repeat the beginning part of the question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to understand the tax rate of 23% to 25% going forward is definitely lower than you had expected it previously.
And then how much of that is just the presentation change versus any incremental investment that you're making that affect it incrementally? Yes I mean if there is an incremental effect in 2013 it's because of an expected increase again assuming the opportunities are presented to avail ourselves of more tax-advantaged investment opportunities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it got it.
All right.
And then the second question I just want to come back on the net interest margin outlook and understanding that the range that you gave is a little broader but it's certainly in line with how you've been talking about it versus the full year 2012.
What I want to try to understand is at what point do we get to a -- even in all things equal on rates how close -- how much closer are we to the bottoming of the margin? So on full year we'd presume that you're still exiting '13 lower each quarter but are we closer by the end of this year to getting flattened out on the margin? Closer but again assuming the low rate environment persists for the next couple of years our estimate is that it would bottom out at around 120 of net interest margin and that's toward the end of '14 2014.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so the same context of the annual rollovers will still happen unless there's a meaningful change in the rate environment.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then the last thing for me is securities finance.
Everyone's seeing the challenges in the business.
With regards to activity and spreads can you just give us a little more color of what's going on in that business line? How quickly does that business or could that business react to a change in improvement on the broader side? Does it lag? Does it lead? Any color there would be helpful.
Yes let me take that one Ken.
I think it probably lags the recovery in the economy and re-risking.
And that business is really a byproduct of leverage put on by hedge funds and the demand for borrowed securities.
So I would say with recovering economic environment re-risking I think you'd see a greater demand for borrowed securities.
The business can ramp very quickly.
The customers that have committed their securities to the program continue to have their securities committed.
And it's really just a matter of demand in the market which can change quickly.
Spreads as you know get influenced by the market so the volume can flip pretty quickly.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Lee.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question I had would it be possible to get a -- I'm kind of curious a little about fee differentials between the alternative business and the traditional asset servicing business.
I mean you broke out a little bit the contribution from the recent acquisition.
But if I think of the $1.15 billion of servicing fees I think number one it'd be helpful to get some sense of how much of that is being driven by your ALTs business which I'm presuming is growing at a faster rate.
And any kind of color you can give on how kind of the fee dynamics may differ between that and the rest of the book? Which I hadn't -- I know it's hard to do it varies all over the place.
But any kind of color you can give on kind of the mix and trend would be great.
Yes let me try that.
The new business flows are actually pretty balanced between long-only and alternatives.
We continue to cite alternatives because there's been continuous growth there and we think given our market position we're capturing more share than most.
I'd say the fee dynamics are pretty similar.
The -- in the alternatives business we have a middle office back office component.
Fees are quite similar in the alternative business increasingly over the past couple of years.
Some custody of cash has been included in the product mix.
So not a real difference.
I would say we continue to highlight it because the -- in the alternative segment we get growth 2 ways.
As flows come in and customers grow we get growth that way but there are still more outsourcing that's going on in the alternative segment particularly in the private equity in the real estate segment.
Hopefully that helps.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> It does.
But maybe just to follow up.
I mean in thinking about within the total revenues I mean is it still kind of in the -- well would it be in the kind of mid-teens kind of raised proportion of the total? I'm just trying to -- because that obviously from a modeling perspective maybe kind of helped a little bit with...
Yes let me -- give us a minute.
Maybe we can give you some direction in that.
So percentage of service fees alternatives as percentage of service fees is what you're trying to get at? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Right.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell.
Research Division</strong> Can you hear me? Yes we got you Brian.
Well we'll take your question and then we'll try to come back and answer Robert's question.
Research Division</strong> Sure yes yes okay.
So I guess along the lines of the new asset servicing mandates can you give us a sense of first of all how much -- in addition to the $506 billion that's going to be converted in 2013 how much is left to be installed from prior new wins? And then just talk a little bit about the cross-sell that you alluded to with the GSAS business.
It looks like operating margin there is around 45%.
Just trying to get a sense of sort of along the lines of Rob's question how incrementally positive the growth in that business can be for your overall servicing effort and for operating margins.
Yes let me try to take those couple questions Brian.
I'll give you a little color on the $630 billion.
Ed maybe can talk about the GSAS margin that we saw in the fourth quarter.
Overall robust quarter for new business growth as I mentioned in my comments pre-mix and some -- a couple of large competitive wins that we saw where we had pretty good pricing on which we're happy with.
The -- I gave you the breakdown of the $630 billion what was installed last year what will be installed this year.
And this year it'll roughly phase-in over the 3 quarters of the year.
And by the way I said $630 billion it's really $649 billion our business mandates.
Ed do you have the last quarter what was installed; and what's left to be installed? That was another question Brian asked.
I do not have it at hand so we'll have to follow up with Brian.
We'll Follow up with you on that one Brian.
With regard to the GSAS business let me talk a little bit about the cross-sell and then Ed can comment on the margins that we experienced in the quarter.
As I mentioned when we announced the acquisition of the Goldman Sachs hedge fund administration business we thought it was a great business a sterling set of customers but we also thought that we had a broader product set that we could sell to that customer base.
And in the early days we've seen some success largely around reporting services things like PF reporting which is a routine reporting requirement for hedge funds.
We have a pretty nice little service offering many of the customers have taken it up.
We've engaged them in conversations about additional products and services that we can bring on still feel highly confident about the retention of 90-plus percent of that client base.
So it's largely playing out the way we thought we would and we're still pretty excited about it.
Ed on the margin in the fourth quarter do you want to comment on that? Sure.
The margin was benefited by a little bit lower level of expenses in the quarter Brian.
We're looking at the business as being around a 35% margin kind of business pretax.
So we did a -- better by about $3 million on the expense line than we projected.
We closed it October 15 everything's on track.
Revenue's coming in customers are retained.
But I'd be thinking about it more in a 30% 35% type margin context as opposed to 45%.
We got a little bit of a benefit in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So it's still better than your core servicing business it sounds like.
A little bit.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the balance sheet.
So your expectation it looks like around $170 billion size balance sheet if I have that correct for 2013 by your guidance.
Is that 1% to 4% up of 2012 averages? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay and so getting to that bottom of $120 billion I mean if we get yield curves steepening so no rate tightening of course but if we get the treasury curve moving up let's say 50 basis points or so over the next 6 to 12 months and MBS yields maybe not coming up quite that much but directionally moving there.
It -- I mean it's hard to say exactly how much upside but does that $120 billion -- and if we continue to get that curve steepening in 2014 does that $120 billion become obsolete and you'd start to get to the point where you get expansion from this $135 billion-ish range? Yes probably.
But I mean the $120 billion is the -- as to the question of what happens to the margin if rates stay this -- at these levels and very low for a protracted period of time i.e.
through 2015 as the fed's comments would suggest.
If we have a different set of -- a different sense of the market rates that we're dealing with because the world's changed then that $120 billion would change.
And you're describing a scenario where $120 billion would go to some number higher than $120 billion in all probability.
Research Division</strong> Right great.
And so then just for the maturity schedule roughly what's rolling off of your book every year that you can deploy into new securities? I can give you the runoff that we're planning on for 2013.
The runoff is just about $20 billion and that is split just about 50-50 floating and fixed.
And as we see 2014 if you want to go out that far it's $22 billion and that's split about 10 on floating and -- I'm sorry 12 on floating and 10 on fixed ballpark.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly as this -- as your projection is coming down from the fourth quarter I'd assume you're assuming excess deposits begin to roll off would that be incrementally helpful to them as well? Yes it would and it's incorporated into my comments on the NIM expectations for this year.
As we see the effects of TAG which I noted hitting our balance sheet we don't expect a decline in total customer deposits.
We just expect a decline in what we have called excess deposits.
So the deposits that we have and retain will invest accordingly.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr.
Research Division</strong> First question is if you look over the last say 4 or 5 quarters assets under custody grew nicely.
Servicing fees actually grew pretty well just not as much and I'm assuming that's a little bit of the mix shift and the de-risking that happened through 2012.
So I guess if the re-risking holds -- it doesn't have to zoom up from here but if it holds what we saw in the last couple of weeks 2013 could we expect a reversal meaning servicing fees grow at a higher pace than you see just on the positive mix change? I think the -- as you've heard Glenn in my comments the re-risking or the rotation to higher-risk assets back into the year first part in the year has been positive.
Our base case assumes that doesn't sustain itself based on whether it's the debt ceiling or any other number of factors that could influence investor behavior.
So that's our base case which I think is prudent.
If the re-risking -- if the rotation into equities and global equities were to sustain itself throughout the year which will be a very positive case then yes I think you would see that correlation between service fees and custody assets.
Again it's not -- we've seen this before over the last couple of years a quick start and no follow-through which is what we're assuming is going to happen.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Hope you're wrong.
Yes me too.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
In FX I think you compare nicely to a bunch of different peers of different flavors.
Assuming in my mind that Currenex has a little something to do with that but curious of the mix of business within FX.
Yes the -- I'll let Ed give you the specifics.
But we did have -- I think the FX environment is still not great.
Volatility continues to be constrained.
We've got a multifaceted and we think quite attractive foreign exchange proposition multiple ways to deliver foreign exchange.
And I think what we saw in the quarter is success not only in our direct foreign exchange which is where most of the positive quarter-to-quarter came from but as Ed mentioned we also continue to see growth in Currenex which is the high-speed foreign exchange platform where we not only grew but if the rest of the industry was down from a volume standpoint we were up.
So I think the trend is good and we think we're well positioned.
Hopefully volatility comes back then it gets even better.
Yes it was a good quarter Glenn from the perspective of volumes really across the board.
The direct business and custody FX increased slightly a little bit over 1%.
FX Connect was up over 8% Currenex was up over 2%.
So from a volume perspective a pretty good story really across all execution methods.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Final one in asset management land.
You're obviously in a sweet spot and it shows in your flows.
Curious what -- where margins are at these days and just overall profitability trends as I think that's the one area that you probably do have a pretty positive outlook on.
Yes I think the story of the fourth quarter I'm pleased with but I'm also pleased with the whole year.
I think we saw a pretty steady flow of net new flows into that business ETF being probably the dominant theme pretty consistently through the year.
And equally we did a good job in controlling expenses so I think we had a story in SSgA our asset manager where flows were good and they generated positive revenues.
And we got good operating leverage based on our good expense control.
As far as margins and...
And the margin is clearly improved.
I don't have it.
We'll have it in the 10-Q segment footnote Glenn.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to the expense discussion for a second.
When you look I guess at the run rate right now so like $1.7 billion for the quarter.
And maybe there's a little bit more of a couple one-offs that helped you guys so call it like a $1.73 billion or so.
So you're annualizing I guess at like 6 9.
Just from a core business perspective what do you guys think you need to grow that by on an annual basis to keep kind of where the business momentum and the core businesses? And then on top of that I'm assuming we'll obviously layer on the savings.
But can we try to tackle the question this way? Yes I mean and unfortunately I guess Alex the question is again answered in terms of how the market-driven revenues perform.
And as I said we're looking at the year cautiously from that perspective.
That's part of the reason why we took the actions that we announced today to better calibrate our expense base to that market outlook.
I will say though that overall for the year from a planning perspective we're coming in assuming planning on generating positive operating leverage for the full year okay? And that's with a conservative muted you could say look a view on the market-driven revenue.
So that's the way we've done it.
I'm -- I can't put a specific number on it in terms of what we think that that $6.9 billion is going to move to but we're incorporating all the cost of activities that we talked about the ops IT the reduction of force that we announced today in our planning.
Research Division</strong> Okay but I guess the reduction in force is really not hitting the numbers in 2013 right that this is going to be like a 2014 effect and it's incremental to the 140 that you highlighted.
Yes the employees will be leaving over the course of 2013 which is why there's not going to be a full year effect in 2013's expense numbers for those departures.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following up on the last question.
When I look at the business types that you guys are winning a lot of the alternatives; a lot of middle office the fee rate on those tends to be a little bit higher.
If we I guess extrapolate from the numbers that you've given us it feels like the Goldman business was maybe about 4 to 5 basis point type of fee rate.
So I guess holding everything else equal assuming that there's no incremental pickup in risk appetite and things kind of stay as they are should we still -- shouldn't we just still see an improvement in the kind of the core servicing fee rate just given the mix shift in the business? Yes I think broadly Alex it was really the question I answered to the -- in the answer to a prior question which is if we see the mix shift the mix shift being two things: one the shift in mix of investments that our customers invest in obviously a positive.
When we talk about alternatives versus long-only to make that broad differentiation we're seeing pretty good growth in both sides of those so I -- there's less of a mix shift effect on revenue growth from that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just I guess the last one on securities lending.
The balance just seems like you keep going down.
Any sign of stabilization? Where do you guys see this troughing out? I think I would have thought it was troughed out now.
It's really a demand in the market question.
I think it's hovered for many quarters in the 350 to 300 range.
There's just not much demand for borrowing of securities so I -- it's hard to call it.
I do -- to my earlier point I think markets heal customers re-risk.
That's one you'll likely to see the demand for borrowing recover.
And when it recovers I think you'll see a bounce in our securities lending business.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo.
Research Division</strong> On the business operation transformation program.
So I guess you have $200 million of savings the last 2 years and you look for $220 million of savings this year and I would say $200 million in 2014 roughly.
So in other words this should be the biggest payoff year from this 4-year kind of endeavor.
And so I'm just wondering how you feel about getting that big payoff.
I mean you started before many others in the industry to change how you operate.
How has the expected ROI tracked according to expectations? How far along are you in your cloud transformation? And what other color can you give us from the operational side? Sure.
Let me start that Mike.
And you're right the first 2 years ending '12 were $100 million a year roughly ramps to $220 million this year and $214 million is the plan that we've had from the beginning.
The progression has been correcting some -- or improving some processes moving to Centers of Excellence.
And then the third leg of that is really introducing new technology to further automate those core processes.
And we're squarely midstream in it.
I think we've been pretty on track with regard to the performance against our original plan.
I have a high level of confidence that we're going to achieve the 2013 goal.
We are operating under our private cloud environment.
I think we have roughly 50 applications that have been operational for over a year.
So that's been tested and confident that the technology is in place.
We're building systems as part of this.
There can always be some slippage when you build systems but it's not one system it's hundreds of applications.
So I think I have a lot of confidence that we'll stay the course on this.
Not only will we stay the course but we will achieve the targets that we set out for 2013 as well as '14.
And just -- let me just make one more comment Mike because I know you'll appreciate this.
I just want to -- to me this is about efficiency effectiveness reducing cost eliminating errors but it's really the transformation that's going to enable us to introduce new information-based products and services to our customers.
So it has that dimension to it too.
Go ahead.
Research Division</strong> It -- is there one quarter or one day when you say you'll shut off the dual systems and you go live from development to the main platform? I mean you have to run multiple systems until you get through this.
When's the day? Yes well there isn't because fortunately and I say this fortunately it's not 1 system it's not 10 systems there's some 200 projects so that's -- there's many systems or applications that we're redeveloping to -- and we're redeveloping them in the cloud in parallel.
So there's -- as a result there's no day there's no quarter.
It -- they -- it happens throughout 2013 and 2014.
As a result I think that it's a less-risky proposition in my opinion.
Research Division</strong> Why is this the biggest payoff year? It's just the way it ramped.
Initially the -- initially we had process improvements.
We moved to lower-cost locations.
The technology -- the efficiency effect from the application of new technology has proportionately higher payoff than the human side of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivek Juneja.
Research Division</strong> On NIM what changed in your NIM guidance? Your prior range has this come down? You'd earlier talked about '14 being just around $130 billion and now the '13 is going to $130 billion to $140 billion given that the 10 years moved up a little bit and you're expecting the TAG deposits have started to go out so -- which would help NIM.
So could you explain what's changed that guidance? Yes Vivek we've previously said we thought 2013 would be in the range of $130 billion to $140 billion.
I think that our comments this morning are consistent with that...
Research Division</strong> It wasn't $135 billion okay I thought it was...
Yes no.
We may have spoken and just used the middle -- midpoint of the range as a point of discussion but our overall thinking in terms of 2013's NIM has really not changed.
And in terms of the U.S.
Treasury 10-year being at 1.80% 1.90% today in actuality if -- even if that was the rate that persisted throughout all of 2013 the effect as we model it would be maybe in the range of $15 million or $20 million in terms of our net interest revenue so 1 basis point or 2 on NIM.
And the reason for that is because we have $10 billion as I mentioned earlier $10 billion of fixed-rate assets rolling off.
And our budgeted rate for the year is about 160 so you can do the math on that.
The 30-basis-point differential applied to that on average of -- for half a year would give you the $15 million or $20 million improvement.
So not much of an effect again assuming the curve doesn't change shape just steepens.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And given your commentary about the $120 billion towards the end of '14 so should that imply more like a $125 billion as an average '14? Well again if the question is -- assuming rates stay low for a protracted period of time and the curve doesn't change $120 billion is our estimate of where the margin would bottom out in '14.
If we have a steepened curve from where we are today through 2014 then the $120 billion would be a higher number.
Okay? Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And one other question on the comp expense in the fourth quarter was there anything related -- it was flattish it seemed like so nothing -- any change related to incentive comp accruals anything like that that we need to be aware of? Nothing significant.
I mean we went through the normal year-end process of setting incentive compensation in accordance with the company's overall performance.
Your next question comes from the line of Luke Montgomery [ph].
Obviously there's been a pre-sizable move in your stock price over the last quarter currently I think about 15% higher than the average purchase price for 2Q -- or Q4 I'm sorry.
Does that change your appetite for buybacks and perhaps how you are going to execute your capital distribution goals this quarter or for this coming year? And obviously we haven't had a look at your CCAR plan for 2013 but it sounds like you have aggressive goals to distribute capital.
So would you have any flexibility in your plan to consider a special dividend in lieu of buybacks? Yes the recent change in the stock price doesn't change our outlook.
We put our CCAR plan in earlier in the year.
The -- and we look at really a distribution between buybacks and the dividend rate.
There's some guidance around dividend rate from the fed.
Special dividend is something that we've thought about but haven't really considered.
Would you have to build that into your CCAR plan? Or is that something you can default to if you -- if the stock price runs up too much? No.
I think you absolutely have to build it in.
And I -- my sense would be it wouldn't be encouraged by the fed because of the onetime nature of it versus the laddered effect of either buybacks or dividends.
And then I just wanted to come back to Glenn's question on SSgA's margin.
You noted the progress this year so that's great but it continues to look a bit lower than some of your peers that I think would be comparable to you.
So I was wondering if you might conjecture as to why that is.
Is it because your product suite is more commoditized? Is it cost allocation related to the overall business? Is it ad hoc bundled pricing with custody services? And then what adjustable steps do you think you could consider to improve the margin more? Yes Luke let me -- that -- it's hard to get good comparison I think as a starting point.
We think that we obviously have a mix which is more anchored around passive strategies and cash.
I think that as opposed to looking at trying to reconcile our margin versus others our objective has been to improve the margin.
And we think we're on a track to do that on a sustainable basis what we've done to invest in areas of the business that we think have higher growth prospects whether it's defined contribution segment ETFs continuing to expand outside the U.S.
while at the same time much as we've done for the whole firm is really take a hard look at the cost model and say what's essential and necessary what's not necessary and how to create more efficiencies.
The benefits that State Street realizes as a result of IT and operations also translate to SSgA.
So I look at it more from a standpoint of how do we continuously widen the margin improve the business grow the top line as opposed to trying to compare it discretely to other models in which in many cases are not apples to apples.
And then a final one.
I'm sure you're aware that BNY Mellon is establishing a CSD in Europe.
They're indicating that it has strategic benefits with respect to collateral management internalization of settlement maybe linking to T2S.
So I'm wondering if you think it places you at any competitive disadvantage that you're not going to offer these services or if you'd be interested in making a move into the upstream market.
Yes we -- the centralized securities depositories that is an opportunity.
It's a -- the regulation in Europe is changing and we took a pretty long look at whether or not that made sense for us.
We through our sub-custody arrangements we use CSDs all across the globe and concluded that where it might be an opportunity from some that we have better opportunities in other parts of our business from a standpoint of return on capital.
It would get us into a new regulatory regime.
We think it's kind of a cost re-entry to get into the CSD world.
So we've taken a good look at it and concluded that we've got better options.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin.
Research Division</strong> If it's re-risking you're seeing if this really is the beginning of a sustained trend and your business starts to improve and that really looks sustained how does that impact your thinking about your cost-cutting program? It doesn't change it.
I think that the cost-cutting effort is really about creating sustained efficiency in the operating model.
And it was conceived in an environment where there was pressure on that but the closer we get to it it's a no-regrets move.
It's a way to improve on a sustained and structural basis the operating cost to run this business.
And it not only has cost efficiencies but it should lower error rates and will position us for being able to produce new products on the back of a cloud environment that will enable kind of real-time data information and analytics.
So we're going to do nothing but stay the course.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on capital return as you think about how much to return I mean you -- how do you think about the relationship between the fact that you're over-capitalized relative to your long-term target but your near-term outlook -- earnings outlook is somewhat cloudy just because of the environment we're in? How do you think about the relationship between those 2 items? Well I think that the CCAR process itself brings those issues together quite nicely.
And it's an exercise that we do obviously for submission to the Fed but it allows us internally to look at over multiple periods what we think the earnings opportunities are for the business what our capital position is how that gets affected by things we do in the future.
And so it's all blended in.
It combines the organic growth potential of the business as well as the starting capital position and the required capital requirements as Basel III starts to unfold and become implemented.
So it's all ready to growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Marquardt.
Research Division</strong> Just back on expenses.
Can you guys just clarify a little bit in terms of what's different about this new initiative versus the original and sort of kind of when you step back kind of why is it needed if you had this kind of long-standing big-initiative IT cloud expenses over the last couple of years? So you're referring to the initiative the reduction in force that we announced this morning.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
We -- again we've been living in a constrained revenue environment for some time.
And as I've mentioned a few times we -- our base case is we're going to continue to live in that environment.
And the IT and Ops transformation is a structural redo of how we're offering services to our customer as I mentioned previously.
We also look at all other parts of our business and say "Are there ways to become more efficient? Are there ways to apply process improvements? Are the things that we've done historically that aren't critical or necessary today?" So it's really just part of an ongoing effort to make sure that we're looking at everything to make sure that we're as lean and as efficient as we can be while at the same time not disturbing customer service levels our ability to invest in high-growth businesses and do the things that are productive for us long-term.
So it's just really good management discipline.
Research Division</strong> And well that sounds like the original kind of IT cloud initiatives.
And it -- so is -- are we to read in this recent staff reduction as an offshoot of that in incremental? Or that's just part of the culture going out of it? No.
The IT and Ops transformation was really targeted at our core global asset servicing business where we do -- for the 24 trillion in assets that we service we conduct many different transactional activities.
In fact around 18 different transactional activities is where most of the work gets done.
And it was the redo it was the change the process change where we do the work and change the technology around those core activities that are the IT and Ops transformation project.
There's a whole bunch of other places in the company where we spend money to support different business lines and staff functions and it's really those other things that are largely targeted by this announcement we made this morning.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of the ultimate benefit from the original IT cloud initiative going back you had long talked about the ultimate benefits $600 million pretax but then ultimately a 400-basis-point benefit to your operating margin if I recall correctly.
Is -- does that still hold in this new environment? Yes we believe it does Andrew.
I mean I'll give you some numbers which takes you through the first 2 years of the project where as we've noted we've achieved about $200 million of the overall program.
And again predicating these comments on 2010 which is our base year okay we've gotten 200 basis points of margin which we count against what we'll call the core business and the core has expanded 160 basis points okay in total.
And adjusting for the onetimers that brings the margin -- the starting margin down by 170 basis points.
Those are mainly as you recall insurance recoveries that we got in 2010.
So the core expanding at 1.6% over the first 2 years with the accomplishment of the 200 basis points against the program considering that our market-driven revenues specifically trading services have been rather weak over those 2 years we think is -- while not certainly in excess of what we expected it's tracking in the right direction and showing positive momentum in terms of the effect of the Ops and IT program.
Research Division</strong> All right that's helpful.
And then should we also -- I mean does that all still roll up to operating margins in the low 30s ultimately in the out years? Yes I mean that's -- I mean we started with the margin around 28% and we estimated 400 basis points improvement again predicated against 2010 all else equal which so far relative to the trading services it has not been.
But yes with those assumptions we would expect 28% pretax margin to improve to around 32% pretax margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly Jay any update on the CFO search how it's -- where that stands now? Yes let me just give you -- as we announced Ed had -- has come to me and said he'd like to hang up his spikes in 2013.
And as a result of that we are going through a process looking at suitable replacement candidates and we're in the middle of that right now nothing really to update.
Ed has assured me he would stay on through a smooth transition.
So nothing really to update other than in subsequent quarters as we do have something to report we'll certainly bring it forward.
Your final question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer.
Research Division</strong> I guess just to come back to the question of the servicing fee rates.
Is it possible to tease out a little bit the impact of global versus U.S.
on those fee rates in the quarter as opposed to a rotation to equity and maybe by giving some sense of how many of those fee rates are tied to global versus U.S.
within equity? And then along those lines could you give us a sense of how your wins are breaking down? Let me start that with the last part of the question.
I'm not sure we're going to be able to be very helpful on the front part.
The wins the $649 billion was roughly 85-15 85 U.S.
15 non-U.S.
That's source so that would be U.S.-based customers.
That's a little bit of a different mix than what we've seen.
That's a little bit more tilted to the U.S.
where I think we've been running more probably 50-50 non-U.S.
U.S.
So that's on the win side.
On the...
I mean I'll take a stab at it.
And I don't have specific numbers for the fourth quarter Cynthia but I think the way that it might be helpful to think about it is that approximately 40% of our revenue is from outside the U.S.
So that's one way of thinking about the servicing fee line I think that's valid.
From a pricing perspective I think it's also valid to look at the non-U.S.
business as being generally higher priced and it's higher priced but it's also higher cost against it.
So net-net you probably have around the same pretax kind of margin for that kind of business.
And again I don't have specific numbers that I could quote you with but that -- quote to you but that's where we are.
I think two if you look at State Street from an asset servicing perspective we're probably around 50-50 in terms of equity versus fixed income maybe a little bit more skewed to the equity markets than some of our close-end competitors.
So hopefully that's -- that gives you some guidance in terms of your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's really helpful.
And then I guess maybe to poke into a more esoteric area.
It looks like your transition management revenues were up pretty well this quarter and I'm just wondering if you could give a little color on that business.
What is it that drove that? What -- is there a seasonal component to that? Maybe a sense of how profitable that is compared to other businesses.
The transition management it is a little bit narrower business just -- you know but just for the broad audience when an investment manager is going to replace a manager in their asset allocation mix will make moves.
They might hire somebody like State Street to execute that change.
So it's a transactional-type activity.
It is a little bit lumpy in that it's driven by manager rotations either in and out of asset classes or in and out of managers.
We've got a I think a highly competitive product across the globe in transition management so we compete quite well in that space.
I think the quarter was probably the result of a little bit more market-based activity and us being successful in winning those deals.
I think generally transition management has been against historical rates a little bit soft over the last several quarters as a result of maybe a lack of conviction by investment managers around market direction.
As people do change and as you see broad-based moves in asset allocations or even managers transition management activity you'd expect to see that pick up.
Great.
Let me just -- that was the last question but there was a question that Robert Lee asked that I think we have an answer to so I'll ask Ed to respond to that.
Yes.
There's actually one from Rob and I think one from Brian Bedell that I think got cut off on so I just wanted to answer both of them.
First Rob asked about the revenue on alternatives business broadly.
And the answer to the question is about 15% of our servicing fee revenue on an annual basis around $600 million annual is the revenue associated with alternative asset servicing business.
Secondly Brian I believe asked how much was remaining to be installed from our wins in 2012.
And the answer to that is $550 billion including what we won in the fourth quarter.
So for all of 2012 what remains spilling over into 2013 is $550 billion of assets to be installed.
Thanks Ed.
And I -- thanks everybody for joining us on the call today.
I'll just remind you that we have our own investor and analyst forum which will be held on February 28 at the Mandarin Hotel in New York and hope to see all of you then.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without the expressed written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed on the State Street website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to introduce Valerie Haertel Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at State Street.
Thank you Lisa and good morning everyone and welcome to our First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our first quarter earnings materials include a presentation that Jay Hooley our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ed Resch our Chief Financial Officer will refer to in their remarks.
Reconciliations of our non-GAAP or operating basis measures to GAAP measures referenced on this webcast as well as other materials can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before Jay and Ed begin their discussion of our results I would like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2012 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the section on risk factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today April 19 2013.
The corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
Now I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman President and CEO Jay Hooley.
Thanks Valerie.
Good morning everyone.
Before I get started I just want to acknowledge the horrific tragedy that's beset our great city this week and just say that our thoughts and prayers go out to everyone that's been impacted through this event.
As Valerie noted our remarks will follow the financial highlights slide presentation that we issued with our earnings press release this morning.
And I'll focus my comments on our operating basis results and primarily on the sequential quarter comparisons since those seem to be of most interest you.
I'm pleased with our first quarter financial results.
State Street benefited from stronger-than-expected equity market performance and increase in foreign exchange market volumes and continued strong expense controls across the organization.
We continue to bring on new business and our pipelines remain strong.
If I take you to Page 3 on an operating basis first quarter 2013 earnings per share was $0.96 which is a decrease of 14% from the fourth quarter of 2012 and an increase of 14% from the first quarter of 2012.
It's important to note that the first quarter of 2013 included the effect of $118 million pretax or approximately $0.19 per share after tax of equity incentive compensation expense for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes.
Our revenue was slightly higher than the fourth quarter and was 2% greater than the first quarter of 2012 driven mainly by improved equity markets higher trading services and new business including the Goldman Sachs acquisition offset by lower net interest revenue.
Our core fee revenue comprised of asset servicing and asset management fees increased about 2% to $1.4 billion from the fourth quarter of 2012 and more than 9% from the first quarter of 2012.
Importantly we produced positive operating leverage of 130 basis points compared to the same quarter last year due to our strong expense management.
And if you exclude the effect of the first quarter 2013 equity incentive compensation expense for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes we achieved positive operating leverage of 145 basis points for the quarter when compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Before I review some additional financial highlights I'd like to share some thoughts about the strong equity market performance in the first quarter and provide you some color on client investor behaving -- investing behavior.
As I previously discussed on both the fourth quarter earnings call and on our Analyst Day in February we saw signs of client rerisking at the end of the fourth quarter of 2012 and it continued as we began the year.
As the first quarter progressed client risk-taking behavior moderated somewhat but it's still running ahead of prior years.
While the environment overall feels better we remain cautious to the ongoing fragile state of global markets.
As you're aware the low interest rate environment weighs at our net interest revenue and together with high levels of client deposits our net interest margin.
At this point the Federal Reserve continues to signal its attention to maintain low interest rates for the foreseeable future.
If I turn to new business the first quarter 2013 new asset servicing wins totaled $223 billion which is comparable to the $233 billion in new wins that we reported in the first quarter of 2012.
Of the $223 billion in new asset servicing wins this quarter about 2/3 were from within the U.S.
and 1/3 from outside the U.S.
Also included in our new business wins are 39 new alternative asset servicing mandates a client segment that continues to present good opportunities.
With respect to the remaining installation of 2012 new assets to be serviced of $551 billion approximately $70 billion remains to be installed in 2013.
Additionally approximately $43 billion of the asset servicing mandates won during the first quarter have not yet been installed.
Among those clients installed this quarter are the U.S.
dimensional funds managed by Dimensional Fund Advisors an investment manager with over $260 billion of assets under management through it and its affiliates.
We're providing a full range of services for this client including accounting for U.S.
strategies custody and securities lending solutions.
This is a great competitive win for our U.S.
global services team.
Additionally State Street Global Advisors total assets under management increased 4% to $2.18 trillion in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 driven by strength in the global equity markets and net new assets to be managed.
Within our ETF business strong markets fueled a 5% increase in our ETF assets under management to a record $354 billion at March 31 2013 compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Net client inflows were $5 billion in the first quarter driven mainly by securities finance cash collateral pools.
We experienced net ETF outflows of $6 billion from both our gold ETF amidst declining gold prices and from our S&amp;P 500 ETF which historically has outflows in the first quarter as institutions reposition their risk profile in the market.
These net ETF outflows were partially offset by a strong start to the year in Europe where we've been focused on expanding our ETF product offerings and inflows into SSgA's sector -- select sector ETFs in the U.S.
Looking ahead our business pipelines in both asset servicing and asset management remain strong and well diversified.
Higher revenues in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 were driven by strength in trading services offset by lower net interest revenue.
And by the way I've moved to Slide 4 now.
In trading services foreign exchange trading revenue for the first quarter increased 24% to $146 million from the fourth quarter of 2012 due to higher volumes and increased volatilities.
Securities finance revenue increased about 5% in the first quarter from the fourth quarter of 2012 due to slightly higher volumes.
Our operating basis net interest margin was 131 basis points in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 136 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2012 partly due to the higher level of client deposits which Ed will explain in a minute.
If I turn to expenses we continue to control our expenses effectively across the organization.
Operating basis expenses increased about 6% in the first quarter from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Excluding the effect of the equity incentive compensation expense for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes in the first quarter expenses actually declined over 1% from the fourth quarter.
And compared to the first quarter a year ago expenses increased 1%.
Our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program remains on track to deliver the highest level of pretax expense savings for the program of $220 million in 2013 and we continue to expect our transformation program to deliver approximately $575 million to $675 million (sic) [$625 million] in run rate savings for the entire program by 2015.
Turning to capital on page -- on Slide 5.
Our financial strength and disciplined approach to capital management have enabled us to maintain consistently strong capital ratios under Basel I and the proposed Basel III standards based on our understanding of the proposed rules.
As we reported in mid-March the Federal Reserve did not object to our 2013 CCAR plan which included our planned capital distribution program.
Following the CCAR results our Board of Directors approved a $2.1 billion common stock purchase program through March 2014.
We completed our previously announced $1.8 billion common stock purchase program in February 2013.
Additionally in February the board approved a $0.02 per share increase in our common stock dividend which is now $0.26 per common share payable to shareholders this month.
So in summary we're focused on creating value for our clients and shareholders growing revenue diligently controlling expenses and distributing capital to our shareholders which remains a top priority.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Ed who will provide additional details on our financial performance.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
I'll begin my comments on Slide 7 of the earnings presentation which shows a summary of operating basis results for the first quarter and unless noted separately I'll be referencing only operating basis results.
Revenue was up slightly in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 and up 2% from the first quarter of 2012.
The first quarter demonstrated our commitment to controlling expenses.
Expenses increased 5.7% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
However excluding $118 million of equity incentive compensation expense for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes expenses were actually down 1.2% and we achieved 145 basis points of positive operating leverage in the sequential quarter comparison.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 we achieved 130 basis points of positive operating leverage.
Earnings per share of $0.96 decreased 13.5% from $1.11 in the fourth quarter of 2012 and increased 14.3% from $0.84 in the first quarter of 2012.
As you may recall there were several items totaling approximately $36 million on a pretax basis or $0.06 per share that favorably affected our results in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The first quarter of 2013 included a negative impact of $118 million on a pretax basis or approximately $0.19 per share of equity incentive compensation expense for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes.
Return on equity of 8.9% decreased from 10.3% in the fourth quarter of 2012 and increased from 8.6% in the first quarter of 2012.
We purchased approximately $360 million of our common stock during the first quarter at an average price of $54.95 per share resulting in approximately 463 million average fully diluted common shares outstanding during the first quarter a reduction of 4.7 million average shares in the sequential quarter comparison.
Now let's turn to Slide 8 to discuss first quarter operating basis revenue drivers.
Servicing fees increased 2.2% to $1.2 billion in the first quarter of 2013 from the fourth quarter of 2012 due to stronger global equity markets and higher transaction volumes.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 servicing fees increased 9% due to stronger global equity markets net new business and the acquired Goldman Sachs Administration Services business.
Management fees at SSgA increased to $263 million in the first quarter of 2013 from $260 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 due to stronger global equity markets and net new business partially offset by lower performance fees.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 management fees increased 11.4% primarily due to stronger equity markets and net new business.
Performance fees in the first quarter were approximately $4 million down from $8 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and up from about $3 million in the year-ago quarter.
Money market fee waivers were approximately $6 million in the first quarter up from $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Total trading services revenue increased 15.6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 driven primarily by strength in foreign exchange revenue and electronic trading.
Foreign exchange revenue increased 23.7% from the fourth quarter due to both higher volumes and volatilities.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 foreign exchange revenue decreased by 2% driven by lower volatilities partially offset by higher volumes.
First quarter 2013 electronic foreign exchange revenue increased 28% and 16% from the fourth quarter and first quarter of 2012 respectively driven by an increase in volumes of 33% and 35% respectively.
Securities finance revenue was $78 million in the first quarter of 2013 an increase of 5.4% from the fourth quarter of 2012 due to slightly higher volumes.
Securities finance revenue decreased 19.6% from the first quarter of 2012 due to lower spreads and volumes.
Securities on loan averaged $313 billion for the first quarter of 2013 a slight increase from $305 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012 and down 5.4% from $331 billion in the first quarter of last year due to lower overall demand.
Processing fees and other revenue in the first quarter of 2013 decreased 18.3% from the fourth quarter of 2012 primarily due to a gain of $10 million from the sale of a Lehman Brothers-related asset recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Processing fees and other revenue in the first quarter of 2013 decreased 16.1% from the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to a $24 million positive fair value adjustment recorded in the first quarter 2012 related to our withdrawal from the fixed income trading initiative.
First quarter 2013 net interest revenue of $577 million on a fully taxable equivalent basis decreased 3.8% from $600 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 due to lower yields on earning assets.
Fully taxable equivalent net interest revenue in the first quarter of 2013 decreased 4.9% from $607 million in the first quarter of 2012 due to lower yields on earning assets partially offset by lower liability costs.
As we have noted higher-yielding fixed-rate securities in our investment portfolio are maturing or paying down and being reinvested at lower rates while floating-rate assets are resetting at market rates.
Our net interest margin declined to 131 basis points in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 136 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 152 basis points in the first quarter of 2012.
The decline in our net interest margin is the result of both the decrease in net interest revenue and an increase in average earning assets.
The increase in average earning assets is driven by the higher-than-expected levels of client deposits we saw in the first quarter.
If the current levels of client deposits continue for the full year 2013 our average earning assets will likely grow between 3% and 7% compared to the 2012 full year average and our operating basis net interest margin will likely be around the low end of the 130 to 140 basis point range assuming interest rate spreads and prepayments fees remain at their current levels through 2013.
This compares to our previous guidance of interest earnings assets growing to a range between 1% and 4% and our operating basis net interest margin to be in the range of 130 to 140 basis points.
Turning to operating basis expenses on Slide 9.
In the first quarter we continue to control expenses.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 we reported negative operating leverage of 544 basis points.
However excluding the effect of expenses related to equity incentive compensation for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes we achieved positive operating leverage of 145 basis points.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 we achieved positive operating leverage of 130 basis points.
As you can see on the slide compensation and employee benefits increased 13.1% in the first quarter of 2013 from the fourth quarter of 2012 due to the effect of the $118 million of equity incentive compensation expense for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes.
The first quarter of 2013 included the impact of the targeted reduction in force we announced on the fourth quarter earnings conference call.
To date we realized approximately 10% of the expected $90 million in annual savings which is on target with our plan.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 compensation and employee benefits expense decreased 2.7% partially due to the savings associated with the execution of the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
First quarter 2013 information systems and communication expenses increased 1.3% and 24.1% from the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2012 respectively.
The increase in both periods was due to costs related to transition activities in connection with the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program as well as costs to support new business.
These expenses are expected to increase slightly over the next few quarters and then level off.
The Business Operations and IT Transformation Program continues to be on track.
For 2013 we expect to achieve approximately $220 million in incremental pretax expense savings resulting in approximately $418 million of cumulative savings.
Consistent with our initial forecast for the entire program we expect to achieve run rate pretax expense savings in the range of $575 million to $625 million by 2015 compared to year-end 2010 all else equal.
Our nonrecurring expenses related to the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program were approximately $25 million for the quarter.
We expect these nonrecurring expenses to trend lower this year and in 2014 as we near the completion of the program.
Lastly other expenses decreased 7.9% from the fourth quarter of 2012 driven by lower professional fees.
Recall also that the fourth quarter of 2012 other expenses included a $14 million onetime Lehman-related client recovery recorded in that quarter.
Now let me give you some details on our investment portfolio including some highlights from the first quarter.
As I outlined in the top half of the slide Slide 10 the key elements of our strategy remain unchanged.
Our investment portfolio decreased slightly to $116 billion as of March 31 2013 down from $120 billion as of December 31 2012.
We have a solid credit profile with approximately 88% of our portfolio securities rated AAA or AA.
The duration of the investment portfolio was 1.7 years as of March 31 2013 unchanged from December 31 2012.
We will continue to manage the portfolio with a target duration of around 1.5 years but there will be periods of time where we're slightly above or below that target depending on our investment priorities.
As of March 31 2013 54% of our investment portfolio was invested in floating-rate securities and 46% in fixed-rate securities.
The aggregate net unrealized after-tax gain in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios as of March 31 2013 was $817 million compared to a net unrealized after-tax gain of $698 million as of December 31 2012.
The improvement in the quarter was due primarily to narrower spreads.
During the first quarter we invested about $4.5 billion in primarily AAA-rated securities at an average price of $101.22 and with an average yield of 1.05% and a duration of 1.82 years.
Of the $4.5 billion we invested approximately $3 billion in both U.S.
and non-U.S.
asset-backed securities and the remaining investments were spread among various asset classes.
The duration gap of the entire balance sheet as of March 31 2013 was 0.41 years up from 0.36 years as of December 31 2012.
The increase was primarily in response to a steepening of the treasury yield curve from 2 years to 10 years.
Turning to capital.
Slide 11 has a summary of our strong capital position.
As of March 31 2013 our Tier 1 common ratio was 16.1%.
Our estimated pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio under the Basel III NPRs as we currently understand them was 10.6%.
Also as of March 31 2013 the estimated pro forma Tier 1 common ratio under the Basel III NPRs including estimated effects of scheduled runoff and anticipated reinvestment of the securities affected by the SSFA through January 1 2015 was 11.4%.
Note that the Federal Reserve's rules implementing the Basel III capital requirements including underlying capital models are not yet final and are therefore subject to change and that the finalization of these rules may result in changes to our projected Basel III ratios.
Our capital distribution plan reflects our strong capital position.
As a percentage of 2013 consensus earnings State Street's capital plan is the highest of the 18 bank holding companies that participated in the 2013 CCAR process.
So to summarize solid first quarter results were supported by increased total fee revenue over the fourth quarter and a continued commitment to prudently manage expenses.
We continue to expect the effective tax rate on an operating basis for the full year 2013 to be generally consistent with the last 2 years in the range of 23% to 25%.
Finally and importantly we will continue to optimize our strong capital position and expect to return capital in the form of common stock purchases and dividends.
Now I'll turn the call back to Jay.
Thanks Ed.
Let me briefly close our call with 3 points.
First in the first quarter we delivered good results amid rising equity markets in a persistently low interest rate environment; we continued to aggressively manage our expenses while maintaining a high quality of service to our clients; and we remain confident in the secular trends that underpin the prospects for growth in our business and I believe that we're focused on the right value drivers.
With that Lisa we'll open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for hosting the call I know it's a challenging week up in Boston Jay.
My first question is a question of balance sheet size Ed.
Just given all the puts and takes to begin the year that you and Jay walk through I was hoping you could comment from where you are now what would you characterize is seasonal and frictional rather than the impact of new core business installation? Well that's a little hard to say.
I think it's a combination of clearly some new business but it's also I think a combination of the world being fairly awash in liquidity.
I think we're seeing some of the customer deposit flows because of that because of both factors really.
I mean we saw average deposits up about $6 million over Q4 and TAG had the effect of bringing deposits down about $7 billion which was in line with what we expected.
So we're seeing I'd say more liquidity a greater increase in Europe.
The non-U.S.
deposits are we think awaiting reinvestment.
And I would say that that's probably in the temporary category to your question.
But in the U.S.
we're seeing deposits up around $1 billion but that's net of the TAG outflows so we've seen about $8 billion of USD inflows.
We're also seeing another trend a little bit of a trend I guess where the U.S.
deposits half of them are coming into interest-bearing accounts which we think again is a reflection of excess liquidity being available in the marketplace hopefully awaiting reinvestment but looking for some investment that is obviously safe and relatively market yielding.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then shifting over to securities lending.
I realize the business isn't is as large as it used to be.
But we saw a seasonal lift but maybe not as much as we see in the past.
Could you just talk through your current outlook for that business and maybe latest thoughts on some of the rule proposals we're hearing out of Europe? The seasonal lift Howard you mean the dividend season? Is that what you...
Research Division</strong> No I just meant 4Q to 1Q.
I know that we usually see a bump up Jay just with the new year.
Yes.
Yes I think there is some bump up although as you know the dividend season which is the real cyclical high quarter is about to come on us in the second quarter.
But I would say generally securities lending balances have stabilized in the low-300.
I think if you look at quarter-to-quarter year-over-year the effect of the downward pressure on revenue has been largely the Fed fund to 3-month LIBOR rate.
So I would suggest that the business is kind of in a stable state I think waiting for a pickup in merger and acquisition activity which will have a positive effect on that and further leverage in the general financial services system would be catalyst for growth in addition to any widening of spreads.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second part of the question Jay.
Just thoughts on the rule proposals coming out of Europe any latest views.
I think it's too early to tell.
I think that there's a number of things that are circling around securities finance.
But our outlook is really unchanged as far as the business continuing to be a good business for us over time.
As the rules firm up that may change but no view as of today.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question I have is I'm just curious if I look at the assets under custody and administration and clearly you've had some tailwind of favorable markets in new business.
But I mean the pension assets the pension products there have been relatively flat for several quarters.
And I'm just curious I mean could you address maybe what kind of mix you're seeing? New business wins coming mainly in kind of fund products and maybe it's the pension clients where you're seeing some runoff of the clients or business? Yes it is a real mix.
This quarter which was -- I think last year we had total assets new asset service of $1.2 billion this quarter was $230 billion so kind of an in-line quarter from a longer-term trend standpoint.
2/3 U.S.
1/3 non-U.S.
that's a little bit different than what we've seen in the past.
But I guess more to your sector question pension's kind of stable.
We've had some good new business wins there no losses that I'm aware of so kind of a net positive.
But as you know in the pension segment it's a pretty stable segment.
Most of these are DB-oriented funds that aren't getting new flows.
So on the other side broadly the funds business U.S.
and non-U.S.
obviously benefits from flows and all those things that happen when clients rerisk.
And that pipeline and the successes have been very good and as you know in many markets including the U.S.
where a little bit of significant market share leader and I think we continue to gain on that leadership.
I just draw a little bit of a line under Dimensional Fund Advisors which is a very significant U.S.-based but with global products in the asset management space and converting that business this quarter was a big win for us.
And we would hope that they will continue to succeed.
And with the success we'll benefit from it as well.
So again we pretty diversified.
The only other segment that I would call out would be the alternative segment which -- and you see this in broad-based flows or asset growth.
The alternatives continue to grow.
And for us the growth is twofold.
It's -- we grow as the funds grow we grow as we competitive -- we're successful in competitive new business wins but also a good deal of that particularly private equity and real estate segment is yet well [ph] source.
So that's why I continue to call it out because that should continue to be a ripe area for growth for us.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just my follow-up.
It's for Ed this is a question in -- possibly it's that not big a deal and may be hard to quantify.
But I'm just curious I mean I know in the -- probably in the ETF business and some of the funds business and maybe even net interest revenue there is a little bit of an impact from day count just there being a few -- a couple fewer days in the first quarter.
Is there any way of quantifying what that impact is on revenue at all? Yes there is.
I mean we think about that frankly more from the perspective of net interest revenue.
I don't have that number at my fingertips Rob but absolutely there's an impact in terms of day count.
We're looking for the number now.
I don't know if we have it immediately available.
I could certainly follow up with you after the call.
And your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ed I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about just on the servicing line side did you have any negative impact from FX translation this quarter? And can you -- Jay I heard your comments about starting rerisking in the beginning quarter and then a little bit of tailing at the end.
But just kind of what were the core drivers of the servicing line? It certainly was up nicely but not as much as it seemed like people were looking for so what are the key drivers? Yes let me start that Ken.
Well I was looking for a number here.
So servicing is up I think 2.2% sequentially 9% year-over-year.
So a good year-over-year growth decent sequential growth.
You'll also note that the first quarter is a pretty big installation quarter for us when you think about what was left from last year and what we installed that we committed in the first quarter.
So I think on the rerisking Ken if I were to walk you through kind of a monthly scenario which largely mirrors what you see in the U.S.
mutual fund industry.
We exited last year December was kind of a peak quarter that traveled through January February and March tailed off a little bit but still running stronger than we've seen in prior years.
So I guess the other little nuance would be that as opposed to a rotation which is flows out of fixed income and into equities it's been more coming out of cash products.
And I suspect not just money funds but other bank cash products has been fueling the little equity run that we've had here.
So it's been kind of a tumultuous couple weeks here in the global environment.
We'll see what -- how the rest of the quarter plays out but it does feel a little bit different than years past with regards to some level of resiliency in investor behavior even though we've come off of the peak of the December January months.
Yes and Ken the answer to your question in terms of currency effect on total revenue it's fairly immaterial.
It's about $10 million down sequential quarter and $14 million down year-over-year first quarter to first quarter.
So not much.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my second question just kind of a similar question on the asset management fees -- on the fee -- on the asset management fee side because there you did the -- also positive flows positive AUM growth.
I was just wondering was there any delta in either performance fees or why did that line not grow more sequentially given the better backdrop than the AUM growth? Yes.
So that was -- sequentially it was fairly muted year-over-year up 11%.
The flows within the story would be positive on the security finance-led cash collateral pools.
The FX -- the ETFs was a little bit of a mixed story so we had -- as we've been telling you we're creating and innovating new products in Europe and the U.S.
We saw some good growth in Europe.
But the offset was you've seen gold prices and therefore we've seen some outflows into gold so that was a little bit of a negative on the ETF side.
And you also -- we typically see year end a little bit of a run-up in the S&amp;P 500 ETF which came off in the first quarter.
So those are kind of the quarter-to-quarter trends that occurred.
I point you a little bit to the 11% year-over-year and say that we feel pretty good about how that business is progressing.
We think we're in some of the sweet spots of the market passive and ETFs in particular albeit there was a little bit of a muted quarter-over-quarter growth in management fees.
And your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> First one is just a quickie on the average balance sheet.
The biggest driver I think on the NIM decline is the decline in the other investment line.
Just curious down what 16 basis points quarter-on-quarter.
Just curious what is producing the biggest drop there.
Those are loans we have out to custody clients collateralized loans that are driving that as well as our Boeing [ph] investment nonportfolio assets.
Research Division</strong> And what's -- is it just utilization that's the biggest driver of the movement because...
Yes it's episodic.
Research Division</strong> It's episodic.
But it's episodic in size but also you're saying the runoff and that just pushes the yield down.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Other one was just curious if you can frame even in round numbers what the Goldman acquisition added to revenues expenses and thoughts -- early thoughts on client and revenue retentions thus far.
Yes.
I mean Goldman is -- the acquisition is progressing right on track.
We announced that and said it was about $120 million annual revenue business with a margin in the range of 30% to 35% and it's right on track.
And in terms of client revenue retention we're exceeding the 90% target that we put out for every acquisition that we do.
So nothing but good news on the Goldman Sachs Administration Services acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good.
And it sounds like it might have been a modest contributor to the positive operating leverage but the core is still there and good.
Absolutely.
Right on both counts Glenn.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just to go back to the core servicing line.
Ed you mentioned $10 million revenue impact from foreign currency translation.
Is that mostly in the servicing line? And then if you could talk a little bit about the pace of installations.
You've installed the large DFA business during the quarter.
And inclusive of the other installments from the very strong fourth quarter should we expect a lagging benefit as we move into the second quarter on the servicing line? Yes.
The -- it was as I mentioned earlier a pretty strong installation quarter given the tail of what was left from 2012 and implementing a good deal of what we committed in the first quarter.
In the case of DFA not completely installed but a good chunk of it installed and should layer in I think through the course of the second quarter.
So kind of all else equal yes we should see the benefits of that roll forward as we move through the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great that's helpful.
And then my follow-up would be just on the balance sheet investment strategy.
I know that you highlighted a 1.05% reinvestment yield.
It's a lot lower than the fourth quarter.
I guess is there any change in strategy in terms of trying to shorten the duration or improve the credit quality that's driving that compression? I know the yields are down in general but that seemed like a larger drop than I was expecting for the reinvestment.
Yes no change in strategy Brian.
We're of the same mind that we've always been which is investing through the cycle and keeping the portfolio in the range roughly 50-50 fixed-rate and floating-rate.
And it's just a question of the market opportunities that we saw in the quarter so no change there.
Back to your earlier question about 1/3 of that $10 million effect is in the servicing fee line for the quarter.
And your next question comes from line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could help us reconcile I guess what you're seeing as far as the environment and what's going on with the servicing business I guess versus what we're seeing which is the revenues.
So Jay I guess on the one hand you described a little bit of a better risk appetite environment and clearly better markets and it seems like the middle office in the alternative solutions continue to win a largest share of total business which again feels like all should result in higher fee rate.
Yet we haven't seen that and it doesn't sound like in the near term that's going to improve.
So I was hoping you could help us reconcile that and maybe it's the other part of the business that is maybe seeing more pricing pressure or the business that you guys are winning doesn't seem to be all that different from a pricing perspective relative to kind of like the a core custody business.
Yes So I think that's a multi-headed question although I do -- I continue to remind you of the sequential quarter versus year-over-year where there was good service fee growth.
So I think some of this can't be read into a specific quarter-to-quarter comparison.
But generally speaking the environment I think the pipelines are good and I think that's a reflection of -- in the asset management world and the alternative world and then the pension world the asset-owner world clients are continuing to outsource more work to us.
We continue to do better than hold our own with regard to -- on the competitive front.
We're continuing to introduce new products to differentiate our service offering.
And in concert with that the pricing environment I don't think it's changed much but we've become more disciplined with regard to bidding for new business with regard to making sure that we're extracting a fair economics from our customers for the value that we're providing.
So I think that begins to frame it.
I think the risking behavior as I said has been episodic but better than last year.
And I think if you look at the year-over-year 9% increase in servicing fee some of that is reflective of a better risk environment.
I think that the thing that we're all waiting for and hoping for is that this follow through not only on the move to equities which we've seen some evidence to but at some point you're going to see flows come out of fixed income into equities.
And I think that given our position particularly in the asset servicing for asset manager space we have expectations that that's going to be a good thing once that starts to happen hasn't happened yet.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on -- just wanted to go back for a second on the ETF activity we're recently seeing with your business.
It seems like first -- second quarter to date total AUM is down in the $14 billion-ish range and a lot of is yield-driven.
I was hoping you can maybe give us a sense of on a net basis what does that to do to your earnings? I know it's not big numbers but I think the fee rate that you guys collect on the actual management is a little bit higher relative to what the net impact is because I guess of some of the expenses.
But just kind of help us understand that $14 billion of outflows you show in the ETF business what the net impact of that could be.
Yes.
So to begin with not really material but if you look at that GLD product we share management fees with the Gold Council and I think we're in a 14 basis point-ish range for what we -- the revenues that we derived from that so that gives you a little bit of sense of the dimension of the effect.
And your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I see on Slide 7 of the presentation you're now including the pretax operating margin so I see that increased -- I know it's your focus.
But I'd like the extra presentation and that's my question.
So if you back out the accelerated options expense for the quarter that pretax operating margin on the Page 7 goes from 26% to what? I guess it goes to 31% is that correct? About right yes.
Research Division</strong> And then your goal as pointed out I think in Slide 36 from your Investor Day presentation you talked about the core margin in 2010 of 27.5% your goal is to improve that by 400 basis point.
So your goal is 31.5%.
So it's 31% core this quarter and your goal is 31.5%.
And then if you have about $400 million of additional savings from the IT project all-in if it drops -- just reduce expenses and that's it I get a number of 35% pretax operating margin.
So if you can correct my math or if you can caution us about potential headwinds you're concerned about as for the reason not increasing that target.
Well I mean we put the 400 basis point margin target out there Mike predicated on 2010's results and as caveated by saying all else equal and obviously all things are not equal.
It's always a little bit dangerous to take a quarter and project it out over a multi-year program.
I can't disagree with the math you ran through in terms of -- if you excluded $118 million of expense from the quarter the margin would be higher.
But however that expense would have to be recognized over the succeeding quarters and years.
I mean our normal amortization period is the vesting period for those awards.
So the expense would be over the next 16 quarters okay? So you have to recognize there are some moving pieces here and to look at the first quarter and say we're already at or close to our program target is I think a bit of a leap.
Now we're not signaling by that answer that we think the target is not achievable.
We believe we're going to get the $575 million to $625 million out of the expense base but that's going to occur over time and we would expect the margin to improve over that period of time in line with what we originally said not looking at just the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well just making that 1 adjustment if we spread that over quarters you said 31% I guess should be 30% this quarter and 34% once you have all the savings just by the math.
So my follow-up question is your goal is to become the low-cost producer.
What would you perceive as a pretax operating margin for the low-cost producer in the processing business? Well I mean we've been reluctant to put a number out there for what the low-cost producer is or on our operating margin target other than to quantify what we think the effect of the program will be on the margin again all else equal predicated on 2010.
I mean clearly we think we're making good progress on the project.
Clearly we think we're improving the margin.
I think you can see that through the first 9 quarters of the program and its implementation.
But to date we have not put an operating margin target out other than what we've said about its effect on the -- the program's effect on the margin.
Mike the other thing I might add to that is the -- we do aspire to be the low-cost producer in those activities that have become more standardized and commoditized in the business.
And we think that our IT and ops transformation program is aimed right at that.
Additionally by layering in the cloud environment we also think we're able -- be able to be a lead producer of new products and new capabilities in this business.
So the goal is really to make sure on those core activities that we do have the lowest unit cost in the marketplace but we're continuing to invest through the cloud environment to make sure that we're differentiating our products so that we can have pricing power on the other end.
I mean that's the magic combination is to be the -- you have the lowest unit cost but also be the most effective innovator on the product side.
We think that's the best combination for us going forward.
And your next question comes from the line of Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> You were targeting NIM of 1.3% to 1.4%.
Now you're kind of pointing to the low-end of that range.
It's only Q1 you're already at 131.
So I'm trying to gauge your confidence that you can maintain that guidance going forward.
We're pretty confident Luke that if in fact the assumptions that I articulated relative to portfolio size and balance sheet size and customer deposit levels prepayment speeds et cetera play out that we'll be able to hit within that guidance.
And remember we're talking about our expectation for the year being a net interest revenue decline in the range of $150 million versus 2012.
So we're confident that will be able to do that given those assumptions.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I want to return to Alex's question on middle office.
Given your commanding market share there it doesn't seem to be a commodity service at this point.
So it's sometimes confusing that you've communicated that the fees you charge for that don't look much different from the back-office outsourcing.
You said you're getting paid fairly for their value you provide but can you just remind us why you can't charge more for this suite of services.
Yes.
Luke we don't in any single instance offer middle-office servicing as a standalone.
So it's -- I view it as it's an enhancement to our overall bundle of services.
And you're right to point out that we have a significant market leadership in that which translates into when we're competing for new business we do well.
We compete very effectively because we have the best capabilities.
And the more differentiated you are at the point of sale the more you can hold price.
So I think that that's how that translates.
I think in very complex opportunities that have a middle-office component we're highly successful where we attract -- where we really want to win the business and pricing is pretty good because we're differentiated.
And your next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Maybe one micro question one big picture question.
The micro question is just on expenses.
The drop in other category was really noticeable even apart from the unusual expense in 4Q.
So you guys mentioned professional fees is the main factor in that.
Is that a sustainable level or would that bounce back seasonally or with some projects that you plan? Well our focus has been very significantly on that line among others.
But in the fourth quarter to first quarter decline we did have a lower level of professional services.
We're not expecting the professional services spend the bounce back to what was in prior quarters but it may increase somewhat depending on the situation okay? There are consulting costs in there for example for evaluation of regulatory initiatives things like that.
So there may be some increase in the future maybe it's more of a timing question to some of these expenses from -- that went down in the first quarter but it's absolutely a line that we're looking at very hard and are trying to make sure that we do not see a rebound in that expense line above what we think is absolutely necessary to comply with the regulatory initiatives for example.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then bigger picture you mentioned you're focused on growing your ETF business in Europe.
And I'm just wondering if you could give some color on that talk about -- are you targeting certain market shares certain parts of that market certain products? What is your strategy over the next few years to be bigger in Europe? Yes.
So I would add to that Cindy Asia as well but a little bit more focus on Europe.
So the strategy is to participate in an evolving market opportunity.
And I do think when you look at the ETF business globally the world is -- Europe is underweight in ETFs and so we're starting to see those opportunities unfold.
And I would say that the way we get at that is really twofold.
One is through introducing differentiated product to the market.
So we've introduced I think it's 40 products over the last 18 months.
I'd say creative and innovative products which are commanding higher fees.
So part of our strategy is to not be as much in the commoditized end of ETFs but be in a differentiated end.
A large part of which revolves around the portfolio strategy.
But equally important and sometimes not understood there's a distribution into that.
So the distribution in Europe is largely through private banks and other intermediaries.
And as a result we've added wholesalers and distributors in Europe so that's part of the buildup.
I think that's largely in place so it comes to continuing to introduce new product and distributing it through those wholesalers.
So we think the opportunity is emerging and we think we're well positioned for it.
And I would say Asia is a story that's a few innings behind that whole story but the same thing should unfold.
And your next question comes from the line of Bryan Foran with Autonomous Research.
I guess I hope this doesn't come across as like too simplistic a question.
But if I just think about 30 years of trust bank data not just you but the whole industry I mean it just seems like the operating margins have always been about the same level.
And I guess if you step back and think about these as scale businesses and all the investments in technology why isn't there at some point in the future kind of a step-change up in operating margin? It just seems like for a lot of investors maybe part of the frustration with the whole industry certainly not you alone is the benefits of scale never seem to have accrued? Yes so let me take a swing at that Brian.
I think for a long period of time decades these were growth businesses where markets were growing new products were being introduced and there was plenty of opportunity to grow top line and there was enormous need to invest infrastructure domestically globally product-wise.
I think part of that run-up on the revenue side introduced market-driven revenues to that mix.
And then if I just pick a point in time the last 5 or 6 years postcrisis market-driven revenues have declined for all the reasons that we all know.
We've all been working on I'd say as an industry adjusting to a lower growth environment which means -- my interpretation of it means we need to get more efficient.
We need to be that low-cost producer in that core activity yet there's still an enormous need to invest in the business.
So I think we're -- for State Street I'd say we're working through a period where we're adjusting to a lower growth rate which we think is more temporary than permanent.
And there's a lot of things that we spoke about change in environment whether it's rerisking or some of the market-driven revenues improving.
A point to NIR is just a specific and important one.
As we get our infrastructure more designed for lower growth environment and the environment changes and we stay disciplined on the cost side then we think we can change the mix going forward.
So I think that's a little bit of where we've been and I think the transition of what we're doing in this period is trying to become -- is becoming more efficient more effective.
While still investing in the business we think that at some point it will cycle out and we'll see improved environment and we'll be in that improved environment with an improved infrastructure.
So that should give us the opportunity to generate more returns which will bring to the bottom line and invest to further distance ourselves from competition would be kind of my streaming thought on that.
And one follow-up on OCI.
Do you think as we move forward with Basel III ratios and maybe with a rate backup scenario and future stress test OCI will kind of change in any way be potential for buybacks in the future? And within that did regulators think about OCI on short-duration securities books the same way they do on longer-duration securities books? It just seems like even in the severe interest rate stress scenario a lot of the OCI risk in your portfolio would fix itself in 1 year or 1.5 years.
Yes.
I don't know exactly what the regulators think.
I tend to have a view that OCI is OCI at this point.
It doesn't really get differentiated between longer-term and shorter-term securities.
At least we haven't really heard anything to that effect.
The issue of OCI on a go-forward basis and its potential effect on buybacks I mean there is information submitted as part of the CCAR which does include Basel III-related information.
I mean the official test and the statistics published are Basel I but the regulators do view our balance sheet under a Basel III regime.
So the mark obviously in the Basel III capital ratios is included.
I think too from our perspective the potential for its inclusion on a go-forward basis with the rules not yet being final Brian is one of the main reasons why we put a 200 basis point cushion on top of our 8% requirement which includes our SIFI buffer.
It's because of that uncertainty in part that we've done that.
So I guess the punchline is that we need to see what the final rules ultimately are and we'll look at those and formulate a view on what our Basel III Tier 1 common target going forward should be.
And your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the cost saves from the cloud investment.
You're expected to have a $220 million benefit to earnings this year and I'm just wondering how much of that was used up this quarter.
Well we achieved about $50 [ph] million of the $220 million in the year.
I think a linear view of that achievement is what we expect and would expect to see roll through the succeeding quarters of the year Betsy.
And your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> With all the work you've been doing on expenses how much of your core cost structure would you say is fixed versus variable and how would that compare to maybe 1 or 2 years ago? Well again it's always a question of what time frame Josh right? And I think that probably the best way to think about is over a relatively short time frame i.e.
a couple of quarters maybe a year.
And we can look at a couple of different lines on the income statement and talk about them in terms of how much is fixed and how much is variable.
I mean the largest one obviously is the compensation line and that is a function of how many people we have and we've been taking action on that line over the last couple of years given what our view of the revenue environment is.
So you could say at least a portion of that is variable given the assumption of a year or so time frame.
I think that the other line that we've been looking at very carefully over time is the other expense line.
Some of that is actually not really very variable given that there's some amortization of intangibles in that line for example which are based on prior acquisitions.
But there are other expenses as we had in the first quarter that are in fact variable which are the professional fees that we had a very good performance on as we've noted.
And then maybe in between that is transaction processing which can vary with market levels and transaction volumes.
Usually we have offsetting movements in revenues so it kind of nets to a profit if the transaction servicing line goes up.
There's a revenue item that's up more than that and the converse is also true.
But I'd say overall it's an expense base which over a short to intermediate term while has some variability is for the most part a fixed cost expense base.
I'd be hesitant to put a percentage on it but that's how we think about it.
I mean I would put another statement out there which is our IT expense which is both people and machines and licensing fees and we can move that over time and I'd say over -- again the year's timeframe.
Between the operating range of 20% to 25% is -- which is what we target of expenses so that's a number that's in the range of $1.4 billion per year that includes people.
So that can be moved around and that's a function of demand and regulatory imperative certainly lately and the need to continue to invest in the business and develop new products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A week or 2 ago you made an announcement you're appointing a new senior executive to work on.
I think it's sort of a big data initiative.
I was wondered if you could talk about the size and timing of that opportunity.
Yes sure.
It was -- we introduced a new set of services under global exchange.
And you're probably right generally relate it to big data.
I think the -- within our business within our businesses we have a number of different products and services which are analytical in nature data-driven analytics for risk management for performance management compliance and we've decided to pull those together into a separate unit so that we could focus more directly on what we think is a pretty big opportunity which is more in the middle office space.
I'd say middle-office and front-office space on the back of our middle-office position and more and more of our clients as we listen to them are challenged by the need to rationalize their data to make it more available on a real-time basis.
And in many cases we are the ones that have that data.
So we formalize the structure that we think will launch us into that space and we're pretty excited about it but it's going to take some time to sort out exactly how we position the strategy.
But we've given it some heft with the existing structure so that we'll have some ability to invest in this new area.
And it is -- it does have a big data orientation to it.
And your final question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
I just had a quick follow-up on the expense side.
Your compensation expense I know Ed you talked a lot about the other line your compensation composition expense is down 2.7% or 2.8% year-over-year.
Given your outlook on the revenue front assuming that stays the same I know it can be tough with -- incentive comp bounces around.
But do you think that kind of year-over-year decline is sustainable for the rest of the year or it's too early to be able to give any kind of guidance there? I think it's really too early.
I mean obviously we're pleased with the 2.7% again reflective of the achievement on the Ops and IT program as well as the effect of the reduction that we announced in the fourth quarter.
But I think it's too early to give you an answer to that question right now.
Okay.
And then on -- just one last on the deposits.
Have you seen further deposit outflows in the second quarter or given your kind of discussion on average earning assets are you seeing it kind of stabilize here and that's part of the issue? We're seeing it fairly stable.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to Mr.
Jay Hooley for closing remarks.
Yes.
Thank you.
Thanks all for being with us here this morning.
And we look forward to talking to you at the end of the second quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded or rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without the express written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed on the State Street website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to introduce Valerie Haertel Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at State Street.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our second quarter earnings materials include a presentation that Jay Hooley our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ed Resch our Chief Financial Officer will refer to in their remarks.
That presentation together with reconciliations of our non-GAAP or operating basis measures to GAAP basis measures referenced on this webcast and other related materials can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before Jay and Ed begin their discussion of our results I would like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2012 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on risk factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today July 19 2013.
The corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
Now I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman President and CEO Jay Hooley.
Thanks Valerie and good morning everyone.
As Valerie noted our remarks will follow the financial highlights slide presentation that we issued with our earnings press release this morning and I'll focus my comments on operating basis results and on sequential quarterly comparisons primarily since those are of most interest to you.
Turning to Page 3 of our slide presentation that we announced this morning our operating basis earnings per share in the second quarter 2013 was $1.24 a 29% increase from the first quarter of 2013 which included expenses for retirement-eligible employees.
Compared to the second quarter of 2012 our operating basis earnings per share increased 23%.
Our total operating basis revenue on the second quarter of 2013 increased 4.5% from the first quarter of 2013 and 4.9% from the second quarter of 2012 reflecting growth from new business and stronger global equity markets.
Revenues were also driven by the seasonal increase in securities finance and increased volume and volatility in the foreign exchange.
Core fee revenue comprised of asset servicing fees and asset management fees increased by approximately 3% to $1.48 billion from the first quarter of 2013 and by 11% from the third -- second quarter of 2012.
Importantly we achieved positive operating leverage of 97 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2013 excluding the effect of expenses related to equity compensation for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes.
We also achieved 347 basis points of positive operating leverage compared to the second quarter of 2012 due to our continued strong expense management.
Before I review additional financial highlights I'd like to share some insights regarding market performance and how it has affected our clients' investing behavior during the second quarter.
Last quarter I indicated that client risk-taking moderated somewhat at the beginning of the second quarter.
As the second quarter progressed we had not seen any material change in our clients' risk appetite until mid-quarter when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke signaled a potential tapering of the quantitative easing program.
Following his remarks there was a selloff in both the global equity and bond markets.
As a result we saw our clients reduce equity and fixed income allocations globally with notable reductions in emerging markets.
While the domestic equity markets recovered we expect clients to remain more conservative in their asset allocations given the current interest rate environment and global market uncertainty.
Turning to new business.
Second quarter 2013 new asset servicing wins totaled $201 billion which compared to $133 billion of new wins reported in the second quarter of 2012.
Of the $2001 billion (sic) [$201 billion] of new asset service wins this quarter about 2/3 were from the U.S.
and 1/3 were from outside the U.S.
Also included in our business wins were 30 new alternative asset-servicing mandates a client segment where we continue to see good long-term growth potential.
With respect to the 2012 and 2013 year-to-date new assets to be serviced approximately $98 billion remain to be installed.
Total assets under management at SSgA decreased to $2.15 trillion in the second quarter of 2013 from $2.18 trillion in the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to a point-to-point decline in the price of gold in the non-U.S.
equity and fixed income markets as well as the foreign exchange impact of the strong dollar.
We had net outflows of $1 billion in the second quarter driven principally by $12 billion in outflows from our SPDR Gold ETF as gold prices continued to decline.
Excluding gold we had net inflows of $11 billion which include positive flows of $7 billion into our ETFs including the SPDR sector funds domestic equity and European funds.
We also had a net $1 billion in positive flows into institutional mandates across a range of strategies and a net $3 billion in positive flows into cash products.
Looking ahead our new business pipelines in both asset servicing and asset management remain strong and very well diversified.
If I move you to Slide #4 market-driven revenues were higher on the second quarter as compared to the first quarter of 2013 primarily driven by our securities finance and foreign exchange trading businesses.
Compared to the first quarter of 2013 our net interest revenue increased and our operating basis net interest margin was flat at 131 basis points due to continued high levels of client deposits which we hold at central banks.
While the yield on the 10-year treasury has risen interest rates are still relatively low and a high level of cash deposits continue to weigh on our net interest margin.
A steepening of the yield curve will be somewhat helpful over time; however we would benefit more from higher rates at the short end of the yield curve.
Turning to expenses.
We continue to control our expenses across the organization as you can see reflected in our results.
A driver of our expense savings is our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program which remains on track to deliver its highest planned level of pretax expense savings of $220 million in 2013.
We continue to expect our transformation program to deliver approximately $575 million to $625 million in pretax run rate expense savings for the entire program by 2015.
Turning to capital which you'll find on Slide 5.
During the quarter we purchased approximately 8.5 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of about $560 million.
We have approximately $1.5 billion remaining under our March 30 2013 common stock purchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $2.1 billion of common stock through March 31 2014.
We continue to believe our share purchase program combined with dividends is the best way to return value to our shareholders.
Our financial strength and disciplined approach to capital management has enabled us to maintain consistently strong capital ratios under the Basel I and Basel III standards based on our understanding of the rules.
As you know we received the long-awaited final Basel III rules.
Based on our present review and interpretation these final rules appear to be generally in line with what our expectations were.
With respect to the leverage ratio the FDIC has issued a proposed rule and has asked for comments by September.
Given a preliminary review of the FDIC guidance if enacted as proposed we believe that we will be able to comply with the new rule in advance of the effective date of January 1 2018.
Ed will provide more detail on the new regulations and proposals in his remarks.
So in summary we're focused on creating value for our clients and shareholders in the short term and over the long run by growing revenue diligently controlling expenses and distributing capital to our shareholders which continues to remain a top priority.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Ed.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
I'll begin my comments on Slide 7 of the earnings presentation which shows a summary of operating basis results for the second quarter.
Unless noted separately I'll be referencing only operating basis results.
The strong results in the second quarter were driven by solid fee revenue growth coupled with disciplined expense management.
Revenue was up 4.5% in the second quarter of 2013 compared to the first quarter of 2013 and up 4.9% from the second quarter of 2012.
Expenses decreased 3.3% from the first quarter of 2013 and increased 1.4% from the second quarter of 2012.
We achieved positive operating leverage of 771 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2013.
When you exclude the $118 million of equity incentive compensation expense for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes recorded in the first quarter of 2013 we achieved positive operating leverage of 97 basis points.
Compared to the second quarter of 2012 we achieved 347 basis points of positive operating leverage.
Earnings per share of $1.24 increased 29.2% from $0.96 in the first quarter of 2013 and increased 22.8% from $1.01 in the second quarter of 2012.
The first quarter of 2013 included the negative impact of $0.19 per share of equity incentive compensation expense for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes.
Return on equity of 11.3% increased from 8.9% and 10.3% in the first quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of 2012 respectively.
We purchased approximately $560 million of our common stock during the second quarter at an average price of $65.73 per share resulting in approximately 461 million average fully diluted common shares outstanding during the second quarter a reduction of 1.8 million average shares in the sequential quarter comparison.
Pretax operating margin expanded to 32.1% in the second quarter from 26.6% in the first quarter of 2013 and from 29.8% in the second quarter of 2012.
Now let's turn to Slide 8 to discuss first quarter operating basis revenue drivers.
Servicing fees increased 2.2% to $1.2 billion in the second quarter of 2013 from the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to net new business and stronger global equity markets.
Compared to the second quarter of 2012 servicing fees increased 10.6% primarily due to stronger global equity markets net new business and the acquired Goldman Sachs Administration Services business.
Management fees increased 5.3% to $277 million in the second quarter of 2013 from $263 million in the first quarter of 2013 and increased 12.6% from $246 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The increases over both periods reflect stronger global equity markets and net new business.
Performance fees in the second quarter were $2.5 million a decrease from $4 million in the first quarter of 2013 and a decline from about $3 million in the year-ago quarter.
Money market fee waivers were approximately $8 million in the second quarter up from approximately $6 million in the first quarter of 2013 and up from $3 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Total trading services revenue increased 5.3% from the first quarter of 2013 due to an increase in foreign exchange trading which was partially offset by a decrease in brokerage and other fees.
Compared to the second quarter of 2012 total trading services revenue increased 16.1% to $296 million driven by an increase in foreign exchange trading.
Second quarter 2013 foreign exchange revenue increased 17.1% and 32.6% from the first quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of 2012 respectively.
The increase over both periods was primarily driven by an increase in volumes and volatility.
Brokerage and other fees decreased 7.4% to $125 million from the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to a decrease in distribution fees associated with our SPDR Gold ETF.
Securities finance revenue was $131 million in the second quarter of 2013 an increase of 67.9% from the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to seasonal increases during this period.
Securities finance revenue decreased 8.4% from the second quarter of 2012 primarily due to lower spreads.
Securities on loan averaged $330 billion for the second quarter of 2013 a seasonally-driven increase from $313 billion in the first quarter of 2013 and a decrease from $337 billion in the second quarter of last year due to lower overall demand.
I'd like to remind you that our securities financing trading services revenues have usually declined in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.
Processing fees and other revenue in the second quarter of 2013 increased 6.4% and 23.5% from the first quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of 2012 respectively.
The increase over both periods included a $20 million gain from the sale of an investment from one of our company's joint ventures recorded in the second quarter of 2013.
Operating basis net interest revenue of $582 million in the second quarter of 2013 increased 0.9% from $577 million in the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to a $7 million additional interest revenue item associated with the commercial real estate loan pay down.
Operating basis net interest revenue in the second quarter of 2013 decreased 7.5% from $629 million in the second quarter of 2012 due to low yields on earning assets partially offset by lower liability costs.
Operating basis net interest margin was unchanged on a sequential quarter basis at 131 basis points and down from 154 basis points in the year-ago quarter.
We don't expect the recent increase in the 10-year U.S.
treasury yield to have a noticeable impact on our net interest revenue this year because the yields on the securities we are buying are still below the yields that are maturing or paying down.
In order to prudently manage our interest rate risk position in this interest rate environment we will likely scale back the reinvestment of proceeds from the maturities and prepayments of our fixed-rate securities for the rest of the year.
We still expect to invest through the cycle at a slightly slower pace than we had previously.
The impact on full year 2013 operating basis net interest margin is that we will likely be slightly below 130 basis points.
This assumes that client deposits will remain at or around current levels for the remainder of the year which will drive the growth in earning assets at somewhere between 5% and 7% on a full year 2013 average versus the full year 2012 average.
Turning to operating basis expenses on Slide 9.
Expenses were well controlled in the second quarter.
Compared to the first quarter of 2013 we reported positive operating leverage of 771 basis points.
Excluding the effect of expenses related to equity incentive compensation for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes recorded in the first quarter we achieved positive operating leverage of 97 basis points.
And compared to the second quarter of 2012 we achieved positive operating leverage of 347 basis points.
As you can see compensation and employee benefits decreased 11.4% in the second quarter of 2013 from the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to the effect of $118 million of equity incentive compensation expense for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes recorded in the first quarter.
Second quarter results also benefited from the targeted reduction in force we announced on the fourth quarter 2012 earnings call in conjunction with our expense control measures.
In the second quarter of 2013 we recognized an additional $7 million in savings from the reduction in force bringing our total savings to $16 million.
Therefore on an annualized basis we are approximately 70% complete in recognizing the targeted $90 million in annualized savings.
Compared to the second quarter of 2012 compensation and employee benefits expense decreased 2.7% primarily due to savings associated with the execution of the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program partially offset by new business and acquisitions.
Compared to the second quarter 2012 -- second quarter 2013 information systems and communication expenses increased 13% primarily related to the planned transition of certain functions to service providers as part of the Business Operations and IT Transformation Program as well as costs to support new business.
The Business Operations and IT Transformation Program continues to be on track.
For 2013 we expect to achieve approximately $220 million in incremental pretax expense savings resulting in approximately $418 million of expense savings over the life of the program to date.
Our nonrecurring expenses related to our Business Operations and IT Transformation Program were approximately $22 million for the quarter.
We expect these nonrecurring expenses to trend lower for the remainder of this year and in 2014 as we near the completion of our program.
Transaction processing services increased 3.3% to $186 million in the second quarter of 2013 from $180 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Compared to the second quarter of 2012 transaction processing services increased 8.1%.
The increases from both periods reflect higher equity market values and transaction volumes in the asset servicing business.
Other expenses increased 23% compared to the first quarter of 2013 driven primarily by higher professional service fees sales promotion and legal costs.
Compared to the second quarter of 2012 other expenses increased 3.4%.
Looking forward on other expenses we expect other expenses to be in the range of $270 million to $280 million per quarter for the third and fourth quarters of this year.
As you know this line is composed of many items including professional fees securities processing costs regulatory expenses and legal costs and can vary from quarter-to-quarter.
Now let me give you some details on our investment portfolio.
On Slide 10 as outlined on the top half of the slide the key elements of our long-term portfolio strategy remain unchanged.
During this dynamic interest rate environment we remain prudent in our security purchases to meet our high credit standards while we manage our interest rate risk profile.
As of June 30 2013 our investment portfolio decreased slightly to $115.8 billion from $116.4 billion as of March 31 2013.
We continue to have a solid credit profile with approximately 88% of our portfolio securities rated AAA or AA.
The duration of our investment portfolio was 1.9 years as of June 30 2013 up from 1.7 years at March 31 2013.
The increased duration from the first quarter is related to the recent rise in interest rates.
While the current portfolio duration is above our target it is still consistent with our overall risk appetite.
As of June 30 2013 55% of our investment portfolio was invested in floating-rate securities and 45% in fixed-rate securities.
During the second quarter we invested about $7.8 billion in primarily AA- rated securities at an average price of $103.37 at an average yield of 1.6% and a duration of 3.08 years.
Of the $7.8 billion we invested approximately $2.4 billion in agency mortgage-backed securities $2.7 billion in asset-backed securities $1.1 billion in municipal securities and the remaining $1.6 billion of investments were spread among various asset classes.
The aggregate net unrealized after-tax loss in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios as of June 30 2013 was $123 million compared to a net unrealized after-tax gain of $817 million as of March 31 2013.
The decline in the unrealized gain from March 31 2013 was primarily due to an increase in interest rates.
While the mark-to-market deteriorated in the second quarter we remain focused on our strategy of investing through the cycle although as noted earlier we may do so at a slightly slower pace.
A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in rates with no change in credit spreads would result in an additional approximately $1.3 billion after-tax unrealized loss within our investment portfolio at June 30 2013.
We remain confident in the credit quality of our investment portfolio and believe any increase in the unrealized losses as at June 30 2013 is largely due to a change in interest rates.
Other-than-temporary impairment related to credit was 0 for the second quarter of 2013.
The duration gap of the entire balance sheet as of June 30 2013 was 0.42 years up slightly from 0.41 years as of March 31 2013.
The duration gap would have been close to 0.47 years if you remove the influx of $24 billion of additional client deposits on the last day of the quarter.
In addition to using the duration gap as a measure of interest rate risk we also use the concept of economic value of equity or EVE.
You may already be familiar with it since we report our EVE results in our quarterly 10-Qs and annual 10-Ks.
With the recent backup in interest rates we thought it will be helpful to you to point out that this measure of risk improved as of June 30 with the decline in EVE in an up 200 basis point shock scenario slightly less negative at a minus $2.3 billion level or 14.7% of total regulatory capital versus March 31 where it was minus $2.5 billion or 17.1% of total regulatory capital.
These compare to our regulatory guidelines of less than 20%.
Turning to capital.
Slide 11 summarizes our strong capital position.
As of June 30 2013 our tier 1 common ratio was 14.9% under Basel I.
On July 2 the Federal Reserve announced Basel III draft final rules incorporating various changes from last year's NPRs.
Under the final rule we expect to manage to the lower of the tier 1 common ratios calculated under the Basel III standardized and Basel III advanced approaches.
Based on our preliminary interpretation of the final rule our estimated pro forma Basel III tier 1 common ratio would be 10% based on the standardized approach and 10.9% based on the advanced approach as of June 30 2013.
These estimates are preliminary and subject to among other things further interpretations evaluation and increased understanding of the final rule.
In addition in the last few weeks both the Basel committee and the U.S.
regulators published new proposals for the Basel III supplementary leverage ratio.
The U.S.
NPR proposes a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 5% at the holding company level and 6% at the bank subsidiary level.
There is a 60-day comment period and the proposed rule is therefore subject to change.
If adopted the proposed rule would take effect January 1 2018.
We estimate our supplementary leverage ratios under the July 2013 NPR are approximately 5.4% at the holding company which exceeds the proposed minimum and approximately 4.9% at the bank which we believe is a manageable shortfall.
Based on our present interpretation of the NPR we also believe that we would achieve compliance in advance of the proposed effective date.
We have a number of levers we can pull if necessary and a lot of time available to us to meet the minimum supplementary leverage ratio.
Our estimates and other remarks reflect our current interpretations expectations and understanding and are subject among other things to further review and regulatory guidance.
There continues to be significant uncertainty regarding how the final capital rules will play out in the U.S.
It is likely that there will be several other NPRs issued in the coming months.
All final rules will need to be evaluated and calibrated in conjunction with each other to assess their overall impact.
So to summarize.
Second quarter results were driven by solid fee revenue growth including seasonal factors related to securities finance coupled with continued expense control.
Finally and importantly we plan to continue to optimize our strong capital position.
We remain focused on executing our capital plan that we submitted in conjunction with the 2013 CCAR which includes our authorization to purchase up to $2.1 billion of our common stock through March 31 2014.
Now I'll turn the call back to Jay.
Thanks Ed.
Let me briefly close our call with a few points.
In the second quarter we delivered good results despite the persistently low interest rate environment.
We believe we're taking all the right actions to manage our business through this period of economic recovery yet we remain cautious on a number of fronts including: uncertainty of client risk appetite; the interest rate environment including the continued high level of client cash deposits; and capital regulations portions of which still remain in flux as I just mentioned.
We remain confident in the secular trends that underpin the prospects for growth in our business and I believe that we are focused on the right value drivers in the near term.
Before we open the call to questions and answers I just want to take a minute to extend my thanks to our outgoing CFO Ed Resch.
He's done a wonderful job leading our finance organization through one of the most challenging times in the history of our industry.
I'd like to thank Ed for all of his contributions and wish him well in retirement.
I'd also like to just take a minute to introduce Mike Bell who will become our next CFO when Ed Resch retires this summer.
Ed is currently working with Mike to ensure a seamless transition of his responsibilities.
I'm pleased to have Mike join the State Street team.
He brings a wealth of experience having been a CFO of 2 large and complex global organizations previously Manulife and Cigna.
Pleased to welcome Mike on board and I'd like to ask him to just say a few words.
Mike? Thank you Jay.
Good morning everyone.
I am very pleased to join State Street and I'm impressed with our leadership team our strong market position and our global capabilities.
After 30 days in the organization I am confident in the direction that Jay and our senior team have established for our company.
We also have a thoughtful financial management plan and I'm pleased with the quality of our investment portfolio.
In addition we're making good progress with our Business Operations and IT Transformation Program which is enabling us to capture expense savings and which we expect to be an important competitive advantage moving forward.
So in summary I'm pleased to be here and am confident in our current direction and I look forward to meeting all of you in the months to come.
Now I'll turn it back to Jay.
Thanks Mike.
I just wanted to mention that since Mike just joined us he'll not be entertaining questions on the call.
But I can assure you you'll have plenty of time to meet him in the forward weeks and months.
Now Ed and I would be pleased to entertain your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question Jay maybe going back to your comments about client behavior since I guess kind of mid-quarter kind of reduced risk appetite.
How should we be thinking about that at all about -- or how are you thinking about that in terms of how it could impact some revenue trends in asset servicing and elsewhere if clients are going to become a little less active have a more conservative stance? I mean certainly that's going to have some in-term [ph] negative kind of fee connotations to it.
Or what are your thoughts? Yes let me try to frame it up a little bit Rob.
The second quarter pre-Ben Bernanke's announcement was -- the flows were pretty good I would say elevated from past years.
Not as good as end of year and first part of 2013 but pretty good.
And then the announcement came.
There was a little bit of a selloff.
And I always point even though it's not the perfect proxy if you look at U.S.
fund flow data you saw a retrenchment both in equities and fixed income instruments.
Post that there was some moderation.
Flows improved but still negative on the fixed income side improved to positive on the equity side.
So I point that out just to say that I do believe that this year is different than the past couple of years with regard to investor confidence but there's still some choppiness based on the interest rate environment and the signals that largely the market is getting from the Fed.
So I would put it at Rob better than past years as far general flows but still with some choppiness.
And I suspect given the mission the Fed has that we'll continue to see some volatility in markets.
I think as opposed to years past I think there's a little bit more resilience in the market so I wouldn't expect severe changes but I think there could be some volatility.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And maybe just a follow-up question.
I appreciate the color on the leverage ratio.
And I'm just curious I mean obviously we're not there yet but by the time we get to the third quarter call we would be well into the kind of the next 2014 CCAR process.
But is there any thought at this point that that could change kind of how you're thinking about what you could ask for? I mean you're returning pretty much 100% of earnings at this point.
And even though you seem to be in good shape based on what's been put out so far is there any thought that this is something that's going to impact what you can ask for or how you ask for it going forward? Rob you're right.
In the third quarter call we will be gearing up for the next cycle of CCAR.
And as you know that begins with input from the Fed which is a reflection of their view of the economic environment.
So that plays a part in that.
I think with regard to leverage ratio in particular given the fact that it's out in 2018 I don't see that having a lot of bearing on the next cycle of CCAR.
But obviously the final Basel III rules and if anything else comes out would all be factored into how we approach the CCAR next year.
Ed I don't know if you would add much...
I agree.
I think it's actually too early to tell what the criteria will be for the next CCAR and we'll have to see how the rules play out and what other NPRs are issued.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And maybe just one last follow-up on new business.
Is it possible to get a little bit of color on maybe the complexion of not so much the pipe but maybe geography of where you're seeing new business flows? I mean if we look at -- and I know it's far from perfect but if we look at growth of the AUA and AUC I mean domestic assets have been growing a little bit faster than global which I guess is at time maybe a little bit at odds in a way when you think about where some of the growth opportunities have been talked about over time outside the U.S.
So are you just seeing -- whether it's the mutual fund business or what have you just seeing kind of a -- more recently more activity among U.S.
clients making decisions and outsourcing compared to non-U.S.? Or any kind of color on that I think would be helpful.
Sure happy to do it.
You saw the $200-ish billion in new asset servicing commitments be 2/3:1/3 U.S.:non-U.S.
and I think that's been the trend the last couple of quarters.
And I would say that the simple explanation for that and nothing's ever simple is that Europe has really slowed down.
I think that while I think it will restart and I think that decision cycles will pick up for the last several quarters I think somewhat as a result of the continued disruption in Europe the decision-making around European new business has been slow.
We have a big presence in Europe.
I would say in contrast to that in addition to the U.S.
Asia with a little bit of an emphasis on Japan and Australia for us continue to be strong markets.
I think if you look at it across product areas I continue to call out the alternatives and more specifically hedge fund where we think we have an advantaged position that the assets continue to grow and there continues to be more outsourcing in that space.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ed good luck in retirement and enjoy the beach.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations Ed.
Welcome Mike.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Research Division</strong> You've all done a really good job of driving positive operating leverage.
I think through the first 6 months by my measure you've achieved about 165 basis points in margin expansion versus last year.
So if the market rates don't move and you remain on plan with Business Ops and IT Transformation do you expect that 165 to get even larger as we finish out 2013? Again Howard it goes back to the "all else equal" type of analysis.
I mean we're confident we're going to get the rest of the year's target which is approximately $100 million for the Ops and IT program.
It depends on how the revenue landscape looks in the second half of the year but I would expect that we'll show improvement relative to Ops and IT all else equal.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And Jay just a follow-up on your commentary before.
You mentioned notable client reductions in emerging market allocations.
Can you just discuss some of the positives and negatives as that played through the results? And specific to EM is there anything mindful -- we should be mindful of going forward? Yes I think the -- I would first say that the effect and impact of emerging markets is meaningful.
Not only do we derive a higher revenue per unit of asset in the servicing fee line but it enables foreign exchange and related activities.
So it is a meaningful part of the revenue line which is why I call it out.
I think the -- with regard to the whole flow situation it's a little bit what I mentioned before which is more volatility in the second quarter than we saw in the first quarter.
You saw more recently in the second quarter more recent flows positive on the equity side -- actually positive on the global equity side.
So it was really the emerging markets piece that hasn't really come back.
Is that helpful Howard? Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then finally Ed thanks for the thoughts on the leverage ratio.
I know its early but you alluded to potential mitigating actions.
I was hoping you could just frame out what fits in that mitigating action bucket.
And the early view does that change all of how you do business? Well I mean the early view is that we don't think these actions would change how we do business.
Obviously they're in the process of being fully fully vetted but some of the thoughts that we're looking at are repricing potential commitments which are drawing leverage requirements; obviously scrubbing the balance sheet with a closer eye toward leverage and jettisoning low-return assets that our consumers have leveraged; possibly moving some activities that we can out of the bank and given that we have a obviously a positive position at the holding company and a slight shortfall at the bank; and then lastly some of things we're thinking about are optimizing our capital structure with an eye toward the leverage calculation specifically.
So no conclusions yet.
We're obviously trying to evaluate them in light of leverage as well as whatever else is in front of us from a capital or leverage or other perspective as these NPRs unfold in the succeeding months.
Howard we also have some -- I would say it's hope.
It seems like a reasonable thing to look for is some relief on deposits left at central banks.
So that would obviously have some impact on the leverage ratio as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ed just a follow-up on the capital return question.
Rob's question was about the supplemental leverage but you guys have also had a 10% Basel III goal and you're saying you're going to manage through the bottom end.
Previously you had said that you would consider managing below 10% because that's your self-imposed guideline.
So I just wanted to ask you to kind of give us your updated thoughts on how you're going to be looking at all these ratios and how that in fact could in fact weigh or not weigh on your ability to continue to see 100%-plus type of capital return? Yes.
Let's just recap in terms of the Basel III Tier 1 common 10% target okay? We said that 3 things had to happen: normalized rate environment which we define to be 3% Fed Funds and 5% 10-year so we're a ways away from that; we need to get the Ops and IT savings which -- midpoint $600 million which we're on track to get; and then we needed to be able to manage our capital down to 10%.
Now we said that and that was predicated on our assuming that we'd be an advanced approach bank.
That was the case we felt in the NPR where the buffers did not apply.
Now that we have the final rule clarification -- actually we believe a change that the buffers do now apply -- we have to go about it a different way and look at both standardized and advanced in order to calculate capital.
And there's a chance we could be moving back and forth quarter-to-quarter if you will depending on how things sort out.
So it's very early it's very preliminary to be thinking about the 10% level the 10% Basel III Tier 1 common target given all the uncertainty out there.
Our thinking right now is to keep it at that level.
We need to evaluate the pending NPRs and whatever else is issued.
And we're looking at optimizing around both the advanced approach which is the one we've done a lot of work on as well as the standardized approach.
So we're looking at various balance sheet strategies.
We're looking at low-risk low-return businesses where we have certain securities lending relationships for example that drive a penalty under the standardized approach.
And we need to optimize around both of those criteria.
So once we do that we'll be able to update.
And this is I think probably a ways out into the future given what's in front of us from the standpoint of NPRs.
We'll be able to update where we think the 10% target goes and then how that translates into ultimately the buyback target.
I mean we're confident that the buyback as we said in our comments will be maintained through 2014.
We'll -- our expectation is to execute on that plan.
Obviously things could change but we don't anticipate anything changing.
And lastly I would point out that relative to everything that we just talked about Basel III leverage and some other things there's a long runway to go here okay? So there's still a lot of time to pass a lot of comments to be made possibly some revisions and we're looking at starting all of that from one of the highest Basel III positions in the industry Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then secondly the biggest delta to your Basel III is this OCI component which is definitively going to count.
So you gave that sensitivity too high a rate [ph].
What can you do if anything to perhaps mitigate that swing? Would you consider moving to HTM just because of the asymmetrical nature of it doesn't really affect you on the other side of the balance sheet? If -- how do you continue to -- how can you mitigate on that side of things if at all? Yes absolutely.
HTM -- and we have some securities in HTM now.
We've developed a strategy around the advanced approach.
As I said we did a lot of work -- we've done a lot of work on the advanced approach so far.
HTM is absolutely one of the levers we could pull.
Additionally we've looked at ways in which for us to get the same economic exposure in a nonsecurity form i.e.
something that is not mark-to-market on our balance sheet but one that has the same or approximately the same return.
So if we could move exposures from securitized form into let's say some type of a loan form or secured lending form that's something that we're also looking at doing in order to manage under the AMA.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me.
Just Ed you mentioned that you might be pulling back a little bit on your reinvestment for now and it wouldn't -- the higher rates wouldn't necessarily help this year.
But can you talk about as you -- at what point do we kind of get past that higher rate securities rolling off versus what you're putting back on and what it means potentially for next year's either NIM or NII? Well I mean too early to give you guidance on 2014 Ken as I hope you appreciate.
But as we've said in the past the -- if rates stay lower longer we'll be driving to a lower net interest margin in 2014 than we're projecting for 2013 just as the last portion of the portfolio that's fixed-rate cycles through into the lower rate environment.
So I think that that's about the best I can say at this point as we roll through the remainder of the fixed-rate portfolio through the rest of this year and into 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Congrats again Ed and also welcome Mike.
If I could just go back to the -- just follow up on Ken's question on the balance sheet.
Maybe if you can just talk Ed a little bit about the impact of premium amortization on the agency MBS portfolio in the second quarter.
And then with the likely slowdown in prepayment speeds how you see that impacting the run rate into the third quarter and the rest of the year? Yes.
Our thinking in terms of the prepayments is along the following lines and it's one of the main reasons why we've offered a little bit of commentary on potentially slowing down.
I mean we've seen slower prepayments in the latter portion of the second quarter.
We had the pipeline of prepayments that came through earlier in the quarter that really were at the higher rate.
But in June we saw just to put a number on it for you Brian a 27 CPR okay? And that's actually been fairly steady between 26 and 31 since August of last year so almost for a full year.
Now we expect that to slow to 18% and 19% in July and August.
And that's part of the reason again why we're being cautious as we move through the rest of the year and it drives the expectation of a slightly lower NIM below the 130 basis point level.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
But do you -- you should be booking less premium amortization so that would theoretically help.
I know that the reinvestment pace is much slower which actually hurts.
But so you don't think you're going to get a significant benefit from the lower premium amortization? No we don't think so.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just over to -- on the comp expense line.
Anything unusual in the second quarter in terms of accruals? I mean this is the lowest comp expense ratio you've had since early 2009.
And I know a lot of it's due to the putting the 1Q seasonality aside the cost saving program.
But as we move into the second half I guess my question is are you accruing at the normal pace here and if we assume revenue goes down seasonally in the third quarter we would be at a lower comp level in the third quarter? There's nothing unusual Brian.
I mean we accrue on the basis of our expected achievement for the year.
And we'll adjust it as needed whenever that is.
I mean we have not made any significant adjustments one way or the other in the second quarter to our comp expense.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So that implies a good trend in the second half.
And then just lastly on the -- it sounds like from what you're saying on the capital rules obviously everything's preliminary.
It doesn't sound to me like there's any change in your philosophy about returning something around 100% of earnings to shareholders for your buyback and dividends.
Is that correct? As we think about the CCAR process I know it's early but -- the CCAR process for next year? Let me start that one Brian.
I would say with regard to philosophy we're always looking at the best return on capital for shareholders and it still feels like returning capital through buying back shares and dividends is the best approach given the lack of better alternatives.
So philosophically nothing's changed.
I do think that as Ed mentioned we feel comfortable with where we are in the calendar year through the first quarter of 2014 based on what has been approved by the board.
But there's just a whole lot of open questions from the Fed's input to CCAR to these NPRs that are rolling out.
So it would be premature I think to -- other than to say philosophically we're still in the same place with regard to capital deployment through share buybacks.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to talk about the balance sheet management for a second again.
And when we kind of think about the risk-aversion levels remaining I guess pretty high and it sounds like Jay you don't anticipate that changing in the near term can you guys talk a little about the appetite to maybe move some of the cash into the securities portfolio even pick up a little bit of spread in the near term since it feels like the "excess deposits" are sticking around for a little bit longer? Yes Alex the -- that's something we look at regularly.
The question of how transient versus more stable various deposits are is something that the treasury group looks at.
I mean in point of fact our elevated deposit level on average this quarter increased from the first quarter by about $3 billion up to $22 billion.
But also cutting the other way on June 30 we actually had $24 billion come in and it went out on July 2.
So we're very cautious.
We've taken a view that some of the deposits that we previously thought may be excess have stuck around a little bit longer so we've put them to work very carefully at the short end in floating rate securities in the portfolio.
But if there's a question as to whether or not something is more core or more transient we opt for the conservative answer and put it at the -- at a central bank.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then a question I guess on the emerging markets exposure.
If my memory serves me right you guys aren't considerably more into the custody and administration business on the emerging fund assets.
Is there a way to kind of get a sense of what percentage of total custody assets that is and what the pricing differential is between that and call it kind of your 2-basis-point rate on everything else? No.
I mean the way -- that's not at hand Alex.
I mean the way that the numbers are presented is by location where the assets are serviced.
So you could have different assets serviced in different locations that may not necessarily be "emerging market assets" so there isn't something that we can point you to to answer that question.
Your next question comes from line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> You're at your pretax margin target in the quarter but with about $200 million IT Transformation savings to come and that would imply it be 200 basis points better.
So why no change to the pretax margin target? I guess its either there's -- you're being conservative; or you're unsure about the IT progress you just want to wait; or there's some reason it's not hitting the bottom line.
Yes I think the -- we're certainly -- there's no lack of confidence that we're going to get the IT and Ops program complete and realize the savings so let me just start there.
I think the pretax margin this quarter was 32% and -- 32% and change and I think if we anchor off this quarter you got to consider that the second quarter has seasonal revenue uplifts.
So that wouldn't be a realistic point to depart from.
I think if you looked at the full year margin and then looked at the incremental benefit from the IT and Ops again if everything else stayed the same we would expect that to flow to the margin.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Are you -- would you consider raising the target if you were more confident? And -- because you just run through the numbers you can take first half of year numbers and give you guys the rest of the benefit you're kind of there.
You want me to try to take that Mike? Because I've looked at this many many different ways.
And one way to look at it is that through June 30 of this year we're halfway through the program okay? So using round numbers we're at about $300 million of savings okay? We got $200 million through 2012 and got $105 million for the first half of this year.
The margin as I calculated is up about 190 basis points.
So we have a year-to-date margin this year of 29.4% and I compare that to the starting point which is the 27.5% number.
That's the adjusted for the securities gains and onetime items in 2012 -- 2010 excuse me.
So we said all else equal right? So we have a 190 basis point expansion in margin halfway through the program.
We still have halfway to go.
That's another $300 million.
Our estimate is that that should drive about 200 basis points of margin expansion bringing the midyear margin for 2013 up to 31.5% which is right on what we said a 400 basis point margin improvement over the life of the program okay? That's how we're thinking about it.
You can say that we're being conservative.
I mean we're confident we're going to get the Ops and IT savings but we have said all else equal to 2010 which you may take as conservatism but the fact is that the revenue mix matters a lot to the margin achievement ultimately.
Research Division</strong> Let me try one more time.
I have the firm's technology analyst on the line with me Ed Maguire.
If he can just follow up on my behalf.
Go ahead Ed.
Research Division</strong> You guys have talked quite a bit about your cloud project which is a multiyear effort.
And we'd be interested just to get your perspective on how that's tracked relative to your expectations.
And also address some of the direct business benefits that you've been getting from the implementation of the technology and potentially some of the challenges you might have had in getting it right.
Yes.
Great Ed happy to do that.
The -- as a very integral part of the IT and Ops Transformation is a migration to a cloud environment.
And if you look at where we are in the migration of IT and Ops most of the operational-related transformation has occurred or is winding up.
And where we are right now if you look at the -- from here to the end of the program it's largely around rewriting applications in the cloud.
And the rewriting of applications makes the function more efficient but it also results in us having more of our application set in a cloud environment.
And I think today of 200 applications Ed there's probably 1/3 that are ported onto the cloud already.
So we've made headway.
We feel good about where we're heading.
The impact of the cloud I think is the transformational aspect of when we say an IT and Ops Transformation of this initiative.
Because I -- when you look at this business transaction processing technology is a huge enabler and I think cloud computing is a real breakthrough generally but specifically to the transaction processing business.
And I say that for a few reasons.
It's less about the application rewrite and the efficiency it has on the operations.
It's more around once you move to a cloud environment the nimbleness and speed to market to introduce new products.
So I'll give you an example or 2.
Recently in the past 6 or 9 months as new regulations came out around private equity there was a report this PF report that was required to be developed.
In the past that would have been a multi-month effort.
On the cloud we introduced it in 2 to 4 weeks.
So there's a speed to market with new analytic and information products that is integral -- and technologies so I hope you appreciate that.
So that's going to be a big benefit.
The other big benefit of moving to a cloud is as we move to the cloud we're cleansing our data.
So there's less breaks in the data and as a result of that the information that's -- our client information available ultimately to them is available on a more realtime basis.
And if you think about some of the great challenges that front offices have today it's around availability of realtime data for decision support.
So as we move through this cloud I think we reposition the firm with regard to the data and the information and analytic products that we can introduce to the front office of our customers.
So what hasn't gone so well what are some of the challenges? I would say specific to the cloud largely the issues have been minor.
When I look at the 70 or so applications that we've already rewritten on the cloud it was all based on estimates.
Some were behind schedule some were ahead of schedule.
On balance kind of worked out.
But anytime you're rewriting applications anywhere never mind on a cloud there's always room for slippage and we've seen some of that.
I'd say in aggregate it's been -- the balance has worked out and we were probably pretty conservative in our estimates but it's a change.
I would say the other thing which is a little less cloud-oriented and more around the operational side of the IT and Operations is probably the biggest challenge that we had was the cultural challenge of getting people to deliver operational services in a dramatically different way.
And I think we've broken the back of that one.
I think we have broad-based support in the organization for this being the way of the future and this being good for clients service levels and the like.
Let me pause Ed and see did I capture the...
Research Division</strong> No that's very helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the capital.
As you think about this -- the 10% ratio being sort of your capital constrained here does this affect how you think about normalized ROEs for your business? Well again it depends on how the rules ultimately sort out.
And it goes back to the optimization points I was trying to draw out earlier.
I mean clearly if the rules are adopted as proposed we'd need to do -- we'd need to take some actions over the next 4 years or so 5 years to drive to compliance at the bank level on the leverage ratio.
And those actions may change our thinking in terms of certain ROE targets at certain business unit levels for example.
But way too early to conclude anything at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question is about asset sensitivity.
If you look at the disclosure on your Q it looks like you're asset sensitive for a 100 basis point shift in rates.
But I think Ed you said at conferences that when the Fed starts to raise rates you're basically liability sensitive until the Feds stops raising rates if my memory is correct.
Could you just sort of reconcile the 2 sort of comments about -- how should we think about your asset sensitivity? Sure.
The disclosure that you're referring to is the usual disclosure in our SEC filings up or down shock ramp disclosure.
And that's assuming a static balance sheet.
It assumes the balance sheet as of the statement date does not move and the rate shock is applied okay? So the results you see are just assuming no customer deposit behavior changes no changes on our part relative to the investment portfolio et cetera.
When I talk about what we think is going to happen if in fact the Fed starts raising short-term rates and there's a 25 basis point per quarter ramp and we say that our assets lag in terms of reinvestment or liability repricing that's a giving effect to an assumption on our part of changed behavior relative to client deposits and/or the investment portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Marquardt with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of ticky-tack questions.
On -- back to expenses helpful on the IT ops program color that you shared.
But then also in terms of the additional actions that you took late last year in terms of headcount reduction and you had then talked about a $90 million benefit over the next 18 months if I recall correctly where are we on that front? I believe in first quarter maybe you were maybe only 10% through.
Where are we today on that? Yes.
We said that we were -- we achieved $9 million in the first quarter Andrew.
We achieved another $7 million this quarter so that's obviously $16 million through the first half of the year.
If you annualize that $16 million we're at $64 million on an annualized basis.
So we're about 70% of the way through against the $90 million target.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then separately in terms of -- I know there's a lot of regulatory issues in terms of capital advance versus standardized.
And then also we have the LCR coming up but you guys screened particularly well on that.
And then also OLA bail-in debt how do you guys think about that last component in terms of the potential of additional bail-in debt kind of on top of the capital stack? Well again we're dealing with rumors and there's nothing that's been official that's been published out there.
Rumors discussions et cetera.
But the way that we're thinking about it is that if in fact the rule for bail-in debt gets finalized around a risk-weighted asset function and not a GAAP asset function and that the percentage applied against our Basel III risk-weighted assets is in the 15% to 18% type range that the -- our expectation assuming that senior debt is counted in the sources of capital is that we'd have a modest amount to raise a couple of billion dollars possibly Andrew.
We have time for one final question.
Your last question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is it safe to say that if the banks are successful in convincing the regulators that the deposits at the central bank should be excluded from the calculation for the SLR that your bank ratio would easily exceed the 6%? Well I think...
LLC Research Division</strong> Or 5%.
Yes.
We think it's a rational argument.
Whether it would be successful or not I don't know.
And the sensitivity Ed on the ratio? It halves the size of the shortfall approximately.
So there'd still be a gap to close but if in fact we could get that carved out that would be very beneficial to achieving the ratio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And another question was can you share with us any color on how your ETFs performed in June during that volatility? Like the Gold SPDR -- I believe some of these might be trading in discounts but in terms of the liquidity of the market did they perform as well as you'd like? Yes I think there were no issues with regard to liquidity in the particularly volatile gold cycle and the Gold ETF so no issues with regard to creating liquidity.
And as you know those -- that gold fund is backed up by real bullion in vaults.
I just -- since you brought up ETFs we had the $12 billion negative flow on the Gold ETF.
But I would highlight because I think it's a good number the $7 billion in positive flows into ETFs into a pretty diversified area of product with I'd say Europe as one thing I would highlight.
So we continue to introduce new ETF products higher yielding from a revenue standpoint and the flows are pretty good.
Obviously gold is an offset to that for the obvious reasons.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then Ed I guess you gave us the color on the AOCI for the portfolio.
And obviously with rates going higher that's what's affected the value.
But was there anything else -- or was there certain types of securities that you own that seemed to get hit a little harder? Because the difference from March to June obviously was quite quite large.
I can point out a couple of areas that got hit harder.
Again this is at June 30.
I mean in terms of the attribution the government agency component of the portfolio is -- it got hit.
Our student loan element of the portfolio moved down.
It was in an unrealized loss position at March it moved further down.
And the remaining subprime that we have which is $1.4 billion in total moved down -- continued at an unrealized loss is a better way to say it in the second quarter Gerard.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally Jay in the past you've given us color on what you're seeing in mergers and acquisitions.
I know that may not be a top priority today but are you sensing that Washington or the regulators are maybe not as encouraging of M&amp;A? We've seen that more with the traditional banks not so much with the custody banks.
But just any color that -- what you're sensing on the M&amp;A market for [indiscernible].
Happy to do that Gerard.
I would say -- I suspect your question is largely targeted at the custody segment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Correct.
In which case very quiet.
It's quiet in Europe it's quiet in the U.S.
I think maybe not surprising that the custody banks given the asset-based activity have performed pretty well.
So that's maybe some reason why you don't see much consolidation.
So I'd say quiet on the front of prospect for acquisition.
And I would say from a regulatory standpoint hard to say.
I think that most people are trying to get through this period of new set of rules around capital to determine what that looks like and how regulators would view consolidation particularly in some of the bigger players although nothing known at this point.
Okay I think that ends our call for today.
I'd like to thank you very much for joining us.
And I'd also like to let you know that our third quarter earnings call will be held a little bit later than usual.
It will be scheduled for Tuesday October 22.
And as always we look forward to speaking with you after the call and continuing our dialogue in the coming months.
And we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without the expressed written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed on the State Street website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to introduce Valerie Haertel Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at State Street.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our third quarter earnings materials include a slide presentation.
Please note that the presentation includes non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of our non-GAAP or operating basis measures to GAAP basis measures referenced on this webcast and other related materials can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Mike Bell our Chief Financial Officer will refer to the presentation when he provides an overview of our financial results for the third quarter.
Before Jay and Mike begin their discussion of our financial performance I would like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2012 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including sections on risk factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today October 22 2013.
The corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
Now I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Jay Hooley.
Thanks Valerie and good morning everyone.
This morning we reported third quarter operating basis earnings per share of $1.19.
These results reflect the strength of our core asset servicing and asset management business as well as the impact of seasonal declines in market-driven revenue including the effect of low interest rates.
Total operating basis revenue grew about 3% as compared to a year-ago quarter and total operating basis fee revenue increased by 9% over the same period partly offset by the continuing challenging interest rate environment and investor caution in global markets.
I'm pleased with our performance year-to-date highlighted by a 19% increase in operating basis earnings per share as compared to the first 9 months of 2012.
We continue to focus on growing our core business in asset servicing and asset management while carefully managing expenses across the company.
On an operating basis we achieved positive operating leverage for this 9-month comparison of more than 200 basis points and have positioned State Street well for continued success.
Our Business Operations and IT Transformation program remains on track to deliver an additional $220 million of pretax expense savings this year and approximately $600 million for the entire program by 2015 while delivering a technology platform that enables product innovation and growth.
Turning to new business.
Our third quarter 2013 new asset servicing wins totaled $200 billion which compares to $201 billion and $211 billion of new wins reported last year and in the third quarter of 2012 respectively.
Additionally I'm pleased to report that just after the quarter closed we received a significant commitment from a new client to service assets totaling $137 billion.
On a year-to-date basis new business is $624 billion as compared to $573 billion in the same period in 2012.
Of the $200 billion in third quarter new asset servicing wins 42% were from outside the U.S.
Also included in our new business wins are 47 new alternative asset servicing mandates a client segment where we are a market leader and continue to see above-average long-term growth potential.
I'd now like to share my insights on market performance and the effect on asset flows we saw during the quarter.
Equity markets were up during the quarter and we did see some flows out of fixed income into equity funds but we also experienced significant flows into money market funds reflective of a cautious investment environment.
This environment has also led to lower trading volumes from our clients.
Leading up to the debt ceiling deadline we experienced a surge in excess deposits and a marked slowdown in trading activities.
Since the temporary debt ceiling resolution of last week excess deposits have receded and trading activity has improved.
Turning to asset management.
In the third quarter we had net outflows of $15 billion principally from institutional passive equity funds as well as securities finance cash pools partially offset by inflows into money market funds and ETFs.
With respect to ETFs the industry experienced significant volatility during the third quarter.
However we ended the quarter with $5 billion in ETF net inflows principally into U.S.
equity products.
Fixed-income investors moved into our shorter-duration products likely anticipating tapering by the Federal Reserve.
During the quarter we saw $5 billion of inflows into money market funds which coupled with low market rates led to an increase in money market fee waivers.
And finally our new business pipelines in both asset servicing and asset management continue strong and well diversified.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike who'll review our financial performance.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Before I begin my review of our results I'd like to reiterate how pleased I am to be a member of the State Street team.
I'm also looking forward to meeting with many of you in the upcoming months.
This morning I'll start my review on Slide 4 where we've noted several financial highlights for the quarter and for the 9-month period ended September 30 which I'll also refer to as year-to-date.
Unless noted separately I'll reference only the non-GAAP operating basis results in my comments today.
Year-to-date results were strong despite a difficult operating environment including low short-term interest rates.
Our results were driven by strong revenue growth in our core asset servicing and asset management businesses and continued focus on controlling expenses which has driven an expansion in our operating margins.
Fee revenue growth and expense control remain key priorities going forward.
Our year-to-date operating basis earnings per share has increased 19% to $3.38 compared to the same period in 2012.
Year-to-date our pretax operating margin was 30.2% which is approximately 160 basis points higher than the same period in 2012.
Our year-to-date return on equity was 10.4%.
Our year-to-date total fee revenue of $5.8 billion increased 8% compared to the same 2012 period primarily due to equity market appreciation net new business the revenue contributed by the GSAS acquisition and increased volumes related to foreign exchange trading.
We are pleased with our year-to-date growth.
Third quarter 2013 earnings per share of $1.19 decreased 4% sequentially and increased 20% from the third quarter of 2012.
Total fee revenue for the third quarter increased 9% versus the third quarter of last year.
Third quarter 2013 fee revenue was sequentially lower primarily due to the seasonal decline in securities finance and a summer slowdown in trading services.
We continue to benefit from good execution in managing expenses which remains a top priority.
We achieved 229 basis points of positive operating leverage on a year-to-date basis compared to the same 9-months period a year ago.
Success in our Business Operations and IT Transformation program has contributed to this result and we remain on track to deliver the expected $220 million of additional pretax expense savings for the full year.
On Slide 5 you can see that our third quarter 2013 net interest revenue decreased on a sequential basis as assets that matured or paid down were replaced with lower-yielding investments in the current low-interest rate environment.
Our third quarter net interest margin declined to 1.27%.
Our capital position remains strong and return of capital through common share stock repurchases and dividends remains a top priority.
During the third quarter of 2013 we repurchased approximately 8.2 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of approximately $560 million resulting in average fully diluted common shares outstanding of approximately 452 million for this quarter.
We have approximately $1 billion remaining under our March 2013 common stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $2.1 billion of common stock through March 31 of 2014.
We also declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.26 a share.
In addition we declared a noncumulative quarterly perpetual preferred stock dividend of $0.33 a share which amounted to approximately $7 million.
Now I'll discuss additional details regarding our operating basis quarterly revenue as outlined on Slide 12.
Unless otherwise noted my comments here will focus on the comparison of the third quarter of 2013 to the third quarter of 2012.
I believe this is more relevant since a sequential quarter comparison includes the effects of the seasonal pattern in securities finance and the summer slowdown for trading services.
Servicing fees increased 10% primarily due to stronger global equity markets the GSAS acquisition and net new business.
Management fees increased 10% primarily due to stronger global equity markets and net new business.
Third quarter management fees were negatively impacted by $12 million in money market fee waivers and this compares to $5 million in the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to the very low interest rate environment.
Total trading services revenue increased 10% primarily due to an increase in foreign exchange volumes and volatility.
Securities finance revenue decreased approximately 19% primarily due to lower spreads.
Securities on loan averaged $316 billion for the third quarter of 2013 a decline from $321 billion in the third quarter of last year.
Processing fees and other revenue increased approximately 23% primarily due to an increase in fee revenue associated with our investment in bank-owned life insurance.
Net interest revenue and net interest margin continued to be pressured from a persistently low interest rate environment.
On a sequential quarter basis NIR was lower due to both lower yields on the portfolio and the lower level of average earning assets.
This was partially offset by lower premium amortization on the U.S.
mortgage portfolio and by lower rates on our liabilities.
Now as we've discussed previously we do not expect the recent rise in the 10-year U.S.
Treasury bond yield to have a noticeable impact on NIR this year because we're primarily investing in shorter-duration maturities and short-term rates remain very low.
We would need to see a larger increase at the shorter end of the curve to achieve a significant NIR benefit.
Our third quarter 2013 operating basis net interest margin or NIM was 127 basis points down from 131 basis points in the second quarter of 2013 and down from 144 basis points in the third quarter of 2012.
We continue to expect operating basis NIM for full year 2013 to be slightly below 130 basis points.
This assumes that interest rates globally and client deposits remain at or around current levels for the remainder of the year which would drive the growth in our earnings assets to approximately 5% on the full year 2013 average versus the full year 2012 average.
That means that operating basis net interest revenue is expected to be approximately $170 million to $180 million lower in 2013 relative to 2012 taking into account the assumptions that I just noted.
Now let's turn to expenses on Slide 13.
Our expenses were well controlled in the third quarter.
Our compensation and employee benefits expenses decreased approximately 1.5% from both the second quarter of 2013 and the third quarter of 2012.
This quarter's results benefited by approximately $12 billion from some adjustments to employee benefits which we do not expect to repeat next quarter.
Additionally we had an increase in expenses related to support for new business installations.
Our Business Operations and IT Transformation program continues to be on track.
For full year 2013 we expect to achieve approximately $220 million in additional pretax expense savings resulting in approximately $418 million of pretax expense savings since the inception of the program.
Our nonrecurring expenses related to our Business Operations and IT Transformation program were approximately $25 million for the third quarter of 2013.
Now other expenses decreased sequentially to $251 million primarily due to a third quarter 2013 gain of $19 million from the sale of a legacy Lehman Brothers-related asset; lower litigation costs including the Lehman recovery; and lower professional services fees and sales promotion costs.
Also impacting the third quarter 2013 other expense line was an increase of $7 million for the new Federal Reserve supervisory assessment which represents approximately 2 years of fees.
Now as a reminder the other expense line is comprised of many items including professional services fees securities processing costs regulatory expenses and legal costs and can vary quarter to quarter.
Now let me provide you some details on the investment portfolio.
As you can see on Slide 14 our overall approach to managing the investment portfolio has not changed.
We've maintained its basic size high credit quality and composition during the quarter.
The mark-to-market improved at quarter end compared to the second quarter end mainly due to slightly tighter spreads.
Our interest rate risk position was similar to the second quarter with a sensitivity in economic value of equity or EVE in the up-200-basis-point shock scenario at minus 14.5% of total regulatory capital.
The duration of the portfolio was 1.9 years consistent with the prior quarter.
Additionally assuming a hypothetical 100-basis-point increase in interest rates across the curve the unrealized impact on capital is approximately minus $1.3 billion after tax.
Now we're monitoring and managing our interest rate risk position using a variety of risks measures including EVE and the potential impact of a rise in rates on the mark-to-market and on NIR.
These metrics are well within our risk appetite.
Maintaining a strong capital position is very important to us.
Particularly in this evolving regulatory environment we continue to identify opportunities to optimize the capital efficiency of our balance sheet.
Utilizing similar credit experience that we have from investing in corporate bonds and collateralized loan obligations we've begun to invest in senior secured bank loans targeting BB and single B-rated issuers all subject to our credit underwriting standards.
These loans provide attractive risk-adjusted returns and additional diversification to our balance sheet and are not mark-to-market.
Our current exposure is under $1 billion and while we expect to grow it over time we've planned for it to remain a relatively small portion of our overall balance sheet.
We will continue to look for other ways to optimize the balance sheet that are well aligned with our core competencies and within our risk appetite.
Now let's turn to the next slide to review our capital position.
As you can see from Slide 15 we remained focused on maintaining our strong capital position.
This capital strength allows us to deliver on a key priority of returning value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
Importantly the regulatory capital rules in the U.S.
continue to evolve.
As we discussed last quarter the Federal Reserve released the Basel III final rules in July.
Under the final rule the lower of State Street's Tier 1 common ratio calculated under the Basel III advanced approach and under the Basel III standardized approach will be State Street's effective Tier 1 common ratio in the assessment of its capital adequacy for regulatory purposes.
As of September 30 2013 our estimated pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was 10.2% under the standardized approach and 11.3% under the advanced approach.
In addition both the Basel committee and the U.S.
regulators published proposals for the new Basel III supplementary leverage ratio.
The U.S.
proposal includes a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 5% at the holding company and 6% at the bank level.
We estimate that our pro forma supplementary leverage ratios are approximately 5.4% at the holding company and approximately 5% at the bank as of September 30 2013.
Now these proposals are still subject to change.
If enacted as proposed these ratios would take effect January 1 2018.
Assuming the rules go into effect as proposed we believe that we have a number of levers which would enable us to comply with these requirements in advance of the 2018 effective date.
Both changes in the rules and the market could impact our anticipated supplementary leverage ratio for example if we're permitted to exclude central bank deposits from the calculation or if our deposit levels were to return to historical norms.
Based upon our current balance sheet we estimate our pro forma September 30 supplementary leverage ratio would increase by a little more than 0.5%.
In the meantime we recently received clarification for the Federal Reserve regarding the incorporation of Basel III into the upcoming 2014 CCAR process.
Our capital planning process already incorporates Basel III compliance standards so this guidance is consistent with our expectations.
Importantly in addition to the final rule on Basel III and the proposed supplementary leverage ratio a number of regulatory initiatives that may impact our capital position and structure and the funding of our balance sheet are still open.
For example we expect the proposed rules may be released in the coming months regarding minimum long-term debt requirements for the holding company and the capital buffer for global systemically-important banks.
Of course we continue to carefully monitor these and the other potential regulations in development and their aggregate impact upon our business.
We remain focused on executing our capital plan that we submitted in conjunction with the 2013 CCAR which includes our authorization to purchase up to $2.1 billion of our common stock through March 31 of 2014 of which approximately $1 billion remains available.
Now to recap our results.
Our strong year-to-date fee revenue growth of 8% and our positive operating leverage are indicative of good progress on our top priorities.
We expect our net interest revenue to continue to be under pressure until short-term interest rates begin to rise.
We remain focused on executing our capital plan through March 31 of 2014.
Now before I conclude I would like to briefly address the question which may be of interest to many investors and analysts regarding our expected capital return in 2014 in light of the evolving regulatory environment.
At this point it would be premature to try to estimate our return of capital beyond our current plan through March 31 2014.
While we remain focused on optimizing our capital position and returning capital to our shareholders we do not know how capital regulations will evolve nor do we yet know all of the parameters for the next CCAR process.
However we continue to believe that our share repurchase program combined with dividends is the best way to return value to shareholders.
And this remains a top priority for us.
And now I'll turn the call back to Jay.
Thanks Mike.
Let me close our call by briefly reiterating our continued focus on creating value for our clients and shareholders by growing revenue and diligently controlling expenses.
Returning capital to our shareholders through share repurchase and dividends remains a top priority.
Now Mike and I are available to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Research Division</strong> One clarification question.
You had mentioned that you are -- I think last quarter you were kind of conservative in terms of the reinvestment.
The duration stayed at 1.9 years and you had maturities run off and replaced with lower-margin assets.
I think that's all consistent with what you've been saying but I think the net interest income came a little lighter.
So I guess I'm curious.
I heard you loud and clear on some of the things you're doing on the asset side.
But with no change to the rate environment should we expect a little more of the same meaning conservative reinvestment and a little more rundown? Sure.
Glenn it's Mike.
Look a couple comments.
First I would remind you that the second half of 2013 our outlook is still in line with the estimates that Ed had provided at Q2.
Now in terms of the moving parts a couple of comments.
First around Q3 the NIR was impacted by a couple of different things relative to the NIR in Q2.
First of all the earning assets for the quarter were down $5 billion relative to the same average in Q2 so that impacted the NIR.
In addition as you correctly noted the average yields did decline for the average yield for the full quarter because of the turnover in the book.
And again we had anticipated that given the low-interest rate environment as a general rule replacing the higher-yielding stuff that's running off with lower-yielding new purchases.
And then just for completeness I'd also remind you that Q2 had a onetime benefit of $7 million in NIR from a paydown of one particular loan.
So relative to the Q2 comparison there were a few different moving parts there.
On your question on the outlook it does depend upon a number of factors.
But our current estimate at this point would be that we would see a small uptick in Q4 and that would be driven by a couple of things: First we do anticipate a small uptick in average earning assets in Q4; and we expect an additional benefit in Q4 relative to the slowdown in prepayments on the U.S.
mortgage portfolio.
So those are the couple of things for 2014 that -- I'm sorry for fourth quarter of 2013 that I would expect helping us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Appreciate that.
And I guess the second question is on the expense side I think there's a lot of good trends.
Obviously you pointed to the operating leverage and controlling what you can control.
It's just interesting how comp -- and I hear you on the onetime benefit but comp directionally very well contained.
And the info systems and communications lines still up 11% year-on-year even included in the program.
So I guess it's A-B question of a are the comp trends as a general comment can we connect -- we expect that to continue? And b is this type of growth rate on the info systems line what we could expect as you continue to invest in the platform? Well Glenn first of all I appreciate your comments on expenses.
As we've talked about controlling operating expenses is a significant priority for us as is generating a positive overall operating leverage.
So that has not changed.
On your specific question of info systems and communications those have been relatively consistent here this quarter versus last quarter.
And I would anticipate a relatively consistent maybe up a little bit in Q4.
Again that's all part of the long-term IT and ops.
So where we've gotten additional savings on the operations side sometimes that has entailed incremental IT expenses.
But I -- again I wouldn't read anything into the year-over-year info systems because it is all part of the combined IT and ops program.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Mike just a follow-up on the expenses.
You're continuing to drive a lot of positive operating leverage through the bank.
Putting aside market factors are there any specific reasons you'll give some of that 230 basis points back to finish the year? And just looking a bit further out than that can you and Jay just broadly talk about your confidence to drive more operating leverage just given the fact that you've done a lot already markets are up a lot and the rate environment's not improving? Sure Howard good morning.
First on the remainder of the year operating expenses there are several moving parts here.
First on the comp and benefits I don't expect for example that $12 million favorable expense adjustment that we had to employee benefits to repeat in Q4.
So I just would suggest you be cognizant of that plus $12 million pressure.
I wouldn't try at this point to put a number on Q4 for comp and employee benefits because there still are a lot of decisions that we need to make including for example incentive comp for the full year.
That true-up whatever it is will show up in Q4.
And at this point it's too early to try to put a number on it.
The other comment I would make is around the other expenses.
Again the other expenses do bounce around a fair amount quarter-to-quarter.
It's got things in there like litigation expenses.
Well those are basically impossible to predict with any confidence.
So again difficult to try to estimate the other expenses for Q4.
Ed had commented last quarter that he would expect a normal run rate for the second half of the year to be in the $270 million to $280 million range for other expenses.
That's still reasonable but it doesn't count on anything in terms of unusual items flowing through there.
So other than those 2 sort of macro points I wouldn't expect the other line items for Q4 to look a lot different than Q3.
And in terms of how that translates to positive operating leverage obviously that will depend in large part on the market-driven revenues.
And there's several points both plus and minus of uncertainty out there so that would be difficult to anticipate.
Let me ask Jay if he wants to add in terms of the longer term.
Yes Howard.
The only thing I would add is I think consciously we've been doing a good job of creating operating leverage in this I would say less-than-normal market-driven operating environment.
And that's largely IT and ops and trying to become more efficient in all parts of the business.
I would expect over time as Mike points out in a more normalized market-driven revenue environment that we should continue to have good operating leverage.
The higher the revenue growth the higher the operating leverage is a general theme.
But that's the general strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And Jay my second question.
You've spoken a good bit about the alternatives servicing opportunity.
I was just hoping you could just take a step back help us place that 47 new mandates in context and talk a bit more about what you're seeing out there today as the fundraising environment for these folks seems like it's improving how the competitive landscape and profitability of that client segment is progressing? Sure.
Happy to do that Howard.
Just to remind everybody we got into the alternatives business early and have not only gone global with it but have diversified across not only hedge but private equity and real estate.
So we're pretty confident across the landscape of the alternatives assets.
As a general theme when we talk to our institutional asset owners pension funds and the like there continues to be greater allocation into alternatives.
You can look at some of the alternative returns and question that judgment but that is the trend.
And so we see more assets flowing to alternatives point one.
Point two you see more demands on the alternative asset classes for a higher level of compliance and risk reporting both regulatory and nonregulatory.
So the level of outsourcing continues to move in our favor.
We have referenced before that we think 70% of the hedge marketplace is outsourced to third-party providers but only 30% in the case of real estate and private equity.
And so we're seeing kind of across-the-board gains across the 3 asset classes across the 3 geographies.
And we don't see that letting up.
The last point I would make is that -- I make the point that we get into this early because if you look at the league[ph] table of who we're competing with there are some unusual names.
It's not the typical trust bank names.
So we think we're pretty well-positioned competitively and continue to invest in the platform to differentiate our service offering.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question maybe Jay this is for you.
But I would like to maybe get -- if we could maybe get a little bit better sense within the asset servicing.
I mean you called out the alternative business but maybe a little bit better sense of what other segments you may be seeing some relative strength or weakness in.
And I mean if I just look at your disclosure around AUA and AUC and knowing that that's not -- it's far from a perfect metric.
But you do see things like insurance and other growing pretty slowly whereas collective trust products growing pretty rapidly.
So could you maybe give us a little bit more insight and color in terms of the moving pieces underneath there and where the successes are or aren't? Sure.
I would say Rob the -- you got to look at it geographically and by product segment.
Geographically even though 42% of the new commitments this quarter came from outside the U.S.
tilted towards Asia by the way North America continues to be a big driver in spite of maybe expectations a few years ago.
Within the different subcategories we have a preferred position from a market share standpoint.
And the asset manager segment we like it.
We think it offers the most diversity as far as growth and product expansion.
And we continue to do well there.
We've had several competitive wins.
We like the segment.
The segment continues to grow.
Pensions a little bit flatter.
Alternatives up into the right.
I see that continuing.
So that's kind of the way I see it.
I mean the sovereign wealth fund marketplace -- we -- I was in Asia last week we're very well-positioned with the sovereign wealth funds.
Whether it's oil-driven or other commodity-driven growth those funds are growing.
They're getting more sophisticated.
They're investing more in alternatives.
Their needs in the middle and back office are increasing.
So I'd add that as an additional segment.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Maybe as my follow-up I'm just curious a couple of years ago I mean yourselves and your peers and everyone it's clearly had a similar kind of pressures on top line.
And it seemed like everyone had been focused on pricing and maybe a little more rationality was creeping into the market.
I'm just kind of curious what you're seeing now.
I mean maybe you've got some more competitors in Europe who are feeling their oats a little bit more at least because they want more fee business or just given that everyone is kind of still under the gun as it relates to revenue pressure.
Are you seeing any kind of more I guess I'll call it irrationality creep into the market at all? Or is it still being reasonably sane? I would say Rob the -- a couple of things.
That matters a lot by segment.
So in an alternative segment better than a U.S.
pension segment as a for instance and who the competitors are.
But directionally I would say same if not a little better.
I think what you hear from me and other trust banks at least the domestic the U.S.
trust banks as people try to get a little bit more rational around fees and try to work the fee arrangements with their customers to a better place given the market-driven revenue pressure.
There's some movement I think we're all seeing on that.
And I think that's brought in some maybe more responsible pricing.
In Europe which would be the other place where custodians live there's an occasional crazy bid.
But I would say directionally nothing really feels very different.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just picking up on the last question.
When you look at the growth in your average assets under custody year-over-year this year versus last year you're up about 12%.
When you do the same on just the total servicing fees you're up about 10%.
So it feels like there's still a bit of a lag between fees and asset growth.
Is there -- I guess a why do you guys think that is? And b should we expect that gap to close in some sort of a different market environment? Or should we think of the fees growing I guess at a slower pace than the assets? Yes I mean assets that's a tough relationship and there's a lot of things that go into the fee side of that but if I just pick on the third quarter just by way of example I think that the third quarter equity markets performed pretty well our service fees were up a little bit.
What sits in the middle of that is a mix question.
So there was on balance client de-risking which brings less attractive -- well makes it less attractive from a service fee standpoint.
And the other thing was that transaction volumes were down so that's another factor that drives the service-fee-to-overall-asset-growth relationship.
So I would say I'd just point to that as an example of how these things can shift quarter-to-quarter year-to-date.
I would say overall in a -- whatever a normalized market looks like these days but markets where there's investor confidence where there's investment across the full spectrum of asset classes including emerging markets global we'd expect to see a pretty good relationship a pretty consistent relationship between assets and service fees.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then on your -- just going back to the balance sheet for a second your point you make on de-risking during the summer.
I guess I'm surprised to see the deposits come down as much as they did sequentially so maybe a little bit of color on that and how we should think about the overall kind of balance sheet size heading into 2014.
Okay.
Alex it's Mike.
The size of the balance sheet of course as well as the level of customer deposits those vary based on a number of different factors.
We've typically had seasonality in the past where Q3 has tended to be a little bit lower than Q2 and Q4.
We do anticipate the average earning assets for Q4 to be somewhat higher than Q3 which as I mentioned earlier is one of the reasons we anticipate a small uptick in NIR for Q4.
But again this is -- it is an unpredictable period of time.
Obviously the -- some of the noise in Washington around the debt-ceiling crisis led to a temporary increase in our customer deposits.
Most of that has abated but some has not.
So it -- again it's really at this point difficult to predict with certainty where the average earning assets will end up for the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> First a general question.
As a new CFO how are you looking to manage things differently than in the past? What are your few areas of greatest focus? Sure Mike.
Well I think it's a little bit early for me to try to put a stake in the ground on that particular question.
I mean I really have spent my first 100 days in the job just working to learn the business learn about our issues as a company learn the internal structure.
So at this point I wouldn't try to put a stake in the ground saying this is how my regime hopefully multi-year regime will differ from the past.
But we could certainly have ongoing dialogue in 2014 on that.
But I think a little early at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And 3 very small follow-ups.
Why did you guys report so late this quarter? You aren't usually last the week after everybody else.
Yes it's a quick one Mike.
The -- we had our board meeting off-site in Hong Kong last week.
We usually -- and we have a strategy session.
We decided to do it in Hong Kong.
Calendars could only be coordinated for the last week so really that's the reason we put it off a week simply.
Research Division</strong> And then a detailed question.
I mean like if you look at the bottom of Slide 13 the bottom right-hand corner the bullet where it talks about unusual items that helped the third quarter the gain of $19 million from the sale of a legacy Lehman Brothers-related asset and then the Lehman Brothers-related recovery of $11 million that's a pretty big onetime benefit for the quarter.
So if you take that out then it would have been an earnings miss for the third quarter.
I know this is in the eyes of the beholder but are there any unusual items that would have offset some of those onetime benefits a little bit? And I guess I ask you Mike welcome to the job as CFO here's an earnings miss or maybe that's the wrong conclusion.
Well Mike first of all as you said the underlying run rate as you try to scrub onetime items is really in the eye of the beholder so it is really a term of art not science.
I mean I'd make the same comment like what you just said on some of the global market-driven revenue.
I mean because FX volumes were down and as part of the seasonal slowdown I would also think of that as not necessarily the long-term run rate as well.
But I would just -- since you cited the Slide 13 I would also reference the $7 million assessment that we got from the Fed for the supervisory fee and that wasn't there at Q2.
So there were several different moving parts.
I wouldn't try to put my number -- my finger on an underlying number at this stage but just to say that we think the underlying fundamental trends for 2013 continue to be good.
We're pleased with the progress we're making on our highest priorities.
And to me those are the most important headlines for the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Guys I just want to take another stab on the operating margin.
I think you were targeting 400 basis points of expansion with the efficiency initiative.
I think that was off a 2010 base of 28% or 29% and that assumes all else equal.
I was wondering if you might discuss what hasn't been equal so to speak in terms of expenses and how that affects your outlook on the level of the margin.
It seems like you're saying now that we need a change in the operating environment -- revenue environment really to exceed a 30.5% margin but I thought perhaps the projection of 400 basis points really didn't depend on that.
Okay.
Luke it's Mike.
First just to recap what Ed said again last quarter and what he has said pretty consistently in the past.
The starting point for 2010 is 27.5%.
There were some nonrecurring items that he had spiked out in there.
So you really want to think about it as 27.5% plus 400 basis points to get to an overall pretax margin of 31.5%.
Now on a year-to-date basis we're at 30.2%.
At this point we expect to achieve in 2014 and beyond another $180 million of ops and IT transformation savings.
Bottom line is we still think we can get from the 30.2% to the 31.5%.
Now again an important caveat as Ed said many many times is that that does assume all things equal.
And as you indicate all things are never exactly equal.
And how our mix of business changes things like the regulatory environment where will our interest rates be I mean there are a number of other moving parts that can impact our longer-term margins.
But at this point we feel good about the savings we've gotten from our IT and ops transformation and feel good about our trajectory on the year-to-date profit margins.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That was helpful context and a helpful reminder.
And just a longer-term question on the balance sheet size.
Could you remind us of what your estimate of excess deposits is currently and then what impact if any do expect on your deposit balances if the Fed were to unwind its balance sheet and take excess reserves out of the system? In other words like how strong is the linkage between the amount of reserves in the banking system and the liquidity that's been aggregating specifically on your balance sheet? Okay.
So the -- in terms of the excess deposits Luke at Q3 on average we estimate that our excess deposits were $19 billion for the quarter.
As the Fed -- if the Fed unwinds quantitative easing assuming that interest rates would rise I would expect that we would see those $19 billion of excess deposits move off of our balance sheet.
Now again the pace of that the timing of that what other alternatives are out there for clients to look at their level of risk appetite in that scenario those are all moving parts.
Those are all factors that will impact the timing and the amount.
But basically we think of it as $19 billion of average excess deposits in Q3.
The only other thing I would add is that they've been running higher thus far in October.
But again we would think that that's probably a temporary phenomenon because of the debt-ceiling crisis.
But that's also something that we're watching.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One is on NIM and you highlighted that there's an outlook for a little bit of an improvement as you go into 4Q overall.
Could you speak to the discount accretion because it looks like there was a fall-off maybe about half Q-on-Q and I'm wondering if -- how you're thinking about that rate of change going forward? Are you specifically referring Betsy to the discount accretion from the conduit program? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes we did have a rather large paydown in Q2.
I don't specifically have that number off the top of my head.
Again I think if you adjust for that we wouldn't anticipate a major change.
But again I must admit I have not squirreled the legacy conduit program in detail to be able to answer your question with a lot of specificity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But would you expect that that would just grind down from here not increase right? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then maybe we could just touch base a little bit on the securities finance.
I know industry-wide there's been -- sec lending has been down Q-on-Q and year-on-year but maybe you could just highlight if there's anything specifically that was going on in your program to drive the year-on-year decline that we saw.
No Betsy I don't think so.
Our on-loan balances are pretty consistent.
They were off a little bit year-over-year but a little bit north of $300 billion.
Customers that are in the program are staying in the program.
Demand was off in the third quarter and spreads were compressed and I think it's that simple.
We would expect in a little bit -- in a better environment demand would improve and hopefully spreads.
I mean spreads are compressed quite a bit from where they were a year ago but nothing other than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's more volume driven than obviously value driven in terms of the market right? Because the market was up nicely.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> And then in the equity market environment that we got I don't know I would've expected that AUC might have been up a little bit more.
And I know you spoke through earlier on the call where you're strong and one of the places you are strong is in the mutual fund industry.
So maybe you could square that a little bit for us.
Yes I would say we tracked almost to the -- as far as our flows intra-quarter to the ICI.
But we're a little bit different in that we had more of a -- more flows into money market funds for instance.
Equities equity -- the -- out of bonds into equity funds but proportionately more into money funds which is a little bit off of where the ICI data would lead you.
And so the mix was on balance slightly negative from a standpoint of risk-taking and related fees.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you say this is an unusual quarter based on how market participants were behaving relative to the volatility in the rates market and the [indiscernible].
Yes I mean I would say equally important was the volume of trading.
That is also a revenue component of the service fees.
So I would weight that equally with the mix shift.
And I would think the third quarter was an unusual environment particularly the tail end of the third quarter.
And we saw not only capital markets volumes down but I think consistent with assets ramping up on our balance sheet trading was down end of the third quarter.
I would hope that's unusual.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Two questions.
One Jay you mentioned you've had some pressure on the fee rate from de-risking particularly in emerging markets.
But over the last 6 weeks we've seen a pretty big jump in emerging markets.
Do you think that could begin to start helping you in the fourth quarter on the fee rate side? Yes if it sustains itself Jim it certainly would.
We've -- I would say last 6 weeks you're right and even in the last couple of days post debt-ceiling debacle the -- it looks like risking has improved.
But that's -- 2 days doesn't make a trend.
But if that were to sustain itself through the quarter that would be a good positive factor for us.
Right okay.
And then just on the capital ratios when we look at the difference between standardized and advanced should we -- will that difference persist or should we expect to see that gap close for instance as you run off the held-to-maturity conduit assets? Is that the major difference or no? No.
Jim it's Mike.
That is -- that's not really the major difference.
The major difference is that the standardized approach has standard risk factors and haircuts which are more punitive really in 2 areas.
First they're particularly punitive for the high-quality assets on our balance sheet which is obviously the bulk of the portfolio.
And then there are certain off-balance-sheet items for example securities finance that the standardized approach is more punitive as well.
So those are really the 2 primary differences.
I would not anticipate that the runoff of the legacy conduit program to be a material driver of that delta.
All right.
It won't close the gap but you'll get some RWA benefit for both? We will get some RWA benefit for both.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Marquardt with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just staying on the capital question.
Can you remind us what is the constraining factor for you guys? Is it the Tier 1 common Basel III standardized or advanced in the CCAR process? Or is it now the SLR? How do you think about it? Or is it something else? Sure.
Good morning.
The -- well first as it relates to this upcoming CCAR Andrew I think it's premature to give you a definitive answer because in fact we haven't seen the instructions yet.
So we'll obviously know a lot more when we see the final instructions and the final parameters.
But the way I'm thinking about it really is at 2 different levels.
The first is the quantitative level and yes we do expect that the Basel III standardized Tier 1 common ratio would be an important ratio here for us beginning 1/1/2015.
We had anticipated that being the case and again believe quantitatively that will be important here for 2000 -- beginning 1/1/2015.
I think though equally importantly would be the qualitative considerations.
I mean really what CCAR is about qualitatively is demonstrating that we do have a robust long-term capital plan to be in compliance with the new rules.
Now -- and so I think both will be important here in terms of the capital distribution plan.
You asked about the supplementary leverage ratio.
I think at this point that would be premature in all likelihood.
Although again subject to the caveat that we haven't seen the final instructions yet for CCAR.
I'd just ask you to remember that the SLR at this point is proposed it's not final.
And in prior years we've not been held to proposed rules that are not yet finalized.
So we'll learn more over the next coming months and give you an update.
But what we're really focused on are the Basel III ratios and again that qualitatively having a long-term robust plan.
And Andrew just to add to that for a minute.
The -- we I think just yesterday put in our commentary on the supplemental leverage ratio as did other big banks.
The issue that's front and center for us is this whole excess deposit issue.
We hold excess deposits for customers we lay them off on central banks.
For us to have to hold 6% capital against that it doesn't seem to make a lot of sense given that I think the intent of the supplemental leverage ratio is that it's a backstop or a secondary ratio.
So we're hoping that reason will prevail as they finalize that rule.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then maybe related I mean is it also premature to assume that you guys should keep to kind of what you've been doing the last couple of years of 100% combined payout going into '14 given these factors and other kind of -- the tough top line but yet still[ph] expense leverage et cetera? The short answer Andrew is yes.
It is premature to comment on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I might 1 second topic on just expenses.
Can you remind us in terms of where you stand on the IT expense initiative? I know you're about 70% through that I guess.
Did you say that you were going to basically be at kind of the full run rate by the end of 2014? Did I hear that right? And then also you had that additional expense initiative of $90 million savings that you have previously talked about kind of being at 70% heading into this quarter or -- sorry at the end of last quarter.
Where do we stand on that as well? Okay.
Sure Andrew.
We would anticipate achieving our aggregate IT and ops savings of $600 million in the first half of 2015.
So what that means is we've got approximately $180 million left.
We've got $130 million that we expect to impact 2014 and then another $50 million that we would expect to impact 2015.
And again we're on track for the 2013 target.
So I would not expect for example incrementally more expense saves in Q4 versus Q3 on the 2013 tranche.
That -- those expenses at this point have been basically captured.
On your question on the year-end 2012 program at this point we have captured those savings in the run rate.
And so again at this point those have been executed on.
Research Division</strong> So with that is it fair to assume that you can achieve positive operating leverage on a year-over-year basis again even in this tough top environment if it lasts for longer into 2014? Is that a fair assumption? Yes again it's a little early to comment on 2014 definitively.
Again I think the main question is really the market-driven revenues what is that environment going to look like.
If we saw a more return to normal for example with interest rates as well as some of the market-driven revenues we would anticipate a positive operating leverage.
But again certainly at this point that's a goal but I wouldn't say that we could give you guidance at this point on 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess just to clarify on the improvement you expect for 4Q in NIR.
Is there any reason that wouldn't continue into 1Q of next year and beyond? Is there anything particularly seasonal about the increase in earning assets you're expecting and the improvement? Yes Cynthia it's Mike.
The -- again it's really early to try to give you thoughts on 2014.
It will just depend upon a lot of different factors.
Notably I would point out would be the view on market interest rates.
I mean if market interest rates continue to be static then we would anticipate additional downward pressure on NIR and NIM next year.
But again early to try to put any numbers around it.
On the deposit question we do anticipate continuing growth in the book of business.
But again at this point I wouldn't try to give you a definitive outlook for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on the AUC.
And I realize a few people have asked about this so at the risk of beating a dead horse it seemed like your AUC was up about 1% sequentially despite pretty strong markets and an asset mix which is pretty well weighted toward equities.
So aside from things like fee rate questions of fee rate and that sort of thing just based on the mix of assets you began with why wouldn't it have been up more just based on the market appreciation in the equity assets? And should we conclude that you had some net outflows that offset the $200 million or so -- or the $200 million of wins you mentioned? Or was there something lumpy beyond that? Yes let me try that.
We didn't have any big outflows or losses that contributed to that.
It's really more a matter of our mix which was more negative from a standpoint of client risking meaning more into money market funds versus equities which is a slight difference from where the market was combined with in our service fee business transaction fees are an important component of the fee rate and transactions were off quite a bit in the third quarter.
So really those are the factors.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was asking more about the ending asset level than the fees? Ending asset levels...
Research Division</strong> Up only 1%? Yes let me take a look at that Cynthia.
From $18.8 trillion to $19.2 trillion is that the reference.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You know what maybe we can just pursue this off-line? Okay great.
Fine.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Jay I was wondering if you could just elaborate a little bit more on the pipeline the pace of potential wins across both servicing and asset management.
I heard your comment about the big win coming in just after the end of the quarter.
I'm just wondering if that's any indication that you're starting to see some potential chunk of your pieces of business up for bid and potentially landable.
Yes I would say Ken pretty steady.
I mean that new business the one that we committed after the quarter was chunky.
But I would say pretty steady.
I am particularly pleased with our competitive win rate when we're in the not only alternative but asset management business.
Our win rate is quite high.
We've had -- and the pipeline is pretty solid and pretty diversified.
So I wouldn't directionally say better or worse but pretty steady.
Research Division</strong> What about just underneath that granularity of like is the type of business you're bringing on higher or lower incremental margin relative to history or recent periods? Are you seeing better business? If the volume is static what's the context of the type of new business you're bringing on? Yes I would say in a world of $200 billion a quarter which is a lot of deals underlying that it's a real mix.
I would give you a few examples.
We seem to have an addition to alternatives.
The ETF servicing business is a real strong category for us.
In the Goldman acquisition the GSAS acquisition we said we thought we could cross-sell.
We have done a terrific job at not only cross-selling but taking relationships that were thinly serviced and moving up into the back middle office 2 big deals there which are very attractive from the standpoint of return.
So it's -- without going through a list Ken it's hard to directionally say better or worse other than very diversified and a good solid pipeline.
Research Division</strong> And Mike you announced the $200 billion of new but could you give us the left to convert on both the asset servicing and asset management side? I'll give you that Ken.
The -- on the asset servicing side between everything we have committed up till now plus the $200 billion it's about 185 that's in the pipeline waiting to convert.
Is that what you're looking for? Research Division</strong> Yes and that's as of the third right? That's x the new win? That -- that's x the new win correct.
So the 127 plus 184 would be the to-be installed number.
Research Division</strong> And then how about on the management side? I don't know that I could give you that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last really quick one just one final one on the expenses.
So you're at the run rate for this year's plan.
This year the bulk of the saves came in earlier in the year.
Is that the same context we should expect from the incremental benefits for '14? Does it -- most of it come in early part of the year like it did this year? Ken I would say generally the answer is yes.
I wouldn't say -- necessarily use the exact same percentages that we delivered on this year.
We're still working through the specifics of the 2014 budget.
But generally it is right that we tend to focus on getting those saves in the first half of the year but not necessarily all of them.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys go over the loan portfolio how you grew it Mike in the quarter? Can you tell us -- you said it was going to grow to a larger size.
I may have missed the percentage of loans but how big do you think that could get to the -- on the BB/B credits that you mentioned earlier? Yes good morning Gerard.
At this point we haven't specifically sized our capacity there Gerard.
It will be something that we'll continue to look at throughout 2014.
I'd say to put an upper ceiling on it I would not anticipate it for example reaching 3% of our total balance sheet.
But other than giving you that as an outer ceiling I wouldn't try to put a size on it for 2014 yet.
It's still something that we're looking at.
LLC Research Division</strong> And did that portfolio contribute to the drop in the average rates that you reported on your average balance sheet which came in at 1.66% for loans and leases down from 2.29%? No that -- again it was a relatively small number in terms of volume Gerard and that particular loan book is mainly -- actually has mainly nothing to do with leveraged loans.
Leveraged loans are only $0.5 billion of that number.
The particular number that you're focused on is mainly the loans that we do for example to -- for closed-end mutual funds.
And so again apples and oranges there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
What contributed then to the decline in the yield in the portfolio? Or was the yield unusually high in the second quarter? Again it's basically just a change in mix.
We've been growing that particular loan book.
We like the characteristics of that book.
We think they're attractive risk-adjusted spreads.
But the nominal yield in any particular quarter is going to bounce around based on the mix of those funds.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally in your interest-bearing deposit section of the liabilities we noticed all year a steady decline in the U.S.
accounts.
Can you share with us what's driven that number down to about $5.8 billion from about $16 billion at the beginning of the year? Oh right.
The -- Gerard mainly that is the maturing of the wholesale CDs that we had really back in 2012.
That's been -- those have been generally maturing off of the balance sheet.
Your final question is a follow-up from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> One question for you Jay is just when you benchmark your pretax margin you're squarely in the 30s whereas your peers are in the mid- to upper-20s.
And I'm trying to -- do you claim victory there? Are there business mix differences and is there a lot more to go once you finish this process with the IT and op transformation? But before you answer that maybe for you Mike just to get clarification how much in the IT and ops savings did you have in the third quarter for the total program? And how does that compare to the second quarter? Let's see Mike the -- in terms of the IT and ops program we are now at the full year run rate saves here at Q3.
So again we'll get another tranche in Q4.
But incrementally Q3 to Q4 is approximately 0 so we're already at the full year rate.
I just don't quite remember Ed's number from Q2.
So there was a small benefit Q3 to Q2.
It was not particularly material in the grand scheme of things.
And as I mentioned in the prepared remarks Mike we're essentially offset by some of the incremental operating expenses from new business installations.
So again when you wash out those 2 together it's approximately flat.
Research Division</strong> Yes just -- so you have $180 million left or $230 million left for the entire program? $180 million for 2014 and 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay $180 million total.
So if you add that to the 30.2% year-to-date rate then you're at already -- if you get that that's 32% pretax margin you'll be there.
Well okay.
Yes but importantly that's all things equal.
There are any number of different things in terms of mix of business regulatory costs where will NIM be.
I mean again I -- there -- your arithmetic is correct but I wouldn't conclude then you should plug 32% into your model.
And Mike let me just pick up the other question with regard of declaring victory.
I mean to me the IT and ops transformation everybody wants to focus on the expense saves which are important.
But equally important to me is transforming our IT operation to improve our operating environment to reduce cost to improve client service deliveries.
So I think it's transformational not only because of the efficiently but because of where it puts us relative to the introduction of new products and evolving the cloud.
So it just seems like a natural for this kind of business to move in that direction.
Hey Christie before we end let me just -- I don't know if Ken Usdin is still on the line but I just wanted to reference that to his question of the SSgA the uninstalled new business was around $25 billion just for the record.
And with that I would just conclude.
We look forward to speaking to everybody at the conclusion of the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the State Street Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without the expressed written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed at the State Street website.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to introduce Valerie Haertel Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at State Street.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Our fourth quarter earnings materials include a slide presentation.
Unless otherwise noted all the financial information discussed on today's webcast will reflect operating basis results.
Please note that the operating basis results are a non-GAAP presentation and this webcast includes other non-GAAP financial information reconciliations of our non-GAAP measures including operating basis results to GAAP basis measures referenced on this webcast and other related materials can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Mike Bell our Chief Financial Officer will refer to the presentation when he provides an overview of our financial results for fourth quarter and full year.
Before Jay and Mike begin the discussion of our financial performance I would like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those included -- those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2012 annual report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on risk factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today January 24 2014.
The Corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
Now I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman President and CEO Jay Hooley.
Thanks Valerie and good morning to all.
We are pleased to report our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results which reflect our focus on our key priorities to deliver value for clients and shareholders.
Mike and I will comment on our full year 2013 results but we'll focus our remarks on the fourth quarter.
Then we'll share some initial observations about our expectations for 2014.
By many measures 2013 was a strong year for State Street.
For the full year we reported operating basis earnings per share of $4.54 which is a 14.9% increase over full year 2012.
We stayed focused on our key priorities growing our core business controlling our expenses and returning capital to our shareholders.
And while we benefited from the strong equity market performance we executed on our strategic priorities against the headwinds of low interest rates and increasing regulatory requirements.
For full year 2013 we grew total operating basis revenue 3.3% to more than $10 billion despite the pressures from the low interest rate environment.
We grew core servicing and management fees approximately 10% over 2012.
We ended 2013 with a record $27.4 trillion in assets under administration and a record $2.35 trillion in assets under management.
We delivered approximately $220 million of incremental pretax expense savings in conjunction with our Business Operations and IT Transformation program during 2013 and we achieved positive operating leverage of 171 basis points for full year 2013 compared to full year 2012 calculated on an operating basis.
Additionally we returned approximately $2.5 billion in capital in 2013 to our shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends.
Turning to the fourth quarter 2013 results we reported operating basis earnings per share of $1.15.
Reflected in these results was the continued strength of our core asset servicing and asset management business partially offset by lower foreign exchange trading revenue.
Now I'd like to share some insight on our new business and our client asset flows during the quarter.
Regarding new business our fourth quarter 2013 new asset servicing wins totaled approximately $392 billion.
Of these wins 30% were from outside the U.S.
Also included in these new wins were 41 new alternative asset servicing mandates.
Our clients say now we're -- we remain the market leader and continue to see above-average long-term growth potential.
Regarding flows equity markets rose significantly during the fourth quarter stemming from continued optimism regarding an economic recovery especially in light of the Fed's decision to taper its bond purchases and maintain a low rate environment.
Our clients experienced increased flows into equities and continued outflows from fixed income funds.
Similar to last quarter we also continued to see client flows into money market funds.
Additionally we continued to experience high levels of client deposits in the fourth quarter.
Trading activities during the quarter were weak as the spread of the global ceiling showdown froze markets in the first part of the quarter and volatility was low throughout the quarter.
Turning to asset management in the fourth quarter we experienced net inflows of $5 billion driven primarily by strong inflows into ETFs partially offset by institutional outflows from passive equities driven by client rebalancing and rerisking.
We also experienced short-term outflows from securities finance pools offset by inflows into money market funds.
With respect to ETFs we experienced strong inflows of $18 billion led by our S&amp;P 500 fund and our sector SPDR funds partially offset by continued outflows from our Gold ETF.
Our new business pipelines in both asset servicing and asset management remain strong and well diversified.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike who will review our financial performance.
Mike? Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
This morning before I start my review of our operating basis results I'd like to mention a couple of nonoperating items included in our GAAP reporting.
First our GAAP results for the quarter included a $71 million tax benefit associated with the completion of a multiyear project related to our deferred tax accounts.
This contributed approximately $0.16 per share to our GAAP earnings in the fourth quarter.
In addition the quarter included $45 million of additional accruals for costs associated with previously disclosed litigation and non-U.S.
regulatory matters.
This reduced GAAP earnings by approximately $0.06 per share in the quarter.
Now I will review our operating basis financial highlights beginning on Slide 10.
From this point on I'll reference only our non-GAAP operating basis results in my comments.
Overall our strong full year 2013 results were driven by year-over-year fee revenue growth of 7.4% and good execution on our priority to effectively manage our expenses.
In full year 2013 we achieved approximately 15% year-over-year EPS growth despite low short-term interest rates which negatively impacted both our net interest revenue and our securities finance revenue.
We also generated 171 basis points of positive operating leverage comparing full year 2013 to full year 2012 and improved our pretax operating margin to 30.1% for full year 2013.
Our return on common equity increased to 10.3% for the full year.
Now turning to Slide 11.
Fourth quarter 2013 earnings per share of $1.15 decreased from third quarter 2013 primarily as the result of the soft trading environment.
The fourth quarter operating results also included several noteworthy items.
Net interest revenue included $19 million of revenue associated with a municipal security that was previously impaired.
Other expenses included $28 million of securities processing costs offset by Lehman Brothers-related gains and recoveries.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 EPS increased primarily due to higher fee revenue and a reduction in the number of our outstanding shares partly offset by increased expenses.
Fourth quarter total revenue increased compared to the third quarter of 2013 driven by higher core servicing and management fees and higher net interest revenue partially offset by lower trading revenue.
Total expenses increased in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter primarily due to higher compensation and benefits occupancy and other expenses.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased approximately 8 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of approximately $560 million resulting in average fully diluted common shares outstanding of approximately 445 million for the quarter.
At year end we had approximately $420 million remaining on our common stock repurchase program which is effective through March of 2014.
We declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.26 per share and also declared a noncumulative quarterly perpetual preferred stock dividend of $0.33 per share during the quarter.
Turning to Slide 12.
I'll discuss additional details of our operating basis revenue for the fourth quarter of 2013 focusing on the notable variances.
Fourth quarter servicing fees increased approximately 2% from the third quarter and 7% from the fourth quarter of 2012 primarily due to stronger global equity markets and net new business.
Fourth quarter management fees increased approximately 5% from the third quarter and 12% from the fourth quarter of 2012 respectively.
The increase in both periods primarily reflects stronger global equity markets.
Fourth quarter management fees were negatively impacted by $13 million of money market fee waivers compared to $12 million in the third quarter of 2013 and $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year 2013 money market fee waivers were $40 million.
Performance fees in the fourth quarter of 2013 were approximately $5 million up from $4 million in the third quarter and down from $8 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Total trading services revenue decreased 11% compared to the third quarter primarily due to lower foreign exchange trading revenue from lower market volatility.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 total trading services revenue decreased 6% primarily due to lower fees associated with the SPDR Gold ETF.
Securities finance revenue increased approximately 3% from both the third quarter of 2013 and the fourth quarter of 2012.
Average securities on loan were relatively unchanged sequentially at $315 billion.
Processing fees and other revenue increased approximately 3% from the third quarter of 2013 primarily due to an increase in revenue associated with tax-advantaged investments.
The decrease from the prior year quarter is primarily due to specifically noted gains recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Operating basis net interest revenue of $596 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 increased from $553 million in the third quarter of 2013 due in part to $19 million in revenue associated with a previously impaired municipal security.
In addition higher interest-earning assets and lower mortgage prepayments contributed to the sequential increase in net interest revenue.
Excluding the $19 million in net interest revenue associated with a municipal security our operating basis net interest margin in the fourth quarter of 2013 was 125 basis points.
Now let's turn to operating basis expenses on Slide 13.
Our total expenses for the fourth quarter of 2013 increased from the third quarter primarily due to higher compensation and benefits occupancy and other expenses.
Our fourth quarter 2013 compensation and employee benefits expenses increased 3.4% from the third quarter primarily due to lower benefit costs resulting from planned changes in the third quarter as well as increased costs in the fourth quarter to support new business.
Our Business Operations and IT Transformation program continues to be on track.
For full year 2013 we achieved approximately $220 million in additional pretax expense savings resulting in approximately $420 million of incremental pretax expense savings since the inception of the program.
Our nonrecurring expenses related to our Business Operations and IT Transformation program were approximately $26 million for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Occupancy expenses of $124 million in the fourth quarter increased relative to the third quarter of 2013 primarily due to the effect of a one-time $8 million charge in this quarter associated with a sublease renegotiation.
Other expenses increased to $292 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 largely due to higher securities processing costs professional services fees and sales promotion costs.
The fourth quarter also included $28 million of Lehman Brothers-related gains and recoveries compared to $30 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 other expenses increased primarily due to higher securities processing costs.
Now I will provide you some details on our balance sheet.
As you can see on Slide 14 our overall philosophy to managing our investment portfolio has not changed.
We maintain a high credit quality profile with 89% AAA- or AA-rated securities and 44% of our security is fixed rate and 56% floating rate.
Our interest rate risk position was in line with our position at the end of the third quarter of 2013 and the duration of the portfolio remains relatively unchanged at approximately 1.9 years.
Additionally the unrealized mark-to-market loss increased during the quarter to $213 million primarily due to a rise in market interest rates.
We monitor and manage our interest rate risk position using a variety of risk measures including EVE primarily to determine the potential impact of a rise in rates on both the mark-to-market and on our net interest revenue.
During the fourth quarter these risk metrics remained within our risk appetite.
Maintaining a strong capital position is very important to us.
Particularly in this evolving and complex regulatory environment we continue to identify opportunities to optimize the capital efficiency of our balance sheet.
As we reported last quarter we've begun to invest in senior secured bank loans targeting BB- and B-rated issuers all subject to our credit underwriting standards.
As of year-end 2013 this loan book exposure was $931 million.
In accordance with GAAP we recorded a provision for loan losses of approximately $6 million in the fourth quarter related to the aggregate senior secured bank loan portfolio.
This calculation is based upon market credit loss factors for loans with similar characteristics and does not reflect an identified loss event for any particular loan in our portfolio.
Now let's turn to the next slide to review our capital position.
As you can see we maintained a strong capital position and that strength has allowed us to deliver on our key priority of returning value to shareholders through dividends and common stock repurchases.
As of year-end 2013 our estimated pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was 10.1% under the standardized approach and 11.8% under the advanced approach.
We estimate that our pro forma Basel III supplementary leverage ratios under the U.S.
proposed rules are approximately 5.2% at the holding company and approximately 5.0% at the bank as of December 31 2013.
The slight decrease in the holding company ratio from the prior quarter is primarily due to the influx of client cash deposits on our balance sheet at year-end 2013.
Recently the Basel Committee released its final rules on the supplementary leverage ratio.
While there were several modifications made to the rule that if adopted by the U.S.
regulator would be helpful to us we are disappointed that the committee did not exclude central bank deposits from the denominator.
And we will continue to work with the U.S.
regulators to seek exclusion when the U.S.
rules are finalized.
The target effective date is January 1 of 2018.
Assuming the rules go into effect as proposed we believe that we have a number of levers that would enable us to comply with these requirements in advance of the 2018 effective date.
The Basel Committee also updated their thinking on the net stable funding ratio.
While there's still more work to be done the recognition of some liquidity value in operational deposits is helpful to us.
Again we believe that by the targeted effective date of January 1 2018 we will have taken appropriate actions to be in compliance with the rules.
In October the U.S.
banking regulators issued a notice of proposed rulemaking or proposed rule intended to implement the Basel Committee's liquidity coverage ratio or LCR.
While the U.S.
proposed rule is generally consistent with the Basel Committee's LCR it includes certain more stringent requirements including an accelerated implementation timeline and modifications to the definition of high-quality liquid assets and expected outflow assumptions.
The proposed rule remains subject to interpretation regulatory guidance and public comment until January 31 of 2014 before the issuance of a final rule.
In addition in December 5 federal agencies issued final rules developed jointly to implement Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act commonly referred to as the Volcker Rule.
We continue to analyze the proposed rules and their potential impact on us and intend to develop and implement any changes to ensure compliance.
In the meantime we remain focused on executing our capital plan that we submitted in conjunction with the 2013 CCAR which includes our authorization to purchase up to $2.1 billion of our common stock through March 31 of 2014 of which approximately $420 million remained available as of year-end 2013.
So to summarize our results our strong performance for the full year 2013 was driven by positive core servicing and management fee revenue as well as our continued control over expenses.
We are proud of achieving 171 basis points of positive operating leverage for full year 2013 compared to full year 2012 and increasing our pretax operating margin to 30.1%.
Now let's turn to our 2014 outlook on Slide 17 beginning with revenue.
For 2014 we expect total revenue growth to be in the range of 3% to 5% compared to 2013.
This growth rate is predicated on a number of important assumptions.
First we plan to continue to execute on our top priorities: driving core revenue growth investing in new growth opportunities controlling expenses and managing our strong capital position.
Second we assume a modest increase in market interest rates later in 2014.
As we've discussed previously until short-term interest rates begin to rise we expect our net interest revenue to continue to be under pressure.
For planning purposes we assume equity markets defined as the S&amp;P 500 NEV [ph] will remain close to year-end 2013 levels for the full year 2014.
In addition we expect that the market environment will improve and benefit both our securities finance and trading revenues.
We continue to target positive operating leverage on a full year basis.
Our ability to achieve this goal is highly dependent upon our continued diligence in controlling expenses across the company.
We continue to expect to achieve an incremental $130 million in pretax expense savings in 2014 from our Business Operations and IT Transformation Program and to continue to invest in initiatives to drive revenue growth from the expansion of new products and services for clients in key sectors and geographies.
Additionally we expect some upward pressure on regulatory compliance costs.
Now I'd also like to remind you that as in prior years the first quarter 2014 compensation and employee benefits expense will be higher due to the effect of the accounting treatment of equity compensation for retirement-eligible employees as well as for payroll taxes.
We expect the incremental amount attributed to equity compensation for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes in the first quarter of 2014 to be approximately $150 million.
In 2014 we expect to remain focused on optimizing our strong capital position and returning capital to our shareholders.
We plan to complete our current 2013 common stock repurchase plan effective through March 31 of 2014.
In addition we submitted our 2014 CCAR plan to the Federal Reserve which included a capital distribution program of dividends and common stock purchases that we believe is consistent with our strong capital position and earnings capacity.
The amount in form of capital distribution in our plan is contingent upon the Federal Reserve not objecting to our request and we expect to receive the results of their review in mid-March.
We continue to believe that our common stock repurchase program combined with dividends is the best way to return value to shareholders.
And return of capital remains a top priority for us.
Now I'll turn the call back to Jay.
Thanks Mike.
Let me close our call by briefly reiterating our continued focus on creating value for our clients and shareholders by growing revenue diligently controlling expenses and returning capital to our shareholders through common stock purchases and dividends.
Stephanie Mike and I are now available to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Mike just a point of clarification in the outlook on the modest increase in market interest rates.
Are we talking specifically short rates later in 2014? And then just curious does that even impact NII in '14 or is there a lag and it really starts impacting in '15? Sure Glenn.
The short answer is we do expect by the end of 2014 an increase in market interest rates both at the short term as well as at the intermediate term.
And we would expect some modest benefit from that in net interest revenue and importantly as well in the securities finance revenue that it would help immensely to see some uptick for example in the 90-day rates for the securities lending business.
And what we intend to do Glenn is at the Investor Day where we have time to provide some greater context to give you some of the scenarios that we've looked at.
So I think we can answer that question pretty thoroughly for you here on February 27.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On a related note ECB had cut.
I went back and looked and I -- the last public comment I saw was 25 basis points equaled something like $40 million in annual revenues.
I'm just curious if that relationship holds or -- and how you're thinking about ECB as they talk about the potential for going negative on deposit rates.
Do you have to park the money in the same locale? Can you park your money elsewhere? Okay.
Yes ballpark Glenn we still think that that sensitivity of the $40 million is rational.
Again let us give you a more thorough answer to some alternatives when we see you in February.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one just as a reminder for myself.
There's a pretty big gap between or spread between your standardized and advanced Basel III ratios.
So I'm curious a what produces the bulk of that large gap? And b does it impact how you go about the CCAR process? Sure.
So Glenn first you're absolutely right.
At the moment we have a 170-basis-point spread between the advanced approach and the standardized approach for the Basel III risk-weighted asset calculations.
As we've talked about last quarter there are 2 main drivers of that.
First the standardized approach uses standardized risk factors and haircuts where the advanced model uses advanced model-driven loss estimates.
And the standardized risk factors and haircuts are more punitive in 2 areas.
First certain off-balance-sheet items for example around the securities finance business is treated more punitively under the standardized approach.
And the other area that's more punitively treated is the high-quality assets.
And our balance sheet is chock-full of high-quality assets.
So as a result the -- under the current environment with our current balance sheet the standardized approach is the more punitive one of the 2.
Research Division</strong> Do you anticipate a changing behavior? Because it would seem counterstates or counterintuitive to change your quality metrics based on that.
Or just it is what it is and hopefully the metrics will adapt to the quality of the balance sheet? In other words all I'm looking to find out is does it change how you go about your capital return thought process? Sure.
So Glenn we do need to meet the more onerous of the 2 requirements under the CCAR stressed scenario.
So as we are working to sort out how to optimize our balance sheet mix going forward that is part of our calculations that is part of our thinking around balance sheet strategy for the future.
I would remind you that the standardized ratio does not kick in until 1/1/2015.
So for 2014 the binding constraint is the advanced approach.
But again CCAR is about the long term as much as it is about the short term.
So qualitatively as we go through CCAR we need to be cognizant of the supplementary leverage ratio that may be coming down the line as well as the more onerous of the standardized and advanced approach.
And that's why the work that we're doing to optimize our balance sheet under the new rules is something that's a pretty complex undertaking.
But we are confident we're going to be in compliance and as we draw conclusions on that we'll certainly plan to communicate that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Mike I just wanted to ask you about the outlook for revenues you were very clear on and positive operating leverage.
You've got the pretax margin at 30% this year and last year you did 170 basis points of operating leverage.
So I was just wondering if you can help us put in context what type of magnitude of improvement can we see on both the pretax margin direction and if you can maintain or even increase that operating leverage gap.
Sure Ken.
First I would prefer to wait until the Investor Day where we have time to give you some additional context.
For example we do plan as I mentioned to Glenn we do plan to share some of the modeling we've done on various interest rate scenarios and as well as talk about work that we're doing in our core businesses to drive revenue growth but also in some of the new growth opportunities that we see out there.
And then we'll also talk about some of the areas where we're investing.
So I think Ken I'd prefer rather than trying to give it to you in a 30-second answer on a crowded conference call I'd rather wait and give it to you at the Investor Day.
But I think stepping back to me what's most important is that even in a relatively low growth environment where we would expect revenue growth to only be 3% to 5% compared to our long-term targets which are quite a bit higher than that we still believe we'll be positioned to achieve positive operating leverage perhaps not as much as 2013 but again another step forward on the operating leverage.
And therefore we would expect again good progress as an enterprise through our strategic goal of being a low-cost provider in this business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question relates to just -- I want to understand this the increase in the FTE adjustment which obviously gets backed out from a GAAP perspective.
But is -- could you just walk us through the elevated tax adjustment tax investments? How much is that carrying now in that processing other and if this is the new run rate for that because I don't think people would've expected that to be as much of a backout this quarter? Sure.
Ken first of all as we've previously disclosed we have been steadily looking for opportunities to make tax-advantaged investments.
And we've been doing that pretty consistently over the last couple of years and that's been beneficial in terms of our effective tax rate.
On the specific tax-equivalent adjustment for Q4 let me -- why don't we take that one offline.
I think we were going to talk to you a little bit later today.
It's just not a -- it's not a simple calculation so I prefer to do that again not in a crowded conference call if you will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question then Mike just to get more granular then on the quarter itself then is -- I mean a lot of people are asking you about the elevated other expenses.
And could you just help us reestablish a base for what that line should look like going forward? Because I think that's again that's another key question I think in terms of this stock's reaction today.
Sure absolutely Ken.
First on the other expenses as we've talked about previously remember this stuff can bounce around quarter-to-quarter because some of the costs in this category are pretty lumpy.
And a good example of that is the securities processing costs.
So the securities processing costs in the quarter were $28 million.
We don't think $28 million in a quarter is reflective of our outlook going forward but it's a good reminder that the number does bounce around quarter-to-quarter.
Now I'd point out recently in the recent past we've been doing a good job in this area and we would expect that to normalize in 2014.
But that would be an example Ken of why I don't think the $292 million in total for the other category is a good run rate going forward.
And then just to talk about a couple of the other larger pieces.
We had sales promotional costs of $6 million this quarter.
That mainly is part of our year-end process to support our investment management business.
So that was planned.
But again that -- we view that as a Q4 item.
We would expect that to normalize back out in Q1.
So again I would reduce for that.
And I'd say the big wildcard really are the higher legal and regulatory compliance costs and that reflects a combination of this regulatory environment that we are operating in where we have had to spend more money on a variety of things that in an ideal world we wouldn't.
But we do live in this world and we've had to spend some more money in that area in particular more money on professional services which increased for the quarter.
And then the legal costs which primarily relate to prior year problems but there are areas where we do need to spend money to support our position.
So at this point I'd -- the number has been bouncing around enough and there's enough uncertainty around our regulatory compliance costs Ken that I'd prefer not to give you a new range or something like that for 2014.
But I do think at our Investor Day we can give you some additional color on how we're thinking about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you can comment on the kind of continued disconnect between your servicing fees and assets under custody and administration.
And I think this is the phenomenon that we've seen for almost 2 years now.
And even this year when your average assets are up 12 fees are up 9.
Last year they were up 5 fees were flat.
So can you help us flush out I guess this dynamic and what needs to happen to bridge that gap going forward? Yes let me start that Alex and Mike will it pick up.
First off I look at market and service fee correlations and if you look at it's hard to examine much in a quarter.
But if you look year-over-year service fees are up 9%.
Equity markets were up big fixed income markets were not.
So if you piece that apart a little bit a couple of factors.
One is the mix the question of when you look at the service the global services business I think by our calculation less than half of the revenues are tied directly to assets.
So this -- the other half are tied to other fee levels other fees that are unassociated with assets.
The -- I guess the other thing I would say which is -- makes the question even murkier is if you look at the baseline the baseline of service fees in any given period or period-over-period change is influenced by investor flows.
And given that we have proportionately as a trust bank higher exposure to asset managers flows make a big difference.
And if you look during the course of 2013 you have some positives.
So obviously equity markets and equity flows were very positive.
But fixed income flows were pretty negative.
In the second half of the year they outstripped positive equity flows.
And so you've got that factor and then you've also got the factor of the emerging markets pullback and the fourth quarter was also a little bit of a headwind.
So I'm not sure that explains but at least it gives you some of the ingredients that determine service fees.
Mike do you want to pick up anything else? Sure Alex this is Mike.
Only a couple of things I would add.
First I'll just reinforce Jay's point that it is important to note that only a little -- in fact a little less than half of the service fee revenue line is directly driven by the basis points on assets.
So that really is an important point.
You would expect in a market -- we would expect in a market where markets are rising that the service fees would trail the increasing assets because of that phenomenon.
And then I just have rounded out.
Transaction fees are between 10% and 15% of that particular number and transactions were up just a blip relative to Q3 but were down relative to Q2.
So again transactions will tend to move in general with the relative bullishness or really relative to that kind of risk on risk off in the market.
And that's been something that's been a headwind for the -- that line item in the third quarter and fourth quarter.
And then lastly out-of-pocket expense recoveries also impact that line item.
So again just to give a specific example.
We had lower out-of-pocket expense recoveries that -- of $6 million that's essentially the same $6 million of the drop in the information systems line item on the expense side.
So again there are going to be some things that don't matter from a P&amp;L standpoint but can bounce around in the servicing fees line item in particular.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So I mean you guys didn't mention pricing in any of this so it's fair to assume that you haven't seen any change in the way certain businesses are priced relative to what they have been or what kind of amount that you are winning? Yes I would say directionally Alex no real change.
In certain markets and certain product lines it's highly competitive.
It's less so on others.
We continue to try to send signals to the market by backing away from deals that become so thinly priced in an attempt to try to establish more reasonable pricing.
But that's a journey more than an event but no marked change in pricing over the course of the last quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then Mike I was hoping maybe you could just flesh out a little bit more the net interest income guidance for yours for next year.
Just a couple of nuances around the balance sheet size.
I'm not sure how much you expect to leave in the first quarter.
So what do you guys think -- are you guys thinking as far as the average size of the balance sheet goes for 2014? Sure Alex well first of all again we'll give more color more detail on this at the Investor Day.
But if I focus just on Q1 for a second we did see an increase in the excess deposits on our balance sheet of approximately $6 billion Q4 relative to Q3.
So the excess deposits we estimate in Q4 was approximately $25 billion.
I would expect that that number will decline in Q1 and decline even further by the end of 2014 if in fact short-term rates begin to rise as we anticipate that they will.
So I think it's important to factor that into the thinking.
In terms of the core deposits we do expect that over any longer period of time we expect that there'll be growth in our core operational deposits essentially commensurate with our overall fee revenue growth and our overall client base.
Again I would view that as sort of a small single digits over the course of the year.
So therefore I would expect a drop in the excess deposits on average to reduce our average assets for full year 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question follow-up on Glenn's question about the 2014 outlook.
I think it was my understanding I think generally people see that your -- or feel that your balance sheet is short-term liability sensitive.
In the past you said that your net interest margin could actually compress until the rates stop going up.
So has there been any change in your thinking about how rates affect your balance sheet and NII at least in the short term? Well Luke it's Mike.
Obviously I'm still relatively new here so I can't connect all the dots from prior discussions.
But here is how we're thinking about it.
We're thinking about it that a rise in short-term interest rates in particular the 30-day and the 90-day rates in particular would be particularly helpful to us.
Because remember over half of our balance sheet is comprised of floating-rate securities.
And therefore as short-term rates rise we get an automatic pickup in NIR from those securities.
On the liability side we would expect that liability rates would ultimately increase with short-term interest rates.
But in the near term they would likely increase at a slower pace than what we would pick up on the yield side.
So if you take the combination of the benefit I just described on NIR combined with the benefit on the securities lending business that would be a much better environment for us to operate in if short-term rates in particular would rise.
Now I think the question that you're asking around the long-term interest rates may tie back to our mortgage-backed securities in the portfolio.
We were in a phenomenon where there was some risk of those assets extending and then that having a collateral impact on the need to reduce the duration of our portfolio.
I think if there's good news is that that issue for the most part is behind us.
There's not a lot more extension left in that particular book.
So I wouldn't expect the second-order impact of that phenomenon to hurt us in 2014.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then a back-of-envelope analysis would suggest that your organic growth in the custody business has been averaging somewhere around 1.5% over the last 4 years.
I was hoping whether you would affirm or deny it if that seems like a reasonable guesstimate.
And then I think given the strength of the new business wins you announced each quarter it does seem to suggest that you're losing some mandates and so perhaps you could kind of put that estimate in the context of how you're feeling about your market share gains or losses? And then along with that have you given any more thought to increasing disclosure around components of organic growth? My sense is that the investment community really would like to see you and your peers move in that direction but I think it's going to take one of you to set the disclosure bar higher for everybody.
So wondering if that's going to be you.
Let me jump in there Luke.
Let me first go at the question of clients win -- client wins and losses and market share gains and losses.
I think we don't win everything we compete for.
There's some things that we really go after and we don't win but I would say our win-loss rate for those things that we think are attractive where we have a differentiated position therefore we can get decent pricing is quite good.
I point to segments like the alternative segment which I frequently bring up.
I think we have a differentiated value proposition there.
We tend to compete very effectively.
We don't win them all but we do pretty well.
I'd say the same thing for very involved and integrated complex asset manager sales particularly if there is a middle office to it.
Again the number of competitors shrink and we fare pretty well there.
You could say the same for some markets overseas.
I would say as a general theme we compete more effectively in the asset manager segment versus the asset owner segment so that's funds versus pensions as a theme which leads you to things like offshore markets Luxembourg Dublin very competitive there.
Market share data is not easy to come by.
There are some -- probably the deepest markets in the world for custodians would be markets like the U.S.
mutual fund market.
I think that's probably a market that has the clearest data.
The ICI puts out information.
And I would say that if you look at that as we look at that we are gaining market share in that -- what we think is a key segment.
With regard to just picking another one of your questions the organic growth as Mike has come on board we've spent time with several of you in groups and individually and we are really thinking about ways where we can express more clearly the issue of what drives organic growth and then incremental new business.
And we don't yet have a conclusion on that.
But I understand the point both the interest the keen interest in understanding the drivers of that and also the point about somebody needs to lead.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So we've seen some turmoil in the emerging markets in terms of equity markets and also in terms of the FX markets.
How do we think about how that sort of turmoil affects your business both the positives and the negatives? Yes so let me start that one Josh.
The -- if you look at the core global services business the type of asset that we're servicing is affected by the revenues or affected by the type of asset we're servicing.
So in a simple example domestic equity versus an emerging market equity or bond is going to carry a lot more revenue per unit of asset.
So that's the first thing.
So as there's a retreat from emerging markets which we saw in the fourth quarter as well as we saw a little bit more recently over the last couple of days in the core global services business that's a headwind.
So movement into emerging markets would be a big positive given the incremental fees that we get associated with servicing emerging markets-type instruments.
On the foreign exchange side it cuts back a little bit the other way.
Good market movement in and out of emerging markets and volatility would be a positive thing.
Although even though we've seen retreat from emerging markets volatility remained pretty low throughout the fourth quarter which you might say is a little unusual.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question is about M&amp;A.
So there is a lot of speculation that M&amp;A is going to pick up in the United States this year.
If we do see more deals a higher number of deals a greater dollar value of deals how should we think about that affecting your business? I think the -- there is a lot of discussion and actually there's been some action probably in the merger and acquisition activity.
I don't think you've seen much in financial markets.
And I guess the way we would like at it is break it down a little bit.
In the core asset servicing business it would have to be very special.
And I can't imagine -- one I can't imagine anything significant because I think it would get considerable regulatory scrutiny.
And if it was a small add-on to us it would have to be very attractively priced for us to be interested in it.
I've said before that in the core custody business I don't feel like we have any big gaps in our offering.
Geographically we're pretty well placed from a standpoint of asset classes with the moves we made into alternatives pretty well placed.
So I don't feel like there's a gap that we need to fill.
And so therefore any acquisition would be largely acquisition of clients.
And again size -- large-sized deals would be off the table in my opinion and smaller-sized deals would have to be extraordinarily attractive from a financial standpoint.
I think probably off your question but a little bit on the small end of acquisitions small software products or capabilities that would round out some products in our asset management business or in our emerging risk and analytics business that might be interesting.
But I'd say the big stuff for us is very unlikely.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I just want to know if we're expecting too much too soon from the Business Op and IT program if we should collectively stretch out our expectations.
I guess fourth quarter was a pause in the efficiency progress.
Linked quarter you're 70% done with the Business Op and IT program for the expense savings.
You said you expect positive operating leverage this year but a little bit less and that's partly predicated on higher short-term rates this year.
But maybe with the expense savings mostly done should we think about the additional benefits to be less visible in your earnings? And I'll refer to a -- there's a new book out this week by your neighbors some MIT professors called The Second Machine Age and it looked at 600 firms and they showed that it takes 5 to 7 years before you really get the full benefits of productivity.
So are -- while the best expense savings I think are behind you based on your reported numbers should we be looking out 2 3 4 years from now? Yes let me start that one Mike and our Mike can jump in.
The -- we're entering the next-to-final year of our publicized IT and Ops transformation.
We've got 130 million that we've got to achieve this year and then there is a stub for 2015.
You know because I've taken you through this before that the -- what we've done is structurally changed the cost of delivering core services here.
We've centralized and standardized and leveraged offshore locations highly successfully and now we're in that last leg of rebuilding the systems to make those processes even more efficient.
And what you'll see this year and next year is the wrap-up of that.
What inspired me along the way was you mentioned the MIT professors the book that McAfee and his partner wrote on the Race Against the Machine and this -- maybe this is Phase 2 of that book that you're referencing.
But what you take away from that is that the power of technology in these transaction processing businesses is in the early innings.
So I look at what we've done and we've restructured our operations we are applying technology but as we look out into the future I think it only gets more interesting frankly as we look at -- now that we've standardized these things how much labor we can take out by displacing it with technology.
And one of the great examples that that book referenced which is -- was insightful to me is the driverless car from Google and what technology can accomplish today.
And I don't think generally the financial markets and you might even say the financial transaction processing businesses in the financial markets have anywhere near matured out that opportunity.
Research Division</strong> So as a follow-up and I don't want to put words in your mouth it sounds as though you're as confident as ever about the future but what I think I'm hearing is a little bit less confidence about this year in front of us.
And if there's one item that changed from a few years ago when you started on this initiative has it more than any other factor simply been the regulatory cost? Is that -- has that been the unexpected negative surprise? I would say that's pretty fair Mike.
I think the -- unfortunately I would have thought 2 years ago we would be cresting the hill and we would be declining our investment in these kinds of things.
But it's not happening that way.
I mean it -- just a simple example that maybe highlights some of my frustration and some of the cost is you look at the Volcker rule which for a firm like State Street has a -- not a significant impact yet the systems that we are building to report on the trading that we're doing to prove that it's not proprietary is just mind blowing.
So I think you're right that probably one of the biggest surprises -- I guess the other thing that I would say though is we are also trying to walk a fine line between becoming more efficient and continuing to invest.
And I think that -- so for the long term -- for the short term we are trying to deliver good value to the shareholders but we're also continuing to invest.
And you've heard me say before that this IT and Ops transformation probably the most exciting future aspect of it is laying in new technology which will allow us to be more agile with regard to introducing new products both -- particularly in the data space.
So -- but you're right just to go back to your point about regulatory and generally compliance cost has been the biggest surprise.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to kind of go back to the rate sensitivity discussion.
And Mike you had mentioned that kind of running your simulations that you saw that short-term asset yields would go up faster than the short-term liability costs.
When you report your economic value of equity I think the brackets mean that that's negative which means that a rising interest rate environment I think would be negative to equity.
I just want to make sure that I was reading the brackets right.
Yes Marty it's Mike.
You are reading the brackets right.
Now importantly that relates to the mark-to-market on the balance sheet.
So again a little bit different phenomenon than what kind of impact would that have on our net interest margin and net interest revenue in 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
So I just wanted to make sure there really is a disconnect between what you're looking at there and you're saying the major difference is just the mark-to-market on the investment portfolio? Yes.
Importantly Marty the EVE is the entire balance sheet.
So again it's a little bit apples and oranges.
But again there's sort of 2 different phenomenon going on here.
The rise -- I'll repeat the rise in the short-term interest rates would be particularly helpful to our net interest margin and net interest revenue for 2014.
And we believe that the impact on the mark would be manageable over the period.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I think also what's probably building into your EVE looking so negative is the duration assumption that you're probably applying to your deposits and DDAs and transaction accounts.
I mean they have a lot longer life so.
Marty that's absolutely right and that is one of the issues around EVE which is why we really look at a variety of different risk metrics not just the EVE to measure our overall profile.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just wanted to reconcile the comment you made earlier to that number.
That helps a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashley Serrao with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to first just dig into the expenses this quarter.
I guess I was surprised if I look at info systems and communications I was surprised by the tick-down there.
And then if I look at salaries and benefits and then look over the past 3 quarters you've managed to show year-over-year declines and this is the first quarter where it actually went up.
So just wondering whether you could provide some additional color there.
Sure it's Mike.
I'll start.
The -- on the information systems line item importantly that did include a decline of $6 million in out-of-pocket expenses which is really -- means that we spend that money on behalf of our client and then get that money back in service fees.
So there was a $6 million downdraft in both servicing fees and the information systems costs related to that phenomenon.
So I think it's a little bit of a one-off and I wouldn't put a lot of weight into those.
More importantly on your question on the comp and benefits first of all the Q3 comp and benefits included a one-time benefit of $12 million from a change we made in one of our employee benefit programs.
So we had talked about that on the Q3 call being one-time and that you ought to naturally think that that $12 million it will go back up $12 million all things equal in Q4 and that has materialized the way we expected.
The bulk of the remainder though in the comp and benefits is to support our new business.
We are obviously pleased with our overall new business results for full year 2013 and even accounts that will be generating revenue early in 2014.
And we did have an increase in the new business support costs.
This would include things like the on-boarding contractors that we use.
It would include the growth in the alternative investment business that Jay referenced earlier.
It would include year-end sales comp.
So the -- that is related to new business.
And as we look to first quarter of 2014 we do expect that to normalize other than of course the $150 million one-time impact we will have in first quarter from the annual incentive comp.
Put that aside we expect the comp and benefits to normalize again in Q1 as we work through that on-boarding.
Research Division</strong> And then Mike I appreciate that you'll be providing more details on your 2014 guidance on your Analyst Day.
But I just want to clarify what -- the bottom end of your 3% to 5% revenue growth does that assume a rise in interest rates? Boy that's a difficult question to answer in a vacuum.
The 3% bottom of the range does look at a more pessimistic market environment than our base-case scenario.
So I would say that it wasn't quite as precise as what you're -- as the question you're asking but I think it's fair to say that if we did not see a change in interest rates then we'd be more likely to be closer to the 3%.
But again there are a lot of moving parts there and I think we can give you a more thorough answer when we take the time at the Investor Day to walk through that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just then finally alternative services has been a great business for you guys and you've had a strong presence there.
Like how are you thinking about the revenue opportunity from here? What can you do organically into '14 and '15? Yes I think -- so I think -- let me take that Ashley.
The -- we think that we compete effectively and we do well in the hedge fund segment of alternatives.
By our estimate 70% of the hedge funds have outsourced the kind of work that we do.
So there's potentially an additional market share gain.
There's potentially more hedge funds which we'll outsource.
And I think that's -- maybe its not a certainty but it's highly likely given the pressures that hedge funds are under to be more transparent among -- to their customers.
But I guess the other thing -- the other element of alternatives which is kind of exciting is we have also moved into the private equity and real estate subsegments of alternatives.
And by our estimate and industry estimates only 30% of those firms have outsourced.
So we would expect proportionately greater growth in those nonhedged alternative segments and we feel well positioned.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I had a follow-up on the other side of the revenue guidance the 3% to 5% range that you talked about.
So the 3% is a more negative outlook than your base case for interest rates.
But can you give us some color around what is the assumptions behind the upper -- the boundaries on the upper end of the 5%? Yes Betsy it's Mike.
Again I'd prefer to go into that level of detail at the Investor Day.
But broadly speaking we would expect a -- to -- at the 5% scenario broadly speaking we would expect a rise in both short-term as well as intermediate-term interest rates certainly beginning July 1.
And in that kind of environment it's likely to be a more positive global economy.
So in that kind of environment with a more positive global economy and higher 30-day and 90-day interest rates we would expect the sec lending business to be stronger we would expect our trading revenue to be stronger and we would expect that to have -- mean good things for top line as well as bottom line.
But let me leave it at that and save the additional detail here for Investor Day.
Research Division</strong> Okay great because the kind of implication is that the fee line is a plus 4 grower and that seems a little bit modest compared to what you've done historically.
So that would be great to flush out at Investor Day.
And then just separately on the expense line you've discussed regulatory a couple of times and I know throughout the conference calls of the prior year you've indicated where regulatory expenses has crept up.
So we've had rising regulatory costs throughout the year.
I guess what I'm wondering is as we look at the year-on-year because you called out the year-on-year would have a higher reg cost is it a run rate from 4Q? In other words is the higher year-on-year function effect that regulatory costs increased throughout the year? Or is it -- are you also saying that there's an increase in reg costs from your 4Q run rate? Yes Betsy I would think about it as a full year to full year as opposed to a full year to the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter in our expectation was relatively high in a number of these legal and regulatory compliance areas.
So I would think about it more year-on-year as opposed to year versus Q4.
Research Division</strong> Yes and excluding legal just the regulatory cost itself what you're basically saying is your run rate in 4Q is a decent run rate for the full year? Yes I don't think I'd be quite that precise.
But I think that our comments around the upward pressure on regulatory compliance costs if you exclude legal really related to full year '14 versus full year '13.
And one of the reasons Betsy just in full disclosure here it's a difficult question to answer is that keep in mind we've got spending across the enterprise that's driven by these demands.
So it's not like it's a discrete budget that captures all the dollars.
I mean many of us just around this table are spending a lot more time on regulatory compliance issues than we have in the past.
So it -- I mean it impacts -- it really pervades a number of different budgets.
It pervades systems costs relating to the Volcker reporting that Jay referenced earlier.
It increases the staff that we need in the compliance area in ERM.
It increases the professional services expenses.
So it's not a -- it's not that it's a -- there's not sort of a readily easy single number to point to which is why I'm -- again I'd just urge you to focus more on the year-over-year trend.
Research Division</strong> Yes no I get that.
I just wanted to make sure.
Your message is essentially look those expenses have been rising throughout the year for things we all know about.
You're not -- that's what you're making the statement on not necessarily "Hey there is more coming that we're anticipating from 4Q annually." So that answers the question.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
The first thing is that I'm just kind of curious I mean the -- and this also occurred in 2013 but the normal seasonal bump in Q1 comp the -- year-over-year it's 27% increase was pretty big of an increase this year.
Is this -- is that simply just related to higher expected comp accruals as the business grows? I mean it's pretty -- seems like a pretty outsized kind of jump.
Sure Rob it's Mike.
In terms of relative to the Q1 bump that we saw in 2013 there are a couple of different things going on.
First of all it does reflect the fact that full year 2013 was a better result for the enterprise than full year '12.
So that is reflected in what we expect the management compensation to be here in the first quarter so that's a piece of it.
Second we have had some changes in the demographics.
So the main impact that we get of course is the impact of those that are age 55 and have had 5 years of credited service.
Again that demographic has contributed to the increase.
And then importantly we have an approximately $10 million increase year-over-year related to some new regulations new compensation regulations in Europe.
So there was some compensation for certain individuals that had to be adjusted.
And as a result that drives that number up $10 million versus first quarter of 2013.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the -- maybe my next question is going back to trying to think about the asset servicing line and the business mix and maybe this is something you intend to address at the Investor Day.
But if I look at the assets under custody and administration and I'm actually looking at Page 12 on the trends report where you have the breakdown by funds collective funds I'm assuming the collective funds is where most of the alternative products sit.
But is that -- should we think of that as a reasonable representation of those segments' contribution to the fee revenue line or is it really not much of a correlation between their relative size and growth and how they're contributing to kind of asset servicing fees? Just trying to see if there's a way of using that data to kind of triangulate to kind of the growth expectations for servicing fees? Yes Rob it's Mike.
Its -- unfortunately it's not quite that simple.
And as Jay indicated earlier it is something that we're working on now.
How much of that we'll have done by the Investor Day remains to be seen.
But let us work to give you an update hopefully a down payment at the Investor Day and more to come here later in '14.
You're next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Rockingham (sic) [Buckingham] Research.
Just one or two quick follow-ups one on the balance sheet.
Just your comment that you saw a spike in excess deposits around $6 billion.
I'm assuming you're talking about on an average basis because deposits were up $28 billion on a period-end basis and if you could just sort of -- is the commentary that those -- the vast majority of that $28 billion rolled off? Is that how we should think about it? Sure Jim it's Mike.
Yes I was referring to the average.
On average our excess deposits in Q4 were approximately $25 billion compared to $19 billion on average for Q3.
Importantly we saw 2 significant spikes in the fourth quarter.
We saw a significant spike in October around the debt ceiling crisis and then we saw an even larger spike at the end of December that's impacting the period-end number that you're describing.
And so again it was well north even of the numbers that you were quoting.
So again we tend to focus on the period averages because that tends to be more of a driver of the net interest revenue and net interest margin.
No absolutely but so you're saying that the -- that won't have any -- the period-end balances won't have any real impact on the average going into first quarter because they rolled off.
Is that the...
That's correct Jim.
They rolled off at the beginning of January not the whole 25 but the spike that we saw at year end rolled off.
And I would expect on average for Q1 it to be below 25 again barring another crisis in Washington here later in the quarter.
Right or in emerging markets I guess.
Just a follow-up also on the conversation you mentioned you would expect it to normalize in 1Q.
I wasn't quite sure I understood what you were referring to.
Was that sort of the seasonal kind of uptick in incentives? Or -- it wasn't clear to me what you were referring to.
Yes let me just go back to that point.
First of all we will have this $150 million increase in Q1 related to the annual compensation cycle.
So put that piece aside.
If you strip that out of our Q1 2014 numbers what I was saying was that if you strip that out if you took the Q1 2014 versus the Q4 2013 we would expect the comp and benefits to decline over that period mainly because we don't anticipate those expenses that supported the new business in Q4 to continue through Q1.
And any ballpark on that number? Well it was the bulk of the rest of the increase from Q3 to Q4 if you strip out the $12 million of the benefit plan change in Q3.
So round numbers call that $15 million.
I would again anticipate that $15 million not being there in Q1 of '14.
Your last question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the asset servicing question.
If 50% is driven by asset levels and 10% to 15% is transaction is it possible to generalize about the biggest drivers for the remaining 40%? So is it just number of accounts or the type of service provided which we really can't see? It tends to be the latter.
It tends to be fixed fee arrangements or other particular services again just not specifically tied to either transactions or basis points on assets.
So again an example -- I keep harping on it but just to give the example $6 million of the -- of the servicing fees from Q3 went away in Q4 and these were out-of-pocket expense recoveries where we do spend money in this case on information systems but charge the client dollar for dollar for that.
So again there is a drop in information systems but a drop in revenue.
So it's those kinds of things Cynthia.
Again we'll look to add some transparency on that over time.
Let me just give you one other example Cynthia because it's a meaningful line item.
With each portfolio if we're doing portfolio accounting there's a fixed fee to provide that fund accounting so obviously that would be driven by the number of portfolios that we add versus assets just as another example.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then on your outlook for '14 it sounds like you're assuming improvement in market conditions for both sec lending and trading.
And I guess the sec lending it sounds like you think will be helped by better short-term rates.
But what gives you confidence on the trading? And any color you can give on what you're seeing so far this quarter since 4Q was so slow? Yes I look on the -- you're right with regard to securities lending.
I'd also add another little element which could be helpful and it came up earlier in the call that the M&amp;A activity has picked up.
And to the extent that stays robust that would increase the number of special securities and so that's a helper to securities lending as well.
With regard to foreign exchange it's -- our comments are probably more a reflection of the unusual decline in volatility in the second half of the year that we don't think that's a normal state of markets.
And I think you can look at the Fed pulling back you can look at some of the emerging economies and some of their actions as indicators that our base case would be we'd see a little better volatility in this year 2014 than we saw in '13.
And by the way volumes in our foreign exchange business have been pretty good.
So it's really more of a factor of volatility.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any color on what you're seeing so far this quarter? Too early to tell.
At this time I'll turn it back over to management for closing remarks.
Yes we would just thank you for your attention this morning and look forward to hopefully seeing most of you in a little more than a month in New York on February 27 where we'll host our annual analyst call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporations First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Todays discussion is being broadcast live on State Streets website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Streets conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without the expressed written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed at the State Street website.
(Operator Instructions) Now I would like to introduce Valerie Haertel Senior Vice President of Investor Relations of State Street.
Please go ahead.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Our first quarter earnings materials include a slide presentation.
Unless otherwise noted all the financial information discussed on todays webcast will reflect operating basis results.
Please note that the operating basis results are a non-GAAP presentation and this webcast includes other non-GAAP financial information reconciliations of our non-GAAP measures including operating basis results to GAAP basis measures referenced on this webcast and other related materials can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Mike Bell our Chief Financial Officer will refer to the financial highlights presentation when he provides an overview of our financial results for first quarter of 2014.
Before Jay and Mike begin their discussion of our financial performance I would like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Streets 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on risk factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of today April 25 2014.
The corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
Now I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman President and CEO Jay Hooley.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Valerie and good morning everyone.
During the quarter our results were affected by a constrained investment environment in seasonal expense factors.
However we continue to execute on our key priorities of growing our core business controlling our expenses investing in growth areas and optimizing our capital structure to deliver long-term shareholder value.
The environment during the first quarter was mixed.
Global equity and fixed income markets were up slightly and investor risk taking behavior had a negative bias until the end of the quarter when investors began to move back into emerging markets.
While volatility improved from the fourth quarter and helped our trading business it remained constrained hitting a 7-year low during the quarter.
Concerns about the Ukrainian growth in China similar throughout the quarter but there were no significant impacts on the geopolitical front.
On the State Street front we experienced seasonal expense increases in the first quarter as well as continued pressure on regulatory expenses.
As a result of this tepid environment we have taken action to further align our expense base by announcing this morning a reduction of 400 positions.
We are committed to aggressively managing our costs and we will continue to evaluate additional opportunities to create efficiencies to position us to achieve our goal of creating positive operating leverage year-over-year.
The constrained environment and increasing regulatory requirements are also putting pressure on our clients.
Consequently we continue to see steady demand for our products and services around the globe.
Our first quarter 2014 new asset servicing wins totaled approximately $189 billion representing a range of clients and sectors.
38% of those assets were from outside the U.S.
Included in our new business wins are 25 new alternative servicing mandates a client segment where we continue to see above average long-term growth potential.
New assets to be serviced that remain to be installed in future periods totaled $136 billion.
During the quarter we saw outflows from money market funds into long-term funds.
However as the quarter progressed the flows into long-term funds shifted from equities to fixed income out of emerging markets funds and into mature markets which is indicative of continued cautious investor behavior.
As mentioned we did see some movement back into emerging market equity funds at the end of the quarter.
In our asset management business we experienced net inflows of $4 billion for the first quarter driven primarily by strong inflows of $35 billion into cash collateral pools offset by $31 billion in outflows from ETFs and institutional mandates primarily passive equity.
The net ETF flows of approximately $19 billion reflected typical seasonal activity in our S&amp;P 500 fund.
In this continued challenging environment our objectives for 2014 are to drive growth in the core business continue to mine efficiencies across the organization including executing on our ops and IT transformation program invest in growth areas and deliver positive operating leverage on an annual basis.
Now Id like to turn the call over to Mike who will discuss our actions more fully and review our financial performance.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
This morning before I start my review of our operating basis results I would like to note that our GAAP basis results for the first quarter included a pre-tax severance expense of approximately $72 million related to staff reductions and realignment.
As Jay noted this action was taken to help mitigate environmental pressures and to align our expense base with our current revenue outlook.
We continue to focus on one of our key priorities which is to support positive operating leverage on an annual basis in 2014.
On Page 11 I will begin the discussion of our operating basis highlights and I will reference our non-GAAP operating basis results in my comments unless I note otherwise.
EPS for the first quarter of 2014 declined $0.99 per share from $1.15 in the fourth quarter of 2013 and increased from $0.96 a share in the first quarter of 2013.
Our first quarter results in 2013 and 2014 included the seasonal effect of deferred incentive comp and payroll taxes.
Compared to the first quarter of 2013 the increase in operating basis EPS was primarily driven by a reduction in average outstanding shares due to common stock repurchase program.
First quarter 2014 total revenue increased 1.2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 and 3.6% compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Total expenses increased in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the prior quarter primarily due to an incremental $157 million related to incentive comp and payroll taxes of which $146 million is associated with the seasonal deferred incentive compensation for retirement eligible employees and payroll taxes.
During the first quarter of 2014 we repurchased approximately 6 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of approximately $420 million resulting in average fully diluted common shares outstanding of approximately $439 million for the quarter.
In March 2014 our Board of Directors approved a new common stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $1.7 billion of our common stock through March 31 2015.
Turning now to Slide 12 I will discuss additional details of our operating basis revenue for the first quarter of 2014 focusing on the notable variances principally from the fourth quarter.
First quarter 2014 servicing fees were up modestly compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to stronger global equity markets and net new business partially offset by lower transaction-related revenue.
First quarter 2014 management fees increased modestly from the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to net new business and stronger global equity markets partially offset by lower performance fees.
Performance fees in the first quarter of 2014 were approximately $3 million down from $5 million in the prior quarter.
Additionally first quarter 2014 management fees were impacted by money market fee waivers of $10 million compared to $13 million in the prior quarter.
Trading services revenue increased by almost 5% compared to the fourth quarter primarily due to higher foreign exchange trading revenue from higher volumes and volatility.
Compared to the first quarter of 2013 trading services revenue was lower primarily due to lower foreign exchange trading revenue and lower distribution fees associated with the SPDR Gold ETF.
Securities finance revenue increased from the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to higher spreads and volumes.
Securities on loan averaged $333 billion in the first quarter of 2014 up approximately 6% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Processing fees and other revenue increased approximately 20% from the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to an increase in revenue from joint ventures tax-advantaged investments and certain portfolio transition services.
Our net interest revenue decreased from the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to $19 million of interest revenue recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013 associated with the municipal security that previously been impaired and lower yields on interest earning assets.
I also reiterate the two net interest revenue scenarios that we reviewed at our February Investor Day.
In our first scenario we assume a modest improvement in market interest rates but not administer grades later in 2014.
And we would expect full year NIR to be $25 million to $50 million lower than 2013 adjusted NIR of $2.289 billion.
The second scenario assumes a static interest rate environment at 2013 year end levels for the remainder of 2014.
And we would then expect our full year NIR to be $50 million to $100 million lower than the 2013 adjusted NIR of $2.289 billion.
Our operating basis net interest margin in the first quarter of 2014 was 124 basis points.
And as a result of the persistent low interest rate environment we expect the net interest margin to continue to move forward into market interest rate rise.
Average interest earning assets increased from the fourth quarter which was primarily driven by higher levels of client deposits.
And Ill now update you on how were positioned relative to the liquidity coverage ratio or LCR.
We expect to be above the 80% minimum requirement for the LCR as of January 1 2015.
This will likely result in a higher level of high quality liquid assets on the balance sheet which will have a negative impact on net interest revenue and this impact is reflected in our full year estimates.
Now lets turn to operating basis expenses on Slide 13.
Our total expenses for the first quarter of 2014 increased approximately 9% sequentially primarily due to seasonal deferred compensation expense and payroll taxes and higher information systems and transaction processing expenses.
Our first quarter 2014 compensation and employee benefits expenses increased from the fourth quarter 2013 primarily due to an incremental $157 million related to deferred incentive comp and payroll taxes of which $146 million is associated with seasonal deferred incentive comp expense for retirement and eligible employees and payroll taxes.
Compensation and employee benefits expenses continues to be impacted by costs associated with installing new business investing in growth opportunities and implementing additional regulatory and compliance requirements.
Our business operations and IT transformation program continues to be on track and for full year 2014 we expect to achieve approximately $130 million of additional pretax expense savings which would result in approximately $550 million of run rate savings since the inception of the program.
Information systems expenses increased from the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily reflecting the planned transition of certain functions to external service providers as well as higher maintenance costs associated with the new technology implemented that is part of the business ops and IT transformation program.
Transaction processing expenses increased from the fourth quarter of 2013.
The increase primarily reflects higher volumes and higher equity values in the investment servicing business.
Occupancy expenses of $114 million in the first quarter of 2014 decreased sequentially primarily due to the effect of a one-time $8 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2013 and a $4 million credit in the first quarter of 2014 each associated with a sublease renegotiation.
Other expenses decreased to $283 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared with the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to lower securities processing sales promotion and professional services costs.
Id also note that fourth quarter 2013 operating basis other expenses included $28 million of Lehman Brothers-related gains and recoveries which was essentially offset by higher securities processing costs.
Now Ill provide you some details on our March 31 2014 balance sheet.
As you can see on Slide 14 our overall approach managing our investment portfolio has not changed and we maintained a high credit quality profile.
Our interest rate risk position was also in line with our position at year end.
Additionally the after tax unrealized mark to market gain as of March 31 was $124 million which improved from the year end due primarily due to narrower spreads in the first quarter.
And I will turn to the next slide to review your capital position.
As you can see we maintained a strong capital position and that strength has allowed us to deliver on our key priority of returning value to shareholders through dividends and common stock repurchases.
As of March 31 2014 our estimated pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was 11.1% under the standardized approach and 13.2% under the advanced approach.
Both capital ratios improved from the fourth quarter primarily due to an increase in Tier 1 common equity.
This increase included a temporary 20% phase-in of the deduction of other intangible assets from Tier 1 common equity as allowed by the phase-in rules.
Previously our pro forma ratios included 100% deduction of intangibles which will be required by the Basel III rules once the reduction is fully phased in.
Therefore the improvement of approximately 100 basis points due to the phase-in will completely disappear by 2018.
On April 8 regulators released the 5% and 6% supplemental leverage ratio requirements for certain bank holding companies and insured depository institutions.
At the same time a notice of proposed rule making was issued to codify the calculation of the denominator of the SOR and in the NPR the ability to use a daily average of total assets is included which is positive for us.
But unfortunately central bank placements were not excluded.
We estimate that our pro forma Basel III supplementary leverage ratio under our interpretation of the U.S.
proposed rules issued on April 8 are approximately 6.4% at the holding company and approximately 6.0% at the bank as of March 31 2014.
The improvement in the leverage ratios is primarily due to the temporary capital benefit for the intangibles the more favorable treatment of unfunded commitments the use of the daily average of total assets and the issuance of preferred stock during the quarter.
Partially offsetting these improvements was a larger average balance sheet driven primarily by the higher level of client deposits.
Now we are pleased that the Federal Reserve did not object to the capital plan that we submitted in conjunction with the 2014 CCAR.
In line with our capital plan our Board approved the purchase of up to $1.7 billion of our common stock through March 31 2015.
Additionally we will seek approval from our Board in May to increase the second quarter common stock dividend to $0.30 per share up from $0.26 per common share that was declared in the first quarter.
Next I will reference Slide 16 where we detail a change in the presentation of our operating basis effective tax rate.
Beginning with the first quarter of 2014 we changed the calculation of the operating basis effective tax rate by reflecting the tax equivalent adjustment that is included in operating basis revenue.
This change has no impact on operating basis revenue pretax earnings or EPS.
We believe the change will better align our operating basis effective tax rate with our other operating basis metrics and will provide a more informative measure of the ordinary rate of tax generated by State Street business activity.
On this basis the operating basis tax rate was 31.2% in the first quarter of 2014.
Before I conclude I would like to address the question which maybe on investors and analysts minds regarding our expense outlook for the remainder of 2014.
Excluding the first quarter seasonal deferred compensation expense for retirement eligible employees and payroll taxes we expect that expenses will increase in the last three quarters of 2014 primarily due to annual salary increases which are effective in April.
We do expect to realize savings of approximately $22 million in 2014 from the staffing reductions announced today.
I would note that we expect to achieve the majority of the $22 million of savings in the second half of the year and then expect $40 million of annualized benefit in 2015.
Overall for the full year 2014 we continued to target 3% to 5% revenue growth and positive operating leverage.
And while the environment continues to present challenges we plan to continue to focus on our top priorities (driving) more revenue growth investing in growth opportunities controlling expenses and managing our strong capital position.
The expenses actions that we announced today reflect the current environment and put us in a better position to deliver on our goal to achieve positive operating leverage on an annual basis in 2014.
Now I am turning the call back to Jay.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Mike.
Stephanie Mike and I are now prepared to handle questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with ISI Group.
First one is a quickie.
I just want to make sure I heard your comments right Mike so full  on a fully phased in basis the capital ratios on the slide are about 100 basis points lower still strong but is that correct? That is correct Glenn.
In terms of the Basel III risk weighted ratios in particular.
Yes cool.
And then just wanted to make sure that you are still according to the (annuals) that you had mentioned that you still have some more preferred to issue I just want to make sure that that is still in the cards.
And then an add-on question to that is how you balance the capital efficiency benefits with the earnings dilution and I am asking just because I see a lot of people short of their 1.5% bucket but not issuing because you cant get back all the capital whats the point.
Sure.
So Glenn the overall answer is that our position on preps has not changed since the Investor Day.
So as we talked about it at the Investor Day we do expect to add at least $500 million over time for the preps to get to that 1.5% which we view as optimal in terms of the Basel III risk weighted capital ratios.
Now really the key question when I say at least $500 million the key question is going to be the supplementary leverage ratio since the preps that we issue do count towards the SOR.
There is an incentive.
There is an economic incentive over time for us to potentially have issue additional preps which over the fullness of time we would expect to enable us to reduce the common equity that we have outstanding.
And so in terms of your question on timing that is obviously something that we are looking at and we will continue to review our options.
And again I would say that if we are really looking at this in terms of long-term shareholder value its a good trade to make the trade relative preps for common stock and the dilution is something that we think at this point is manageable but it will be factored into decision going forward.
Right last one is this is good thing the asset management fees were up more than the assets under management which I havent seen in a long time thats a good thing.
In the tax it doesnt say that its a performance fees so is that just a function of mix and selling higher margin product? Yes I would say if you recall Glenn from our Investor Day we featured (indiscernible) presentation that we have  we are less concerned about pure AUM and more concerned about revenue per unit of AUM.
And we have intentionally focused on higher yielding products mostly through ETF vehicles.
And we continue to push those out and that had the effect of improving the revenue per AUM which we think is good and we think we will continue to focus on.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Ken.
Mike I just want to be super clear here.
When you are talking about expenses moving up off of the first quarter base and you said excluding stock comp and payroll taxes whats that explicit number that we should use to build off of? Thanks Ken.
So what I would suggest  this is how I would suggest when you think about it Ken is I would take the first quarter comp and employee benefits number I would back out the  let me just think about this for a second.
I would back out the $146 million of 55 and 5 the retirement eligible comp thats embedded in there.
And then I would think about adding approximately $21 million a quarter for the merit increases and importantly as you go from Q1 to Q2 well have an additional payroll day and thats worth about $5 million.
So thats how I would think about I mean there are obviously other pluses and minuses but I am trying to answer your question in terms of how to think about the baseline.
I would make those adjustments as a starting point for Q2.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks while we will get savings in 2014 they will be from the expense actions.
The reduction enforce of a net 400 FTEs well get benefit from that in 2014 thats mainly in the second half of the year and then we get an additional $18 million in the full year 2015 that we dont get in the full year 2014.
Okay.
Since I want to confirm but as you had said payroll taxes as well so but the only thing we should really be backing out from the first quarter is just the $146 million? Yes.
In the $146 million includes the seasonal effect of the payroll taxes on everybody.
So what we look to focus on and with that $146 million number which is apples-to-apples with $118 million the year before is its the deferred comp for everybody is retirement eligible and its the seasonal bump up in payroll taxes that happens in Q1 as a result of flipping over the calendar year and FICA taxes and stuff starting back at zero base.
Okay.
And just because I am getting the question a bunch of times the severance charges are not in that 10.85 number correct? That is correct Ken.
Okay.
And then operating expenses were higher than the range that youve talked to in the past.
Can you give us some color on what your outlook is for that operating expenses number the other sorry other? Yes sure.
The other operating expenses Ken first of all continued to be very pressured by these regulatory compliance cost.
So again very consistent with what weve talked about at the Investor Day.
And there is significant upward pressure on that number relative to 2013 levels.
So in terms of the outlook for other operating expenses in 2014 it is going to be lumpy I mean it is going to be lumpy because of legal costs it will be somewhat lumpy for regulatory compliance expenses so and actually lumpy as well because of securities processing costs.
So it is one of those  its very difficult to give you a quarterly number with a lot of confidence because in any given quarter stuff can go bump and either be good or bad.
I would characterize the first quarter though is being roughly in line with what were going to see is on a quarterly basis over the course of the remainder of the year based on our current expectations.
But Id say that the big wild cards are really the legal expenses and also the regulatory compliance cost where there is upward pressure.
Okay.
And then if I could just wrap a final one together.
Your revenue growth was 3.6% and pretty much in that range youve talked about.
And obviously the expenses were in the 5s and even if you back out that retirement eligible the expenses were still growing 4.5%.
So trying to understand then with a negative operating leverage start to the first quarter and the expenses still moving up from here albeit with your modest amount of incremental saves you are getting what  whats your level of confidence that this can flip in the next three quarters and get us to a net positive operating leverage when you think about revenues versus expenses.
It seems like there is still an bad balance here between expense growth and revenue growth? Sure Ken.
A very important question that you are asking so the overall answer is were continuing to set as a goal for ourselves for the full year positive operating leverage for full year 2014 versus full year 2013.
Now importantly as weve talked about the Investor Day we are managing though for long-term shareholder value.
And which means that were going to continue to focus on the strategic plan that weve talked about which is sure we want to be the low cost provider in the core activities but it also means that were going to also focus on being an innovator of value-added services and which means were going to continue to invest.
And so in terms of some of the numbers that you talked about Ill add some additional commentary there.
First we do recognize that the Q1 revenue results was at the lower end of our 3% to 5% range that we reiterated at the Investor Day.
And importantly Ken I would note that the  both the revenue and the expenses in Q1 was nominally higher because of the weaker U.S.
dollar.
So if you actually make it on a constant currency basis for 3.6 and the 5.8 that you referenced are likely 3 and 5.
So the point is we recognized that we did not get a lot of help from the revenue environment in Q1.
Now we do think that there is some potential help that we could get for the full year revenue outlook.
So for example we may get some potential help from equity markets.
It was useful that equity markets now are higher than where they were at year end 2013 which was the basis of original 3% to 5% estimate.
So thats useful.
We also have not yet seen a material improvement in FX volatility but we would note that the FX volatility is still at a significant cyclical lows; we think there is some upside there.
We didnt see a little bit of help on sec lending spreads in Q1 and again we expect more help in Q2 since thats the seasonal dividend arm quarter where its  where it is tended to peak so that should help.
And then again if we could get some help from market interest rates in the second half of the year we think the revenue outlook could be better than call it 3% that we saw on a constant currency basis in Q1.
But importantly Ken I would just reinforce if the revenue outlook continues to be very soft we will continue to review our operating expense options I mean everything is on the table.
Were  again were managing this for the long-term but were also very serious about our goal.
So rest assured if we continue to see more 3% kind of scenario than 5% scenario well look harder at operating expenses.
Okay.
Thank you for all that color Mike.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning guys.
So just picking up on the last point I want to dig in into expenses couple of specific items and maybe wanted on the revenues.
So Mike I think when you mentioned is regulatory related costs are still going higher thats something different than we heard from the other two trust banks.
It sounds like the  theyre still elevated obviously relative to where they have been kind of last couple of years but it didnt sound like theyre growing a ton from here.
Do you guys still expect that for State Street gets regulatory and legal related items will continue to grow in 2014 versus 2013? Absolutely yes Alex.
I  again I wont comment on any other companys issues.
But I  its virtually certain that ours will be higher and candidly it will be a challenge for us to manage the year-over-year increase in regulatory compliance cost to the $30 million to $40 million that we talked about at the Investor Day.
There is real upward pressure on that $30 million to $40 million range.
Got it.
Thanks for that.
And then on the revenue front the two items that I was hoping to spend a few minutes on our  the brokerage and other and then on securities lending.
In brokerage and other I understand there is a couple of things that go in there.
This line item has been kind of about 120 130 range a year ago or so in the last couple of quarters has been closer to 100.
So help us understand I guess whats been the biggest delta there? Is it really all the GLD or there has been some softness in the transition management business as well and then just a quick follow-up in sec lending? So on the brokerage and other revenue youre absolutely right Alex.
That category for us was down $30 million versus Q1 a year ago a little over a third of that is the lower gold fees that we get were mainly reflecting the lower price of gold but also outflows out of the gold fund.
The other call it $19 million is really a combination of as you said lower transition management revenues but also importantly lower electronic exchange revenues.
And again we feel like we are well positioned in that market.
We see it really as a market phenomenon as opposed to a State Street specific situation.
Again if there is any silver lining to that dark cloud its  thats another area where we view as potential upside if in fact global economic conditions improve.
Right and just  Securities lending piece Yes I just wanted to get a sense on thats one of the bright spot I guess in the quarter pretty good growth year-over-year.
And I think one of things you talked about at the Investor Day is enhanced custody and I think it was mentioned in your prepared remarks as well.
So I was hoping you could either quantify I guess how much that new revenue stream has contributed if at all and maybe help us size the opportunity there? Sure.
It was a bit of bright spot both sequentially and year-over-year.
First time in a while we have seen the online balances up nicely 6% sequentially and you did  you hit on the key element of the growth which is in the quarter 25% of our securities lending revenues was driven by enhanced custody and almost all of the growth came through enhanced custody.
So I will just remind everybody thats something that we began thats began investing three years ago and its and we are still investing in it as we bring it into Europe and Asia.
But we think its a nice addition when we represent a lot of future of the securities lending business.
Great.
Thank you so much for taking the questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashley Serrao with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
I had a few clean up questions.
First on revenues can you just size your current asset servicing backlogs and also what is the CVA benefit to servicing fees this quarter? Yes its servicing backlog so committed not installed I believe the $136 million.
And as for your other question I wasnt He is asking Jay about the CVA.
The CVA was approximately plus $3 million in the quarter roughly flat sequentially.
Okay got it.
And then just on expenses I just want to add another basically complete the picture you painted Mike.
Of the $130 million savings how much have you realized so far this year could you give us some color there? Sure Ashley I would characterize it as we have achieve the substantial majority of that $130 million and overall feel like the full year as well as the remaining $50 million in 2015 are on track at this point.
Got it.
And just finally on the occupancy expense line should we think of $118 million as a starting point ex-credit this quarter? Yes I would suggest thats a good idea.
Okay thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from Brennan Hawkins with UBS.
So the asset management fee rate.
If we adjust gross it up for the fee waivers and adjust for the performance and the day count.
We would still down where it had been running the prior three quarters was there anything specific I know it was up year-over-year but versus where it had been in 2Q through 4Q was there anything specific driving that drop? Well so Brennan just to put some facts around it as I mentioned in the prepared remarks the performance fees are down $2 million sequentially and I would also add that the day count cost us approximately $4 million.
So again that would be the main headwind.
We didnt get some help from little lower money market fee waivers as we saw money move out of the government funds and into prime money market which leads to a little bit better waiver experience.
And then some help from markets and also some help from a small amount of help from net new business.
Yes.
I mean grossing up for all those right I still had fee rate dropping from where it had been running so I just  was there anything specific was it just the flows out of SPY given that thats a higher fee rate and so its a mix function what was it do you think? We did have some flows out of SPY so thats  and that tends to happen at Q1 thats a pretty common seasonality seasonal pattern excuse me.
But nothing unusual in the quarter I think its fair to look at the year-over-year if you are not considering trends more in the sequential quarter.
Okay thanks Jay.
And then on those typical seasonal offers on SPY is this quarter its $19 billion last year it was $5 billion is there anything thats causing that to be so much worse so much more pronounced than it was last year because we are not seeing anything any other big outflows out of other index products so I am just kind of curious whether or not you have any insights into whats making that maybe a bit more seasonally severe this year? I think its  I dont think there is anything unusual there and in fact after the quarter ended we saw a lot of that come back.
So I think it is used as trading account at quarter end.
And I think if we look back over several years you would see there is a fair amount of difference in those flows but we are not reading anything other than anything trend wise into it.
Perfect and helpful to hear that it bounced back here first quarter.
And then last one from me just really a minor one the CVA I think you guys highlighted the counterpart evaluation adjustment in the processing fee can you maybe size that for us? It was approximately $3 million positive Brennan.
Terrific and thats versus sequential or year-over-year? Sequentially its flat it was also positive in Q4.
Q1 doing some my memory I believe was minus $6 million.
So it would be a $9 million improvement on comparing those two quarters.
Terrific.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
I guess I am still confused by the slide on the asset servicing fees as a percentage of assets under custody I think your asset value at the Investor Day I get the context that less than 50% of the fees are directly linked to AUC but I think you stopped sort of really providing a detailed explanation of the dynamics that will play there.
So maybe you could do that for us now I mean I think we are seeing better flows at the asset managers portfolio turnovers finally picking up so why is this still falling.
What types of activity is specifically under pressure and all those cyclical  cycle of pressures? Sure Luke its Mike the transaction revenue is the main piece that I would ask you to factor into your analysis.
So specifically transaction revenue was down $5 million sequentially Q4 versus Q1.
And its just lower market activity.
I mean believe me when I tell you we have looked at it several different ways and it just looks like it is driven by lower market activity going on.
And so I would expect when we get into an environment where the global economies were healthier and there is a little more risk taking.
We would expect that to improve but I would certainly acknowledge that we have seen it move in the opposite direction now for three sequential quarters and just in time for me taking the job of course.
Okay slightly more detailed question maybe you could just touch on processing fees and other revenues.
I think there was some noise in this quarter but I think the last time you said anything in terms of guidance was first quarter 2012 and you pointed to $70 million to $75 million as a decent run rate but then later youve stated that line by about $35 million.
So would you be willing to say that $100 to $210 million is a decent run rate for that line? Luke what I would suggest is if you include the tax equivalent adjustment that we detail every quarter which the recent increase there has been primarily caused by the higher volume of tax-advantaged investments.
If you include that tax equivalent adjustment I would expect that the processing fees and others would range between $125 million and $135 million a quarter for the remainder of this year again importantly including the tax equivalent adjustment.
Okay thats helpful.
Then final one from me.
Just high level given that the scale asset managers have been earning sub-par for the last five years I would imagine that smaller services are maybe even earning worse returns so why havent we seen more competitors accept the business will merge and maybe you can discuss the dynamics that caused I think so many to hang on this business and then what did that say about the benefit of having scale on the business? Luke is your question pointed at asset managers or asset servicers? I am sorry to say asset mangers I mean asset servicers.
Okay it is a huge advantage of scale and I think they are getting even greater when you think about the position of regulatory and compliance cost that we referenced earlier.
I think that the question of why you have done more consolidation on the back of that.
First off there has been a lot of consolidation so if you look at the concentration in the asset servicing business there are four firms that have 70% of the market by the industry calculations.
Youve got a series of banks European banks I think continue review this business even though sub scale is attractive and some parts because the liquidity is that provide an environment where those banks are under some pressure.
So I think that move on its closure some point in the future but I dont see exchanging and short term.
And other category of service providers I would point to if you look at the alternatives.
As in servicing space its get a little bit more for us volume of sub scale players remains that many of you wouldnt know it and thats been I think thats a market that proportionally has higher growth prospects and has experienced higher growth.
So I think thats caused people to hang in there.
So in summary I would say there is because of the concentration and consolidation that occurred up until now there is less prospects who are lapsed.
And for different reasons people are finding it so interesting being in the game.
I think that the need to drive efficiency out the core operations need to address components and regulatory costs will continue.
And I think that puts pressure on sub scale providers.
Okay thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi guys this is actually Steven Dong in for Gerard.
Thanks for taking a call.
Just going back to SOR you guys had provided some color on the improvements sequentially.
Would you happen to have the break out of the percentage basis of the moving parts for that? Steven its Mike.
So what was focus on the bank which went from 5% to 6%.
Yes.
And so specifically and going to give you round numbers here.
The improvement that we got from the temporary credit on the intangibles is worth approximately half of that so call if 50 basis points.
The combination of the moving to the daily average calculation rather than the month end calculation roughly offset the larger balance sheet we have in the quarter because of the spike up in the excess deposits.
You can size that plus and minus that about 30 basis points but those  those two things of offset.
And then the benefit that we got from the improve conversion factors under the rules is worth approximately 30 basis points.
And then we had a bunch of other odds and ends that contributed 20 basis points.
So that would be the go forward at the banks from 5 to 6.
Great thank you.
And we do have the holding company level at all? Sure.
Its approximately the same numbers the only other piece that you are going to factor in to that analysis is that the proceeds that we have from the pref issuance.
So the call it 750 million of proceeds from the pref issuance is worth call it another 25 to 35 basis points thats it quarter level and not at the bank level.
Right.
When you issue your $500 000 million in plus you would expect perhaps another say 15 basis points then? Thats correct call it 20 yes.
Okay perfect.
And just going back to your new business wins do you have the break out what was the outside of the U.S.
versus U.S.? Yes.
I think it was roughly 38% outside the US which is consistent with downs we have seen over the last couple of quarters.
Great thats all for us.
Thanks for taking the call.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
A couple of questions one on expenses and one on revenues so on the expense side I noticed you have the merit increase coming this year and I dont know if this right calculation we just look at relative to total comp dollars looks like around 2% hike and wondering how you think about sizing it.
This feels a little bit higher than inflation right now.
Looks like its not necessarily tight performance is that there is wondering how you size that number? Yes Betsy its Mike.
First of all we did average a 3% increase in base salaries thats effective in April.
And basically we did a review of the market conditions.
We reviewed what other companies were doing where our compensation levels were versus other key competitors and key competitors not just banks but also just other people that we battle with for talent.
And yes I would certainly acknowledge that the 3% is a fair amount higher than the last couple of years where we had very small increases.
And but  again we thought it was important given the competitive landscape and the importance of keeping our top talent.
So if we see a little wage pressure here maybe we will get interest rates rising on the front of the curve so again that would be nice? That will be very helpful Betsy.
Exactly.
So then just the second thing is on collateral transformation I just wonder at the Analyst Day Investor Day you have highlighted some of the things you are doing to try to increase your share of activity along the trading channels right doing more in TV related stuff doing more with collateral management and collateral transformation.
Could you give us a sense of where you are in that process? And is this anything that we are going to see in the numbers in the next year or this is more of a very gradual over time five years down the road we will look back and say hey this was a story something to act? Betsy this is Jay.
Let me take that.
I would say its the latter.
It will gradually bleed in over time.
I think collateral transformation is a product that we offer today where ramping up slowly that activity across the number of customers derivative clearing probably a little bit more excitement going on.
We are on the front end of timing of customers.
There is a little bit of a lead time to sign them up.
Once you sign them up you should see a pretty steady flow.
I think we are viewed as an attractive alternative on the derivatives clearing space.
And then Enhanced Custody would be another product that I would say is maybe indicative of what I would expect that of derivatives clearing collateral management a couple of years out.
It took us a year or so to get it set get the infrastructure set revenues started coming in but once they start coming in they should be pretty sustainable and improving over time.
So its the gradual enhancement to core revenues.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Hi thanks a lot.
Just a quick question on the assets under custody and administration levels it looks like just looking at your Page 3 of the main release that it went up 0.2% but the markets in most cases I guess other than EEFA went up more than that and you guys do sight net new business.
I am wondering just in terms of levels why wouldnt it go up a little bit more given your equity sensitivity? Yes let me take that one Cynthia because there is a  we did lose a customer that had low revenues and high AUA and let me just explain the situation because its unusual with the customer that we acquired through IBT back in 06 its rare that we would do middle office without custody activities.
In this case we were doing middle office without custody activities and it had a pretty high AUA and pretty low revenues.
It was a pretty simple middle office construct.
And in talking to the customer over the last couple of quarters they concluded we agreed that they would internalize it and so that really speaks to that abnormality which I wouldnt  I would say was clearly one-off.
So can you give a sense of the size of that and I guess there is very little revenue impact you are saying? Yes $500 billion which is where you get the anomaly and pretty low revenue.
Again just a simple middle office only implementation nowhere close to our all of our other middle office implementations but thats distortion.
Okay.
And in terms of the new asset servicing mandates you are bringing in how does the mix compare to what you have in place in previous quarters? Any shift is it similar? Yes its similar but its heavily weighted in the alternative space again more hedge and private equity.
You also see  we all see those alternative structures moving down in market and to some of the liquid structures.
So I would say we should continue to expect to see proportionately more of our new business growth coming in those alternative categories.
Okay.
And then finally the $40 million cost saves you guys have cited and the headcount cut maybe you said this.
But where are those cuts and are there any offsets like for instance the increase in IT as you move to external service providers.
Is that related to headcount cuts? No I would say Cynthia that the headcount cuts were kind of broad-based no specific theme but as we continue to mine the organization for efficiencies or things that we can do in other places we took advantage of that.
And are there any offsets in terms of greater use of outside services? No its a straight reduction.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Yep.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Wharton with JPMorgan.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
I just wanted to I think this question may have been asked but forgive me if it was.
What was  whats the business the whole outsourcing and IT initiative cost sales objective for 2014 incrementally and what has been achieved cumulatively to-date of the total that youre trying to achieve through the end of 2015? Sure.
So Steven its Mike.
The goal for 2014 full year is $130 million and that would bring the cumulative to-date to $550 million at the end of this year and there would be a remaining approximately $50 million that we would get in 2015 so $600 in total.
Right.
And were you saying that through the first quarter youve already achieved the $130 million I was..
I would characterize it is not the full amount but a majority of the amounts.
If you then annualize the Q1 we would have achieved the majority of the annual amount.
Okay.
So basically thats why on degree youve announced this additional restructuring of sort because you basically run out of benefits from the outsourcing initiative for this year and then there has been maybe a little bit more in 2015? Yes I mean again we did for a variety of reasons including the software revenue picture.
And the importance of our goal of achieving overall positive operating leverage for the full year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
Hi Mike hi Jay.
I want to reconcile one comment you mentioned the transaction related fees were down $5 million or transaction related revenues were down $5 million linked quarter.
But then when I look at your commentary in the release on transaction processing expenses you say that those were up due to higher volumes.
So how do I reconcile those two statements? Sure.
Vivek its Mike.
They are even though theyre both they had the word transaction and then they are very different items.
So specifically as I mentioned earlier the brokerage and other revenue is driven by the combination of the lower gold fees with SPDR GLD fees as well as the pressure that weve seen on the electronic exchange revenue thats picked up in other trading services.
The transaction processing fees those are mainly service bureau fees and they are higher based on our higher volumes that those kinds of volumes would tend to track more with our global service fee revenue as opposed to any of the other line items.
So.
But the gold and other is showing up in processing and other fee right? Well the gold fee is driven by the volume of (indiscernible) that we.
Sorry go ahead.
Yes the gold and other and the brokerage fees whereas I am referring to your asset servicing fees weve talked about transaction related activity being down.
And I am reconciling trying to reconcile that with transaction volumes being up in the transaction processing expenses line? I am sorry I misunderstood your question Vivek.
So again the transaction fees that we get as part of the GS revenue is down just because of lower market activity.
Things like the service bureau fees that can include things like pricing services transfer agent cost.
Again there are different volume drivers from the expense versus the transaction revenue.
Okay alright.
Let me reask one other question asked earlier.
The processing and other fees which went up from 106 to 127 which you said the run rate will be 125 to 135.
When I look at the (tax less) quarter adjustment that went from 53 to 57 so a lot bigger increase in the processing and other fees whats driving that and how sustainable is that? Sure.
Again I would suggest you look at in total because part of the processing and other fees.
If you exclude the tax equivalent adjustment is actually the amortization that we have on the tax advantaged investments themselves.
So that piece contributed three of number that you are describing.
So I think of the tax advantaged investments as being up 7 sequentially which is poor from the tax equivalent adjustment and 3 from the lower amortization.
In terms of the rest beyond the 7 of JV revenue was up sequentially 8 million Q4 versus Q1 of 2014.
Again that tends to bounce around but I think the Q1 is pretty down close to what would expect further remainder of the year in term of JV fees but again with the caveat but it does bounce around.
We also head on uptick in portfolio a transition services specifically some currency risk management fees that we saw in increase and again I would characterize the Q1 has being in reasonable expectation for the remainder of the year.
In aggregate the back I would say that the processing fees and other including the tax equivalent adjustment or reasonable expectation would be 125 to 135 over the remainder of the year with the slight growth that well see there are mainly driven by higher tax advance investments for Q2 and Q3 in particular.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Hi good morning.
Just want to follow up on your NII outlook in the balance sheet you had a bigger spike in deposits in the balance sheet when you peers I guess number one can you may be if you have any insides on what drove the spike.
And then secondly embedded in your NII outlook what is your view  whats the embedded view of your balance sheet for the rest of the year? Thanks.
Sure Jim its Mike.
Ill start the first we didnt see on increase in excess deposits in Q1 versus Q4 we estimate that they will up approximately 3 billion in terms of the average daily balances Q1 versus Q4.
They spike significant at the very end of the quarter and view it as really a function of the fact that we viewed as a safe heaven and also that there are not other great alternatives for our clients to put very short-term money at this point in time.
Europe for the US or so.
Its actually both.
Okay.
Both so I again if you look at any particular plan there is a different story for each client but that in this  it is globalphenomenon at this point.
In terms of what we think size in the balance sheet would be the over the course of the year the short answer is if we expect if the short-term interest rates do rise we do expect of the majority of our excess deposits that are on the balance sheet would likely viewed and find other places where they get earn better yields.
And that is embedded in our forecast that will gave under that scenario remember.
Jim I would ask you to remember that this is very low margin this is because basically we take these client deposit fees these excess deposits from our clients and put them with the big central bank.
So again with earning for our numbers call it 20 basis point name on that  on those assets.
So its not a big move in terms of our net interest revenue over the course of the year.
Excluding the impact of the excess deposits I would expect that we would have essentially stable to perhaps modest growth in the core operational deposits over the course of the Europe.
The big mover in terms of the overall size of the balance sheet will be the  will likely be the excess deposits.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Your final question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Thanks for taking my question.
And yes I apologize upfront for this but its  I want to go back to asset servicing and trying to get wrap my head around the idea of the lower activity because when you look at a lot of things out in the marketplace whether its fund flows whether its move to alternatives whether its even I guess I would characterize even higher sec lending balances as being some indication of leverage and risk taking? And then kind of also layer on top of it but may be you are being impacted in asset servicing by lower customer activity? Couple of things how much of that maybe is being impacted by pension movements for the LDI was that having like negative impact on that business thats discernible and should we be thinking that maybe that business maybe say to a point you made on emerging markets of actually maybe its more leveraged to two emerging market flows and things like that that maybe we would proceed from the outside? We are just trying to be a little more granular on it.
Well Robert let me start with a couple of facts and then I will ask Jay if he wants to add.
So in terms of the transactional revenue thats embedded in our global service fees those were down as I said earlier down $5 million sequentially and down $3 million versus Q1 of 2013.
We have sliced in and diced it.
And it just truly looks like simply lower market activity and unfortunately has been a continued trend that we have seen now for three straight quarters.
I think there is potential for that to improve when we see a little bit more global market activity but again those are the facts.
Let me see if Jay wants to add? I dont know what I could add other than just it does reflect the portfolio managers who are part of the customer base that we serviced there velocity of trading.
And as you know we proportionately we are greater in the funds business in the alternatives business less proportionately in pensions and corporates.
So its  I cant put my finger on anything other just lack of trading volume.
I think to me the service fees in addition to the actual trading activity being affected as much by kind of muted market activity pretty slow growth on the equity and the fixed income front and lack of risky investments as much a drag on that service fee line as the transaction volume itself.
I appreciate taking my question.
Thank you.
Stephanie is that it? Yes thats your final question sir.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> So thanks everybody.
We look forward to getting on the phone with you again at the end of the second quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporations Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Todays discussion is being broadcast live on State Streets website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Streets conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded or rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without the expressed written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed on the State Street website.
(Operator Instructions).
Now I would like to introduce Valerie Haertel Senior Vice President of Investor Relations of State Street.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Our second quarter earnings materials include a slide presentation.
Unless otherwise noted all the financial information discussed on todays webcast will reflect operating basis results.
Please note that the operating basis results are a non-GAAP presentation and this webcast includes other non-GAAP financial information reconciliations of our non-GAAP measures including operating basis results to GAAP basis measures referenced on this webcast and other related materials such as the slide presentation referenced on the call which can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Mike Bell our Chief Financial Officer will refer to the financial highlights presentation when he provides an overview of our financial results for the second quarter of 2014.
Before Jay and Mike begin their discussion of our financial performance I would like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Streets 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on risk factors concerning any forward looking statements we make today.
Any such forward looking statements speak only as of today July 22 2014.
The corporation does not undertake to revise such forward looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
Now I would like to turn the call over to our Chairman President and CEO Jay Hooley.
Thanks Valerie and good morning everyone.
Our strong second quarter results reflect growth in core servicing and management fee revenue driven by both higher global equity markets and net new business.
With respect to our market driven revenues we experienced a typical seasonal uplift in securities lending as well as increased demand in our enhanced custody program which has been a driver to growth over the past few quarters.
Additionally foreign exchange trading performed well with higher volumes in both direct and indirect trading execution methods despite extremely low volatility for the industry.
And IR [ph] also performed a bit better than we expected due to a higher level of interest earning assets from new business and higher client deposits.
On the expense front we continue to be focused on controlling expenses across the organization.
While we continue to perform as we anticipate on operating expenses we are experiencing increased pressure from regulatory compliance costs.
Now I would like to provide a brief economical view on review of the second quarter global equity market performance for trading environment and how our revenues were impacted.
The U.S.
economy bounced back solidly during the second quarter following a very weak first quarter lower employment increased household wealth and improved credit conditions are combining with a still very accommodative monetary policy to support an improving outlook for the U.S.
economic recovery.
Global equity and fixed income market performance was strong during the second quarter.
The S&amp;P 500 daily average was up nearly 4% the EAFE daily average was up 2.5% and the Barclays U.S.
aggregate index was up 2%.
The Federal market committees June policy statement affirmed that the economy was rebounding and as such an outset of Fed would continue tapering its asset purchases each month with a view towards ending them in the fourth quarter.
We expect the Fed to leave administered interest rates unchanged at a very low level direct of the year and begin to gradually increase in the middle of next year.
The Euro zone continues to lead U.S.
recovery in the remaining weak and uneven even as rise in political attentions and a potential re-intensification of the debt crisis continue to present downside risk.
With growth persistently weak and unemployment still extremely high inflation is uncomfortably low and is expected to remain low for a prolonged period.
Against this backdrop the ECB took action in early June to ease its monetary policy stance.
As widely anticipated it reduced administered interest rates including a cut to the deposit facility rate paid on excess reserves to below zero.
Were closely monitoring market conditions including market interest rates which have generally remained positive SWOT markets and client deposit behavior.
On the positive side EU [ph] continues to be the global growth it will reaccelerate over the next few years as growth picks up in advanced economies and stabilizes in developing economies.
With respect to the trading environment State Street benefited from higher global equity markets.
During the second quarter we saw an increase in investor risk appetite which was favorable to our asset mix.
Clients increased allocations to both emerging market and maturing market equities and reduced allocations to money market funds.
As a result we saw a slight pickup in U.S.
transaction volume reversing a low transaction volume trend we saw over the last few quarters.
Both dynamics were positive contributors to our servicing fee revenue.
As reflected in this quarters results we continue to see strong and steady demand for our products and services globally.
Our second quarter 2014 new asset servicing wins totaled approximately $250 billion representing a range of clients and sectors.
58% of those assets were from outside the U.S.
which is an increase from prior quarters perhaps signaling improved confidence in the global economic outlook and a result of willingness of clients particularly in Europe to change service providers.
Also included in our new business wins are 26 new alternative assets servicing mandates.
New assets to be serviced that remain to be installed in future periods totaled $243 billion and our current pipeline is strong.
In our asset management business we experienced net inflows of $18 billion for the second quarter which was the best quarter of flows since the third quarter of 2012.
The flows were driven primarily by net inflows of $10 billion into ETFs $12 billion into institutional mandates and money market funds of $1 billion partially offset by net outflows of $5 billion from short-term collateral pools.
We intend to build on this new business momentum for the rest of the year.
Now Id like to turn the call over to Mike who will review our financial performance for the quarter and outlook for the balance of the year.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
This morning Ill start my review on slide 9.
While weve noted several financial highlights for the second quarter and for the six months ended June 30 which I will refer to as year-to-date.
Unless noted separately well reference only the non-GAAP operating basis results in my comments today.
By wins summary second quarter results were improved in what remained a challenging operating environment.
We plan to continue to focus on our top priorities driving core revenue growth investing in growth opportunities controlling expenses and managing our strong capital position.
Regarding the first half of 2014 EPS increased approximately 8% from the first six months of 2013.
Year-to-date however revenue increased approximately 4% compared to the year ago period.
Importantly year-to-date core servicing and management fee revenue increased approximately 7% compared to the same period in 2013 primarily reflecting the benefits of higher equity markets net new business and the impact of the weaker U.S.
dollar.
EPS for the second quarter 2014 increased to $1.39 per share from $0.99 from the first quarter of 2014 and from $1.24 in the second quarter of 2013.
As a reminder our first quarter 2014 results included the seasonal affect of $146 billion of deferred incentive compensation expense for retirement eligible employees and payroll taxes.
Second quarter results also reflect the seasonal increase in our securities finance business that typically occurs in the second quarter.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 the increase in EPS was primarily due to a strong increase in core servicing and management fees a lower operating basis tax rate and the impact of our share repurchase program.
These positives were partially offset by lower market driven revenues and higher expenses.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 total expenses increased approximately 4% primarily due to the higher compensation and regulatory compliance costs including the impact of the weaker U.S.
dollar.
Our second quarter 2014 pretax profit margin was 32% down slightly from the second quarter of 2013.
The operating basis effective tax rate was lower than normal this quarter due to some one-time items.
We do expect a higher operating basis tax rate in the second half of the year.
Turning to slide 12 Ill provide additional details of our operating basis revenue for the second quarter of 2014 primarily focusing on the notable variances to the second quarter of 2013.
Second quarter 2014 servicing fees performed very well up approximately 7% compared to the second quarter of 2013.
The increase primarily reflects stronger global equity markets net new business and the impact of the weaker U.S.
dollar.
Second quarter asset management fees increased 8% from the second quarter of 2013 primarily due to stronger global equity markets.
Money market fee waivers were $10 million in the second quarter flat with the first quarter and up from $8 million in the second quarter of last year.
Trading services revenue increased modestly compared to the first quarter primarily due to higher foreign exchange trading revenue as a result of higher volumes partially offset by lower volatility.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 trading revenue was lower primarily due to lower FX volatility.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 securities finance revenue increased primarily due to new business and enhanced custody.
Enhanced custody represented 25% of our second quarter securities finance revenue and more than 100% of the growth compared to the prior year quarter.
Enhanced custody also benefited from the seasonal increase in our securities finance business.
Processing fees and other revenue increased from the second quarter of 2013 including higher revenue associated with our tax-advantaged investments.
Our net interest revenue decreased from the second quarter of 2013 primarily due to lower yields on interest earning assets partially offset by lower interest expense and a higher level of interest earnings assets.
Average interest earnings assets increased from the first quarter primarily driven by a higher level of client deposits.
In addition year-to-date net interest revenue has benefited from higher short-term Euro market rates than we had expected.
Offsetting these positive factors and placing pressure on net interest revenue are factors that include the sustained low interest rate environment the recent reduction in Euro market interest rates and our portfolios reinvestment in the higher quality liquid assets to meet the new liquidity requirements.
The many of you have had questions regarding the impact of the European Central Bank lowering the open deposit rate to negative 10 basis points and the related impact on our deposit pricing.
While overnight rates have come down since the June 5 announcement which is placing pressure on our net interest revenue market rate still remains slightly positive.
We continue to evaluate our options and are monitoring the actions of other market participants.
Based upon our current assessment of market conditions we now expect full year 2014 operating basis net interest revenue to be in the range of $2.25 billion to $2.28 billion assuming the client deposits and market interest rates continue at second quarter levels through the remainder of the year.
Now lets turn to operating basis expenses on slide 13.
Our second quarter 2014 compensation and employee benefits expenses increased approximately 6% from the second quarter of 2013 due to new business support higher incentive compensation the impact of the weaker U.S.
dollar annual merit increases and higher regulatory compliance costs partially offset by savings associated with the Business Ops and IT program.
Information systems and communication expenses increased from second quarter 2013 due to higher infrastructure costs.
Transaction processing expenses increased from the second quarter 2013 reflecting higher volumes and higher equity values in the investment servicing business.
Occupancy expenses of $115 million increased compared to the year ago quarter.
Occupancy expenses in the second quarter 2014 included a one-time recovery of $5 million.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 other expenses decreased 3% primarily due to a $9 million credit associated with Lehman Brothers-related recoveries in the second quarter of 2014 and lower legal and sales promotion expenses partially offset by higher regulatory compliance expenses.
Now Ill provide you with some details on our June 30 2014 balance sheet.
As you can see on slide 14 our overall approach to managing our investment portfolio has not changed and we have maintained a high credit quality profile.
Our interest rate risk position was also in line with our position at last quarter.
Additionally the after-tax unrealized mark-to-market gain as of June 30 was $456 million which improved from last quarter primarily due to narrower spreads and a decline in longer term interest rates in the second quarter.
And I will turn to the next slide to review your capital position.
As you can see we maintained a strong capital position and that strength has allowed us to deliver on our key priority of returning value to shareholders through dividends and common stock repurchases.
As we have previously announced we completed our Basel III qualification period our parallel run in the first quarter this year.
As a result beginning with this quarter we are now calculating and disclosing our actual regulatory capital ratios under the advanced approach framework of the Basel III final rule.
As of June 30 2014 our Tier 1 common ratio under the Basel III advanced approach was 12.8%.
Under the Basel III standardized approach which will not go into effect until 2015 our estimated pro forma Tier 1 common ratio was approximately 11.3%.
We estimate that our pro forma Basel III supplemental leverage ratios under our interpretation of the U.S.
proposed rules issued on April 8 are approximately 6.1% at the holding company and approximately 5.8% of the bank as of June 30 2014.
These leverage ratios about the holding company and the bank are down slightly from last quarter due primarily to an increase in average assets from higher client deposits.
As we continue to focus on returning capital to our shareholders during the second quarter of 2014 we purchased approximately 6.3 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of approximately $410 million resulting in average fully diluted common shares outstanding of approximately $435 million for the quarter.
As of June 30 2014 we had approximately $1.3 billion remaining on our current common stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $1.7 billion of our common stock for March 31 2015.
Now before I wrap up my comments I would like to review our current outlook for the remainder of 2014.
For revenues our results this quarter include the positive effect of the foreign dividend season which significantly benefited securities finance revenues.
We expect both agency securities lending and enhanced custody revenue to revert to lower levels in the third quarter due to the end of the seasonal activity.
In addition from my earlier remarks we expect net interest revenue in the second half of 2014 to be below the first half of the year due to current market conditions.
Overall for the full year 2014 we continue to target 3% to 5% revenue growth compared to full year 2013.
Id now like to address a question which I suspect is on investors and analysts minds which is the outlook for operating leverage.
Due to expense pressure from regulatory compliance it will be more challenging for us to achieve our goal or positive operating leverage for 2014 unless we experience an improvement in multi-driven revenues.
Specifically its important to highlight that regulatory expectations for GSAB like State Street have continued to increase.
Importantly its not just related to compliance with new rules its across all areas of the company including list data aggregation and reporting mismanagement and governance recovery and resolution planning client onbaording and transaction monitoring systems and documentation requirements.
The amount of effort to fully comply with these expectations is higher than what we previously expected.
As a result we currently expect 2014 regulatory costs to be higher than our earlier expectations.
In the meantime we continue to focus on managing other elements of our expense base to offset some of the impact of the higher regulatory expenses this includes continuing to execute on the severance program announced in first quarter.
In aggregate we currently estimate that our operating expenses for the third quarter of 2014 will be approximately $20 million higher than the second quarter levels primarily reflecting increased regulatory costs offset to some extent by other savings.
We also currently expect fourth quarter expenses to be approximately in line with third quarter expenses.
And with that Ill turn the call back to Jay.
Thanks Mike.
And Stephanie were now available to answer questions.
So you might open the lines.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
So first question on expenses.
I guess whats changed since the prior  I mean what did you guys learn over the course of the quarter that led you to believe that expenses on regulation will exceed that kind of the $40 million number that you provided in the past? And then secondly I guess more importantly the question I think a lot of investors will have is once you get through this how should we think about these level of expenses heading into 2015; i.e.
is this a catch-up bet for whatever reason that you guys didnt really anticipate in the past and not just a ramp that were seeing this year.
And then well see some easing into 2015 or how should we think I guess about expenses on regulation beyond this current period? Alex its Mike Ill start regarding your question around 2014.
The main thing that is different from what we talked about say at the Investor Day  its now clear to us that expectations really across the board by all regulators are higher than what we had previously anticipated.
And just as a reminder I mean  we are a global company obviously and what we have found is that expectations across the globe are higher for GSABs [ph] than we had previously anticipated and its really very important to us Alex that we maintain good relationships with our regulators particularly with the Fed and we think at this point its prudent to plan to spend more resources than we had originally budgeted here for 2014.
I mean as it relates to 2015 I think thats  its a little early to try to comment on that.
Obviously as we get closer to the end of the year we might have some additional updates but at this point I dont see any indication that the expectations are going to wretched back but again I wouldnt try to comment on spending at this point.
Alex let me just add just a comment on the longer term outlook  call it 2015 or whatever.
With regard to regulatory compliance expectations be it capital be it liquidity be it any other number of things that were focused on; weve organized internally to make sure that we not only comply with but also get organized around aggregating data sources internally so that we create something thats sustainable and overtime I would expect that the cost would ramp down.
Now there is an effort to get things organized and effective but efficiency is also a friend of mine for instance we go through this process.
Understood thanks for that.
And my second question is just around the balance sheet.
When I look at the balances big  weve seen the similar trend with the other trusted banks this quarter as well.
I guess how sticky [ph] do you think these are  I mean it looks like a lot of it actually came from  in the U.S.
side so maybe you can talk a little bit to the sources of this excess cash it just kind of keeps coming in.
And then if you guys given any thought to potentially reposition the balance sheet and buy in some securities with all those excess cash thats sitting on in with the Fed right now.
Sure.
Alex this is Mike I will start.
Youre absolutely right that we did see a significant increase in client deposits in Q2 relative to Q1.
Unfortunately most of that is in really the category of excess deposit so we estimate that there was approximately 50% increase in excess deposits from Q2 relative to Q1 on average for the quarter.
And our policy is basically to take excess deposits and place them with the central bank.
So at this point there hasnt been any change in our philosophy and we dont think it would be prudent to turnaround and invest those excess deposits and longer term securities at this point.
But again thats something that were monitoring its something that were very cognizant of  particularly as it relates to the new liquidity coverage ratio requirements which will be effective January 1 2015.
So more information to come there.
Understood thanks so much.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Hi good morning everyone.
Mike can you elaborate a little bit more on the offsets against the higher compliance costs.
First of all just relative to that up 30 to up 40 can you size what the new increased expectation is? And then do you also have plans to  given that this isnt different versus original expectation are there plans to offset those costs in either salaries incentive compensation plans for management or other parts of the business? Sure Ken.
First  let me talk first about the $20 million increase that we expect Q3 relative to Q2 and then when we come back to the first part of your question.
First Id emphasize Ken that the $20 million is obviously a current estimate so its subject to change and its subject to some one-offs some of our expenses either plus or minus can be lumpy.
But with that caveat out of the way Id point to several pluses and minuses in Q2 just along the lines of what you were alluding to.
First of all the  we did have $14 million of expense recoveries in Q2 that dampened our overall aggregate expenses in Q2 that we dont expect to recur in Q3 so that was $14 million.
We also have an extra payroll day in both in Q3 relative to Q2 and that end up  we had the same number of payroll days in Q4 and Q3.
So  but it is an increment of approximately $5 million going from Q2 to Q3.
Then the other pluses and minuses that I would highlight here first as we said in the prepared remarks we do expect that regulatory compliance costs will be higher in Q3 than Q2.
We also anticipate that well continue to have net new business over the course of Q3 that will likely require some expense to service that revenue.
And then importantly weve got a couple of areas of offset weve got the savings Ken from the Q1 severance actions that we took and again we expect a large amount of those savings to come in Q3.
And then were also looking at some other savings opportunities along the lines of what you described and that could include redeploying existing resources to the regulatory compliance areas so that its not incremental expense its just a redeployment of existing resources were working hard at that.
As you mentioned the management incentive comp  unfortunately adjust automatically for the higher expenses so that that will represent some partial offset as well.
So basically that  those are the pluses and minuses that were really focused on as it relates to Q3 and Q2.
And as I said in the prepared remarks wed expect Q4 to be in line approximately with Q3 as being our current outlook.
On your question on the overall level of regulatory compliance expenses we are in the process  kind of working through those detailed plans and I dont know that it would be very meaningful to you to give you an updated number I think it would denote [ph] false precision and since we are reviewing the opportunities to redeploy existing staff the gross amount of spending would not be the amount that I would expect to fall to the bottom line.
So I think the more meaningful number would be to focus on the plus 20 sequentially.
Okay.
And Mike my second question is with regards to LCR compliance can you tell us where you are? You had earlier in the year mentioned considering making changes  potential changes to the way that the balance sheet is structured and your investments are  where youre investments are heading.
So you can just talk to us about LCR compliance and any anticipated changes to that? Yes.
So Ken first of all at the end of Q2 we estimate that we would have been in compliance with the new requirements for LCR level one [ph] 2015 and that was the result of diverting more of our assets on our balance sheet to the level one high quality liquid assets that were required.
Now I would anticipate that there will be a little more migration in the second half of the year to a higher level of level ones and so therefore there is a little bit more dampening of NIR coming in the second half of the year but that was reflected in the NIR estimates that I gave you for the full year.
Okay Ive got it.
Thanks Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Hi thanks.
On the  obviously you have the DVARB [ph] season driving the securities on loan balances higher and producing the seasonality in the quarter.
Is there anything else in there that helps drive the revenue be it like better spreads higher interest and hard to borrows or anything like that? Glenn its Mike.
A couple of other things helped us out here in Q2 that I would highlight.
First of all in terms of the core servicing fees we benefited from a couple of things that Jay emphasized in his prepared remarks.
First we did see a sequential increase in transaction revenues of approximately $5 million Q2 versus Q1.
And so that was a welcome change from the decrease that we had seen in the prior quarter and  again there are several moving parts there but we think some of that reflects the fact that there was some index rebalancing that took place in second quarter which again led to our clients generating more transactions.
So that helped us.
And then the other one was the change in the mix of flows.
We saw some additional risk on behavior in Q2 relative to Q1 specifically with some cyclical rotation back into emerging markets which was a welcome change.
And then beyond core servicing fees as I said in my prepared remarks Glenn the  we did benefit from short-term market rates being higher than we had anticipated for the first half of the year in Europe unfortunately that abruptly changed here in the early June with the ECB action.
So  but the bottom line is we got some benefit from first half of the year in IR that we dont expect to repeat.
And I would think of that as sequentially Q2 to Q3 us losing approximately $10 million of NIR with the change in the European conditions those would be the ones that come to mind.
Okay I appreciate that.
I was trying to get towards that but this will be a bigger sequential drop than normally just because of the bigger sequential output.
Let me pick that up  so in securities lending is that was your Correct.
Comments were focused.
Let me just describe what the quarter looked like and then we can talk through the second quarter third quarter transition.
Spreads were less than a factor the level of M&amp;A has helped the specials within securities lending but the overwhelming biggest factor in  other than the seasonality of the dividend season was the enhanced custody which is kind of the alternative direct to hedge fund lending program that we invaded couple of years ago and continue to invest in were starting to globalize that moving that to Europe and Asia is our current plan.
Mike referenced in his remarks it was 25% of our revenue in the second quarter and most of the uptake.
So I would expect that we would see the drop of second quarter and third quarter but enhanced custody is a factor in us  what I believe is gaining market share in the overall securities lending business.
I appreciate the extra color Jay.
Thanks.
On the  I know we want to look at expenses in aggregate but cant particularly  you called out some stuff last quarter like the merit increases but were looking at 6% year-on-year for the quarter maybe something more like 8% or 9% for the first six months honestly doesnt match up with what weve seen on the revenue side but to your point the fee businesses are growing the assets are growing.
Just  I guess the question is how do you balance all that because it speaks out to all of us when we rip in through the numbers and contributing to the lack of operating leverage? Sure Glenn.
I mean youre absolutely right in terms of year-over-year  the items that you described certainly have had a impact.
I mean specifically if we look at Q2 2014 versus Q2 2013 in terms of comp and benefits you know first and foremost I would highlight the fact that we have had growth in the quarter fee business and therefore were in the service business that requires additional expense to service that higher revenue.
And then the other items or the items that weve talked about previously which is we did have a merit increase saw that kicked in April 1 up 3%.
We did have higher deferred management comp this year versus what we had a year ago because the performance year that we had in full year 2013 was higher than the performance we had in full year 2012 which meant that the deferred comp awards that were granted earlier in 2014 were higher.
And then as we talked about last quarter and also at the Investor Day weve had higher regulatory compliance expenses some of that has manifested itself in higher staff clause and also then in the other operating expenses around consulting expenses.
And then the final thing I would highlight Glenn would be the growth initiatives that we highlighted at the Investor Day those continue to be key priorities for us.
Id point to something like enhanced custody where  it was a good thing that we invested in enhanced custody last few years because thats been more than 100% of the year-over-year growth in securities finance revenues.
And so not every initiative will be a success like enhanced custody but the point is it is important for us to invest in these growth initiatives so weve remained innovative in terms of the value added services.
Okay I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Thanks good morning.
Can you  maybe Jay give us a little bit more color on the asset servicing lends I mean how should we be thinking of that  maybe from a potential revenue impact? When you look at that anyway kind of sizing it or more of color on kind of  begin more of than the mix than how flow through revenues? Yes the $250 billion of which  we also said $243 I think was the number as yet to be installed.
As the real mix got a little bit more of a non-U.S.
tilt to it it continues to be colored proportionally more on the alternative space and the traditional alternative hedge but also liquid off  weve had a couple of nice wins that are factoring through the revenue line things that weve reported over the last several quarters.
So I would characterize the quarter as a pretty strong quarter from a standpoint of new business committed.
Id also characterize the outlook from a pipeline standpoint as a strong  and probably stronger than its been in a while and a little bit more with an international spend to it.
When you look at the translation into the service fee line model I thought I was pleased with the second quarter service fee growth and it  you know it factors in obviously the equity markets the  pretty positive re-risking environment from the customer standpoint and this layering in of the new business.
So I think if anything tremblized a little more positive than weve seen from the standpoint of the quarters results and the outlook from the pipeline standpoint.
Okay great.
And then maybe just as a follow-up just a little  maybe a little bit of modeling question.
But the tax rate in the quarter was a little low and I apologize if you addressed this before but  and I know the guidance is that all kind of comeback I think in the second half of the year.
Can you maybe talk about what simply drove the lower tax rate in the quarter? Sure Rob.
There are two primary items that impacted the Q2 operating tax rate.
The first is that we did have some favorable settlements related to prior year tax returns so that helped us in the quarter.
And then the other factor that helped us in the quarter is that the Q2 operating tax rate is impacted by the rules  the accounting rules that govern the quarterly timing of the recognition of our tax advantaged investments.
And so the net impact of that was that the Q2 rate was lower than what we estimate for the full year average but we expect the second half of the year operating tax rate to be higher than that full year average.
So that was the cause of the temporary favorable in Q2.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Just  maybe Jay just to go back to the servicing line  and thanks Mike for outlining the transaction impact.
Can you also outline that the U.S.
or the impact from these U.S.
dollar weakening  and then Jay if you can talk about to what degree are you seeing the next shift of new business so  into alternative helping that core fee ratio.
Should we be thinking about that as an improvement in the core fee rate going forward given youre seeing more assets in that area [ph]? Yes Ill start and then Mike can pick up to currency effect.
I think  to your question Brian I think the bigger factor in the quarter with regard to the nice uptick and service fees was probably the asset mix the re-risking from a client standpoint.
I would say that the new business layering in its hard to characterize any meaningful difference.
I think alternatives have been a theme for several quarters and as I spend time in the marketplace its pretty clear to me that there is a converges going on between the traditional loan only managers that are getting into all liquid all and the alternate managers going downstream until the traditional distribution channels.
So I would say if there was a sweet spot prospectively that would be the sweet spot.
Its alternative is moving into the traditional the traditional moving into liquids more of a U.S.
and Europe phenomenon but growing in Asia as well.
And if you believe that story I would think that were well positioned for that given the work weve done on alternatives and given the penetration we have in the traditional asset management space where the liquid also being generated.
And so Brain its Mike.
Regarding your factual question on the FX impact on GS revenue we estimate Brain that on a year-over-year basis so Q2 2014 versus Q2 2013 it helped us by about a percentage point so specifically about $11 million of benefit in that year-over-year comparison on $1.2 billion of revenue.
And then the sequential quarter was much smaller it was approximately $3 million benefit in the Q2 versus Q1 comparison for GS revenue.
Okay thats really helpful.
And listening both of your comments it sounds like we have some sustainability but basically  principally on the re-risking more than anything  Thats  I mean that your business commitment pipeline and re-risking are the three real pluses in my mind in the quarter.
Yes great thanks for that.
And then just my follow-up question would be you were talking about sort of the market environment for generating positive operating leverage in the second half.
If you can mainly characterize what type of market environment do you think you would need to do that? Sure Brain.
So  obviously its been a challenging first half of the year on the other hand we continue to believe that our full year expectation is for revenue growth of 3% to 5% and as I said the first half of the year its been 4% on a year-to-date basis but we benefited by about a point from the weaker U.S.
dollar on a year-to-date basis well call it 3% on a constant currency basis.
And then the mix has not been particularly helpful regarding operating leverage the core revenues the core servicing fees and management fees are up approximately 7% versus a year ago but the market driven revenues where we have the highest profit margins have actually been down year-over-year.
So that mix has put pressure on us in addition to the fact that we have been at the lower end of that 3% to 5% range on a constant currency basis.
And then on top of that as I said in my prepared remarks the operating expenses weve got some additional pressure there because of the regulatory expectations.
So the bottom line Brain is we would need to see a year-over-year increase in the market driven revenues and in particular the  some rebound in FX volatility and some help from our market interest rates in all likelihood to be able to achieve that result.
Okay.
So if we just assume your current NIR forecast for example maybe isolating that is it fair to say that we would need to see an improvement in FX volatility to some extent and then a continued improvement in the equity market levels and continued pace of re-risking and thats what you would describe as a positive environment? Yes I think its there [ph].
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
I think last quarter you pointed a processing fees of $125 million to $135 million per quarter and then you were below that this quarter and it looks like you also restated the first quarter result.
So maybe if you could review the moving parts with the taxable equivalent adjustment and update us on your expectations there? Okay sure Luke.
So first of all we did have a product reclass specifically we provide a currency management service to our transition management clients and that revenue of $13 million in the quarter was reclassed out of processing in other and into the trading services line item.
So if you added back that $13 million then we initiate [ph] the processing fees in other would have been rate in line with what we had talked about previously.
So it was that product reclass it just moves revenue from one bucket to other that caused the lower reported number in the processing fees and other line.
In terms of your question on the outwork for processing fees and other we do expect that the second half of the year will have a higher tax equivalent adjustment particularly driven by a higher volume of tax investments than what we had in the first half of the year.
So including the higher tax equivalent adjustment in the second half of the year I would anticipate that processing fees and other would be in a range of  call it 1.15 to 1.20 for the third quarter again thats subject to change obviously with different one-offs but that would that kind of range that Im currently thinking at this point.
Okay very helpful.
And then I wondered if you could comment on the proposal around brokerage commission sharing agreements which the regulators are calling inducements how do you anticipate that might affect your European operations either in your capacity to broke or  or in the investment management side of the business? Well Luke this is Jay Im not sure I can answer that one.
Im roughly familiar with reclaim [ph] and it shouldnt have a big effect on any brokerage because thats something we dont do directly probably Ill have to come back to you on that.
Okay fair enough.
And then I just wanted to circle back on the regulatory spending commentary.
I mean it seems like you began communicating this pressure a little bit later than other trust banks and so many assets managers at least one of them is that peak spending now.
So I dont mean to just not comparative but a skeptic maybe could be a little bit later at the timing here given that you were the only one of your peers last year that posted material operating leverage and beat expectations.
So maybe you could just comment on why there seems to be a delayed effect in your case and why you relied on recognizing the need to increase that spending? I cant speak Luke to other folks representations.
Its pretty clear to me that regulatory expectations are moving targets.
I think that whether its capital liquidity different levels of reporting that are required; the bar gets raised all the time.
And so I think for somebody today to say that the regulatory expenses has topped out or peaked that sees inconsistent to me with what Im hearing from regulators.
So I think from our standpoint we are addressing the requirements and trying to do it in a way thats durable and sustainable and looks at building internal data models so that we can aggregate information more easily and fluently going forward.
So were trying to put in place an infrastructure that can continue to respond to what I believe will be an ongoing and increasingly challenging level of regulatory requirements.
So for us weve been focused on this all along and were continuing to focus on it.
I cant speak to what others point of view is on this.
Okay thanks a lot guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashley Serrao with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Mike going back to the LCR are you able to size what the revenue drag was this year? And just for a context where were you at the beginning of the year and in terms of being comply for 2015 do you mean 80% or higher? Okay so actually several questions there.
First of all I do anticipate that well be well higher well north of 80% at year end.
And again we estimate that were north of 80% here at Q2.
So  again our expectation is not to be close to that 80% minimum line but instead to really demonstrate that we have ample liquidity relative to the Fed expectations in particular.
And in terms of sizing it  surround numbers by the time we get to the end of the year I would anticipate that the higher level of high quality liquid assets represents a drag of approximately $10 million a quarter for Q4 2014 relative to what we might have been pro forma without that higher level of Level One high quality liquid assets.
Got it.
So when we think about 2015 we should think about  maybe drag possibly half that size going forward or is that too aggressive? Serrao [ph] I think thats in the ballpark.
I mean again its really early for us to be giving guidance around 2015 but I think youre sizing it approximately right to the nearest half it would be about a half.
Okay.
And then I had just a follow-up question on funding this quarter.
The rate on other short-term borrowings was negative any color there? This is supposed to reverse going forward? Sure.
Ashley the  what that really reflects is an accounting reclass basically this relates to a block of newly assets and a product that we use for tax free money market funds.
So specifically we hit an accounting reclass that pointed now the interest rate swap to the asset side of the balance sheet rather than the liability side as indicated on the average rates page.
So specifically if you looked up at that state in political sub divisions line item you can see that that went down for the quarter and thats the accounting reclass where the impact of two quarters were  of this interest rate swap got reflected in Q2 in that line item.
So I would expect in all other things equal that Q3 to jump higher than the 3.3% something closer to call it the high threes in Q3 as the accounting reclass  disproportionate impact in Q2 gets changed.
And that had been an equal offset to the other short-term borrowing rate.
So I would anticipate the other short-term borrowing rate in Q3 to be something just north of zero it would be sort of the average 1.57% in Q1 and a negative 1.2% in Q2 it would be something  about a small positive in Q3.
Alright thanks for the color there.
And just  moving onto sec lending and enhanced custody offering it seems to be gaining a lot of fraction.
I was just curious who is your incremental customer there today is it just  are they switching just from the AGC program that you have? And how do you envision your competitors responding to this because this is pretty impressive growth that youre putting on? Yes Ashley let me take that.
So I think we all know how this works.
The  as opposed to lending securities to a prime broker who might lend them on to a hedge fund were lending securities directly to the hedge fund on a book entry basis so there is less folks in the chain more efficient process attractive from a hedge fund standpoint.
So most of the activity would be bypassing the client broker I think is probably a fair way to look at it and interestingly I think many of the prime brokers out there are evaluating with the backdrop of the new capital requirements how much and what type of prime broking they are looking to do.
So it seems like weve hit the market at a good juncture.
Competitively we were way out ahead of this we were working on this for three or four years and the last couple of years its really started to hit its stride.
So the traditional competitors are focused on it but quite a way is behind.
I also might add that our deep penetration in the alternative servicing marketplace positions us ideally for this because were dealing with those kind of prioritize [ph] hedge funds and even the liquid  place or the low leverage 1.30 funds are also used as of this enhanced custody.
So thats gives you a little color on how it came to be and what the competitive landscape looks like.
Alright great.
Thanks for all the color and thanks for taking my questions.
Youre welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CAS [ph].
Hi I have two questions one easier and one I think harder.
But the easier question is why did the balance sheet grow as much as it did up $20 billion? And the difference between period end assets $280 billion versus average assets $235 billion I mean those are big numbers so is that risk-off? Is that a bunch of client wins or some other change and do you think those funds will be sticky? Mike its Mike.
First of all as we noted in our prepared remarks the vast bulk of that balance sheet growth Q2 versus Q1 was in fact an increase in excess deposit so we estimated that the excess deposits were up approximately 50% or $14 billion Q2 versus Q1 and thats on average for the quarter.
On your question on the spike at the very end of the quarter again we have seen that the Trust banks have seen that pretty consistently really over the last year where as funds are looking for a Safe Haven at the quarter end reporting date weve been treated as that Safe Haven.
I dont anticipate that the spike that we saw at June 30 is a [indiscernible] of things to come here in Q3.
I would note that the vast bulk of those excess deposits left at the beginning of July just as weve seen in prior quarter ends and in terms of the excess deposits that we have even on average for the quarter  we would anticipate that the majority of those excess deposits would likely move to a different place as short-term interest rates go up.
Obviously we havent tested that hypothesis yet because short-term interest rates have been particularly sticky and particularly well.
And then my other question relates to  how much is the negative operating leverage for 2014 a statement on statutory [ph] versus the environment? Its been 3.5 years since you had the IT and Ops program and 3.5 years later were hearing negative operating leverage.
In your defense that Ive heard you say is look interest rates are lower if longer that hurts NII the regulatory environment is tough for that hurts the expenses.
On the other hand I note that headcount is kind of flat year-over-year at least in the first quarter at 29 500 and Im just wondering how much you have left of $575 million to $625 million of savings? Mike on that last question we do anticipate the  getting the stub expense saves of $50 million in 2015 as we fully capture the rest of the run rate from IT and Ops translation.
The other headwind that you didnt mention that I would add has been FX volatility I mean FX volatility is at historic lows that has certainly been fund helpful to us in terms of ability to generate favorable operating leverage because as we talked about the Investor Day since market driven revenues like FX and like NIR are our highest margin revenues and its tough to generate positive operating leverage in that current environment.
So how much have you actually achieved of the IT and Ops of the $575 million? In terms of the run rate weve achieved on a run rate basis for the savings that we anticipated for 2014.
So I  well obviously capture the saves in Q3 and Q4 but they are already in the Q2 run rate.
So again we anticipate the stub of $50 million in 2015 but at this point weve achieved a run rate savings for 2014.
And Mike I would just try to raise this up a level.
The  you know weve had some success with operating leverage.
Weve got a little bit of expense headwind that we talked about with regard to regulatory but if you look at  Id say a real positive as the service fee management fee and if you look at the sustained  that kind of recurring headwind its really the net interest revenue.
I mean if you look at the impact that has had on a Trust bank as for us the percentage of revenue and the fact that thats been grinding down over the last couple of years.
We really need a turn in that volatility would help and then I look at the health of the core service fee line and that makes me feel pretty good.
So I think in that grinding down interest rate environment weve been as youve pointed out becoming more efficient that doesnt go away thats embedded into who we are.
Little bit of help on the rate side and the volatility side would turn operating leverage pretty quick were trying to get there without that.
And then last follow-up just  the headcount it was 29 530 in the first quarter what was it this quarter or if you dont have the exact number how are you thinking about headcount because with all the initiatives that youve undertaken its hasnt really gone down.
Mike I dont have that headcount number rate at my finger tips but I think importantly one of the things that were looking at carefully is around the headcount for regulatory compliance costs relative to that trade-off with outside consultant.
So were really trying to manage the overall velars [ph] as opposed to artificially trying to push the headcount number down which would likely show up as higher consulting expense.
The other thing I would say which I dont think we look for but I look at intensely internally is where that headcount is located and its been a steady migration of that headcount from higher cost locations to lower costs locations.
So while the FTEs maybe the same the cost per FTE is continuing to go down on a conscious basis.
And they keep one regulation maybe thats the different stroke  and more in regulation and less elsewhere maybe thats being masked? Yes Mike again I wouldnt try to give you a specific number at this point because again I mean were  in effect virtually all of us are spending more time on regulations that are trying to do a precise analysis of the FTEs related to regulatory compliance other than saying it certainly is up I would not try to quantify that number I think it be past precision.
Alright thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffery [ph] with Autonomous Research.
Hello.
When you think about the Feds stuff in next year how do you think the mechanism of tightening whether its raising interest of reserves reverse repo rates doing something else is going to impact customer behavior than NCL balance sheet [ph].
Do you think it matters what option they go for? Sure Jeffery its Mike.
First we do expect that we may see some Fed tightening next year which ideally would lead to higher short-term interest rates that certainly has the potential to help out our net interest revenue for next year.
In that kind of situation as I said earlier we do anticipate that perhaps a large chunk of the excess deposits that we had on our balance sheet at Q2 would migrate off the balance sheet and find a different home.
And while there would be a small negative impact from that in IR I would remind you that were only earning approximately 20 basis points of net interest margin on those access deposits so that impact I would expect to be manageable and probably more than offset by the favorable impact of an increase in short-term market interest rates.
And of course longer term Jeffery thats also helpful  some shrinkage in the excess deposit is also helpful in terms of managing our capital ratio.
So again net-net I would view that as a positive impact if that happens in 2015.
I think there  its an insightful question because youve heard from the Fed  I think they signaled pretty clearly that it could be different this time around with regards to using other tools other than just rate tightening paying more in excess deposits using repo.
I mean I think Mikes right which is  as rates go up funds will find better uses for their excess deposits than State Street.
On the other hand there is a point at which if the Fed increases the rate that they pay in excess deposits it will depend on where overall rates are that could be a real positive for us if given the excess deposits were holding if the rates go up on that.
And then how does those deposits are actually seeing impact on LCR is there any impact or is it just a wash because you lose the high liquid assets or those deposits are assumed to go out anyway under the LCR calculation? Yes we would expect that to be a wash Jeffery because as you said the excess deposits are assumed to run-off at 100% in the calculation.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America.
Hi thanks a lot.
You mentioned some costs associated with installing net new business in 3Q and Im just wondering is that more than normal and why you would call that out.
And I guess bigger picture question is do some types of wins like alternatives require more upfront costs than others and what is your mix shift mean for your upfront costs of installation? I think to the first question Cynthia we always call it out I think the nature of  I think what Mike was getting at is the nature of when the revenue is driven by service fees it comes with certain amount of cost generally implemented at business but supported on an online basis.
With regard to the amount of upfront cost it really is probably less relevant to  whether its a traditional alternative or a pension fund and more related to the size sophistication or the implementation itself  I would say in a more simplified traditional implementation is called a quarter  a two quarter which is probably 70% of the new business.
This tends not to be an extraordinary upfront  there is some lead expense.
In that 30% where you have large sophisticated multi-jurisdictional implementations DFA comes to mind most recently  there is a little bit more upfront cost which would precede the implementation.
Okay great.
And then more big picture question on regulatory costs.
I think  way back when you guys used to talk about regulatory pressures as also a business opportunity because youre clients are seeing it too and it seems like the commentary has really shifted too.
You guys are getting hit by a lot of regulatory costs but were not hearing so much about whether youre still seeing it as a business opportunity for your clients.
I mean just wondering are you still seeing it as an opportunity or is it the type of regulatory costs that are just really different lawyers [ph] etcetera from the type of services you provide.
Do you still see that as an opportunity? Yes absolutely Cynthia.
And in fact I would summarize that the banks are ahead of the investment managers in the pension funds with regard to what I call a regulatory tsunami thats coming.
But when you look at our investor services business that have requirements for risk management for compliance for reporting for data aggregation it is extreme.
We organize in the last year a new set of activities under what we call global exchange which is designed to focus on that opportunity and its been very active.
Customers in the investment management and the asset owner segment are really struggling with their ability to get their arms around that data that feed compliance regulatory risk management system.
So I would say the opportunity is ever present and its probably bigger prospectively because of this lag effect of banks that are being first through the pipe here.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Hey good morning.
Im just going to dive a little bit more into the custody fees.
I think the sequential improvement was  or is the biggest weve seen since the end of 2012 you highlighted the increased activity levels being about $5 million but the rest seemed to be from new business wins in market.
Can you give us a little bit more  I think here youve highlighted emerging markets as a big driver on the downside in the fee rate it seems like weve got a little bump on the fee rate this quarter.
Is that the biggest delta X  the pickup in volumes or what else is driving that big sequential jump? And I guess Im just trying to get a sense of how we think about momentum into the third quarter.
Sure its Mike.
First yes the single biggest help in that ratio of fees to assets as you correctly concluded was the mix shift change into emerging markets that was particularly helpful to us in the quarter.
Now  again I would emphasize just as we have in prior quarters that we do think that ratio of fees to assets is relatively imprecise nature but to answer your question factually yes that mix shift plus the $5 million sequential improvement in transaction fees was the  what I would particularly highlight there.
Okay thats helpful.
And then maybe just a follow-up on the deposit side I mean I appreciate your comments that most of the deposits is a runoff.
But I think weve said that for four quarters in a row and the average balance sheet is growing every quarter.
So have you guys  is there any insight on whats driving this dramatic  sort of quarter-over-quarter growth that weve seen over the last four quarters.
And whats your conviction level that it does run off and stay off because it seems like were always continuing to raise our balance sheet expectations going forward? First of all Jim we are yet to see a period where market interest rates have increased so we have to test the hypothesis that what happens to these excess deposits if short-term rates rise.
We do have conviction that those deposits will likely find it more economic to find a different home in that environment but until we test that hypothesis with some real data there is not much else we can do to prove it to you.
And as a result the Trust banks continue to be Safe Havens at quarter-end for a number of our clients.
Right fair enough.
And are you assuming  did you disclose that your assumptions are for the remainder of year on your balance sheet side in terms of your NIR forecast? Yes it assumes that the range that I provided in the prepared remarks assumes a flat level with average Q2 levels.
Now again  there is going to be variance around that I dont know whether it will end up being plus or minus but given that we only earn approximately 20 basis points of net interest margins on those excess deposits I dont think that will be a significant overall factor NIR for the full year.
Right okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawkins with UBS.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a quick question on the planned preferred equity capital raise that you guys have mentioned in the past any change to your thinking around that or any clarity on timing? Sure no  the short answer is no change in our thinking around the prefs.
We do believe that ultimately we will issue at least another $500 million of prefs in order to optimize the ratios under the Basel III risk based capital ratios.
So  and in terms of the timing well continue to look at market conditions and a number of other factors at this point I wouldnt have anything else to communicate on when the timing of that ultimate $500 million.
Okay.
And then a quick one I know weve sort of beaten the hell out of this dead horse but I want to give it another shot.
I hear you that the environments been rough and it doesnt exactly bode well as far as the operating leverage but weve been saying that for a while and continuing to wait for the revenue environment to get better can probably feel like were waiting for gondola [ph] here.
So what  do you all have something in mind where there is some sort of line to cross that would get you more aggressive to think about another cost cutting program? How much  how can we think about how much flexibility do you have in your expense base? I mean from the color I would think you really dont have any but sometimes you find when push comes to the show that there is greater flexibility than you had previously thought off.
Is there any way that you can help us think about that? Brennan let me give it a shot.
The  were trying to strike the right balance between investing and in spite of all this pressure that we have we are investing.
If you look at IT as just a proxy for that its been pretty consistent throughout that and we think that this period will at some point change and rates will go up and volatility would change.
In the meantime were trying to scrape along and extract some operating leverage plus still spending for the long-term.
And so there is always expense leverage but were trying not to take away from the future.
So were trying to manage expenses to create operating leverage which is our goal for this year.
And  thats how I respond to that.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Your last question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You guys reported that the pretax operating margin improved in the quarter I think you said to 32%.
On the new business how long does it take for  your new business wins to reach that type of operating margin? It depends Gerard  Id go back to my earlier reference to  lets say two-thirds three quarters of the business is more routine somebody brings up a new fund we convert a small mid-size pension fund for 30 to 90 days.
It doesnt take long in most cases for us to achieve profitability  target profitability you have some preparation at a time but it doesnt take quarters to get to profitability.
In the case of the larger and more complex that might let out a little bit just because of the implementation cost and getting things settled in.
So that will be my response.
Okay.
Mike regarding the LCR in the proposal there is some changes that apparently are coming to the calculation of the LCR.
Have you guys seen or heard of any of those changes and would they benefit you and that your LCR ratio would actually be greater than where you think it is now if those changes actually come to past? Yes Gerard its like  were obviously monitoring that situation very carefully.
I wouldnt anticipate that having a major impact on the comments that I made earlier in terms of the impact but I dont want to try to speculate anymore than that until we see what the final roles are.
Okay.
And then lastly Mike you talked in your prepared remarks about obviously what the ECD did with the interest rates overnight  overnight rate going to a negative number and youre exploring different options now or considering different options as well as monitoring the competitors.
What are some of the options that you guys are considering if that actually becomes more negative or just stays this way for an extended period of time? Gerard this is Jay.
If market rate actually went negative we could charge for deposits and thats not unprecedented weve done that in two European markets over the course of last couple of years.
And  thats one option we could  we minimally have conversation with customers that are leaving deposits and explain that the economic predicament and help them determine whether they want to continue to leave deposits with a cost or find some other economic option to that.
But its not unprecedented we did it in Switzerland and one other market in Denmark over the last couple of years actually charged for deposits.
Great I appreciate the insights.
Thank you.
At this time there are no additional questions.
Ill turn it back over to management for closing remarks.
Thanks Stephanie.
And we would just thank you for your participation today and look forward to talking to you at the end of the third quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to State Street Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without expressed written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed on the State Street's website.
At the end of today's presentation we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to introduce Anthony Ostler Senior Vice President of Investor Relations of State Street.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me on this call is Jay Hooley Chairman and CEO and Mike Bell our Chief Financial Officer.
Now to our agenda.
Jay will discuss the fourth quarter highlight and Mike will discuss our fourth quarter financial results and our 2015 outlook.
Our fourth quarter earnings materials include a slide presentation.
Unless otherwise noted all the financial information discussed on today's webcast will reflect operating basis results.
Please note that the operating basis results are a non-GAAP presentation and this webcast includes other non-GAAP financial information.
Reconciliations of our non-GAAP measures including operating basis results to GAAP basis measures referenced on this webcast and other related materials such as the slide presentation referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Mike Bell will refer to the financial highlights presentation when he provides an overview of our financial results for the fourth quarter of 2014 which he will refer to as 4Q '14 and for the 12 months ended December 31 2014 which he will also refer to as full year 2014.
Unless noted separately Mike will reference only the non-GAAP operating basis results in his comments today.
When reviewing our results to comparisons to prior periods Mike will primarily focus on comparing our 4Q '14 and full year 2014 performance relative to our 4Q '13 and full year 2013performance; unless he otherwise notes that the comparison is sequential from our 3Q '14 results.
Before Jay and Mike begin their discussion of our financial performance and 2015 outlook I'd like to remind you that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in State Street's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K and its subsequent filings with the SEC.
We encourage you to review those filings including the sections on risk factors concerning any forward-looking statements we make today.
Any such forward-looking statements we speak only as of today January 23 2015.
The corporation does not undertake to revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or changes after today.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO Jay Hooley.
Thanks Anthony.
And good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter conference call.
Our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results reflect strength across asset servicing and asset management businesses.
Despite the low interest rate environment in 2014 our revenue experienced solid growth compared to 2013 from both asset servicing and asset management.
As a result operating basis total fee revenue for 2014 exceeded 2013 by 7.4%.
Our focus on developing and delivering solutions to serve client's evolving need continues to position us well against strong global growth trend.
As a result of this we achieve new asset servicing commitment in 2014 of $1.1 trillion including approximately $400 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014.
And net new assets to be managed of $28 billion including $7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014.
We are pleased that we have successfully completed our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program on schedule and at the high end of our guided range.
I want to acknowledge the efforts of the entire State Street team for helping us complete this important initiative.
Going forward managing our expenses and continuing to drive efficiencies across the organization remain a priority despite continued pressure on regulatory costs.
Now I'd like to provide a brief overview of economic and market developments and how our business is affected.
U.S.
equity market end of the fourth quarter on a robust footing.
But that thinly disguise the fact the quarter was characterized by greater uncertainty.
US economic news continues to surprise to the upside but the collapse in commodity prices fuel fears of our growth outside of the U.S.
This prompted significant moves in commodity- linked assets from the currencies of commodity exporters such as the Russian ruble to asset such as high-yield corporate bonds of energy producers here in the United States.
We are only just beginning to observe the economic implications of those commodities swings.
We believe they will exacerbate the downward pressure on already falling global inflation rate and impact expectations of movements in monetary policy.
Long-term bond yields fell considerably to reflect this.
The decrease in long-term bond yield was most notable in the Eurozone.
In September the ECB cut its administered rate to ward-off the risk of deflation.
In light of that decision we began charging clients for euro deposits on December 1st.
However now that lower oil prices have increased the risk of deflation the ECB has finally responded with the full scale quantitative easing of a scale similar to that seen in the U.S.
and the UK.
The Bank of Canada reduces its administered rate by 25 basis points on Wednesday citing the impact of low oil prices on its economy and the outlook translation.
The loonie dropped in reaction to this surprise move.
The bigger surprise was the Swiss national banks last week.
With their removal of the cap on the Swiss Franc and increased the negative rate being charged for deposits.
Our FX business was not impacted adversely by the dramatic move in the Swiss Franc post the announcement.
And all of our businesses have been working with clients as they manage the impact of this market disruption.
While our deposit basis Swiss Franc is much lower than it is for other major currencies we do plan to communicate with clients that deposit pricing may have to be adjusted for Swiss Franc deposits.
The Fed by the forecast of the FOMC members themselves at the December meeting is still projecting a tightening a monetary policy in 2015.
Nevertheless rapidly fall in U.S.
inflation is creating a good deal of market uncertainty as to whether such hikes will actually materialize and has contributed too much lower U.S.
long-term yield.
These lower yields have resulted in the significant increase in mortgage applications in the U.S.
which could result in a spike in mortgage prepayment as homeowners refinance to take advantage of low long-term yields.
Monetary policy is still projected to diverge in 2015 across the G7 but that's now predicated more on continued easing in the Eurozone and Japan.
Together these economic divergences and uncertainties have resulted in a greater fragility in financial market trends in the fourth quarter of 2014 and into the beginning of 2015.
Together these trends impact our business lines in several ways including first global growth downgrades and disinflation risks means the low interest rate environment could be protracted.
This continues to negatively impact our net interest revenue and net interest margin as high yielding investments mature pay down were experienced prepayment and then those funds are reinvested at low yielding investments currently available in the market.
We also continue to experience high levels of deposits.
And for liquidity reasons maintained those as we view as access with central bank.
However in Europe after we began to charge negative rates on certain euro deposits we saw euro deposits run off by an average of US $5 billion from September 30 2014.
Second the uncertainties around certain global economies have caused some flows out of emerging markets towards the end of the fourth quarter.
Emerging market flows would adversely impact our servicing fees.
This was offset by continued volatility and elevated volume and foreign exchange markets in the fourth quarter which positively impacts us our trading servicing revenue.
And finally reduced values in securities market especially equities and the strength in the U.S.
dollar have a direct impact on our investment servicing and asset management businesses.
Later in this call we'll be walking you through our 2015 outlook and our assumptions around equity market and foreign exchange rate.
Our 2015 revenue while look assumes stronger global equity market valuation.
And for the U.S.
dollar do not strengthening any further than it already has in 2015.
Now I'd like to talk about the growth in our asset servicing and asset management business.
Our 2014 new asset servicing wins total over $1.1 trillion including approximately $400 billion in the fourth quarter representing broad participation globally as well as across multiple sectors.
37% of the assets for 2015 were from outside the U.S.
New assets to be serviced that remain to be installed in future period totaled $406 billion at yearend and we continue to see deep and diverse pipelines.
In our asset management business we experienced net inflows of $7 billion for the fourth quarter of 2014.
The flows were driven by net inflows of $36 billion into EPS offset by net outflows of $9 billion in cash funds and $20 billion from institutional funds which was driven primarily led by rebalancing by a client based in Asia Pacific out of fixed income.
Our success in new business commitments across our franchise reflects our efforts to develop client focused solutions through continuous innovation.
Given our client focus and ability to differentiate our offering we expect to build on a new business momentum for 2015 and beyond.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike who will review our financial performance for the quarter as well as our outlook for 20145.
Mike? Thank you Jay.
And good morning everyone.
Before I begin my review of our operating basis results I'd like to comment on two non-operating charges included in our fourth quarter GAAP basis results.
First we recorded an after- tax charge of $40 million or $0.10 a share to increase our legal accrual associated with indirect foreign exchange matters.
This charge pertains to indirect FX matters that we disclosed over the past few years and it reflects our intention to seek resolve some but not all of the outstanding and potential claims arising out of our indirect FX activities.
Our current efforts even if successful will not address all of our potential material legal exposure arising out of these activities.
As I am sure you can appreciate settlement discussions are confidential and we are not able to make more specific comments on these matters at this point.
Second we record an after-tax charge of $27 million or $0.06 a share in restructuring cost related to the completion of the Business Ops and IT Transformation program which we completed this quarter as planned.
Overall we are pleased with the success of this program.
Now please turn to Page 9 of the slide presentation I will provide a brief overview of full year and fourth quarter 2014 operating basis results.
Full year 2014 EPS increased over 12% from the prior year driven by strong fee revenue growth and the continued execution of our common stock repurchase program.
Full year 2014 total fee growth of 7.4% offset a persistent low interest rate environment which negatively impacted net interest revenue.
For full year 2014 in the face of increasing and significant regulatory compliance cost we achieved slightly positive operating leverage.
2014 ROE of 10.9% increased from 10.3% in 2013.
Turning to 4Q '14 results.
EPS increased 19% from 4Q '13 driven by strong fee revenue growth and improved tax rate and a reduction in the number of outstanding shares partially offset by lower net interest revenue and higher expenses.
4Q '14 operating basis effective tax rate of 28.5% decreased from a year ago and from third quarter 2014.
Our 4Q 2014 ROE of 11.6% increased from both fourth quarter of 2013 and third quarter of 2014.
Now turn to Slide 12.
I'll provide additional details on our operating basis revenue 4Q '14 and notable variances to 4Q '13 and 3Q '14.
There were notable items in 4Q '14.
The impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar negatively affected our fee revenue by $37 million when compared to third quarter of '14.
In addition processing fees and other revenue benefited from incremental equity earnings from joint ventures of $11 million and net interest revenue included the benefit of one time accelerated loan prepayment of $9 million.
Importantly fee revenue increased 10.6% from 4Q '13 driven by growth in all fee lines.
Servicing fees were up from 4Q '13 primarily due to net new business and stronger U.S.
equity market partially offset by the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Servicing fees in 4Q '14 were down slightly from 3Q '14 due to the appreciation of the U.S.
dollar which negatively impacted servicing fees by $15 million.
The currency impact was mostly offset by net new business and higher transaction driven revenue.
Asset management fees in 4Q '14 increased from 4Q '13 primarily due to net new business and stronger U.S.
equity markets partially offset by the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Compared to 3Q '14 management fees decreased primarily due to a $5 million impact from the stronger U.S.
dollar lower performance fees and weaker global equity markets.
Total trading service revenue in 4Q '14 increased 24% compared to the year ago quarter primarily reflecting increased foreign exchange revenue driven by higher volatility and volumes.
Securities finance revenue increased approximately 40% compared to 4Q '13 due to higher spreads and volumes and new business and enhanced custody.
Processing fees and other revenue also increased approximately 40% from 4Q '13 primarily due to higher equity earnings from joint ventures and increased revenue associated with tax advantaged investments.
Net interest revenue decreased from 4Q '13 and excluding the one time repayment noted on slide 12 the net interest revenue was approximately flat with 4Q '13 primarily to due lower yields offset by higher interest earnings assets.
Now many of you have had questions regarding the impact of charging negative rates of fees on euro deposit balances.
In December we began to charge negative rates on certain euro balances.
The primary impact of our action has been a decrease of approximately $5 billion in U.S.
dollar equivalent of average euro deposits in fourth quarter relative to 3Q '14.
Moving to Slide 13.
Let's review 4Q '14 operating basis expense.
As you can see on the top of the slide there were some notable expense items affecting 4Q '14 results.
The stronger U.S.
dollar benefited 4Q '14 expenses by $33 million when compared to 3Q '14.
This was more than offset by a combination of elevated securities processing cost of $29 million and $17 million charge related to our withdrawal from the over the counter derivatives clearing and execution activities.
In addition we recorded a $9 million impairment primarily associated with an intangible asset.
4Q '14 compensation and employee benefit expenses of $962 million increased from 4Q '13 primarily due to increased cost to support new business and regulatory compliance initiatives as well as higher incentive comp expense partially offset by the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Information systems and communication expenses increased from a year ago.
4Q '14 information systems and communication expenses included $6 million related to our withdrawal from the over the counter derivatives clearing and execution activities.
Transaction processing expenses were higher than 4Q '13 primarily due to higher servicing volumes.
Occupancy expenses decreased 4Q '13 primarily due to the effect of an $8 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2013 associated with the sublease renegotiation.
Compared to 4Q of 2013 other expenses increased primarily due to higher professional services primarily related to regulatory compliances initiatives.
Cost associated with our withdrawal from the over the counter derivatives clearing and execution activities in the fourth quarter of 2014.
$9 million impairment primarily associated with an intangible asset and $28 million of Lehman Brothers - related gains recoveries recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Compared to 3Q '14 other expenses increased primarily due to higher securities processing cost higher professional service fees primarily related to regulatory compliance initiatives cost associated with our withdrawal from over the counter derivatives clearing and execution activities in fourth quarter of 2014.
And impairment primarily associated with an intangible asset.
Now I'll provide a brief overview our December 31 2014 balance sheet on Slide 14.
Our balance sheet continues to evolve as we respond to regulatory changes including the liquidity rules.
Our estimated liquidity coverage ratio is above a 100% as of yearend of 2014.
The investment portfolio maintained a high credit quality profile and our duration was in line with the prior quarter.
Lastly the after-tax unrealized mark-to-market gain as of December 31 2014 was $487 million which improve from September 30 primarily due to the decline in interest rate partially offset by wider credit spreads.
Now turn to Slide 15 to review our capital position.
As you can see our capital position is strong.
Its strength has enabled us to accomplish a top priority of returning value to shareholders through dividends and common stock repurchases.
As of yearend 2014 our holding company common equity Tier 1 ratio under the current Basel III advanced approach was 12.5%.
Under the Basel III standardize approach which will go into effect in reporting period beginning in 2015; our holding company estimated pro forma common equity Tier 1 ratio was approximately 10.8%.
Under the fully phased in advanced and standardized approaches our estimated pro forma common equity Tier 1 ratios were approximately 11.6% and 10% respectively.
We estimate that our supplementary leveraged ratios under our interpretation of the final U.S.
rules are approximately 5.7% of the holding company and approximately 5.1% of the bank as of yearend 2014.
Based on our estimate of the pro forma fully phased in supplementary leverage ratios as of yearend 2014 they were approximately 5.2% for the holding company and approximately 4.8% for the bank.
We are comfortable we have the levers that will enable us to be in compliance with requirements in advanced of the 2018 effective date.
On December 9 the Federal Reserve released a notice of proposed rule making to establish capital surcharges for U.S.
globally systematically important banks.
Our prior proposed surcharge of 1% may increase under the Federal Reserve proposal to 1.5%.
This will depend upon the final rules particularly the treatment of non operational deposits.
Returning capital to shareholders continues to be a top priority.
During 4Q '14 we repurchased approximately 5.6 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of approximately $410 million resulting in average fully diluted common shares outstanding of approximately $424 million this quarter.
As of December 31 2014 we had approximately $470 million remaining on our current common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchases up to $1.7 billion of our common stock through March 31 2015.
So to summarize our 2014 operating basis financial performance we are pleased with the fee revenue growth of 7.4% and proud of our EPS growth of 12%.
Now let's turn to our outlook for 2015 on Slide 17 through 20.
We plan to continue to focus on key priorities of delivering value added solutions to our clients investing in growth initiatives diligently managing expenses and returning capital to shareholders.
Beginning with revenue outlook we currently expect total operating basis fee revenue to increase 4% to 7% compared to full year 2014 as shown on slide 17.
Our fee growth expectations are depended upon a number of assumptions including those for equity markets and foreign exchange rates which are summarized on slide 17.
I would note that we project that the stronger U.S.
dollar would reduce operating basis to 2015 fee revenue by approximately $200 million assuming constant currency rate relative to 2014.
This $200 million headwind is built in to our 4% to 7% operating basis fee growth forecast.
We further expect that the stronger U.S.
dollar would provide an operating basis expense benefit that is only modestly less than the detriment to fee revenue using the same constant currency rate assumptions relative to 2014.
As a result we believe we largely have a natural currency hedge relative to fee revenue.
We expect our operating basis tax rate to increase to 30% to 32% in 2015 as compared to 29% in 2014 due both to the non recurrence of certain tax savings realized in 2014 and to an increase in state and local taxes.
Slide 18 summarizes two scenarios for our 2015 net interest revenue which we expect to be pressured in 2015 from the persistent low interest rate environment and reinvestment of the investment portfolio in the high quality liquid assets to meet the new liquidity requirements.
The first scenario assumes interest rate remain static with 2014 yearend levels.
Under this scenario we expect operating basis net interest revenue for 2015 to be in the range of $2.07 billion to $2.17 billion.
The second scenario assumes administered interest rate will increase in 25 basis point increment per quarter beginning in August of 2015 for the UK and a single increase in December for the U.S.
Under this scenario we expect short - term market interest rate to increase and advance of the increase in administered rate.
We estimate that operating basis 2015 net interest revenue in this scenario to be in the range of $2.15 billion to $2.25 billion.
Since there is significant uncertainty to the amount and timing of interest rate increase we believe both of these scenarios are relevant to consider.
Now moving to Slide 19.
Expense management remains a priority; while there continues to be upward pressure on regulatory compliance costs our focus in 2015 will be on prudently managing expenses and driving further efficiencies expanding our capabilities to meet increasing regulatory expectations supporting new business growth including higher information technology costs and continuing to fund growth initiatives.
In this context and based on our current assumptions noted on the slide we are targeting for our operating-basis total fee revenue growth to outpace our operating-basis expense growth by at least 200 basis points for the full year 2015 relative to 2014.
I'd note that this assumes that we achieve our operating basis total fee revenue growth objective of 4% to 7% in 2015.
Although positive operating leverage remains a long-term goal; our near-term ability to achieve is likely predicated on higher market interest rates for a significant portion of 2015.
An additional point that is important to note is in prior years the first quarter of 2015 compensation and employee benefits expense will be higher due to the effect of the accounting treatment of equity compensation for retirement -eligible employees as well as for payroll taxes.
We expect the incremental amount attributed to equity compensation for retirement-eligible employees and payroll taxes in the first quarter of 2015 to be in the range of approximately $140 million to $150 million this compares to $146 million in first quarter of 2014.
Now turning to Slide 20 I'd note that returning capital to shareholders remains a higher priority.
We issued $750 million of preferred shares in 4Q '14 bringing our total preferred outstanding to approximately $2 billion.
Based upon preferred shares currently outstanding we expect total preferred dividend cost to be approximately $31 million in first quarter of 2015 and $118 million for the full year 2015.
Finally the evolution of our balance sheet and of regulatory capital and liquidity expectations may lead to additional issuances of preferred shares of approximately $750 million in 2015.
We may also issue additional long-term debt.
And with that I'll turn the call back to Jay.
Thanks Mike.
Stephanie we are now open to responding call.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Thanks good morning.
Mike in your fee revenue growth outlook I just wanted to ask you to kind of flesh out more; are you expecting -- which business do you expect to drive the incremental growth? And what is the real delta between the bottom and the top end as far as what goes poorly or what goes better at the low and high end? Ken sure in terms of the 4% to 7% our fee revenue growth that we expect in 2015 versus 2014.
First I'll just repeat what I said in the prepared remarks Ken that does include a $200 million headwind from the stronger U.S.
dollar.
So that is built into the 4% to 7% otherwise would be roughly 2.5 points higher than 4% to 7% range.
So on a constant currency basis think of it as you call it 6.5% to 9.5% but we think again the U.S.
dollar shrinking is a real headwind.
In terms of what we expect to drive that I'd really characterize it as continued strength in each of our main fee revenue categories for 2015.
And specifically we are pleased with the net new business that we got in particularly in our global services business we would expect that to continue and actually increase in 2015 relatively to what we saw in 2014.
We expect continued growth in our management fees.
And we are pleased with the uptick in the Sec [ph] finance revenue in Q4 and also the FX revenue in Q4.
And while I wouldn't characterize as the new run rate going forward I do think on a full year basis 2015 to 2014 we will continue to see good growth in both of those businesses.
Lastly to your question on the magnitude of the range and how to think about it.
I think Ken the major wild cards to me number one would be again the market driven revenues.
FX volatility -- pardon the pun but FX volatility was quite volatile throughout 2014 and I think it's anybody's guess.
So I'd characterize the low end of the range as being a returned or weaker volatility than what we saw in the second half of the year.
Sec [ph] finance will please with the strengthening in those revenues in the second half of the year.
M&amp;A environment help with that.
The enhanced custody revenue continues to be strong that was helpful.
But again we saw in the first half of the year sec [ph] lending on the agency side seeing very narrow spreads and certainly that could revert.
Lastly there is an overall question of client flows.
We benefited in 2014 as Jay has talked about several times.
We've benefited from strong flows in 2014.
I'd characterize the upper end of that range is being continued strength there and the lower end a possibly some softening there.
Let me see if Jay wants to add or add to those comments.
Yes.
The only thing I'd probably pile on Ken would be that I noted that we have $406 billion and committed yet to be installed pipeline in the asset servicing business.
And I'd say broadly the pipeline they are as good as they looked in several quarters.
So I'd add that to the input.
Okay.
My second question on capital you mentioned the extra $750 million potential.
Basel III Tier 1 common has also kind of dripped back down to 10 [ph] so can you talk to us about what drives the decision tree on the potential to issue that extra $750 million? And also if any of that also informs any differing view on how you think about your capital return ask? Sure Ken.
It is my -- first on the pref the main couple things driving the likelihood of the additional pref issuance in 2015 would be number one additional clarity that at least for the foreseeable future.
The SLR particularly the 6% SLR at the bank is likely to be our binding constraint.
Again I would characterize that is likely to be our binding constraint for a while.
And therefore it is more economical to meet that binding constraint with pref as opposed to common just given the relative cost to capital of common versus call it 6% for -- and after tax basis for after pref so that's number one.
Number two we've seen an increase in deposit levels particularly non operational deposits throughout 2014.
Again with that occurring in 2014 we view it as more economical to meet the required capital associated with that deposit growth with pref as opposed to common.
Is it relates to the risk based ratios since we turn around and place excess deposit with the central banks that does not increase our risk weighted assets and therefore that does not had an impact on the risk based ratios and therefore I'd again just reinforce that we think the SLR is likely going to be the binding constraint for a while.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexander Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Good morning guys.
So my question on the operating leverages.
I guess in the outlook slide you guys have kind of outlined core fee growth versus core expenses which I think your competitors are kind of migrating towards that sort of metric as well.
But when we think about the operating leverage for the entire enterprise from your comments it sounds like unless rates go up in the middle of the year it is unlikely that you guys will achieve material operating leverage in 2015.
So I just want to make sure I understand that.
And then I have a follow-up.
Yes Alex I would say that what we shared with you at your encouragement is our best thinking as we sit here today around 2015 outlook.
And when you look at some of my comments what shifted in the last 90 days with regard to the general economic outlook and the likelihood that maybe the Fed delays tightening we want to put out there they are two different scenarios.
And Mike can comment at it if he like.
We set every year as a goal operating leverage.
We will continue to do that.
And we will strive to achieve that.
What we are signaling is that if in fact a rate stays stagnant it is going to put a lot of pressure on our ability to achieve operating leverage.
So -- Mike you want to say -- Yes.
Alex the only thing I would add.
I think there is arguably more uncertainty around the NIR outlook for full year 2015 than there has been for a quite while.
I mean it's not loss on any of us just how soft a situation is in Europe.
And while we are encouraged by number of the public comments coming out of the Fed on the possibility of increases in administrative rates in the U.S.
Just given that relative divergence we thought it made more sense to put out the two different scenarios.
And that way again depending upon on your own view of the world you can model it the way you see fit.
Second I'd just emphasis Alex that obviously the piece that we can control the most is our expense growth relative to our fee revenue growth.
And we feel like that's going to be a good story for 2015.
As we talked about we expect to get at least 200 basis point delta between our fee revenue growth and our overall expense growth for 2015.
And that's the piece that we feel like we have the most control over.
So in terms of the fundamentals on what we have the most control over we feel good about the outlook.
Obviously we are recognizing uncertainty on the NIR.
Got it.
That is helpful way to doing it.
Second question just on FX and thank you guys for the comments around just this activity on the revenues front but as you pointed out there is obviously an offset around expenses.
So yes it is a big $200 million of drag on fees but you guys should get some help from expenses.
Can you help us understand when we think again about the enterprise as a whole from a pretax earnings or a net income perspective what is the sensitivity of State Street's model today relative to -- in an environment where the US dollar continues to strengthen? If euro/dollar goes to parity what is the pre-tax hit that we should think or is it not a very meaningful number because of that natural hedge in the model? Yes Alex it is Mike.
The shorting answer is it is not a material and the grand scheme of State Street impact on our overall EPS.
I mean there is modest impact of course because the fee revenue is slightly impacted more than the overall expense level.
There is also some collateral impact on our net interest revenue.
But again in the grand scheme of things that's not the risk that I'd point out is being the top five or top ten list.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
I appreciate the rising rate scenario and obviously when you compare it to the static it doesn't have a huge impact because of the timing of your rate hikes.
If you follow on the forward curve even if it is just ballpark can you talk about maybe a full-year type impact? Like I f2016 what kind of delta could we be looking at on an operating basis NIR? Sure Glenn it's Mike.
First as you can imagine there will be a lot of different factors that would impact 2016.
So I would characterize my comments as a directional as opposed to precise.
But I think it is -- I think your comment is fair one which since the rising interest rate scenario mainly gives us the benefit in the second half of the year.
You could think of the delta between the static and the rising interest rate scenario is being roughly twice that delta in 2016 versus 2015.
Now again importantly there are so many different factors that would go into 2016.
I mean what are -- where our deposit levels how is the evolution of liquidity expectations taken place the possible divergence between Europe and the U.S.
so I mean there are 100 different caveats I could give you there.
But I think you are thinking about in the right ballpark is kind of half the year impact in 2015 and that would then widen obviously with a even greater impact in 2016.
Yes.
I appreciate that.
I'm trying to balance that all with the increased debt issuance too.
Okay.
The question specifically on regulatory cost because you noted there continues to be upward pressures there.
I am curious on what is driving that and I am reading into that line that it says the dollars would be up in 2015 from 2014 which was up from 2013.
I want to make sure I'm reading that right.
And just literally what drives it what is left to do? Sure Glenn.
First of all you are reading it right.
We do expect 2015 regulatory cost to be higher than 2014 and 2014 was certainly higher than 2013.
I would not point Glenn to a single area and say it is this area that's driving the higher regulatory cost.
It really is the culmination of ratcheting expectations by regulators really across the globe on a higher expectation particularly for GSIBs in terms of regulatory compliance.
And in many cases it is not just literal compliance with a literal rules.
It is all of qualitative aspects of our management processes that end up getting evaluated by the various exams and various standards that were subject to.
Let me see if Jay wants to add anything.
Yes.
The only thing I would add I agree with that Glenn.
The only I add is that if you look at any one of these processes so take CCAR for instance 2013 versus 2014 submission significant increase in our expectation.
And the point I was going to add is that knowing or believing that this is a long-term gain part of the investment that's going into this is to structurally change the way we are aggregating data so that not unlike our IT and Op Transformation program we are looking at long -term regulation and compliance need to be best in class it must stand point of the results that we deliver but the way we collect data and deliver that information.
So there is a pretty high effort going into creating internal data model so that we can quickly aggregate and bring together information not only for today's expectations but for tomorrows as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashley Serrao with Credit Suisse.
Good morning guys.
So when you look at the NIR delta between the static and rising rate scenario that you painted can you help us just bifurcate the upside there between the rise in the UK? Was it the US rates just given that they are happening at different times? Sure Ashley it's Mike.
We would anticipate that the rise in the Bank of England rates and the associated market increase -- market interest rate increase in interest rates from that would be round numbers worth about $20 million to $25 million US in full year 2015 versus full year 2014.
And the way you might want to think about that is think about it is we have approximately $12 billion of US dollar equivalent deposits in the UK and we beginning a little more than half a year in terms of the impact on market interest rates and the basis point increase would be a little more than 25 because we get a little bit of an additional benefit from the second 25 increase.
So that's the background of the arithmetic behind that number.
And then the Fed fund increase would be approximately the remainders.
So think of it is again round numbers Ashley of approximately $60 million of benefit from market interest rates rising modestly in advance of that Fed fund increase.
Okay.
Appreciate you guys having just a lot of challenges out there from the regulatory environment and environmental as well.
Should this environment persist or deteriorate further is there anything else that you could do on the expense side to help mitigate the situation? Yes I would say this is Jay Ashley; I would say two things because we think the regulatory requirements will continue to grow.
So the two things that we are consciously doing one I already mentioned which is to replace the labor with technology like we would in any of our operating businesses and do better job at gathering information.
And the second which we did in 2014 we will continue to do in 2015 is to replace external consultant dollars which come at a premium with internal staff.
We are also doing some of these work in lower cost environment so all of the techniques should expect to do the work at a high level but do it more sufficiently we are putting into place with regard to all of the regulatory initiatives.
Your next question comes from the line of Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein Research.
Good morning thanks.
So in your guidance you are forecasting the EUR1.16 to US dollar by the year end of 2015.
I think we are already at EUR1.12 and possibly headed lower.
So perhaps you could discuss how important that exchange rate assumption is to your NIR guidance and then whether today's exchange rate would represent a material change in that expectation.
I think I heard you downplay the risk factor in a prior response but maybe you could be a little bit more explicit.
Sure Luke it is Mike.
First of all rule of thumb that I use around the euros specifically is it a 1% swing in the euro relative to the US dollar is worth approximately $10 million of annual fee revenue and a shade less than that.
So call it $9.5 million of impact on full year expenses.
And that's for the entire State Street enterprise.
The NIR impact would be a fraction of that.
So as I said there are some very very modest headwinds associated with the euro continuing to weaken on NIR but that is built into the range that I provided in the prepared remarks.
Okay helpful thanks.
And then I wonder if you guys could talk us through the decision to shut down the swaps clearing business.
I think the plan is to focus on futures clearing although I think some would argue that you really don't have scale there either and you lost Pimco which was your biggest client.
So how are you gauging your prospects in the futures business? And then if you could speak to how these developments affect your ability or your appetite to offer collateral management and collateral transformation.
Sure Luke.
Let me take that and this is Jay.
You are right in that I think we began this journey thinking that both OTC and futures clearing are both attractive inter opportunities given the clearing requirement that were imposed by regulators.
As it turns out what we are hearing from our customers is there is more of calling for future's clearing versus over the counter clearing so we had taken a first steps in that journey and concluded that we were better serve to follow the futures clearing path.
We think we have a very competitive offering.
We've got good volumes through our futures clearing merchant and we are optimistic that's a good additional product for us going forward.
With regard to collateral management.
We've spoken before we think that's nice additional service.
I don't see it as having huge upside revenue potential but the need to optimize and manage collateral is ever present in the activities that we conduct for our customers.
So we have the series of collateral management services that we offer to our customers and get good take up.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning thanks.
Just in looking at the 2015 outlook if I am getting this right if we look at the middle of that fee range so call it 5.5% growth and assume about 3.5% growth in operating expenses.
If we take the static NIR range and then considering the tax rate and obviously share buyback to me that comes to around a flattish EPS result for 2015 using those assumptions.
Just wanted to check if I'm doing that right by your math.
Yes Brian I mean roundly -- there is obviously there are number of different assumptions built in there.
I think roundly your arithmetic is in the ballpark I think importantly number one we do believe we are going to achieve at least 200 basis points of daylight between fee growth and the expense growth and again you took obviously the 200 basis points and we think there is a reasonable chance to get some help from market interests and obviously you took the static interest rate scenario.
So I am not disagreeing with your arithmetic.
But the -- just recognize the implicit judgments that you are making there.
Yes so some upside if those are a little better okay.
Then just clarification.
I think I missed the revenue impact on the fee line that you cited Mike.
And then were there any fees from euro deposit charges or any bank charges that you passed along baked into the servicing fees and or do you expect those charges to come to the servicing fees in 2015 or through NIR? Sure.
So Brian in terms of the impact of the stronger US dollar what I said in my prepared remarks is that the currency assumptions noted on the slide would negatively impact fee revenue in 2015 full year by approximately $200 million.
That would be almost entirely offset by a same kind of reduction on the expenses.
So that it would have a relatively immaterial impact on overall earnings for the full year.
But think of it is again 10% shrinking in the US dollar costing us $200 billion of reported fee revenue growth for the full year.
In terms of the negative interest rates in Europe we did collect some small approximately US $3 million in Q4 from the negative interest rates that we are charging on euro deposits in Q4.
We have assumed that that will continue at least at that level into full year 2015 reflecting the fact that the ECB rate obviously is negative the Swiss bank rate is now even more negative and so again we are making the assumption that we will continue to charge for euro deposits as long as that situation is evident.
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning guys.
So I understand that the rules are preliminary and somewhat fluid but at this point do you have an estimate for what proportion of your deposit base would be considered non-operating? At this point you are absolutely right.
It is a fluid situation Brenn we do estimate that our excess deposits on average for Q4 2014 were $52 billion but as you correctly noted the ultimate calculation the ultimate standards that are used to determine exactly what's an operational deposit versus a non operational deposit that work is still in progress.
But for right now you feel confident that the way you view excess is in line with your understanding of the non-operating definition? That's correct.
Cool.
Okay thanks.
And just want to follow up on what Alex and Ashley both hit on.
It is certainly helpful to hear that you might moderate regulatory expenses with tech and such but the environment -- it is certainly nothing new that the environment has been difficult and it has been brutal for like five years for pretty much all financial services firms.
So it is not like it is episodic to State Street but it seems like the message is that you all are waiting for it to get better rather than proactively dealing with it.
And I guess I hear that frustration from investors.
I am curious how you would counter that and what will it take for you guys to start to get maybe a bit more proactive on managing the expense front; not just for the regulatory pressures but also for the environmental ones.
I would say on a regulatory one I think we are doing I think we are being proactive.
And proactive means not just responding to the need but looking at over the horizon to see what's coming next to making sure we can hardened an infrastructure to do this more efficiently than anyone else going forward.
And I don't have perfect visibility to what others are doing but we are taking a longer view of this.
And building sustainable infrastructure but very proactive.
Okay.
And maybe on the environmental front what do you guys think there? I get it that it is really difficult and it is hard to try to figure out how long this is going to last but is there a point at which we start seeing you maybe take some hacks at the expense base or start to tactically start to think about how you want to reposition the business? Yes.
Let me -- the environmental front just to make sure we get the -- we are talking about the same environment.
I think we've been we've talked a lot about the rate environment and its effect on net interest revenue.
We try to give you the little bit of the book and thinking on possible outcomes for 2015.
We commented on 2016 as well.
Environmentally given this divergence of macro economic trends actually that's a little bit more positive for the market driven revenues and you saw some of that in the fourth quarter and our expectation for 2015 is that continues to get better.
With regard to expenses as we mentioned the IT and Ops Transformation program wound down as we concluded 2014 but we have several efforts underway which pick up on the core themes of IT and Ops Transformation and that is to increasingly drive efficiencies through operational processes through doing work in lower cost environment.
And Mike referenced some investment in technology.
We continue to employ technology to replace human labor.
So even though the program officially ended in 2014 our jest to continue to get more efficient has not subsided.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi two follow-ups from prior questions.
One Mike I guess you just kind of gave it to us straight so if EPS is flat in a static scenario would that imply something closer to $5.10? Mike first of all I would just emphasize that the -- there are number of different factors that are going to impact EPS not just the net interest revenue and not just the market interest rate.
I would simply making the comment that the arithmetic that we were talking about earlier did take the conservative end of a handful of different assumptions.
So flat EPS year-over-year would certainly not be by best estimate although I would respect you Mike if you pick your own views on both interest rates as well as how much we are going to exceed expense growth with fee revenue growth in 2015.
So I guess slide 18 the main point is that lower rates for a lot longer really hurt your NIR and there is not a whole lot you can do about that so --? Well I mean certainly that's the case Mike.
And we did talk about that in detail at our Investor Day a year ago.
And I am sure we will be talking about it at the upcoming Investor Day.
We talked about if interest rate stayed static that we would expect the net interest margin to continue to grind down a fair amount lower versus where it is today all of those numbers if you recall excluded excess deposits which have grown -- it is a little different issue.
But in terms of what would we do in that kind of environment.
Number one is as we talked about this morning we will look --we will continue to look for even more efficiency opportunities including as Jay talked about earlier looking for opportunities to use IT to replace labor on a number of different fronts.
We think that's good for clients and then good for our shareholders.
And then ultimately if we really believe that interest rates would stay at this level forever particularly given the capital and liquidity rules we have to over time look more holistically at pricing.
And ensure that our client relationships in totality in that kind of environment are enabling add a quick return for our shareholders.
So the idea of the capital for labor swap Jay you've spoken about the movement to the digital enterprise.
Can you talk about this next phase of State Street and the investments that you are making and when you can potentially see some of those payoffs since that would seem to help out expenses over the medium to long term? Yes happy to Mike and when we do have going internally to digital enterprise as a broad based organizational effort to digitize our environment which is I think going to be critical not only to drive efficiency but if I think about some of our most attractive perspective future product sales most likely revolve around our ability to aggregate real time information for our customers for risk management and another services.
So I would put us in a little bit of transitional period between IT and Ops Transformation and the digital enterprise.
And in 2014 and a little bit in 2015 one of the critical elements to getting there being more reliant on technology is to make sure we complete hardened our technology environment internally we use the word building resilient so that it is practically impossible for our technology to go down.
Once we are more of reliant on technology less on labor you can't have technology that fails where if you have higher labor content it is ability to recover so we are investing in that infrastructure but as we get there every process within the organization is getting examined for how we can improve the process itself.
And then how we can apply technology to replace labor.
And I would say that Mike that's not just for the operational area.
If you look at the finance area or just an example on our support group that organization is going through that same thing.
So we don't know what the future hold we don't know when rates will start to rise but we are not waiting for that.
We are anticipating that it is going to be a slow environment for some years to come.
And therefore we are driving efficiencies in every corner of the place.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Beatty with BofA Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
I have two questions about asset management so I guess I will ask them both at once.
The first concerns the fixed income rebalancing that you saw in Asia and just I guess in one sense it's a positive data point for rate rises but just what you are seeing across the complex.
Do you anticipate or see in smaller fashion similar types of activity? And also and maybe more importantly globally do you see different investor behavior across regions maybe based on some of the currency volatility? The other question I had was about more specifically about ETFs -- I see impressive asset growth there -- and where you see opportunities there particularly maybe in the retirement space and 401(k) platforms.
Thank you.
Sure.
Bunch of questions there Adam.
Let me take a swing at it.
You saw -- I gave you a breakdown of our net $7 billon and net new assets under management and highlighted a $20 billion fixed income client that laughed I would say that was certainly one off and we would hope as the client rebalances to pick up something on the equity side in time but there is little transition going on there.
If you look at our asset management business it is anchored in the passive/beta smart beta space not exclusively but primarily and delivered through various vehicles you mentioned ETF.
When we look at where flows are coming from these days.
I think beyond SSGA [ph] you see broadly a broad move into scientific or actively managed funds.
Not just passive but active or passive with an active bend on it some call it smart data that's the term that we use.
We see that as a worldwide phenomenon.
It is happening everywhere.
It is delivered through various vehicles.
We think ETF is a preferred vehicle given a natural efficiency both tax and otherwise if delivering diversified investment.
So we've made a considerable effort into expanding our ETF business not just from the standpoint of product which we do by ourselves and I think we are the only large ETF provider that engages other managers Blackstone the DoubleLine and MFS in an active equity sub advisory relationship.
But we've also built out since as you probably know ETFs are largely bought through intermediaries we built out our wholesaling force in the US and increasingly in Europe on the continent.
So I would say both passive and alternatives are two big themes that we see globally.
And on the alternative side well as an asset manager we don't play that.
We are active they should expect on the asset servicing side for servicing passive both hedge private equity and real estate.
Last point I would make which is more of a servicing comment but it brings an interesting side light is that in the US but trending across the globe these mutual funds that take on alternative element to them with not only service those but that has been big source of our enhanced custody growth.
So I would say broadly passive and alternative and ETF is the preferred vehicle for distribution.
So it sounds like some real synergy between the asset management and the custody? Absolutely.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Wharton with JPMorgan.
Hi guys.
I just had a question on the rate outlook.
You are actually in some ways to me somewhat conservative.
I recognize that the forward curve expectations have shifted outwards so you have this first Fed rate rise starting in December.
But I was just kind of wondering if the Fed has indicated which I know could change that they may move as soon as this summer.
The dot plot keeps moving around of course.
But if for example the Fed moved say sometime in June or July or even in August or September and you ended the year closer to maybe 50 or 75 basis points on the Fed funds rate can you give me a sense of the benefit that might accrue to the NII forecast and the rising rate scenario? Sure.
Steven it is Mike.
I appreciate you are right your comments and I think importantly the answer to your question would be predicated on how quickly do we see the benefit of the market expecting that sooner Fed fund administer great hike how quickly do we see that show up for example in one month and three month LIBOR.
So it is caveated on that.
Historically we've seen one month and three month LIBOR increase in advance of the administered great as the market starts to price that in.
But that's really the heavy dependency.
I would characterize it is as round numbers think of it as approximately $60 million of potential benefit in 2015.
If in fact we got a mid year kind of increase rather than the December that we had expected again as long as-- I mean that would really suggest that we would be seeing probably as early as March or certainly by April the increase in the LIBOR rate.
So that's the dependency.
So the $60 million would be -- is that per 25 basis points or is that in aggregate? Well I was just trying to answer your question in aggregate which I heard it as if we would get in the first Fed fund increase at mid year then we get a second increase in Q4 what do I think the overall impact would that be on NIR for full year 2015 relative to the expectations that we share with you on the slide.
Okay.
So that basically implies roughly two rates rise with a little bit of market rate impact ahead of it? Correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Kleinhanzl with KBW.
Hi thanks.
I had a quick question on the potential long-term debt issuance in 2015.
Looking right now you have about $10 billion of long-term debt on the balance sheet and I am assuming that is being done in preparation for TLAC or NSFR.
Can you give us a sense of how much that could grow? Are you looking at it as a percentage of RWA or how much are you going to add potentially in 2015? Sure Brian.
It's Mike.
Yes there is uncertainty around where TLAC is going specifically what kind of proposed rule will the Fed issue around TLAC.
And that was really the main driver of the comment that I was making.
So at this point I would not try to size it.
Obviously as we know more we will communicate more -- at this point I wouldn't try to size the potential issue and some long-term debt size I just think there are too many uncertainties in terms of where those rules are ultimately going to go.
You mean that you won't issue until you see the rules; is that the way to interpret that? Well I just think there are number of difference considerations on whether we would issue or not in 2015 not the least that which would market condition so I'd rather not try to give you a specific forecast on long-term debt.
But I was acknowledging the point that you made which is accurate that if TLAC came out from the Fed and particularly if it was more conservative than then Basel rule that might encourage us to do more rather less in 2015.
Okay.
Then just my second question was on the preferred issuance.
It sounded like there was some optionality in that as well meaning it is not included within your CCAR plans so you are not required to issue it.
So is there a scenario where you could see yourself not having to issue preferred? I'd obviously prefer not to talk about CCAR submission at this point.
Is there a scenario that I could imagine where we didn't issue the $750 million of additional preferred? Sure but I think that it is unlikely.
I think it is more likely than not that we will issue the additional $750 million.
Again timing to be determined but I think it is more likely than not.
Your next question comes from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Hey good morning.
Mike can you just help us understand given that you are assuming a flat rate environment flat balance sheet what are the drivers of the $100 million variance in the NII? And then secondarily if we are assuming a flat rate environment as we have seen over the past couple years you have had pretty steady strong deposit growth.
Is there a reason why we wouldn't or shouldn't assume more deposit growth in 2015 if we have a flat rate environment? Sure Jim.
First in terms of the NII forecast for 2015 when you talk about the $100 million you are talking about the difference between 2014 actual and the mid -- Oh no I'm sorry.
The range between the low end and the high end sorry.
I understand thank you.
Well first of all it actually links to your deposit growth point.
It is not lost on us that particularly we've seen substantial deposit growth over the course of 2014.
Unfortunately mainly that has been in the category of excess deposits which means that we've turned around and put that deposit growth with the central banks and earned a very very small interest margin on that.
And so deposit growth would be an example of uncertainty in our forecast for 2015 hence the other wide range.
I'd also add to the point that we may see this divergence in 2015 by geography.
So that was the thinking that was a part of that that range as well.
They will be mixes in the change of -- in our portfolio and again there are just so many different moving parts here Jim that I thought particularly given that we are so early in the year that kind of width of range makes sense.
And then your question on the deposit growth.
Given the pressure that the growth particularly in excess deposits puts on our capital ratios and therefore would potentially put on the need to issue additional pref longer term I would hope that we would not have and we would expect that we would not have the kind of growth in excess deposits over the course of 2015 that we had over 2014.
I think net-net that would be a negative because again even if it evolves those excess deposit came in the US they get placed with the central bank here currently earnings 25 basis points that's not helpful economically with today's interest rate environment and with today's capital liquidity rules.
No fair.
So just to follow-up on your discussion there the range is sort of dependent on deposit level.
So is the upper end of the range assuming some deposit growth or you mean it is flat and the low end of the range is assuming some deposit runoff? Yes obviously Jim there are a lot of different factors that the deposit would be a piece of it.
But I just think again where our spread going to go in 2015 what kind of portfolio opportunities do we have in 2015 how do the rules get and answer to one of the earlier question I think it was Brennan's that -- where is the final interpretation of the operational deposit rules for LCR come out there are just a lot of different uncertainties that could push at either or up down.
Fair enough.
And just one last question just on the prior discussion you have had a couple of times around at the low end that implies flat earnings.
Was that discussion and maybe I missed it reflecting or contemplating lower share count from the buyback or not when you think about flat earnings at the low end? Yes.
I'd rather not get into share count and forecast just given that that would imply certain things about CCAR but I would just simply try to point out that the our view is that we are going to have EPS growth in 2015.
We obviously recognized the risk factors and we try to be very transparent about the pluses and minuses.
I think most importantly I think the things that we can most control we feel good about what we are going to execute on for 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
Good morning.
If I think about capital ratios declining a little bit the GSIB surcharge potentially stepping up from 100 basis points to 150 basis points then just conceptually how do you think about the right proportion of earnings that you should be returning to shareholders? Not so much thinking about this year but just going forward given that there is some growth in the business how long can you keep giving everything back before you have to start retaining something? Sure Geoff it is Mike.
First I think they are really two different questions embedded in your question there.
One is the GSIB buffer.
I would emphasize that my comment on it it potentially increasing is based upon our interpretation of the Fed's proposed rule and in particular that our non operational deposits get picked up on to our interpretation our non operational deposits get picked up in what they are characterizing as short -term wholesale funding despite the fact that those dollars are literally placed with the central bank which we view as the epitome of a risk free transaction.
And we view it as the antithesis of a hot money kind of risk.
So GSIB buffer we will certainly put in the common letter and we would hope that reason would ultimately prevail there.
So I think it's way too early to attribute a change in philosophy or anything a change in game plan related to that.
I think your question on-- more importantly which we will talk about some more at our Investor Day in February is our longer-term plans around capital management.
And in a nutshell Geoff our game plan has not changed there which is that we would expect to return -- if you think about our overall ROE we would expect to payout a portion of that in common stock dividends a portion of it would need to be retained to fund a growing balance sheet over time but that again assuming that we limit the growth in the required capital from a growing balance sheet to small single digit number so that provides ample opportunity over the long haul for share repurchase and using that as a vehicle to return capital to shareholders.
We have time for one final question.
Your final question comes from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
You mentioned that with the negative deposit rates at the European Central Bank and other central banks customers are starting to pull out some deposits.
Others are paying those fees.
Can you guys give us some color on the sensitivity analyses you might be doing; if those numbers become more negative at the central banks how many more customers may decide to leave rather than paying the fees? And then would you shrink the balance sheet accordingly? And as part of that I heard in response to some answers about the amount of fees you received in the fourth quarter was $3 million.
And I didn't know if that was just for the month of December which Jay you mentioned that is when you started to charge and then Mike you said that was for the full fourth quarter.
So is it a $9 million run rate or is it just $3 million? Gerard let me start that one and Mike can jump in maybe on the $3 million question.
It is probably too early to tell as to what the sensitivity at what price balances find different homes.
But as you rightly point out it is -- to me one of the most important elements of what we are doing by charging for euro deposits is trying to determine or establish at what price deposit stay versus go.
And if you carry that forward that would be a pretty powerful weapon for us with regard to having some control is probably a too stronger word but some ability to influence excess deposit which obviously have big consequences for the capital that we hold.
So early days we've only been added for a couple of months but we are spending a lot of time at the individual client level trying to understand deposit behavior trying to understand what alternatives there are and what point a price causes somebody to move because we think it has pretty important implications far beyond charging for euro deposits.
And Gerard it is Mike just to add on your question on the timing.
So we did start charging for deposits in December.
So the $3 million all came in December it was reported in net interest revenue at this point and so again think of it as on approximately $30 billion 15 basis points on an annual basis one month worth is the $3 million.
Great.
Then as a follow-up question can you give us some color on the loan portfolio? Obviously on an average basis it is almost $18 billion; that is up nicely from the beginning of the year.
The color I am interested in are there any big energy credits in there? Are you part of any syndicates that you have energy exposure in that portfolio? The short answer is no Gerard.
I would now like to turn it back over to management for closing remarks.
Thanks Stephanie.
I'll be brief.
Thanks for your attention and questions this morning.
Hopefully we look forward to seeing all of you on February 25 in New York City.
We will be in a position to talk a little bit more about our long-term strategy and I am sure we revisit 2015 outlook as well.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
And you may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call and webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without the express written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed on the State Street's website.
Now I would like to introduce Anthony Ostler Senior Vice President of Investor Relations of State Street.
Thank you Brandy.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for joining us.
On our call today are CEO Jay Hooley wholl speak first then Mike Bell our CFO will take you through our first quarter 2015 earnings slide presentation which is available to download in the investor relation section of our website at www.statestreet.com.
Afterwards well be happy to take questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that todays presentation will include operating basis and other measures presented on a non-GAAP basis.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP or regulatory measure are available in the appendix to our first quarter slide presentation.
Todays presentation will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those statements due to a variety of important factors such as those factors referenced in our discussion today in our first quarter slide presentation under the heading forward-looking statements and in our SEC filings including the risk factor section of our 2014 Form 10 (k).
Our forward-looking statements speak only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update them even if our views change.
Now let me turn it over to Jay.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Im pleased with our first quarter 2015 results which reflect strong fee revenue growth over first quarter 2014 continued momentum of our core business and our focus on managing expenses.
We continue to prioritize returning capital to our shareholders.
During the first quarter of 2015 we completed the final phase of our $1.7 billion common stock purchase program announced in March of 2014 with the purchase of 6.3 million of our common stock.
In addition our board of directors approved $1.8 billion common stock purchase program following the Federal Reserve boards 2015 CCAR process.
Our 2015 capital plan also includes a proposed increase on our quarterly common stock dividend to $0.34 per share starting in the second quarter of 2015 which our board will consider in May.
Now I would like to provide a brief overview of economic and market developments and how our business was affected.
The first quarter was characterized by further monetary policy easing in several jurisdictions outside the US.
Some of the moves were anticipated but a few were not.
Not only have these policy changes tended to support global equity markets they have also contributed to higher volatility particularly in the fixed income and foreign exchange markets.
Recent weekly US economic data and Federal Reserve board members public commentary have brought into question expectations for the timing and pace of interest rate increases in the US later this year.
However the wave of global monetary easing by major central banks outside of the US has reinforced the trend of diverging monetary policies and continues to fuel the broad appreciation of the US dollar.
Combined with ongoing political uncertainties across Europe managed as well as floating exchange rates are being significantly pressured.
Both the Russian and Brazilian Central Banks abandoned their intervention programs while the Swiss National Bank abandoned its cap on the Swiss Franc Euro rate and moved interest rates deeper into negative territory.
In addition the Central Banks in Australia and Canada also reduced interest rates to help their economies absorb lower commodity prices.
These actions spurred an increase in FX volatility.
Monetary policy easing also impacted the fixed income markets in the first quarter.
The ECBs announced an expanded asset purchase program was larger and longer lasting than anticipated.
Combined with the Swiss National Banks moves a significant and growing share of European sovereign bonds now have negative yields which in turn is helping suppress yields around the globe.
Together these trends impact our business in several meaningful ways.
First and most significantly the low interest rate environment continues to negatively impact our net interest revenue and net interest margin as our higher yielding portfolio investments mature or experience pre-payments and then those funds are reinvested in lower yielding investments.
Also amidst the various Central Bank actions and changes to various market structures we continue to experience high levels of deposits.
As you know we recently imposed charges for holding Euro deposits which compensates us for the use of our balance sheet in a negative rate environment.
We have also began a comprehensive program to further reduce our excess deposits given the negative effect of these deposits on our capital ratios to better align our and customers interests in the management of our level of deposits given the new regulatory requirements.
Second our foreign exchange trading revenue was quite strong in the first quarter and we benefited from the higher volatility in the foreign exchange markets relative to Q1 2014 and Q4 2014.
Our broad range of foreign exchange trading platforms continue to serve us well.
Finally our first quarter 2015 fees avenue was negatively impacted by the strengthening US dollar which was mostly offset by the favorable impact on first quarter 2015 expenses.
Excluding these impacts our core business performed well benefiting from both the current relationships and continued expense discipline.
Now Id like to discuss our asset servicing and asset management business.
Our focus on developing and delivering solutions to serve clients evolving needs continues to position us well against global growth trends.
Our first quarter 2015 net asset servicing wins totaled $215 billion and importantly these wins are across sectors and geographies.
New assets to be serviced that remain to be installed in future periods totaled $336 billion at March 31 and we continue to see deep and diverse pipelines.
In our asset management business we experienced net outflows of $38 billion during the first quarter of 2015 driven by net outflows of $27 billion from ETFs reflecting the first quarter seasonal outflows from our S&amp;P 500 ETFs $8 billion from institutional mandates and $3 billion from cash products.
Outflows were driven primarily from lower yielding products -- lower revenue yielding products as evidenced by asset management revenues for the first quarter of 2015 being up from the first and fourth quarters of 2014 excluding the impact of a stronger US dollar.
Now Ill turn the call over to Mike who will review our financial performance for the first quarter and after that well take your questions.
Mike? Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Before I begin my review of our operating basis results Ill comment on a non-operating charge included in our 1Q 15 GAAP basis results.
We recorded an after-tax charge of $150 million or $0.36 a share for 1Q 15 to increase our legal accrual associated with indirect foreign exchange matters.
This accrual pertains to indirect FX matters which weve disclosed over the past few years and it reflects our intention to seek to resolve the outstanding claims asserted in the United States by federal governmental entities and civil litigants.
It is possible that we will not be able to reach any settlement of these matters and the cost of any resolution could materially exceed our accrual.
Our current efforts even if successful may not address all of our potential legal exposure arising out of these activities and other claims which may be material could be asserted against us.
As I am sure you can appreciate settlement discussions are confidential and we are not able to make more specific comments on these matters at this time.
Now please turn to page seven in the slide presentation where Ill begin a discussion of our 1Q 15 operating basis results.
Operating basis EPS for 1Q 15 increased to $1.17 per share from $0.99 in 1Q 14 and decreased from $1.37 in 4Q 14.
Our first quarter results in 2014 and 2015 included the seasonal effect of deferred incentive compensation for retirement eligible employees and payroll taxes.
Compared to 1Q 14 EPS growth of 18% was driven by strong fee revenue growth well controlled expenses a favorable effective tax rate and the impact of our common stock repurchase program.
Operating basis total revenue increased 5% with associated total fee revenue increasing approximately 7% from 1Q14 while operating basis total expenses increased 1% from 1Q 14.
Our operating basis effective tax rate for 1Q 15 was 28.4% which is lower than our expectation for the full year.
On the capital front in 1Q 15 we purchased approximately $470 million on our common stock completing our March 2014 common stock repurchase program.
In addition we announced a new common stock repurchase program of up to $1.8 billion and subject to approval by our board of directors a planned increase of our quarterly common stock dividend for 2Q 2015 to $0.34 a share.
Slide eight shows we delivered strong 1Q 15 operating basis EPS growth over 1Q 2014.
Primary drivers included strong fee revenue growth and the impact of our common stock share repurchases.
Turning to slide nine Ill now discuss additional details of our operating basis revenue for 1Q 2015 and notable variances to 1Q 14 and 4Q 14.
First I would note that the stronger US dollar adversely impacted total fee revenue by approximately $83 million compared to 1Q 2014 and $46 million compared to 4Q 2014.
Net interest revenue was also negatively impacted by the stronger US dollar by approximately $14 million compared to 1Q 14 and by $7 million compared to 4Q 14.
Compared to the year ago quarter all fee revenue lines increased with the strength in FX trading in particular supporting the 7% total fee revenue growth from 1Q 14.
Servicing fees were up from 1Q 14 primarily due to net new business and stronger US equity markets partially offset by the impact of the stronger US dollar.
Management fees increased 3% from 1Q 14 primarily due to net new business and stronger US equity markets partially offset by the impact of the stronger US dollar.
In addition 1Q 2015 included money market fee waivers of approximately $11 million.
Total trading services revenue in 1Q 15 increased significantly from 1Q14 and 4Q '14 due to higher foreign exchange trading revenue reflecting higher volatility in volumes.
Securities finance revenue increased approximately 20% compared to 1Q 14 primarily due to increased new business and enhanced custody and higher volumes.
Processing fees and other revenue were flat with Q1 2014 and decreased from Q4 14 primarily due to lower earnings from joint ventures and lower revenue associated with tax advantaged investments.
Moving to slide 10 as you can see our operating basis net interest revenue and net interest margin continue to be challenged in the prolonged low interest rate environment.
NIR decreased from Q4 14 primarily due to a one-time loan repayment in Q4 14 and the impact of lower market interest rates partially offset by higher deposit levels.
We continue to expect 2015 NIR to perform within the scenarios we communicated at our Investor Day.
For your reference weve provided those slides in the appendix of the slide presentation along with the primary drivers and assumption underlying those scenarios.
To remind you the first scenario assumes interest rates remains static and deposits remain level with 2014 year end levels.
Under this scenario we expect operating basis net interest revenue for 2015 to be in the range on $2.07 billion to $2.17 billion.
The second scenario we presented to you assumes that administered interest rates will begin to increase later this year.
Under this scenario we expect short term market interest rates to increase in advance of the increase in administered rates.
We estimate that operating basis 2015 net interest revenue in this scenario to be in the range of $2.15 billion to $2.25 billion.
And before discussing 1Q 2015 expenses please note that we continue to target our operating basis total fee revenue growth to outpace our operating basis expense growth by at least 200 basis points for the full year 2015 relative to 2014.
This assumes that we achieve our operating basis total fee growth object of 4% to 7% in 2015.
Moving to slide 11 you can see on the top of the slide there were some notable expenses affecting 1Q 2015 results.
The stronger US dollar benefited total expenses by approximately $77 million compared to 1Q 2014 and $39 million compared to 4Q 2014.
In addition 1Q 2015 compensation and employee benefits those expenses increased from 4Q 2014 primarily due to an incremental $137 million associated with seasonal deferred incentive compensation for retirement eligible employee and payroll taxes.
Lastly other expenses included $20 million in securities processing costs and an additional $8 million for a new bank levy in Europe.
Other expenses increased from the year ago quarter primarily due to additional required regulatory costs and higher securities processing costs.
Compared to 4Q 2014 other expenses decreased primarily due to the non-recurrence of a number of 4Q 2014 other expenses and lower professional services costs.
Turning to slide 12 I'll provide a brief overview of our March 31 2015 balance sheet.
Our balance sheet continues to evolve as we respond to regulatory changes including the liquidity rules.
Our liquidity coverage ratio is currently above 100%.
In addition the investment portfolio maintained a higher credit quality profile and our duration was in line with the prior quarter.
Lastly the after-tax unrealized mark-to-market gain as of March 31 2015 was $699 million which improved from year end primarily due to a decline in interest rates and title credit spreads.
Now turn to slide 13 to review our capital position.
As you can see we remain well capitalized which has enabled us to accomplish a top priority of returning capital to shareholders through dividends and common stock repurchases.
As of March 31 2015 our fully phased-in capital ratios have declined modestly relative to year end.
The decrease in the common equity tier 1 ratio under the Basel III fully phased in advanced and standardized approaches which principally due to the Q1 2015 charge associated with foreign matters.
The fully phased in holding company supplementing leverage ratio decreased from 4Q 2014 principally due to a higher average balance sheet as of March 31 2015 and the 1Q 2015 charge associated with foreign exchange matters.
We are comfortable we have the levers that will enable us to be in compliance with the supplementary leverage ratio requirements in advance of the January 1 2018 effective date.
Returning capital to shareholders continues to be a top prior as evidenced by the capital actions included in your CCAR 2015 capital plan.
As we communicated at our Investor Day leverage ratios continue to be our near term binding constraint and this was further highlighted by our DFAST 2015 and CCAR 2015 results.
This constraint has been driven by the growth in our balance sheet primarily as the result of higher client deposits.
While operational deposits are integral to the overall service that we provide our custody clients growth in excess deposits has pressured our capital ratios and weve began a program designed to reduce the level of excess deposits on our balance sheet.
For example starting in April we increased the rate we are charging for Euro deposits.
Based upon our discussions with clients we are also developing other initiatives that appropriately balance our clients needs with our economic and regulatory objectives.
Overall we are targeting a net reduction in excess deposits over the remainder of the year.
In addition we continue to plan our capital action carefully and as previously disclosed we plan to issue approximately $750 million of preferred equity in 2015.
In summary our 1Q 2015 results were driven by strong fee revenue well controlled expenses and a favorable effective tax rate.
We continue to focus our key priorities of delivering value-added solutions to our clients investing in growth initiatives diligently managing expenses and returning capital to shareholders.
We continue to expect 2015 total operating basis fee revenue to increase 4% to 7% compared to full year 2014 and we continue to target our operating basis total fee revenue growth to outpace our operating basis expense growth by at least 200 basis points for the full year 2015 relative to 2014.
We expect NIR headwinds are like to continue as illustrated within the scenarios we communicated at our Investor Day.
Lastly we continue to expect our operating basis effective tax rate to be approximately 30% to 32% for the full year 2015.
And with that I'll now turn the call back to Jay Thank Mike.
Brandy we are now -- Mike and I are now available to handle questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Shirr from Evercare ISI Hi thanks very much.
I guess the balance sheet is up 9 % thereabouts year on year so its good for supporting net interest income while the NIM has its issues.
But as you mentioned it impacts the capital and SLR.
So curious to on how youre balancing that.
And then related question is I noticed that mortgages and asset backs had declined the most somewhere between 10% and 25%.
Is that just straight runoff or is that a purposeful decline to impact the capital ratios as well? Thanks Glenn let me start and then Mike will comment on the balance sheet construction.
This issue of growing deposits and the pressure on our capital ratios let me just tease out for a minute how were approaching that because I think it's important.
We are working with our customers.
Weve had series of discussions.
So weve brought out into the open the concern we have is somewhat ironically the clients particularly in the asset management segment have the same issues.
SEC and other regulatory agencies are forcing them to do more liquidity stress testing on their portfolios which is one of the causes for excess deposits ending up on our balance sheet.
We have -- weve developed some tools just recently through our global exchange business portfolio stress testing tools that weve been sharing with our costumers so that as they look at their liquidity needs it can be done more scientifically.
We are working with them to want to understand their liquidity needs and we think from that will come a reduction in their liquidity needs which will reduce the deposits that end up on our balance sheet.
I point that out because I think it's as more durable and sustainable approach than just forcing down excess deposits.
I also think the other thing that is in play here obviously is at some interest rate level we want these deposits.
So what we are really trying to unearth what deposits are truly excess not needed for the liquidity needs of the fund and deposits that would likely run off anyway in a different interest rate environment.
Thats a little bit of where we are in our deposit strategy.
Based on that as Mike pointed out we would expect our excess deposits to go down between now and end of year but you might comment Mike on the portfolio construction.
Sure absolutely.
Good morning Glenn.
Glenn first regarding the overall balance sheet and then moving into the portfolio.
Regarding the overall balance sheet we published at the end of first quarter an SLR on a fully phased in basis at the bank of 4.8%.
And as weve talked about previously we do expect to be able to manage the levers between now and the 1/1/18 effective date to get that 4.8% up to at least 6%.
And as Jay talked about some of that will come from the excess deposits leaving us.
Some of it will come from some financial engineering that we can do between the bank and the holding company and some of it we would expect to meet through pref issuance including the $750 million that we have slated for 2015.
Your arithmetic is accurate.
I would just point out that we continue to feel good about the levers that we have in front of us.
On the specific question on the balance sheet the short answer is that the runoff in the mortgage backs and asset backs are in fact by design.
Im sure its not lost on you that the regulatory environment now specifically the combination of the LCR and the SLR converge to basically encourage us to move towards more of a barbell kind of approach so that as an example were holding more U.S treasuries more Central Bank deposits than weve done historically.
At the other end its not huge but we have for example a modestly larger loan book including leveraged loans in the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range.
As a result in the new environment the piece of the portfolio that becomes then less valuable from a net return on capital standpoint tends to be the mortgage backs and asset backs that you described.
So we would expect that as we over time move to more of this barbell kind of approach that those would be the assets that are most likely to run off.
Your next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Good morning guys.
This is actually Josh in place for Ken.
What was the impact from activity levels on the servicing business this quarter? Josh its Mike.
Regarding the GS fees they were down a little bit relative to Q4.
It was not huge but they were down modestly Q4 to Q1.
Your next question is from Ashley Serrao with Credit Suisse.
So on the excess deposit reduction can you just help us think about the size of these deposits and what yields these are carried at and invested in right now? Ashley good morning.
Its Mike.
Regarding the deposits first of all we estimate at on average in Q1 that our excess deposits were approximately $54 billion.
And on average those are earning in the -- again on average something in the high teens so call it 15 to 20 basis points of spread on those deposits.
So if you back that out of our overall interest earning assets you would see that the 101 basis point NIM would be a combination of high teens on the excess deposits and then something in the high 120s in terms of the core net interest margin on the remainder.
Your next question is from Luke Montgomery with Bernstein Research.
I was wondering if you could give a sense of what the year over year expense growth would've been excluding FX translation.
I think obviously the reported numbers look pretty good but maybe you could speak more to the core execution on expense containment.
And then what was the impact of FX translation on revenues and net income? Sure Luke.
Its Mike.
Regarding your first question on expenses so the reported expense number on an operating basis was up 1.3% on a year over year basis and again thats Q1 2015 to Q1 2014.
If we take out the $77 million that I noted in my prepared remarks on the impact of the currency translation it would say that the expenses would have been up 5.4% on a constant currency basis.
And as you can imagine thats roughly offset.
Not completely offset but roughly offset by a similar impact on fees.
So the impact on fee revenue year over year was approximately $83 million of headwind Q1 2015 to Q1 2014.
And then the impact incremental to that from net interest revenue of the stronger US dollar was approximately $40 million.
So $40 million Q1 2015 to Q1 2014.
So if you take the $40 million of negative impact on NIR and take in the $6 million delta between the impact on fees and impact on expenses that would say about $20 million was the headwind to earnings from the currency translation.
So relative to a constant currency calculation so call that a little less than $0.04 a share.
Your next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning everybody.
So on the -- just taking a step back just a bigger picture I guess on the operating leverage you guys had delivered pretty nice operating margin expansion year over year despite the currency headwinds.
It looks like up in about 200 plus basis points year over year.
But in your outlook for the full-year again for the whole Company your outlook remains kind of no operating leverage assuming rates stay at current levels which increasingly feels like it will be the case.
So I guess my question is is the reason for not coming out with a little bit more optimistic guidance for the full year on the operating leverage a function of look we don't know where FX trading is going to go and that's really been the main driver? Or is there something else we need to account for in the back half of the year that could take some of that upside out of the run rate? Sure Alex.
Its Mike.
First youre absolutely right.
No change in the full year outlook relative to what we had just talked about 60 days or so ago at the Investor Day.
Basically thats because at this point we really wouldnt over weight a single quarter.
For example we think its unlikely that the FX trading revenue will continue at the pace that it did in Q1.
Generally the conditions for FX have been good but I wouldnt characterize the first quarter rates which were exceptionally strong as being the new run rate going forward.
So thats really the main punchline is no change in the underlying outlook which again we view Alex as being favorable with 4% to 7% fee revenue despite currency headwinds of somewhere between 200 and 300 basis points.
That would say 7% to 10% fee revenue growth on a constant currency basis.
We view that as a positive result.
And as we talked about at the Investor Day with at least 200 basis points of daylight between fee revenue and expense growth we view that as a real positive step forward in terms of productivity.
Again even a bigger step forward than we took for full year 2014 relative to 2013.
So again in terms of the items we can control we feel good about the outlook.
Obviously we cannot control all the market interest rates.
As you noted correctly that remains a headwind.
We also acknowledge that the tax rate is likely to be higher for 2015 in fact higher than what it was in first quarter.
That would be another headwind that is not truly within our control.
Again we feel good about the outlook and do not feel like it made sense at this point to change it.
Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank please go ahead sir.
On the investment servicing like Mike can you tell us with the dollar amount of the FX impact is 4Q to 1Q? And then Jay maybe the amount to be installed from the new custody wins at the end of the first quarter? And then maybe just an update on your enhanced custody efforts within securities lending as well.
Good morning Brian.
In terms of the Q4 to Q1 roll forward GS fees were negatively impacted by currency translation by approximately $27 million.
So it would have been essentially flattish Q4 to Q1 without the currency translation.
Jay? Yeah let me pick up and Id just remind you Brian that 2014 to 2013 service fees were up some 9%.
So we dont look at a single quarter as being terribly informative.
The $336 billion of committed not yet installed hard to characterize it any one way.
Its a real mix of from traditional to offshore alternatives.
No single big deals.
Its not an 80/20 so thats good.
It should feather in nicely over the next couple of quarters would be our expectation.
On the enhanced custody which drove a good deal of our period over period securities lending growth we continue to see great interest in that product and its coming from I would say some smaller products coming from new relationships.
More of it is coming from expanding existing relationships and we find with the continued changing landscape in the investment bank world with prime brokers that enhanced custody continues to be a very attractive product.
So we would anticipate that product to continue to growth and probably dominate the incremental growth in the securities lending line for some time to come.
Your next question is from Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
Jay I have a question for you just stepping away from earnings a little bit.
Looking at your proxy when I look at the ROE targets for long-term incentive comp plans for management you're using a 9% ROE target for this year and you earned 9.8% last year.
So I'm trying to understand the rationale for the target that's being used being lower than last year and what to imply from that.
Sure Vivek.
As you know I can comment on it but that would be the board and the executive comp committee that sets those targets.
I think whats notable about that target is that it continues to move up.
It doesnt have upside beyond the 9%.
It does have downside at the 9%.
I think its fair to say that the board and executive comp committee continue to calibrate that number up but are also mindful of the continued variation with regard to capital and some of the things that were working through.
So the expectation that that would move closer to 12% to 15% target over time but for now the board is most comfortable with targeting that at 9%.
Your next question is from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Good morning.
Just want to  Jay I think in the past you've talked about how emerging market equities can have maybe a little bit of an outsized impact on fee rates.
Obviously emerging markets over the last month or so has had a very strong run.
Think up 9% so far in April.
Is it fair to assume that can still have a positive impact on fee rates in the second quarter if it's sustained? Or is it not just market appreciation we also have to see flows? Just if you can just give us any kind of red box to think about this impact going forward if it's sustained? Sure.
Happy to Jim and your observation is on target which is emerging market asset growth is a good thing proportionally as it relates to our asset growth and service fee revenue.
Youre also right that the last month has been very constructive for emerging markets growth and we would expect that if that continues that would be a positive helper to the service fee line.
Less influential but important as well is the transaction volume that is associated with that.
Transaction volume was a little soft in the first quarter which is part of the drag on the service fee growth period over period.
Again Id expect that if we see sustained upward movement in emerging markets the transaction growth will flow from that.
So both positive towards the service fee growth.
Your next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Jay you announced a new head of the SSGA business.
I wondered if you could give us a few words on expectations and maybe speak within that to the commentary in the press about focus on fixed income ETFs.
Sure.
We did announce Betsy that Ron O'Hanley will be replacing the retiring Scott Powers.
Scott will retire sometime mid this year and Ron is on board as of now.
Ron many of you would know previously was at Bank of New York Mellon running the asset management wealth management practice and then was President of Fidelity most recently.
Ive known Ron as a customer as an industry associate through the years and when Scott informed me that he wanted to retire I began a conversation with Ron.
That conversation was largely around SSGAs positon its strategy what I thought the opportunities were with that and I found Ron to be similar minded with regard to how we viewed the SSGA opportunity.
Scott and Ron worked together for some years in a past life.
So that makes the transition even smoother as they work together.
So with Ron on board my expectation is that obviously with a new person you look at strategy but I would expect more tweaks to the adjustment as opposed to overhauls.
I think what Ron and I find attractive about the SSGA franchise is its global nature its institutional relationships and its end product areas most notably ETFs and passive that continue to generate proportionally higher flows than the traditional active asset categories.
I would say Ron loves the ETF franchise.
Hes a big believer in asset allocation overlays across ETFs for use in intermediary channels institutional channels.
The fixed income ETF which you referenced is also an area that we have been building out but theres more to do.
So I think that Ron coming on board I expect that the transition will be smooth.
Hell bring some new ideas to the mix but fundamentally we have a similar view of how we can best leverage the SSGA franchise going forward.
Your next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi you guys are batting cleanup this quarter among the trust banks.
Year-over-year operating leverage is a little bit more negative than your peers.
And so I'm just wondering from your perspective why do you think that's the case? Is it one maybe the mix? Maybe it's just the impact of Europe for more equities.
Would it be two maybe the stage of your strategy? I know you are investing a lot in the digital enterprise.
Maybe you could get some ins and outs from that.
Or third you think youre not executing as well as you'd like? Thanks.
We dont think its the third Mike.
I would say its -- and you should expect as do you we compare ourselves to our peers and we try not to focus on a single quarter.
We think over longer periods that our performance has been good if not better in most categories.
I do think we look at this as a long term game where as you know we are continuing to drive product development which is creating innovation and topline growth.
We think that were best positioned in some of the faster growing asset classes alternatives ETFs offshore funds.
And so we dont sit back and ignore investments in those categories.
So were continuing to drive investment.
On the other hand you referenced the digital enterprise.
We also wed like to see improved environmental factors that could cause us to return to days of old.
Were not expecting that.
So were continuing to drive efficiency in the core operations.
The digital enterprise does have some investment associated with it.
Its designed to make us the low cost producer in some of those commodity activities that we generate.
If you were to say whats the investment thats going into that its continuing to drive straight through processing continuing to enhance the private cloud moving more applications to the private cloud.
Some of the new products that weve introduced recently I referenced the portfolio liquidity stress test tool which was built in the cloud fairly rapidly given the need.
TruCross which is a buy side to buy side foreign exchange platform which we introduced in the last quarter and a half also has those same characteristics.
So were trying to build for the long term which means driving those unit costs down being the lost cost producer in the core base line activities while continuing to invest in those products that continue to differentiate us in what we think are some of the more attractive segments of the investment services business.
So as opposed to outperforming in a quarter we would rather outperform over time and we think were positioned to do that.
Brennan Hawken with UBS your question please.
Good morning.
So it appears as though the seasonality in the SPDR ETFs is becoming more pronounced over the last few years.
Does this concern you at any way and does it create any kind of constraints on your capabilities whether they be operational or capital markets oriented? And is there anything going on there that might be problematic or that you might want to adjust through your sales processes? Yeah Brennan.
Let me pick that up.
I think the broad answer is no.
your observation is accurate which is the SPDR S&amp;P 500 is actively used for portfolio positioning.
So it spikes ebbs and flows at quarter end and beginning of the following period.
As you expect S&amp;P highly liquid so we dont worry about any operational issues related to the increased volumes going through the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF.
So really no we dont worry about it.
I think if you look at I mentioned the negative flows to SSGA which were dominated by the S&amp;P 500 which while an attractive productive product has relatively low revenues associated with it.
If you look at our currency adjusted performance for SSGA it was 2% revenues quarter over quarter and 7% year over year.
So I think while the big ETFs have high velocity to them the revenue impact is relatively small.
And as Ive said for several quarters our focus is more on generating more differentiated higher revenue producing ETFs.
So just in the quarter we introduced seven new ETFs in SSGA.
Maybe the most notable was the one with double line which is a total return ETF which has very attractive revenues associated with it and got off to a good start.
So no real concern on the high velocity of the S&amp;P 500 ETFs focused on leveraging that ETF business to produce more differentiated products with high revenue per asset mix.
Your next question is from Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous.
Hello there.
Thank you for taking the question.
On the comments you made around not seeing the first quarter for first quarter revenues in terms of FX trading as a run rate is that because you think that volatility moves down a bit of first-quarter level if you look at the indices? Or is it more because some of the dislocation around the Swiss franc and QE kicking in in Europe just created wider spreads on FX trades that aren't going to be sustainable? Yeah.
Let me pick that up Jeff.
Mike can comment if he has anything to add.
More the latter.
I think if you look at volatility there was a real spike in the first quarter.
You mentioned the <br>Swiss National Bank de-peg.
It was just a highly volatile quarter that was very conducive to foreign exchange volatility.
We dont see that event obviously repeating itself but were very constructive overall on general volatility going forward and the positive effect it would have on our foreign exchange business.
Volatility has gone up for three quarters if you look at the underlying drivers.
I keep referencing the divergence of monetary policy.
We began the year thinking that UK US Australia and the Canadians might begin to tighten.
The Australians and Canadians have gone the other way but Id say the US and the UK are still on the mode of heading towards a policy tightening that monetary divergence is very constructive for foreign exchange volatility.
So we think that there were exceptions in the first quarter which wont repeat but overall very constructive on foreign exchange volatility going forward.
Id also add that I think if you look at foreign exchange in the first quarter roughly 6% 7% volume growth both across platform and not platform business.
Weve seen higher volume growth leading into this quarter which have driven the outperformance.
So we will continue to expect wed see good volume growth and the volatility to persist just not at the level that we saw in that first quarter.
Mike? No thats perfect Jay.
And just in terms of the overall impact on profitability of the FX revenues is it fair to assume there is very little expense that goes against them maybe a little bit of comp but not very much and most of it is just dropping to the bottom line? Yes Jeff.
Its Mike.
Thats a fair assessment of the profitability of the high margin FX trading business.
Your next question is from Adam Beatty with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
A follow-up on asset management specifically multi-asset class solutions which I think is a relatively small but promising category.
It looks like you've had some outflows there lately.
Have there been certain products or maybe client mandates driving the outflows? And maybe more importantly what's your plan for the category in the latest outlook? Let me take that Adam.
The outflows which are categorized in the institutional bucket were almost all from a single target date fund rebalance.
So it was just helping a client rebalanced the target date.
Very constructive on solutions and solutions has many meanings in the asset management industry I would say.
For us weve made a big push on the 401(k) target date fund category where weve had several new mandates and we have several promising prospects.
But solutions also exist at a broader level where occasionally well compete frequently for institutional mandates where somebody will put out a mandate and ask you to come up with your best ideas to deliver against that set of assets.
So it comes back a little bit to my comment that Betsy brought up in my discussion with Ron O'Hanley around using asset allocation as one of the key levers in driving our asset management business both at the target date fund at the intermediary level where increasingly intermediaries are looking for solutions oftentimes derived out of ETFs as well as at the big institutional bucket.
So we think we have a lot of the right asset classes in the right chassis as in ETFs and we also believe we bring a lot of expertise with regard to asset allocation knowledge.
So bringing those things together is one of the most important thrusts for SSGA going forward.
[Operator Instructions].
Your next question is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning Mike.
Good morning Jay.
You pointed out Mike that you're mixing your assets a little differently because of the SLR and different capital ratios and you've added to your loan book.
And I recognized the loan book as a percentage of assets is not very significant for you folks.
It's less than your two competitors of course.
But can you share with us on the leverage loans where do you think that may go on a go-forward basis? And your total loan growth was about 14% on a year-over-year basis.
Should we expect that kind of growth to continue for the rest of the year? Sure Gerard.
Its Mike.
Regarding leverage loans specifically I would expect that that will remain a relatively small part of the overall balance sheet.
So at this point we have a total asset there of $2.7 billion.
I would expect that well probably have some growth over time relative to that $2.7 billion but I think its unlikely that it would grow that it would get to the point where it was say double that number.
I think thats highly unlikely for the foreseeable future.
So again it is a nice complement to the derisking that weve had to do as Glenn had asked about derisking moving out of mortgage back and asset backs into treasuries.
It gives us a little bit of an offset relative to that but not a huge part of our overall balance sheet.
The rest of the loan book primarily relates to loans that weve made in support of our client relationships specifically for example loans to 40 Act funds would be an example.
Again under the new regulatory expectations I dont think well have a significant amount of growth in that business simply because those tend to be relatively tight spread loans.
And again in an environment where the SLRs are binding constraint thats a challenge.
So I would not say that we would expect a huge growth in the loan book really for the remainder of 2015.
Your final question is from Brian Kleinhanzl with KBW.
I just had a quick question on regulatory and compliance costs.
You mentioned previously that they were going to be up year on year and first quarter you said that they were up.
But if I think about it from the first quarter to the fourth quarter are they going to go up from the first quarter or is that $300 million run rate in the other expenses a good run rate for that line item? Brian its Mike.
First I think whats most important really of course is the full year outlook and Ive made the comments around the full year outlook on expense growth relative to fee growth a couple of times.
I think thats the most important thing is to look at the overall expense levels as opposed to just a single line item like other operating expenses.
Nevertheless in answer to your direct question I do expect that well see an increase in other operating expenses over the course of 2015.
Again that category tends to be somewhat lumpy but its typically driven by a combination of regulatory compliance spending as well as legal expenses.
I do expect that those will be higher than the levels that we saw in Q1 which were seasonally low.
There are no further questions at this time.
Okay Brandy.
Thank you and thanks to everyone for participating on the call today.
We look forward to speaking to you during the second quarter call which will happen in July.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's Second Quarter of 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's Web site at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without the expressed written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed on the State Street's Web site.
Now I would like to introduce Anthony Ostler Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at State Street.
Thanks Holly.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us.
On our call today are Chairman CEO Jay Hooley wholl speak first then Mike Bell our CFO will take you through our second quarter 2015 earnings slide presentation which is available for download in the investor relation section of our Web site at www.statestreet.com.
Afterwards well be happy to take questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that todays presentation will include operating basis and other measures presented on a non-GAAP basis.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP or regulatory measure are available in the appendix to our 2Q '15 slide presentation.
In addition todays presentation will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those statements due to a variety of important factors such as those factors referenced in our discussion today in our 2Q '15 slide presentation under the heading forward-looking statements and in our SEC filings including the risk factor section of our 2014 Form 10-k.
Our forward-looking statements speak only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update them even if our views change.
Now let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Anthony and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter 2015 results reflect the strength of our core business as evidenced by 4% growth in service fees compared to the first quarter of 2015 and the benefit of the seasonal increase in securities finance activity.
Net interest revenue in the second of 2015 continued to experience pressure as resulted the ongoing low interest rate environment.
Overall we remain on track for the growth rate of operating basis fee revenue to exceed the growth rate of operating basis expenses by at least 200 basis points in 2015.
We remained focused on returning capital to our shareholders.
During the second quarter of 2015 we purchased approximately 350 million of our common stock and have approximately $1.45 billion remaining on our March 15th common stock purchase program authorizing the purchase of $1.8 billion of our common stock through June 30 2016.
We also increased our quarterly common stock dividend to $0.34 per share in the second quarter of 2015.
Now I would like to provide a brief overview of economic and market developments and how our business is affected.
Europe has been a major source of marketing stability in the recent past.
First modest signs of recovery against the backdrop of zero or even negative yield contributed to the sharpest rise in European bond yield since the resolution of the European debt crisis back in 2010.
European equity markets responded by giving back half of the year-to-date gains from the peak of May 21st with some recoveries more recently.
The European debt crisis is still of course very much with us in the form of Greece and has monopolized the headlines from much of the past few weeks.
The uncertainty as to whether a deal with Greece could first be reached and now implemented has helped to push investors to move assets away from emerging markets and also contributed to increased foreign exchange volatility and volumes compared to the second quarter of 2014.
However volatility in FX market was lower than first quarter 2015.
Not all the risk in global markets has been driven by Europe Chinese equities fell by more than 30% from the peak giving back more than half of the gains for the year and it's concerned about the growth in China.
Although recently government [intervention] has provided some support to equity markets there.
Combined these significant disruptions drove market down in June and into July and have reduced risk appetite.
Despite these international risks our view of divergence in 2015 still holds as we see easing of monetary policy outside the U.S.
but we still expect to see tightening in the U.S.
This led to a much stronger U.S.
dollar so far in 2015.
Much of the initial change occurred in a first quarter 2015 in anticipation of U.S.
tightening and the US dollar has generally moved sideways since then as the markets are waiting to see when tightening might actually start in the U.S.
Together these events and trends impact our business in several meaningful ways.
First and most significantly the low interest rate environment continues to negatively impact our net interest revenue and net interest margin as a higher yielding portfolio investments mature or experience pre-payments and then those funds are reinvested in lower yielding investments.
Second amidst the various Central Bank actions and changes to various market structures we continue to experience high levels of deposits.
As you know we imposed charges for holding Euro deposits in the fourth quarter 2014 with a number of increases in the charges so far this year.
We are continuing to have discussions with our clients regarding excess deposits given the negative effect of these deposits on our capital.
Third the stronger U.S.
dollar has slowed the growth of our servicing fee revenue relative to 2014.
However it's important to note that excluding the impact of the stronger US dollar our core business performed well benefiting from growth in our client relationships.
Furthermore towards the end of second quarter 2015 we start a number of significant market disruptions which reduced risk appetite.
Now I'd like to discuss asset servicing and asset management businesses.
Demonstrating a continuing priority to provide solutions to our clients we added a 143 billion of new servicing commitments during the second quarter.
Importantly these wins were broadly diversified across sectors and geographies.
U.S.
to be serviced that remained to be installed in Q2 period totaled $174 billion at June 30 and we continue to see deep and diverse pipeline.
Our asset management business experienced net outflows of $65 billion during the second quarter of 2015 driven primarily by net outflows of $36 billion from institutional passive equity 17 billion from ETF primarily institutionally oriented market index funds and 17 billion from cash products.
The significant drivers of passive equity outflows were included rebalancing and cash need by some of our clients due to lower commodity prices.
Despite the net asset outflows the impact on net new business revenues were relatively minimal because much of the redemptions were priced lower than the net contributions we received in the quarter.
Our asset management business continues to be innovative and has launched 45 new products in the first six months of 2015.
OneLine is off to a fast start is despite a double line total return taxable ETF which is an active fixed income ETF launched in partnership with DoubleLine it's attracted 800 million in net flows post launch which ranks as the second most successful ETF launched in the U.S.
this year.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mike who'll review our financial performance for the second quarter and after that Mike and I will be open to take your call.
Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Before I begin my review of our operating basis results Ill comment on a non-operating charge included in our 2Q '15 GAAP basis results.
We recorded an after-tax charge of $156 million or $0.37 a share in 2Q '15 to increase our legal accrual associated with indirect foreign exchange matters.
Although we believe these recorded legal accruals will address the financial demands associated with the previously disclosed claims and active investigations regarding our indirect foreign exchange business asserted in the United States by governmental entities and civil litigants.
Significant non financial terms remain outstanding and settlement agreements have not been finalized.
Consequently there can be no assurance that we will enter into these settlements that the cost of the new settlements or other resolutions of any such matters will not materially exceed our accruals or that other potentially material claims related to our indirect foreign exchange business will not be asserted against us.
As I'm sure you can appreciate settlement discussions are confidential and we're not able to make more specific comments on these matters at this time.
Now refer to Slide 7 for discussion of our 2Q '15 operating business results and from the six months ended June 30 2015 which I'll refer to as year-to-date.
By way of summary 2Q '15 results were driven by strong servicing fees and the seasonal increase in securities finance revenue offset by lower FX trading revenue and continued pressure on NIR.
Year-to-date EPS increased approximately 7% compared to the year ago period.
Total revenue increased 3.3% from the year ago period reflecting strength in core servicing and management fees.
Trading services revenue and securities finance partially offset by lower NIR and the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Compared to the year ago period year-to-date fee revenues were negatively impacted by approximately a $149 million from the stronger U.S.
dollar largely offset by a similar benefit in total expenses.
Our operating basis effective tax rate for 2Q '15 was 29.6% which is lower than our current expectation for the full year.
The first half of 2015 operating basis effective tax rate of 29.1% is also lower than our current full year 2015 expectations primarily due to some one-time items in the first half of 2015 and the timing of our tax advantage investments.
We continue to expect the operating basis tax rate to average within a range of 30% to 32% over the course of the full year.
On the capital front in 2Q 2015 we declared a common stock dividend of $0.34 a share and purchased approximately $350 million of our common stock.
In addition we issued $750 million of preferred stock during 2Q 2015 with the first semiannual dividend to be paid in the third quarter of 2015.
On Slide 8 year-to-date fee revenue increased 5.1% while expenses increased 2.4% versus a year-ago.
Importantly on a constant currency basis year-to-date fee revenue increased 8.8%.
We continue to make progress against our targets for operating basis total fee revenue growth to outpace operating basis expense growth by at least 200 basis points for the full year 2015 relative to 2014.
Turning now to Slide 10 I'll discuss additional details of our operating basis revenue for 2Q '15.
First I would note that the stronger U.S.
dollar adversely impacted total fee revenue by approximately $71 million as compared to 2Q '14 with a similar benefit to total expenses.
Net interest revenue was adversely impacted by the strong U.S.
dollar by approximately $17 million compared to 2Q '14.
Foreign currency translation did not materially affect sequential quarterly results.
Servicing fees were up from 2Q '14 primarily due to net new business and stronger U.S.
equity markets partially offset by the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
On a constant currency basis servicing fees were up approximately 7% compared to the year-ago period.
Management fees increased modestly relative to the year-ago primarily due to higher U.S.
equity markets and net new business partially offset by the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
On a constant currency basis management fees increased approximately 6% compared to the year-ago period.
Total trading services revenue increased from 2Q 2014 due to higher FX trading revenue reflecting higher volatility in volumes.
Compared to 1Q '15 FX trading revenue decreased due to lower volatility.
Securities finance revenue increased from 2Q '14 primarily due to new business in enhanced custody and was higher than 1Q '15 reflecting the seasonal increase of revenues in this business which tends to peak in the second quarter.
Processing fees and other revenue increased primarily due to higher revenue associated with tax evasion investments.
Moving now to Slide 11.
You can see our operating basis net interest revenue and net interest margin continue to be challenged in the prolonged low interest rate environment.
Operating basis in IR decreased from 2Q '14 primarily due to lower market interest rates partially offset by higher client deposits.
Now let's turn to Slide 12 to review 2Q '15 operating basis expenses.
Total operating basis expenses increased 3.5% compared to 2Q 2014.
As a reminder 1Q '15 expenses included an incremental $137 million associated with the seasonal deferred incentive compensation for retirement eligible employees and payroll taxes.
Compared to the 2Q 2014 result compensation and benefits expenses increased modestly reflecting increased cost to support to business and regulatory initiatives mostly offset by the benefit of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Transaction processing service expenses increased primarily due to higher volumes.
Occupancy expenses decreased from 1Q '15 reflecting certain one-time positive items in 2Q '15 for 3Q '15 we expect occupancy expenses to increase as the beneficial items of 2Q '15 are unlikely to repeat.
Other operating expenses increased sequentially and from the year-ago quarter primarily due to additional regulatory and compliance costs.
Turning now to Slide 13.
I will provide a brief overview of our June 30 2015 balance sheet.
During 2Q '15 we took several actions to move towards our balance sheet optimization and regulatory compliance objectives.
The impact included a small increase in the duration of our investment portfolio assets.
Now turn to Slide 14 to review our capital position.
As you can see we remained well capitalized which has enabled us to accomplishing top priority of returning capital to shareholders through dividends and common stock repurchases.
At June 30th our common equity Tier 1 ratios under the Basal III fully phased in standardized approach increased from March 31st principally due to lower credit risk.
Under the fully phased and advanced approach our common equity Tier 1 ratios remained relatively unchanged from March 31st.
The fully phased in holding company supplementary leverage ratio increased from 1Q '15 primarily due to the issuance of $750 million of preferred stock in 2Q '15.
On Monday Federal Reserve issued the final [GSIP] rule which contains the methodology used to determine the capital surcharge for the eight systematically important U.S.
Banks.
The Federal Reserve's estimate for State Street indicates a surcharge of 1.5% and this is consistent with our discussion of the potential impact of the proposed rule during our investor day this past February.
The primary driver of the higher surcharge under the final rule is a level of non-operational deposits from clients which rule classifies short-term wholesale funds.
Now that the rule is final we'll incorporate the surcharge into our balance sheet and capital optimization efforts.
Since excess deposits on the primary driver on the higher surcharge this final rule increases the importance of our objective to materially reduce these excess deposits.
Now I'll guess the question likely we are on investors and analyst minds and that is how is our program tracking to reduce the level of excess deposits or our balance sheet.
We continue to have discussions with our largest clients regarding the implications for our balance sheet associated with excess deposits and to work together to identify solutions.
Although these discussions were constructive our average excess deposits in 2Q '15 did increase as the external factors driving these balances did not abate.
We continue to take actions appropriate for each market for example in Europe we've increased the rate we are charging for Euro deposits.
So overall we're targeting a net reduction in excess deposits over the remainder of the year from the 2Q '15 levels.
Turning now to Slide 15 we continue to maintain our outlook for the full year 2015.
Despite the weaker Euro exchange rate we continue to expect 2015 total operating basis fee revenue to increase 4% to 7% compared to full year 2014.
We also continue to target our operating basis total fee revenue growth to outpace our operating basis expense growth by at least 200 basis points for the full year 2015 relative to 2104.
Regarding NIR we expect full year 2015 operating basis NIR to be between $2.16 billion and $2.22 billion.
The range assumes that the Fed increases rates in December of 2015.
The administered rates do not change in Europe and client deposits will decline over the remainder of the year from their 2Q '15 levels.
We expect to the year at the lower-end of the range as there are no rate increases in the U.S.
Lastly we continue to expect our operating basis effective tax rate to be approximately 30% to 32% for the full year of 2015.
Since our 2015 year-to-date tax rate was 29.1% we expect the operating basis effective tax rate for the back half of 2015 to be in the range of 32% to 34%.
So in summary our 2Q '15 results were driven by positive momentum in servicing fees and securities finance seasonality offset by softer FX trading revenue and continued pressure on net interest revenue.
We continue to focus on our key priorities in delivering value-added solutions to our clients investing in growth initiatives diligently managing expenses and returning capital to shareholders.
And with that I'll turn the call back to Jay.
Thanks Mike and I have nothing further to say Holly so we can open the call up to questions.
[Operator Instructions].
I'll now introduce to our first caller.
Your first caller's name is Ashley Serrao with Credit Suisse.
How you thinking about the duration of your portfolio and capacity to extend and like a 50% of your portfolio now being fixed which is the highest it has been in the while and only 1 billion of purchases in 2Q which is a lowest as it's been in a while.
So good morning Ashley it's Mike.
First of all there is been no change in our overall philosophy Ashley and that is that as it relates to the investment portfolio we continue to invest through the cycle.
We continue to have the same type of ALM kinds of risk management practices that we've had in the past.
Related to your specific question around the durations yes it is the case that the -- we can sell in particular some floating rate ABS securities into queue and as a result what's left in the portfolio doesn't have longer average duration but again importantly the overall duration of the assets out of our balance sheet did not change materially quarter-over-quarter.
As those -- we did have a higher amount left in cash at the end of the quarter.
So again I would expect that there would be no material change over the remainder of the year in terms of our philosophy but we will continue to make these tactical changes to work towards balance sheet optimization particularly under the new regulatory requirements.
So does this also mean that the -- that the time line that you provided at analyst day for NIM to reset to higher levels remains unchanged.
That is correct Ashley.
At this time no change to those longer-term expectations.
So obviously there is a lot going on in the environment in terms of how long will it take to get there between market interest rates and the regulatory environment but no change at this point in terms of our long-term expectations.
Final question here.
Can you just give us an update on your efforts to bolster your European ETF business? And also to drive a focus on return on capital from a compensation standpoint? Let me start that one Ashley the ETF business is present in North America Europe and Asia although as you I think pointed out were much more heavy in the U.S.
than in Europe and we've been focusing on the European ETF business.
It's been really in two dimensions one is adding distribution wholesalers that largely sell into the private bank and banking networks on the continent in Europe thats going well.
We've made several hires over the course of the last six months.
So from a standpoint of feet on the ground distribution we continue to ramp up.
Actually the second place that our efforts are going is in the product development side which is a kind of a two key elements of successfully to add franchise.
And as I noted in my comments 45 new products introduced so far this year some portion of those are in Europe.
So I would say the effort is underway we think it's a robust opportunity for us one of the key opportunities for SSGA.
Your second question Ashley was our efforts to improve our return on equity? First from a compensation standpoint when you look at new business? Look at new business I'm still not sure I got the source of the question.
Let me try.
Maybe you are referring to is that recently as return on capital has been a more prominent part of how you look at us and how we look at our business.
We've turned to looking at return on capital from a customer standpoint and we will have by the end of the year I think our top 200 customers all calculated out with regards to what the return on capital is and those statistics end up with client relationship people and their challenge is to improve that return on capital.
And I think the closer we get that to our top customers the better shot we have at rebalancing mix whether it's product mix or client profitability in order to drive improved return on capital for initially that 200 customers.
And we think between what were doing at the top of the house principally on the balance sheet and in excess deposits and then what were doing with those 200 customers thats the right blend of strategies in order to make sure that we consistently improve our return on equity over time.
Ashley it's Mike I would just add two other points.
One is we have incorporated that same discipline in terms of looking at returns at the client level on prospected new business as well.
So it is both a new business initiative as well as the existing customers that the Jay described.
And the second point I would do is just to reinforce something that Jay said and that is in the near-term the most important thing we can do to improve the company's ROE is to reduce the non-operational deposits and or get those price that they are going to stay on the balance sheet get those price to pay for the required capital thats associated in and I can assure that the entire management team is aligned around that effort.
And your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Curious on Slide 24 you gave us the ex-currency impact on both revenue season and expenses.
I guess my question is with the operating expenses up 7.4% year-on-year ex-currency a lot of thats driven by the other line and thats legal and regulatory.
Are you able to pars that out on whats legal and whats regulatory because obviously going forward were going to just be able to strip out whats the bottom-line there is a lot of moving parts here.
Fees we get are still growing currencies impacting but it seems like expenses is just still keeping pace with the revenues.
Sure Glenn its Mike.
It is the case that the major driver on the year-over-year increase in other operating expenses is the regulatory compliance expenses.
And in particular the outside consulting expenses we had communicated to you at Q1 that we thought those were seasonally low and they have certainly rebounded here at Q2.
Basically the work that we have underway right now is number one over time to reduce those outside consulting expenses by completing the projects completing and getting up to fully acceptable regulatory expectations but also second over time replacing those outside consultants with full time staff.
And so I do expect that we will see a reduction in the second half of the year in terms of the other operating expenses related to both of those I would rather at this not put a precise number on it because it depends upon a number of factors not the least of which is our success rate in terms of hiring full time staff to replace these people.
But it is the case of the big driver is the regulatory compliance expenses.
Now I would point out just to be completely balanced that we're still on track to meet our full year expectation and that is to have fee revenue growth outpace our overall expense growth by at least 200 basis points.
And we view that as a positive accomplishment in this environment.
As I've described to you before that's a better result than we had in that metric in 2014 so again in light of the regulatory situation we view that as a positive step forward.
Just one other follow up.
On the securities finance revenue is up I guess 5% a lot of it is new business and the environment.
I'm just curious what's enhanced custody and if you're seeing any pressures on either rates spreads or fee splits? Sure Glenn in terms of enhanced custody enhanced custody was a little less than a third of the securities finance revenue in Q2 so specifically was $48 million of revenue out of a 155 in Q2.
In terms of the spreads and fee splits I would say no material change in that environment.
I would note that the seasonal trade was in fact less valuable than it's been in prior years.
So there wasn't as much benefit from seasonality given the European economic situation.
So that in fact was a modest headwind in Q2 versus what it's been in prior years.
Just a tiny follow up on the expense commentary we just had.
Does that mean the second half on the other line stays at this level given that you know you're still building out the BSAML systems and things like that should we look for that to on the year-on-year basis still grow but on an absolute dollar basis be level? Glenn relative to Q2 I would expect the other operating expenses to be lower in Q3 and Q4 subject to the caveat that that does it does assume that number one we are effective in executing the initiatives that we have on the table right now.
And number two that we are successful in hiring additional full time staff to replace those outside consulting expenses.
And again neither of those are trivial but my expectation at this point is that 338 will not be the run rate going forward to the second half of the year that it would be something lower.
And your next question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Mike if I could ask you a question about balance sheet leverage on deposits.
First of all can you try to help us understand how much you're going to try to move off the balance sheet on those excess deposits? What kind of effect do you think you can have on the leverage ratio and whether the impact of those deposit outflows is reflected in your outlook for NIR? Sure Ken good morning.
First on the on your specific question on how much do we expect to get off the balance sheet.
At this point Ken I'd really prefer not to put a precise number on it we are in the midst of client communications as we speak and it is a sensitive issue.
So we're really looking for a win-win with our clients.
I mean just to give a couple of examples several of our 40 Act fund clients for example are feeling more pressured to hold more liquidity as a result of their own regulatory pressure.
So again it's not just a question of basically demanding that that liquidity comes off.
So instead we're really looking for the win-win there.
Another example would be in Europe where certainly with all the turmoil going on economically there we have been viewed as a safe haven by several of our important clients now we're obviously charging more for European deposits than we were earlier this year and we recognize that given the economics of having to issue additional prefs to ultimately pay for these deposits that ultimately we need to earn something in the 60 to 70 basis point range of interest margin to pay for the prefs.
It is important either to charge enough to make the economics work or to get the deposits off the balance sheet.
And the latter we think could occur either through us charging more or through finding a different win-win with our clients or in fact we think it will naturally happen as interest rates rise.
So again I at this point really not commit to a number but I'd rather tell you that we are expecting a reduction in deposit levels in the second half of the year.
As it relates to your question around NIR what I would remind you is that on average right now for excess deposits we estimate that we're earning a spread in the high teens.
So based on that you could conclude that a $10 billion drop in our average excess deposits would reduce near term NIR by $4 million to $5 million in a quarter.
And that is built into the updated NIR range that I gave you in the prepared remarks.
So I'd rather not give you a specific number but that is the thinking that is in the overall range.
And then just as a quick follow-up.
How do we understand the go no-go decision on timing and magnitude preferred potential? Sure Ken regarding prefs it really will depend upon a number of things including the overall environment and will include our success rate; both that we're seeing to date but also our expected continued success rate on reducing the level of non-operational deposits.
It will include our analysis of our balance sheet for the next CCAR period which is Q4 of this calendar year.
So again I'm confident that we could issues prefs if we need to but at this point I would not tell you that we've drawn specific conclusions on a pref insurance plan.
And your next question will come from the line of Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Maybe just on the excess deposits.
Can you just give us some number of what they currently are or what the range that you view for excess deposits and then the deposit levels in Europe and UK.
Regarding our current level of excess deposits if we look at Q2 average in particular we estimate that our Q2 average excess deposits were approximately $62 billion which is an increase relative to Q1 of approximately 8 billion.
Now importantly I would add for completeness please remember here that the LCR rules are now in effect and therefore because of our interpretation of those rules and the regulatory expectations related to those rules.
Some of the deposits that we've historically thought of as operational deposits dont in fact qualify under the LCR to be operational deposits.
So specifically for example our hedge fund clients and private equity clients just as part of their normal operations is part of us being the custody service provider.
We have viewed those historically as operational deposits but there is specifically excluded under the LCR regulations to be included as those.
So the round number is 20 billion deposits from those are clients a portion of those need to be ultimately added to the 62 billion as we calculate LCR over the future.
So it's another example of the regulatory environment forcing us to be more conservative than we've done historically.
So again 62 under our traditional method and let me -- look at this as TBD as the LCR further unfolds.
As it relates to your question around European deposits we did see an increase in deposits in Europe specifically Q2 average European deposits were $40.5 billion.
So call that 36 billion to 37 billion of Euro balance and that was up about 4$.5 billion.
relative to the Q1 average levels.
Brian just to give you a little -- this is Jay maybe provide a little bit of nuance color.
I was just in Europe a few weeks and I was directly involved in some of these discussions with customers and we're for the major customers who have meaningful excess balance.
We're speaking to all of them and I would say a couple of things that to me you're encouraging I'm convinced we'll make headwind against those.
I dont how much but when -- but one day we acknowledge the issue it's a broad based issue.
There's even some pressure on the European Banks finally to shed some of these deposits as well.
So it's become a more broad based issue.
I think the discussions -- I reading to some creative alternatives for suites and another approaches to move these deposits off and Mike mentioned that average quarter-to-quarter we've actually seen some progress in some of these specific customers.
So it helps so we're out in front of it I think the discussions are going well.
I think we'll find ourselves with lower excess deposits we end the year.
It's hard to say how much.
And the period ended up much higher but we should probably ignore the -- sincerity and the period numbers that we are assuming.
Your idea has really has the direction of the deposit good [ones] and for an average basis is it correct? That is correct -- we typically see spikes at quarter end but I think the average is more relevant because in fact the capital ratios for example our calculated based on the average.
And then great just my follow up would be as you were talking before about to look into top 200 customers and trying to assess the return on capital from assessments and then I think you also mentioned you're using this framework for new business and maybe either Jay or Mike you could comment on -- I know banking Europe -- that large middle office deal with Euro that something in the -- you would typically win since you're by far the leader in middle office.
How maybe you could frame sort of the view on assessing that for new customers in the go forward dynamic of middle office whether you think you might be more competitive or more disciplined going forward? So I think broadly Brian when you put the return on capital and on a prospective customer the places that get accentuated are things like any loans that we might have securities lending particularly indemnified REPO within the product set from services to foreign exchange to securities lending to fund accounting they all have slightly different return on equity calculation.
So by looking at it through a return on capital lens you do get a more holistic view.
I would say relative to middle-office it's really a profitability equation.
It doesn't draw any capital necessarily it's really-- can you drive sufficient profitability in order to make a middle-office deal make sense in the construct of a piece of a larger relationship.
So I deal with probably more as a traditional accounting and custody relationship as far as its return characteristics but the key component is can you money? As you know we have -- we think it's over 10 trillion in assets that we administer in the middle-office and have been have at this for 15 years maybe.
We've learned a lot through the 15 years about what makes us a successful middle-office deal.
And for me it's largely about the complexity factor whether it involves lift outs the degree of customization on the system side.
So we continue to have handful of middle-office prospects out there and we look pretty closely at whether or not we can make them a creative rate return over the reasonable period of time.
And so you are still favorable on this business I assume.
Yes.
And I would say just from a broader trend basis Brian you have no doubt heard more than you probably want to hear about us on our regulatory compliance challenge here it's hitting asset managers it's hitting asset owners and so middle-office will continue to be a very important incremental product that we sell.
We just need to make sure that it's done well with good pricing discipline.
And your next question will come from the line of Luke Montgomery with Bernstein Research.
Another stab at the securities portfolio I know you have been realigning the mix of securities for the LCR and then fine tuning the balance sheet overall for the SLR.
But in dollar terms whats driving the shrinkage of the portfolio and should we expect that to continue? Is that part of managing the overall duration of the balance sheet? Sure Luke its Mike.
First in terms of whats driving our optimization work I would really put it in the three different buckets.
The first is that overall we want to improve our capital ratios and then includes the risk based ratios as well as the leverage ratios.
Second were looking to improve our mark-to-market sensitivity as measured at the next CCAR cycle so thats a consideration and then third of course is the meeting the heightened liquidity expectation.
So specifically if we look at for example the sale of our folding rate ABS thats a good example where were getting a relatively low printed spread that we viewed it as having a relatively high mark-to-market sensitivity during the CCAR cycle and of course it doesn't count as HQ away.
So that would be an example of something to shrink.
I would not characterize the changes in the securities portfolio as part of an overall change in the duration of the assets on our balance sheet as I said in one of the earlier answers the overall duration of the assets of our balance sheet did not change materially sequentially.
So in fact what we did was we decreased the folding ABS securities which meant that the remaining duration of the remaining portfolio got longer but that money for the most part is sitting in cash.
I would expect that we would be deploying over the second half of the year round number is approximately 5 billion that at June 30th was sitting in cash.
So I would not expect that again it's based on whole lot of different factors but I would not expect additional shrinkage in the overall investment portfolio in dollar terms over the remainder of the year.
But again importantly it is optimization is somewhat of the rubik's cube there is a lot of different consideration.
So it will be work that well continue to for a while.
This is the fourth quarter in a row you provisioned for legal contingencies; I know you can't talk about particulars but just any sense of how far along you are on the need for further provisioning.
I don't take this as combative but you excluded from operating basis results but it's getting to the point of kind of usual or unusual or recurring non-recurring and I think it has an impact in your capital ratio.
So any help there will be helpful.
Let me take a cut at that Lukas JV.
This is the provision relates to the indirect foreign exchange issue that predates 2010 just to put a box around it.
And as you noted over the last couple of quarters we've been taking incremental provisions.
We believe that we've reached financial terms with the counterparties that we have this deal with.
What we haven't done is complete the terms and conditions of the agreement and specific language.
We would expect that not only financially but relative to all the agreements that we can reach a conclusion shortly and that we can put this behind us.
So I don't know if that helps but we hope that this is from a financial standpoint the end of that issue.
And your next question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Two follow ups one on just what you're going through Jay I noticed there was an update to the operational risk model and you know that putting the pieces together it seems like that's probably due to the fact that you're close to an end in FX charges is that an accurate read across? Betsy its Mike.
It is the case that we did update the operational risk capital model as we typically do once a year that was updated in Q2 and that was part of the divergence between the improvements on the standardized approach risk based capital ratios and the advanced approach risk based capital ratios.
However that is not driven by our own FX settlement discussions it's driven by a number of other factors including what the industry experience has been historically.
And then is the conclusion when you do conclude the FX legal situation there's no further update to the risk model the operational risk model.
Betsy the operational risk model in particular has a lot of different moving parts so I wouldn't try to speculate on future updates to that level.
But I would remind you that at this point our binding constraint tends to be the standardized approach and I would expect that to be the case for a while.
And then just separately follow up on the non-operating deposits.
I guess I'm wondering if we could get a little bit of color Jay from the kind of things that clients could do with you to potentially either reduce or bring on I'm not sure if this is what you're referring to but bring on new business that would enable you to potentially change some of the definitions from non operating to operating.
For example if it's a broad set of businesses that their folks are doing with you.
Yes no it's really less the latter Betsy it was let me just give you a few things.
One I think I mentioned this last call and Mike referenced the SEC is very focused around you know liquidity management and 40 Act and the broader based asset management world and we've introduced a pretty sophisticated tool that allows asset managers to stress their liquidity and so the one way we're helping is we're helping them optimize their own liquidity stress testing which sometimes adds to their liquidity sometimes reduces their liquidity needs.
But with regard to the conversations it's usually around can we sweep some of the deposits can we use repo facility.
It gets into that level of how do we move deposits out of pure cash which end up on our balance sheet.
And there are handful of approaches and depending on the customer and their view of required liquidity in capital we have different outlets.
Probably the most important thing that I would leave you with is these are constructive conversations where you know our customers as we would help them they're looking to help us so it's not contentious it's just how can we do how can we move these deposits and do it on a sustainable basis.
So at period ends we tend to get spikes in deposits we want to manage those down but we're really looking for some more durable sustainable solutions which will allow us to manage these things and control them over time.
The last point I would make is that you know pricing has always usually a pretty good way to create behavior and in Europe around the Euro we've introduced pricing I think we've moved it up three times it feels like we're reaching that point of equilibrium where it has a cost associated with using our balance sheet and therefore our customers are more sensitive to the cost so we're thinking about not only cost on a ongoing basis but also think about kind of surge pricing that you know if deposits were to go past a certain point the cost of using our balance sheet would go up by a lot and so those discussions and those mechanisms are starting to give us one we're having better conversations and I think that we are you know likely to improve our situation with regard to excess deposits.
And your next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
Can you just reconcile two thoughts on the one end you are the port in the storm your source are strength in Europe your earnings assets were up 3% every three months and on the other end NIR declined and you expect that to perhaps go lower.
Is that all due to the excess deposit issue or is there something else going on to? So Mike its Mike.
Related to Europe yeah it is the case that we are viewed as a safe haven in Europe and that certainly is a significant contributor to the increase in the deposit base that we saw in Q2 relative to Q1.
I mean another issue though is just that the lack of good alternatives for our European clients which relates to your second point and that is that the interest rate environment they are generally along with the credit environment is not particularly attractive.
So there is downward pressure on our own NIR related to the assets that back the European deposits.
One another point I would note Jay was talking earlier about a specific client discussions in Europe I would note that where we've had additional success with some clients in Europe relates to encouraging them through discussions but also with the implied lever of pricing to move out of cash deposits on our balance sheet into for example short-term government bonds and I would expect that over time we'll see more of that movement in Europe for all the reasons that I just mentioned.
I mean your peers also had earnings asset growth but NIR was higher whereas Euro was down.
Is it relates just the degree that you are in Europe that's the difference? Or anything else? Yes again Mike I dont like to really speculate on our competitive results.
My interpretation of the comparison that you are drawing here is more from the starting point as oppose to some fundamental difference in mix.
And therefore our outlook has really remained relatively unchanged throughout this year in terms of NIR.
And I -- it's for all the reasons that we've talked about.
We expect that excess deposits to come off in addition until we do get a meaningful improvement in market interest rates.
We're going to continue to be negatively impacted by this grind of the turnover in our portfolio.
Those dynamics have not changed.
And that you lowered your NIR upper end of your range just a little bit.
Is that right? Thats correct that's mainly driven by our view now that it is unlikely that the Bank of England will raise rates in August.
If you recall that was one of the assumptions that we had applied in the rising interest rate scenario at the Investor Day.
We think that is unlikely to happen at least in August and thats really the primary reason for the drop in the very upper end of the positive -- environment range.
And last one NIR so you have 62 billion of excess deposits you plan on reducing that.
That reduction is in the updated NIR guidance.
You're just not telling us how much excess deposit reduction you expect to have for competitive end client? That is correct Mike and again we have a range built in there as you can imagine because we dont have a crystal ball and exactly how much they're going to decline but we do have a decline build in there.
Operator Your next will come from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Question for you on expenses.
So maybe just there is a couple of moving pieces obviously but help us understand how we should I guess think about dollar terms for the back half of the year given the fact that second quarter expense growth was a little bit 20 basis points year-over-year versus the revenue growth which is obviously below kind of your 200 basis points.
I get the fact on a year-to-date basis you guys are still looking pretty good.
But just kind of curious to see where is their flexibility in the model on the expense front into the back half of the year to help you achieve that 200 basis points plus? Sure I mean the short answer is that it really does depend upon a handful of important factors.
One is of course the overall level of net new business that we add in the second half of the year that will directly tie the level of expense that we need to add to service that additional revenues that would be one.
Second as I mentioned earlier we do have work underway on the existing regulatory initiatives to work to replace outside consulting expenses with full time staff to the extent of possible and so our success rate there will be a key factor.
And then lastly importantly we are looking at some additional expense actions literally as we speak and I would expect to be in a position to provide a more public update at our Q3 earnings call but we are looking at some additional expense actions to see what else can be done improve the overall productivity level beyond the regulatory piece that I mentioned.
And I guess the comments you guys are making around replacing consultants for full-time staff.
When you go through the analysis on and are much spending on consultant versus how much it would cost you bringing in full-time headcount.
Whats the net benefit to pretax earnings from doing so? I'd really prefer not to try to give you a specific number at this point.
Again it's fair to say that we do have some of that benefit built into our overall second half of the year expectations but I'd rather prefer -- rather not disaggregate specific number from our overall thinking.
And your next question will come from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Just a quick follow-up I's sorry to be the dead horse on the balance sheet but ABS was down 7 billion period end thats a pretty significant increase versus the sort of 2 billion a quarter that you have been doing in the prior year so is that are we getting closer to the end of the rebalancing for the LCR or is there still lot more to do in the ABS side.
I am just trying to get a sense of as the NIM compression going to start to be slow a little bit if that is done? Jim its Mike.
First at this point I expect that it is unlikely that we would have another material transaction that would shrink the ABS portfolio along the lines of what we did in Q2.
I think thats unlikely to happen in the second half of the year.
But as I mentioned this optimization work is going to go on for a while.
So I wouldn't at this point foreclose the additional actions for example in 2016 along those lines.
Again remember that you've got these longer-term objectives it's not just the 2015 objective we've got these longer-term objectives of strengthening our overall capital ratios and reducing the mark-to-market sensitivities that impact CCAR from as part of just our overall ROE improvement both of those objectives are important and really are somewhat separate from the near-term needs for LCR compliance.
But can you give us any help on timing and amount of additional mix shift? Again Jim I think that the mix shift will continue for several quarters and again importantly that is factored into the NIR range that we gave in our prepared remarks.
And then maybe just a quick follow-up with the guidelines from the Fed and they said SLR will not be part of the next CCAR.
Does that some of the pressure off in terms of give you more time to think about how entire potentially higher interest rates effects deposits and takes the pressure off on the comfort side can you give it another year to see how things progress or do you still have to kind of build in a glide path.
Jim you are absolutely right that was helpful to us probably to helpful to others as well that the NPR that was released around the 2016 CCAR indicated that SLR would not be part of the process for this year that is in fact helpful.
I would point out though that tier 1 leverage was to constraint at this past CCAR and that remains an important consideration for the next CCA so it's certainly means to that it's still very important that we pay attention to the non-operational deposits as it relates to the capital for next year and any potential pref issuance in particular.
And your next question will come from the line of Adam Beatty with Bank of America.
Question on the pipeline and backlog in asset servicing it looks like the backlog were to be installed came down somewhat in the quarter.
Does that create kind of a natural bias for higher servicing revenue subject of course to markets and currencies and also looks like the win rate ticked down a little bit do you expect that to normalize? Sure let me take that one this is Jay.
On the pipeline more broadly nothing really has changed its robust its diverse there is activity I just gone through over the last six weeks I've been on all continents and visited 15 different offices and there is a lot of activity that I think is stimulated by constrained environment compliance and regulatory.
So pipelines are solid.
For the quarter we committed I think it was 143 billion and massive that was a little low relative to what we've been running probably last couple of years we've been in the 200 billion to 300 billion range.
I wouldn't read into it I think just some other stuff this timing.
So no read through there.
With regard to I think at the beginning of your question we've got 174 billion I think that sounds right of assets that has committed that have not yet installed and I'm looking around the table I think thats about where we've been historically.
So the relationship between pipeline kind of a funnel what we win and how we implement seems pretty steady.
I would say in the 174 and in the 143 there arent big lumpy two year implantations which will delay revenue so we should expect a pretty steady stream of service fee revenue that would trickle out of those kind of few factors.
Adam its Mike the only other thing I would add is you noted our GS revenue was strong in the quarter relative to both Q1 as well as a year ago and certainly we've gotten good contribution we got contribution in Q2 from the net new business piece of it.
Also on the asset management in terms of some of the redemptions in past we've heard a couple of times this quarter about international and sovereign clients maybe having some liquidity needs based on lower commodity prices.
What's your outlook on that given where things are right now and given what you're hearing from your clients? Is there a potential for an additional draw down there or is that pretty much over in? I think that if you look at oil prices as probably maybe the biggest single driver of that you know the I don't know what your outlook for you know crude is but it feels to me like was an adjustment from over a $100 a barrel to $50 a barrel as opposed to months and time kind of adjustment.
So I wouldn't expect there would be big additional outflows I don't know I mean I think it's unlikely oil will go lower and therefore it feels more like a one-time adjustment versus something that we're going to see every quarter.
And your next question will come from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
So first question on FX revenues looked light versus peers and just wanted to I dont know whether there's a connection here but we saw the FX revenues come in a bit late and then we continue to see these FX charges ratchet and the discussion is ongoing.
Is it possible that there's a connection there? No no connection at all Bren you know if you look at -- we track as you'd expect pretty closely the indirect FX the direct FX the platform FX and all pretty steady as she goes I think the -- you know it's hard to make any judgment on a quarter I think if back at Investor Day I don't know if you recall this but we showed our FX performance in absolute terms versus the near end peers both electronic and directly traded and it's quite a bit higher than on an absolute basis.
And I think if you stretch back over a couple two or three quarters and look at trends you would see our FX performance is good as if not better than the peers.
So nothing really in the quarter and certainly no connection between these litigation discussions which are historical and our customers understand that have had no influence on indirect FX which is where if it had influence it would have influence.
And then maybe a bit more of a broad or strategic question on expenses.
You know certainly this is not easy times for large financial services companies and GSIBs but you could argue that higher regulatory expense pressure is not really environmental but now it's just part of the new operating landscape rather than being a transient factor.
And I know you referenced that you're looking to do a few things later in the year so clearly that's not lost on you but you know I sense from conversations with investors that there's increasing frustration on a lack of push on the expense front.
The revenue kind of is what it is expenses are bit more in your control why is it can you help us understand why there hasn't been more movement on the expense front.
Yes let me start that one and then Mike can maybe jump in.
So first off I agree with your point of view that the regulatory compliance is a structural shift and I think most firms are trying to deal with the immediacy and then the ongoing nature of how no idea comply with these things but how do you comply with these things in a highly automated way which is the kind of way we would look at anything at State Street.
So we've got a combination of addressing that with you know manpower consultants individuals but ultimately want to apply technology and drive down the cost of complying not only for ourselves but as a service to our customers.
But let me just introduce another front which is maybe what the comment that Mike made few cycles ago.
You know we went through the five year IT and Ops transformation plan and I think it was it set us up nicely.
You've heard me talk about the fact that weve had great core discipline around core systems we haven't drifted to multiple systems and weve taken those common systems and improved the processes and we've leveraged work sites China Poland at all we continue to do that.
There's an ongoing opportunity now that we've moved in that direction to continue to apply technology to replace labor and so you know part of what has underpinned the last year have been the regulatory and compliance cost offset by some of the operational improvements that we're making which is really a fine technology to reduce labor.
There is much more opportunity to do more there so what we're thinking about is the way to accelerate some of that activity to do more assistance to accelerate the minimization of the labor content and the work output if I can say that way.
And we view that and we have viewed that as something that's ongoing because we dont believe among that the regulatory compliance pressure lets up and we dont know when the top line environment gets better.
So the thing we can control is the expenses so we've in the background been continuing to invest in technology to improve our operational efficiency but the question is can we do more; can we accelerate some of that activity.
If that helps? And our last question will come from the line of Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
Starting with some of the regulatory type issues that is being going on with BSA AML and then with the Wells notice but you received I think relating to still lobbying around the pensions business.
Are those having any impact on growth and that new generation you kind of have to focus a bit more internally rather than externally and going out and winning new business? Yes fair question Geoffrey.
I would say no pretty directly the AML BSA activity is -- we were criticized for not having the level of process that the regulators expected and wanted us to have so we have -- and we've been at this for 18 months.
It's a pretty segregated activity that we're conducting country-by-country business-by-business and so it's pretty content it's got project plans it's managed separately from the business line.
So I really dont think this going hinder our ability to grow the revenue line and on the Wells notice reference which again is kind of pre 2012 reference to acquisition of pension retirement plans using consultants and again we are working through that.
We've got a different point of view than others on that but it doesnt it hasnt and shouldnt affect any revenue generation.
And then just a quick follow up on something you said earlier.
You mentioned the [GSIP] buffers as a fact that it feeds into the walk around non-operational deposits.
Is it all that to come down from 150 bps to 100 bps and so how much you need to do get yourself into the lower bucket? Geoffrey its Mike.
There are a number of different nuances with the final rule that just came out on Monday.
So I think it's a little bit early to give you a specific number but it's not lost of us that the increased excess deposits over the last couple of years is the single biggest factor driving our [GSIP] surcharge up and therefore I just -- it's a really -- it increases what was already a priority.
It increases the importance of reducing those.
Now again some of that will happen from our actions.
We think some of that will happen naturally as market interest rates rise but it does increase the importance of that work.
I think it's the most important thing I wouldnt leave you for this way.
I think that a 150 basis points [GSIP] surcharge by itself is manageable but again there are -- number one we would obviously like to have reduce the as the piece that's related to the excess deposits and just more of an incentive to get that accomplish.
And just to be clear for everybody on the call that it's our expectation as if we do that and 150 or whatever it is vary.
So there will be recalibration of that.
So there is a motivation incentive to draw deposits down.
Thank you and that was our final question.
I'll turn the conference call back over to management for closing remarks.
Yes Holly just a quick thanks to everybody for their attention and we look forward to speaking you after the third quarter.
Thanks.
Once again we'd like to thank you for your participation on today's State Street's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's Third Quarter of 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without the express written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed on the State Street's website.
Now I would like to introduce Anthony Ostler Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at State Street.
Thanks Stephanie.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us.
On our call today are Chairman and CEO Jay Hooley who will speak first.
Then Mike Bell our CFO will take you through our third quarter 2015 earnings slide presentation which is available for download in the Investor Relations section of our website www.statestreet.com.
Afterwards we'll be happy to take questions.
During the Q&amp;A please limit your questions to two questions and then requeue.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that today's presentation will include operating basis and other measures presented on a non-GAAP basis.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP or regulatory measure are available in the appendix to our 3Q 2015 slide presentation.
In addition today's presentation will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those statements due to a variety of important factors such as those factors referenced in our discussion today in our 3Q 2015 slide presentation under the heading Forward-Looking Statements and in our SEC filings including the risk factors section of our 2014 Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements speak only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update them even if our views change.
For those of you planning ahead please note that we expect to release our earnings in the fourth Wednesday of the month following each quarter-end starting in 2016.
This is a change from the current practice of the fourth Friday of the month following each quarter-end.
This is due to how the calendar works in 2016 and 2017.
As a result we currently expect to release our 4Q 2015 results on Wednesday January 27 2016.
Additionally please save the date for our 2016 Investor Day which is currently scheduled for Wednesday February 24 at the Mandarin Hotel in New York City.
Now let me turn it over to Jay.
Good morning everyone.
Our performance in the third quarter was impacted by the sharp decline in global equity markets including a more pronounced decline in emerging markets.
While I'm not pleased with the negative effect on our earnings during the quarter I do believe that over the long-term our relatively higher exposure to global equities in emerging markets will benefit us.
In light of the continued challenging environment we are accelerating our multiyear plan to further digitize our operating environment and create cost efficiencies.
The plan follows on our successful Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
We are targeting savings that are in the range of approximately $500 million when fully implemented over a four- to five-year timeframe which is similar to the duration of our recently completed Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
Mike will provide additional details on our plan in his comments.
As many aspects of the new regulatory landscape are taking shape we're moving aggressively to position ourselves to comply.
An example of this during the quarter was the significant progress we made in decreasing excess deposits on our balance sheet.
Despite the market environment during the third quarter we were able to advance our core business growing operating basis fee revenue by 4% and 1% compared to the nine months and quarter ending September 30 2014 respectively and adding $141 billion of new servicing commitments during the third quarter.
We continue to emphasize returning capital to our shareholders.
During the third quarter of 2015 we purchased approximately $350 million of our common stock and at quarter-end had approximately $1.1 billion remaining on our March 2015 common stock purchase program authorizing the share of up to $1.8 billion of our common stock through June 30 2016.
Now I'd like to provide a brief overview of economic and market developments and how our business is affected.
Concerns about global growth became more acute in the third quarter of 2015 with declines in emerging market growth rates notably China further degradation in commodity prices and even the previously solid economic performance in the U.S.
showing signs of hesitation.
Equity markets became more correlated as a result.
Gyrations in Chinese equity markets which had been ignored earlier in the year began to impact markets more broadly.
Global equity markets posted their worst quarter since the third quarter of 2011 which was exacerbated by double-digit depreciation in many emerging market currencies reflecting investment outflows from those markets.
A modicum of calm has recently returned in October following the Federal Reserve's September decision to not raise interest rates amid weaker global conditions and accompanying financial stress.
With the risk of deflation returning investors now question whether U.S.
monetary policy tightening will begin at all this year.
Together these events and trends impact our business in several meaningful ways.
First the lower equity markets have caused our assets under custody and administration and assets under management to decrease.
This decline in assets combined with the associated risk-off sentiment has resulted in lower fee revenue.
Second the low interest rate environment continues to negatively impact our net interest revenue and net interest margin.
This is in part driven by our higher-yielding portfolio investments maturing or experiencing prepayments.
And then those funds being reinvested in lower-yielding investments.
Now I'd like to discuss our Asset Servicing and Asset Management business.
We added $141 billion of new servicing commitments during the quarter across all sectors and geographies.
New assets to be serviced that remain to be installed in future periods totaled $195 billion at September 30.
And we continue to see deep and diverse pipelines.
Our Asset Management business experienced net outflows of $29 billion during the third quarter of 2015 driven primarily by net outflows of $42 billion from institutional mandates partially offset by $10 billion of inflows to ETFs.
The significant drivers of passive equity outflows include rebalancing and cash needs of some of our clients due to lower commodity prices which is a continuation of a trend that we saw in the second quarter as well as an expected redemption from one large client.
The SPDR DoubleLine Total Return Tactical ETF which is an active equity income ETF launched in partnership with DoubleLine has gained further momentum.
It has attracted $1.2 billion in net flows post-launch and now ranks as the most successful ETF launched in the U.S.
this year.
Additionally during the third quarter we launched another 13 new ETFs bringing our year-to-date new launches to 22.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike who'll review our financial performance for the third quarter and then we will open the call to all of your questions.
Mike? Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Before I begin my review of our operating basis results I will comment on significant items which affected our third quarter 2015 GAAP basis results as highlighted on slide four.
First we recorded an after-tax charge of $47 million related to severance for targeted staff reductions.
This measure was taken to better calibrate the company's expenses to the current environment and will involve a gross and net worldwide reduction of approximately 600 and 200 positions respectively.
We expect these staff reductions to be completed by the end of 2016 with projected expense savings of $50 million with approximately 75% of the savings to positively impact 2016 results.
Second we recorded an after-tax gain of $49 million from the sale of commercial real estate acquired as a result of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy.
And lastly we recorded a tax benefit of $59 million related to a reduction of an Italian deferred tax liability as a consequence of our European legal entity restructuring activities.
Now I'll refer to slide seven for a discussion of our operating basis results for 3Q 2015 and for the nine months ended September 30 2015 which I'll refer to as year-to-date.
The 3Q 2015 results primarily reflect the challenges from the declining global equity markets and persistently low market interest rates as well as the seasonal decline in securities finance in comparison to the second quarter.
3Q 2015 EPS of $1.16 decreased from 2Q 2015 and from the year-ago quarter.
Year-to-date EPS decreased slightly compared to the same period a year ago.
Importantly compared to the year-ago period year-to-date total fee revenue increased 3.7%.
3Q 2015 total fee revenue increased 1% from the third quarter of 2014 and decreased 3% from 2Q 2015 primarily reflecting the adverse market conditions.
Compared to the year-ago period year-to-date fee revenue was negatively impacted by $212 million from the stronger U.S.
dollar largely offset by a similar benefit in total expenses.
Regarding capital in 3Q 2015 we declared a common stock dividend of $0.34 a share and purchased approximately $350 million of our common stock.
Lastly we're pleased that we made progress on a key priority to reduce the level of deposits on our balance sheet.
So moving to slide eight year-to-date fee revenue increased 3.7% while expenses increased 2.8% versus a year ago.
On a constant-currency basis year-to-date fee revenue increased 7.2%.
Turning to slide 10 I'll discuss additional details of our operating basis revenue for 3Q 2015.
Servicing fees were down from 3Q 2014 primarily due to the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar and lower international equity markets partially offset by net new business and higher transaction volumes.
While the EAFE equity index was down approximately 7% our 3Q 2015 servicing fees were particularly impacted by the 15% sequential decline in emerging-market average daily levels.
We estimate that approximately 10% of our servicing fees are tied to emerging markets.
3Q 2015 management fees decreased relative to a year ago primarily due to the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar lower performance fees and lower international equity markets.
Total trading services revenue in 3Q 2015 increased from 3Q 2014 due to the higher foreign exchange trading revenue reflecting higher volatility in volumes.
And compared to 2Q 2015 trading services revenue increased due to higher direct foreign exchange trading revenue.
Securities finance revenue increased from 3Q 2014 primarily due to new business in enhanced custody and was lower than 2Q 2015 reflecting seasonality.
Processing fees and other revenue increased from the year-ago period and sequentially primarily due to the impact of certain valuation adjustments and higher revenue from bank-owned life insurance.
Moving now to slide 11 as you can see our operating basis net interest revenue continued to be pressured due to the prolonged low interest rate environment and our success in the third quarter in reducing client deposits.
The decline in deposits during the third quarter largely occurred towards the end of the quarter thus explaining the smaller decline in the average deposit balances quarter-over-quarter versus the period end balances quarter-over-quarter.
Now let's turn to slide 12 to review third quarter 2015 operating basis expenses.
Total operating basis expenses decreased slightly from 2Q 2015.
Other expenses included a recovery from certain Lehman Brothers claims which was largely offset by a single securities processing loss of $38 million which resulted in total securities processing costs for 3Q 2015 of $41 million.
This loss was a specific event and we've evaluated its nature and are implementing control enhancements to mitigate recurrence.
Compared to the third quarter of 2014 compensation and benefits expenses increased reflecting increased costs for new hires to support new business and regulatory initiatives partially offset by the benefit of the stronger U.S.
dollar and lower incentive compensation expense.
Information systems and communications expenses increased over both periods reflecting increased cost to support new business and additional data center capacity.
Other expenses increased from the year-ago quarter primarily due to higher professional services fees including costs to support regulatory initiatives as well as higher securities processing costs partially offset by the third quarter 2015 Lehman recovery and lower charitable contributions.
Turning to slide 13.
We note that we continue to reposition our balance sheet.
The size of the average investment portfolio decreased by approximately $9 billion from June 30 of 2015.
The majority of the decrease was related to the sale of lower-yielding MBS and ABS partially offset by the increase in U.S.
treasuries.
Now I'll turn to slide 14 to review our capital position.
As you can see our capital ratios remained strong which has enabled us to accomplish a key priority of returning capital to shareholders through dividends and common stock purchases.
At September 30 our common equity Tier 1 ratio under the Basel III fully phased-in standardized approach increased from June 30 principally due to lower credit risk.
The fully phased-in holding company supplementary leverage ratio increased to 5.4% on a fully phased-in basis principally due to our success in reducing client deposits.
Now I'll address a question that's likely on investors' and analysts' minds and that's to provide an update on our efforts to reduce client deposits including the total reduction level that we're targeting.
Throughout third quarter 2015 we engaged in productive discussions with clients regarding the implications for our balance sheet associated with excess deposits.
While overall deposits declined approximately $44 billion during the quarter some of that reflected a lower deposit spike at the third quarter end.
Importantly excluding the deposit spikes at quarter-end we estimate that our balances were $30 billion to $35 billion lower at the end of the third quarter relative to the second quarter and we view this deposit reduction effort as successful.
Nevertheless it's also important to recognize that the external environment can impact deposit levels in the future.
And our average fourth quarter balance sheet will be the starting point for our 2016 CCAR submission.
In addition as interest rates increase we also expect to see further declines in client deposits.
Turning to slide 15 I'll update you on where we stand regarding our financial outlook for 2015.
Primarily due to the third quarter 2015 steep decline in equity markets particularly in emerging markets we likely will fall below the previously communicated 4% to 7% growth of operating basis fees in 2015.
The continued strength of the U.S.
dollar has contributed to downward pressure on fee revenue growth as well.
Given the weakness in fee revenue it will be more challenging for us to grow 2015 operating basis total fee revenue at least 200 basis points above the 2015 growth of operating basis expenses.
While this quarter's severance action will have an immaterial impact on operating basis expenses within 4Q 2015 overall we do expect that 4Q 2015 operating basis expenses will be lower than 3Q 2015 levels.
For full-year 2015 operating basis net interest revenue we currently expect to be near the lower end of our previously communicated range of $2.16 billion to $2.22 billion.
Our expectation to be near the lower end of the range primarily reflects both the successful effort in reducing excess deposits and continued low market interest rates.
Now I'd like to add some additional detail to Jay's comments on the next stage of our transformation program to digitize our enterprise.
To be clear our objectives are twofold.
First we intend to make further significant reductions in our cost structure.
And second we plan to digitize our interfaces with our clients in order to deliver more value.
We've decided to accelerate the next stage of this work through the execution of a formal multiyear plan along the lines of the recently completed and successful Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program.
While we are still finalizing the details of this second phase of work we anticipate targeting at least $500 million of annual expense savings when fully implemented.
Importantly the program will likely involve restructuring costs and investments to fully implement the plan and capture the savings just as the business ops and information technology transformation program did.
The specific timeframe and other parameters are still under development and we look forward to providing a further update on our 4Q 2015 earnings call and review of the detail at our Investor Day on February 24 2016.
And with that I'll turn it back to Jay.
Thanks Mike.
And Stephanie we are now available to open the line to questions.
Thank you.
Your first question is from the line of Luke Montgomery with Bernstein Research.
Hey.
Good morning.
I think last quarter you gave or  are you declined to give a target on the amount of excess deposits you hope to shed but you did say you had a range in mind.
Was the decline within that range? And what does that indicate about your potential need for incremental preferred issuance? And then I think you said deposits declined $35 billion adjusted for the lower quarter end spike so where do excess deposits stand now? Sure.
Luke it's Mike.
First of all one clarification before answering your specific question and that is that we estimate that the deposits if you exclude the quarter end spike were actually down $30 billion to $35 billion.
So something in that range of $30 billion to $35 billion rather than explicitly $35 billion.
But to answer the main part of your question first specifically yes we're pleased with the progress that we made.
We did in fact hit the objective that we had for full year 2015 as of the point in time into the quarter  third quarter 2015.
Now I would point out in reference to your pref question the main priority we're focused on here is positioning for the next CCAR.
So the 2016 CCAR will likely be our near-term binding constraint and will likely be the most important factor in terms of pref issuance in the near-term.
And if you recall our CCAR results from the last go-round the Tier 1 leverage was our binding constraint and it's likely to be our binding constraint again.
So as you can imagine very helpful to reduce deposits by $30 billion to $35 billion in terms of meeting the near term Tier 1 leverage target.
So in terms of your specific question on the prefs I do expect that in first quarter of 2016 we'll look at a number of different factors.
We'll look at the parameters of the CCAR test.
We'll look at the balance sheet for the average fourth quarter 2015 because remember it's not the September 30 balance sheet.
It's the average balance sheet over fourth quarter 2015 that's going to be so important in terms of the next CCAR.
So again maintaining the lower level through fourth quarter is a high priority.
But basically we'll look at all of those things in 2016 and then make some decisions on any pref issuance plans for 2016.
Okay.
And Luke let me just if I can since I know excess deposits such  is a meaningful question and issue in your minds.
Let me just open that widen that question a little bit.
We've been on at least a year journey with our customers.
And I think what's transpired through that is that one we've developed a very accurate sense of what's operational and what's excess.
We define who the outliers are we've engaged in conversation around those discussions.
We have helped customers facilitate transition to money funds out of treasury products.
And we've used fees in order to encourage the right behavior.
And so regardless of whether we're at where we want to be in the fourth quarter what's to me more important is that the dialogue is clear and open and we found a lever that is in charging fees on excess deposits which I believe will allow us to control excess deposits and manage the size of our balance sheet more proactively going forward.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then you provided I think a very detailed model-friendly plan with the first phase of the business transformation initiative.
I think you said that's forthcoming but at this point are you prepared to speak to any detail? What is multiyear plan mean? Will the savings be frontend or backend loaded? Do you anticipate a bottom-line impact? Or is this just offsetting the growth rate of expenses? Let me start that Luke and Mike can weigh in.
As you recall the business ops and IT transformation program we set milestones and timelines to demonstrate to you that we were getting the saves that we anticipated getting and we would anticipate a similar kind of layout going forward.
We don't have  we have that detail internally but we haven't translated it into something that we can clearly articulate to you.
But let me just again wind that one back because I think it will be the source of probably a series of questions during this morning's call.
Business Operations and IT Transformation largely created standardization centralization and we took advantage of lower labor costs.
If you look at business ops and IT transformation I equate it to 70% of the benefit was gained from I would say process improvement and labor cost arbitrage 30% technology.
Now that we've taken that first step what we announced today is something that we have been planning but the new news is that we've accelerated given the difficult environment.
And largely it involves digitizing that interface for the customers so everything comes into us electronically.
And then from an end-to-end basis as information flows into us on the front end it flows all the way through our systems without human intervention and then out the other side for data analytics purposes.
So in this next phase I think the mix is more like 70% or 80% technology-enabled automation and 20% or 30% process and/or labor arbitrage.
So I think  I'll hand it over to Mike in a minute but we will beginning fourth-quarter call and then more extensively at the February 24 Investor Meeting walk you through the plans the details the milestones and what you should look to us for on a periodic basis for updates.
Mike do you want to add anything to that? Yeah it was a complete answer Jay.
The only piece Luke I would add is we are working through the details here so this would be the pacing details.
This would be the details around the required investments and likely charges.
I know that several of you are going to be interested in what does this mean for full-year 2016? So it's really  that level of detail is what I'd as Jay said we're working through those specifics right now in the format that I know you're interested in.
So that's the piece that'll be forthcoming at fourth quarter and also at the February Investor Day.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Hi there.
I guess just a follow-up to that is the markets can move up and down and as we've seen already in October markets are up 8% to10%.
So curious on a sidebar how much do you think of the weakness in third quarter you might already have recouped some of that benefit in October if markets stayed here? And then the second part of it is much more important is similar to Luke's how much of it falls to the bottom line.
Should we be is an easier question or harder question to ask you where should margins be for your business? In other words down to 28.9% is below where you've been historically with these various cost programs ops and IT and now this one.
Is there a goal to be riding at a certain level? Like how are you going to measure profitability for yourselves in the next couple of years? Sure Glenn.
It's Mike.
Good morning.
First on your first question on the markets it's certainly a positive that markets have rebounded month-to-date here in October.
I would point out just for completeness that emerging markets now are pretty close on a month-to-date basis back to the third quarter average.
They had really dipped in late September and what's particularly important to us is the average over the whole quarter.
So I would  I'd hesitate to try to claim any kind of victory based on the first three weeks of October and obviously we've got another couple months to go.
But I would agree with you that it's certainly been helpful to see the equity market positive news on the first three weeks of the month.
Jay do you want to talk about the? Yeah let me attempt to take that one on Glenn.
The digitization plan which we're announcing today of approximately $500 million in savings over a four year to five year period should obviously help our ongoing goal of annual operating leverage.
And all else equal will improve the margin.
If everything else was held steady the margin would improve.
We all know that markets are markets and rates are rates and we don't always control that so in addition to demonstrating for you that this change will improve the margin the other thing that we look at probably more importantly internally is we look at unit costs.
When you apply technology to a manual process we've got excruciating detail around the unit cost of all of the activities that we conduct and when you apply technology and reduce labor couple things happen.
One you improve quality of the customers you reduce risk the operating risk that we talk about today.
If you're automating you're not going to have that kind of stuff.
And importantly to all of us here it reduced costs.
So for me it's looking at the unit costs and making sure that we're reducing those unit costs steadily over time.
But again everything else held constant the margin should improve.
Understood.
And it is a small thing but is the $50 million in annualized savings from the head count actions you took part of the $500 million or is that a separate? That is separate.
That is explicit to this quarters actions we took.
The $500 million is incremental to the $50 million.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
First question Mike for you on the NII front.
So on an ex-rates basis if we're at the kind of low end of the $2.16 billion we're exiting the year just above maybe $510 million on NII in that circumstance.
I think  I guess if you could just help us understand as you look ahead on an ex-rates basis when would you anticipate NII starting to stabilize out? I know the NIM will be a function as we saw this quarter of the excess deposit flows here and there but when you're thinking about net interest revenue dollars how do you start to think about seeing that through on an ex-rates basis? Sure Ken.
Good morning.
First of all it's largely dependent Ken as you can imagine on what happens in terms of market interest rates which will be tied very closely to what the Fed does in the near-term in terms of potentially increasing the administered rate.
To focus on two different scenarios if you'll recall at our Investor Day we had said look if you exclude the excess deposits and assume that the Fed funds rate would ultimately get back to 2% and the U.S.
Treasury at 10 years would get back to 3.5% we would expect that the NIM again importantly excluding the excess deposits would be in the range of 150 basis points to 160 basis points approximately four years after the Fed stopped increasing those rates.
Now again there's a lot of assumptions in there and all things equal of course.
But that gives you a sense that it could take a while but it could be a meaningful increase because that 150 basis points to 160 basis points would compare to something in the low 120s basis points today on that same basis.
So again a fair amount of upside that would way more than offset the loss of the NIR from the excess deposits.
Conversely that low 120s basis points could fall to something like 95 basis points to 100 basis points if you recall at the Investor Day presentation if interest rates stayed static.
So again unfortunately a fair amount of downside if rates stay exactly where they are.
So it is a relatively unpredictable period Ken so I think it would be fair to say in net it's too early to give you a specific thoughts around calendar year 2016 but in net there could be continued grind if we don't get help on market interest rates but we could get help over time if we could get some help there.
Okay.
One follow-up on expenses.
You're asked about this a lot just underlying regulatory cost inflation which has been a big burden of this year.
Again aside from the program the $50 million to $500 million what's your line of sight to at least seeing kind of the core rate of growth of expenses starting to slow or are we still on the upward escalation part of that part of the spend? Sure Ken.
The way I think about it is in really a couple of different pieces.
First of all I would remind you that we're in a service business so as we add additional net new business as we have for 2015 I would expect that we'd have to add expenses to service that revenue.
But obviously we expect to get positive operating leverage on that additional revenue.
So net-net the revenue more than pays for the additional expenses.
You're absolutely right the burden that we have faced here in 2015 and also in 2014 was related to the regulatory and related priorities and that expense came both in terms of adding full-time staff but also outside consultants.
As we've talked to you about before we do anticipate in Q4 and also in 2016 making more progress on replacing those outside consultants which are very expensive with additional full-time staff.
And just as we've gotten better in terms of process improvement on these priorities I think we get more efficient and smarter at how we're spending the money.
So again that's been upward pressure in 2014 and 2015.
I think we'll be more productive in 2016.
I still would anticipate I wouldn't put a number on it at this point that 2016 regulatory expenses would be higher than where they ended up for 2015 just based on the overall environment and the higher regulatory expectations worldwide.
But I don't think we'll see the magnitude of increase and certainly we're working through the budgeting process to try to limit that year-over-year increase to something less than what it's been here in 2015.
And then the only last comment I'd make and then see if Jay wants to add anything is around we will continue to make additional efficiencies.
We've made progress on that in 2015.
The severance charge that we're announcing today is obviously another near-term step and then as we've laid out today the significant focus on this multiyear plan to get the next tranche of the transformation savings.
No I don't have anything to add Ken.
Okay.
Thanks Mike.
Thanks Jay.
Your next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning.
I just wanted to dig in a little bit to the deposit strategy and I think it's great that you were able to bring the deposits down.
I just wondered you mentioned client conversations.
We've seen the front end of the curve in the auctions and treasuries go for zero rates.
So I'm guessing that's part of the strategy to increase move deposits or excess cash out maybe to the treasury market.
But I'm just wondering what other kinds of discussions or conversations you're having? And how much did the pricing change that you discussed last call impact your success? And do you see pricing continuing from here to have a positive impact on your balances? Yeah.
Let me take that one up Betsy.
As I referenced before this is I think probably the most important thing we did was had an extended conversation with customers making sure they understood through our eyes what was excess and what was more burdensome from the capital return standpoint.
Once we got there the customers they get it.
They understand the capital pressure.
So it was really then more a matter of what's the execution plan.
We had some vehicles within State Street that we're able to utilize to offload or relieve some of those excess deposits.
They also chose to use other vehicles.
I think the pricing which I would say in Europe ratchet up three or four times and the U.S.
less so was us feeling our way to determine at what level of cost to the customer for excess deposits it created the right behavior.
So the most important thing was transparency and openness of discussion facilitating and helping them with alternative strategies for excess deposits and then reinforcing that with the pricing mechanism which I think ultimately that combination of things leaves us in a place where our customers appreciate and understand what we're going through and are trying to help us solve the overall issue.
And leaves us with I think a mechanism in place i.e.
pricing that should allow us to within reason manage the size of our balance sheet.
And do you feel like this is the beginning and there's a lot more to go? Or that you worked really hard obviously on this for a while so you've optimized as much as you think you can optimize with your clients at this stage? I think I would say that importantly what we've done is establish some I'll use the word control or some ability to influence those deposits.
And as Mike mentioned we set our target which we achieved that target.
I think going forward the size of the deposit base and the burden on the balance sheet will be dictated by CCAR or other internal processes our view of rates.
So we think we're in a pretty good place right now not only from a standpoint of where deposits are but reiterating the importance of how we got there.
Right.
So you're not really looking for that much more shrinkage from here? Not at this point.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
All right.
Good morning.
Morning.
So I just want to summarize what I think I heard.
You're missing your targets for operating leverage and fee growth for 2015.
There's a lot of reasons: lower rates lower markets lower dollar lower EM and higher regulatory costs.
And part of the solution is to accelerate the plan to digitalize the operation.
So if my understanding is correct why a total of perhaps five years from now to get the benefits from the plan? I understand you won't tell us all the details until January but we're talking I guess the end of 2020 for some of these benefits.
And can you reassure us that you guys have a sense of urgency after having less than ideal operating leverage this year? Let me start that Mike and then Mike can jump in if he chooses.
I'd separate those two comments.
I mean they're broadly related but we set out a 4% to 7% revenue growth rate and 200 basis points at the beginning of the year conditioned upon a certain set of market and rate environment.
And as Mike reported we haven't thrown in the towel on the 200 basis points.
I guess that's important to say that we have probably a realistic view of the fourth quarter from a market standpoint.
And we believe it's going to be pretty challenging to get to the bottom end of that 4% to 7% growth range.
But we are turning over every rock in the fourth quarter to attempt to hit that 200 basis points.
We're just saying it looks like a stretch as I sit here today.
Related but separately you know as well as anybody the business ops and IT journey that we went on and I think you have an appreciation of the foundation that set for us.
Digitization is the next logical step in that journey.
And we had the digitization plan but in light of the continued downward pressure on the environment I've decided that we're going to accelerate that forward we're going to put more emphasis more resources on it and get to that $500 million quicker than we would have had we not.
When 70% of the improvement is technology-driven there is some gate for how quickly you can go but what we're saying is we are going to make it the highest priority in the organization to accelerate that plan.
And we think that it will have the attended benefits of cost which we're all interested in.
But it's also going to accelerate our ability to deliver data analytics products to our customers as we streamline the internal data flow within the organization reduce risk and reduce operating loss.
I think what we're saying is tough third quarter based on the environment haven't given up on our goals for 2015 but given our overall outlook for the environment we're moving forward a plan that we had in place anyway to accelerate our ability to reduce costs.
Mike do you want to add anything? Yeah Mike I would just add that remember this is built off of the backbone of the IT and ops transformation program which I think everybody would view as being very successful.
That also was a multiyear plan but the fact that we were able to meet the interim as well as the full program objectives there gives us a lot of confidence that we can do the same for this next tranche.
And then just one short follow-up.
On page three of your slide it says long-term shareholder value and it gives long-term goals certainly not for this environment.
Might you have to reconsider those long-term goals at some point? Yeah Mike I would say that we'll certainly each year continue to look at the long-term expectations that we have for this business.
For now certainly  and we went through this if you recall at our last Investor Day we do believe that those goals are achievable as long as in particular that we get some help in terms of a return to more normal interest rates and the other items that we talked about at  backing those goals back in February.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Just maybe a quick question on the SLR.
As you pointed out a lot of the deposit declines came at the end of the quarter.
So as we look to 4Q since the SLR denominator is based on an average if I do the math right based on your indications does that add  should we expect that that adds all else being equal around it seems like maybe 40 basis points to the SLR next quarter? Yeah Jim it's Mike.
Yeah certainly your arithmetic is in the ballpark.
I would remind you that the  that implies that we continue in terms of those the lower levels of deposit through the entirety of the average of fourth quarter and also that nothing else materially changes.
But again subject to those caveats your arithmetic is on the money.
We'll get the benefit of the drop in the deposits in September we'll get the full benefit of that in Q4 as long as it's maintained.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So when we think about the conversation around preferred you're reticent to kind of say that it's off the table it's just because you don't know how it progresses from here.
If we see another spike in the balance sheet that might be a different discussion but given that you could be getting much closer to 6% it seems like there's a clear guide path to above 6% over the next couple of years.
Is that a fair comment? Jim yeah I'd split it up into two pieces.
First your comments are fair as it relates to the SLR and in fact we've said all along that we are confident that we're going to be in compliance with SLR which doesn't kick in until 1/1/2018 and that we'll be on a glide path to get there.
So yes I continue to feel positive about our longer-term compliance with SLR.
I would reinforce though Jim what I said earlier and that is near-term the most important binding constraint is not the SLR it's the upcoming CCAR test and specifically based on our experience last year it's the Tier 1 leverage calculation in the upcoming CCAR that's likely to be our near-term binding constraint.
And I'm sure that's going to be impacted by our Q4 balance sheet but it's also going to be impacted by the parameters of the CCAR test.
We don't know what those are yet obviously and we'll have to investigate those parameters and put it through our own capital management modeling.
So there are just a lot of other things that  beyond the longer-term SLR compliance that could go into a decision in 2016 around prefs and I just I  not knowing those parameters I can't say definitively but obviously we plan to give an update here in  at the beginning of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Your next question is from the line of Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning folks.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Jay just to take a step back on the business ops transformation program and your digitization program just big picture I guess moving from the former program where you certainly had a technological lead versus your peers and then to this program is this something that in your mind was an evolution that you thought would have to happen even several years back or is it more in a response to an increasingly competitive environment? Of course BNY advanced their technological move a couple of years back post the integration of Mellon and just trying to get a sense of the competitive environment that's causing this versus how you feel about your leadership position? Yeah let me give that a shot Brian.
The  I think it represents the inevitable endgame for this business which is increasingly what we do even though we value some of the operational activities and pricing that we do at the end of the day.
The value that the customer sees is the information and analytics that gets derived from all of the data and accounting that we do internally here.
And that is impeded today for everybody by multiple systems breaks handoffs reconciliations which causes an inherent delay in the information which lessens its usability.
So not far into the future I think we end up being the organization that delivers upstream analytics to portfolio managers to risk managers to compliance managers that provide that real-time insight into the information we hold on behalf of our customers.
So that's where the puck's going.
I think everybody is grappling with this in different ways.
We have the good fortune you could say good fortune or good management to begin with common systems.
And so the common systems that we had going into the business opts and IT transformation program allowed us to look at the common processes which are many go through a lean or Six Sigma type analysis optimize those processes form centers of excellence leverage places like Poland China India for a low-cost location.
And that's where we are today.
So we run common systems.
We've got common processes.
The next leg of that is to automate from an end to end basis when a trade comes into the organization all the way through and out the back end.
How that marries up with where the puck's going is that if you can do that then that information becomes real-time  all the processing that goes on and the information we deliver back up to front offices of our customers  is much more valuable than it is today.
And if you were to visit with any asset owner any asset manager and ask them what's on their top three list of challenges today it's aggregating data on a real-time basis for insights for portfolio management risk management and compliance.
And we aim to be the organization to get there.
And you can't get there unless you take these steps that I just outlined.
And I would say from a standpoint of where we are from a leadership standpoint common systems common processes leveraging emerging markets all over the world.
And the next big step is to digitize end-to-end those activities.
I think we're out in front of everybody with regard to that.
And I think we've got the right vision and view.
And this is just saying we're going to further accelerate the execution to make sure that we deliver on an organization that's better situated for where the future opportunities are and an organization that will continue to be a cost leader from a standpoint of those core activities that we conduct.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's great color.
Thanks very much for that.
And then Mike just some couple of clarifications.
Just your comments around the 120 basis point NIM excluding excess deposits.
What type of an environment do you need to get to that? And if you could just comment again.
I think I may have missed this.
The actual excess deposit level you have now now that you've got $30 billion to $35 billion off.
And then on regulatory expenses you mentioned the pace slowing in 2016 versus 2015 you think.
What was the increase in regulatory costs in 2015 so far versus 2014? Thanks.
Sure Brian.
It's Mike.
First of all related to the net interest margin the low 120s basis points Brian that I was mentioning in answer to the earlier question is approximately where we are right now.
So we reported an overall NIM of 95 basis points.
If we strip out the excess deposits and some other near-term items on the balance sheets like higher CD levels and look at instead the net interest margin on what we believe to be the long-term balance sheet which includes the operational deposits and again more normal levels we basically calculate a NIM today in the low 120s basis points.
And as I was answering earlier I think to Ken's question that could grind down further by say another 25 basis points or so.
Or it could increase further or another 30 basis points 35 basis points or so depending upon where market interest rates go over the next few years.
So your second question was around the excess deposits.
On our historical method for calculating excess deposits which we've given you now for the last couple of years.
We estimate that our average excess deposits dropped for average Q3 versus Q2 by approximately $16 billion.
So a drop from $62 billion on average at Q2 to $46 billion on average for Q3.
But much like what Jim Mitchell was asking about we would expect if the deposit level simply stay where they are today that would drop further in Q4 because we will pick up in Q4 the full average.
Now I cannot emphasize enough Brian that that does assume that there is no significant change in the external environment and we are very sensitive to the fact for example that the last time there was a debt crisis we saw a huge inflow of deposits.
So there is certainly other factors out in the environment that could change that.
But basically if nothing else changed in the quarter relative to where things are today we would see another similar type of drop in the excess deposits in Q4.
And then your last question around the regulatory expenses.
We declined giving a specific number Brian because I just think there is so much art rather than science that goes into estimating all in regulatory expenses.
Obviously we track very closely very specific regulatory initiatives like CCAR compliance but we know that there's upward pressure throughout the organization in terms of first line of defense second line of defense corporate audit et cetera that are  at least largely a function of the higher regulatory expectations worldwide.
So I'd prefer not to give a specific number there.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Good.
That's great color.
Thanks so much.
Your next question is from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Morning.
So another one on the expense program I guess.
May be taken another way but I guess the challenge that a lot of investors have with a lot of these cost initiatives is that when you look at a point-to-point from the time you guys have announced the original program call it 2010 through the end of last year at least you know expenses are up 20%.
Granted the revenues grew as well but I think it will help us understand what is the embedded core expense growth in your view that is reasonable for you to have in today's current regulatory environment in order to achieve your organic growth goals.
Is it 3% is it 5% just to kind of get us somewhere you know help us better assess how much of an ultimate bottom-line impact we could have from this program? Thanks.
Yeah.
Let me start that Alex.
This is Jay.
Reflecting on your math from where we ended up the last program I think the winds we've been sailing into have largely been regulatory expenditures and the grinding down of interest rates which have affected net interest revenue I think.
I don't have the math in front of me.
And I think if you took those away then you know  so we would  you know you can take your own view on where we are on the rate cycle.
As Mike indicated we think we are at least bending the curve on the regulatory cost growth going forward.
And if you isolated those two things it's the operating leverage thing again and the service business you are always doing new things for customers some of that requires expense to do that.
But I would point to operating leverage and/or if you are able to hold those other variables constant margin improvement.
But Mike what would you...? Yeah I would add Alex that first of all Jay is right.
If you adjust for the higher regulatory expenses and the lower net interest revenue from the grind in interest rates we have in fact expanded margins along the lines of actually a little more than the $625 million that we reported as IT and ops transformation.
So the only piece I would add to Jay's answer is that I think importantly Alex is the relationship between the fee revenue and the expenses.
So and we've talked about this before.
In an environment where fees are growing at 5% say and again there's some help from markets in there there's some help from flows in there there's some help from market-driven revenues like FX trading revenues.
Then we do in fact expect to have that outpace our expenses in a normal period of time.
Obviously that is measured over a longer period of time than just one quarter in any given quarter.
For example Q3 was a good example of that where there is a sharp contraction in markets particularly like we saw in emerging market equity levels then that relationship won't always hold.
But again given the success also we had with the first IT and ops transformation program I would hope that we built credibility with you in terms of our ability to translate these kinds of programs into our overall margins all things equal.
Got it.
So just to paraphrase more normal environment the operating leverage on the core business ex-rates.
We should still think about in that 200 basis point spread and then layer on the savings on top of that? Yeah I wouldn't quite jump to the 200 basis points because again I think that was a 2015 objective.
Which did include by the way some productivity benefits which have helped us offset some of the upward pressure on regulatory expenses.
Got you.
Okay.
And then Jay just a question for you on the excess deposits again.
You alluded to some levers outside of just price increases.
Any way to specify I guess what those were and the magnitude of the benefit that you guys got from those additional levers when it comes to the $30 billion $35 billion number? Yeah Alex I would say that I mean if you would call them levers it's probably three things.
Its full transparency with customers with specificity around our objective which translating into from a customer standpoint they don't always know what excess is.
So by putting some point targets that we're trying to solve for is point one.
Point two is second set of levers is what buckets do they have or we have to shed some of these deposits.
So some of those are our buckets whether it's money funds some of those are their buckets whether moving into treasuries or other vehicles.
And then the third part of the package is making sure that there's a fee incentive which reinforces the right behavior that was not dropped on someone but was introduced in a very measured way over time.
So that the customer has the ability to help us manage our collective issue and I say that's the story.
And I think going out at the way we went at it I think was the right way to go at it.
And it's more likely to create a more sustained outcome.
Understood.
Thanks so much for taking the questions.
Your next question is from the line of Adam Beatty with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I appreciate the detail on emerging markets exposure and the asset servicing business.
Another area of the market that had challenges has been energy and commodities.
So I just want to get your thoughts maybe not specific figures around areas of the business where there's asset servicing or asset management that might be exposed to energy and commodities.
And whether that's had an impact so far? Thanks.
Yeah I guess the only thing that I can think of Adam maybe by the nature of my hesitation here is it's not much.
But I think about commodities and in particular oil and some sovereign well funds that have downward pressure based on a $45 to $50 a barrel oil pricing and the need to continually fund ongoing operations.
That's probably the place that it binds mostly.
And I would say it's a discrete set of customers and important but I'd say in the overall scheme of things our exposure to commodity prices directly is not that material.
Thank you Jay.
These days not much a pretty good answer there.
Turning to asset management and the growth of that business you've introduced a lot of new ETF products.
Just wanted to get a sense of which market segments and channels you're targeting to gain share.
And maybe an update on the overall strategic plan with Ron O'Hanley at SSGA? Thanks.
Sure.
Let me start with ETFs and then I'll broaden it out.
Our ETF strategy is you know we've come from a place where most of our  originally our business was more institutionally oriented and we're moving to a more retail oriented business which requires that you hire wholesalers in those country and intermediaries in Europe in order to distribute that product.
And we've made pretty big investments over the last 18 months to 24 months to increase our distribution salesforce in the U.S.
And we're doing something similar in Europe.
So the strategy is multifold.
One it's to  in addition to the institutional world orient towards the retail world and with that bulk up our distribution.
And that distribution would be to financial planners advisors broker-dealers private banks.
And then the other leg of the strategy is really around on the product side.
So you noted in the beginning of your comment that we've introduced quite a few products.
The orientation of the new products that we're bringing to market have the characteristic of less pure beta more involved strategies and therefore higher fees.
So the one that I spiked out in my comments was the product we did with DoubleLine.
We have several other products one with Blackstone bank loan fund.
So we're orienting towards maybe more sophisticated and higher-yielding products.
And the last point I would make is we have been open and continue to be open to package somebody else's investment expertise in our ETF structuring here and distributed through the distribution force that I just mentioned.
I guess if I broaden the question out the other main emphasis of the SSGA's strategy that I would put a bright light on is the whole solutions world which for us 401(k) has been a big area of success over the last couple of years.
Ron has a big history on that.
And even more broadly just Packaging Solutions for not only institutional but the retail world And we think with our combination of beta in many flavors ETF's vehicles that we're well positioned to succeed in both the ETF and the solutions world.
That's great detail.
Much appreciated.
Your next question is from the line of Ashley Serrao with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Jay I just wanted to shift the conversation to your third pillar of your long-term plan.
How will you be investing for growth during this program? Are you able to size the data and analytics opportunity you noted today? And are there any other revenue opportunities that could emerge from 2016 digitization plan? Yeah.
I appreciate the question.
Broadly we have been  even though we don't talk about it a lot on these calls.
We haven't lost our way with regard to continuing to invest in things that will be the future growth drivers of the business.
The one I like to point to enhanced custody.
Four years or five years ago a vision that took a couple of years for it to incubate.
And now as you know it's driving most of the growth in our securities lending business.
That's one example.
There are several examples around.
But if I go to the third pillar of the strategy the data and analytics business which we launched I think two years ago now.
There are several strategies that we're focused on there.
At the core it's this data aggregation piece.
So if we're dealing with an asset manager or an asset owner the ability to aggregate up data not only our own data but data from other sources through a data warehouse cleanse it make sure that it's available real-time is the foundational stage of that business.
And then on the back of that risk tools.
We recently introduced a stress testing tool for fund products where it's really a big data application where we see subscription and redemption history.
We know the characteristics of the underlying funds.
We can predict or allow a customer to predict how much liquidity is required given the likelihood of redemptions.
Interestingly the SEC and increasingly the other regulators are leaning into the asset management industry to get more sophisticated about liquidity stress testing and fund products.
So that converges nicely with that.
That's just one example Ashley but it's clear as day to me that the future is going to be defined by who wins that space who can digitize their data and who can develop those analytic products that are the value-add to customers in addition to all the custody and operational activities that we conduct.
Okay.
Thanks for the color there.
And then Mike as you intensify efforts to reduce these deposits apart from NII should we be thinking about any other revenue impact as clients adjust? And then also how are you addressing the $20 billion or so nonoperational hedge fund deposits? Sure Ashley.
First on the revenue side at this point and I acknowledge that things can change in the future at this point I don't expect other second order impact from the deposit actions other than the lost NIR on the excess deposits themselves.
So at this point again we're not expecting for example to lose client relationships over this.
Although again it's something we're very sensitive to and that's why we've taken the measured approach that we have.
And as it relates to the hedge fund and private equity deposits as we've talked about before while historically a chunk of those have  we've considered to be operational deposits because they are in fact a part of the normal operations and part of the custody relationship.
And we do believe to be sticky they don't count under the LCR rules as being operational deposits.
So a portion of those we've seen decline so a portion of the excess deposits for those clients are included in the deposit reduction that I've mentioned.
But as you would expect a portion have remained sticky and we do expect that they will remain sticky going forward.
And we'll continue to look at the all-in economics of those relationships but expect them to be sticky.
Okay.
I guess final question: does this in any way change your view of alternative asset servicing and attractiveness of that business? No it does not.
But we view that as a very attractive segment.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question is from the line of Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
Jay and Mike I just want to follow up on Alex's question so the whole thought process of can we see this benefit come to the bottom line.
You talked about the fact that  Alex mentioned the revenue is up as much as expense is up and you talked about the fact that you were hurt by NIM but rates are coming down which is fair.
But on the other hand Jay you also have a huge benefit from equity markets.
I mean if you look from 2010 onwards your S&amp;P 500 went from 1 250 to even just go to the end of second quarter over 2 000.
Your NASDAQ almost doubled from 2 500-plus.
So if we don't have that kind of huge market tailwind should we still like  should we be able to expect to see this? And on the expense side while you  obviously regulatory expenses were a surprise.
There is businesses  investment costs that have to go in too.
So could you add some more color to that? Vivek it's Mike.
First of all you're asking the kinds of levels of detail that we intend to cover as part of our Investor Day presentation and I suspect we'll give some overview on the Q4 call.
So I just think it's better laying out the entire plan to then talk about some of the specifics around things like equity market help or the market interest rate environment.
I think that's better handled over the course of a multi-hour Investor Day than on this call.
Okay.
And Jay how much of this digitization  since you're doing  this is coming over five years.
How much of this is more what I would think of as business as usual because the world is changing we're going to more passive assets more ETFs from active and so this is just needed given that you've got obviously lower fees coming on the other side as opposed to just given that it's such a long timeframe? How much of that is more that  whatever's coming anyway that you had to...
Yeah I  in some respects Vivek it doesn't matter the asset type the asset class the geography.
To me it's really reflective of this pretty cumbersome western world financial landscape that we've created.
What we're talking about enhances the value of a passive fund an alternative fund a private equity fund.
If we can move things through here without human touch it benefits everybody.
To the point of  this is where the world is going.
Not just financial services.
Everybody's looking to digitize their environment and it's hard to do.
And I think that  I think we have a huge benefit and that we're a large global company but we've laid the foundation long ago common systems common processes to get there first and this today's announcement is really a reflection of needing to pull it in so that we can get there first because of the somewhat the environment which puts pressure on cost.
So I think it has the intended benefit of cost saves at the same time it accelerates our product strategy and should make us more valuable counterparty to our customers.
Thank you.
Your final question is from the line of Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
Hi.
It's Geoff Elliott from Autonomous Research.
Thank you for taking the question.
The singular event that you talked about driving up processing expenses what was that? I'd rather not go into a huge amount of detail but it's fair to say that we did have a processing error related to a significant once in many many years maybe a decades kind of class action situation.
And so as a result of course we reimbursed the funds that were impacted so that it was our loss not theirs.
And Geoffrey I'd just say that the losses or gains get extreme scrutiny around here not just to  there are two things to figure out what happened but also to make sure that it can happen again.
And so we take great pride in our record of low operating losses.
So when an event like this happens we turned the place upside down to make sure that everybody understands what happened and why it won't happen again.
And then on the $500 million I know you're still kind of working through the fine detail but can you just explain how you get to that number? Is it a bottom-up exercise? Is it a top-down exercise? Just to kind of get some comfort around the ability to deliver on that without giving us all of the information you're going to work through at the Investor Day.
Sure.
Geoffrey this is Jay and Mike can add to this.
It is very much a bottoms-up exercise.
We have hundreds of people and hundreds of work streams that are looking at  I'll take the simple one when an electronic trade comes in that end-to-end process how many breaks are there in it what technology needs to be applied what process needs to change in order to affect what outcome.
We have measured the breaks the outcomes the cost saves the people the systems so it's in a lot of detail.
And very much bottoms-up.
You can't just dictate top-down a number and expect that people are going to figure it out.
So we've spent the better part of a year in doing the analysis that leads to today's announcement.
Mike you want to add anything? Yeah Geoff what I would add is that remember this does build off the backbone of the IT and ops transformation program.
So one of the infrastructures that was created as part of that is as we move to for example centers of excellence and as we did the detailed process improvement at work from that program.
As Jay indicated we got very specific very granular on our unit cost for providing different services along the chain.
And as Jay indicated the $500 million stems from a review of those different links in the chain if you will and how much we expect to save through critically applying additional technology to those various links.
Again the piece that is specifically we're going to focus on over the next three months will be the pacing and sequencing.
So again I know several of you are interested in well what does that mean for 2016? And that is work that we need to do some additional vetting around.
And then there will also be some additional investment cost restructuring programs et cetera that we've got some additional detail to build up as well.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
That does conclude the Q&amp;A session for today's conference.
I will turn the call back over to Jay for any further statements or closing remarks.
Yeah thanks Stephanie.
I'd want to thank everybody for their questions and attention today and we look forward to speaking with you after the fourth quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This concludes State Street Corporation's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to State Street Corporation's Fourth Quarter of 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Today's discussion is being broadcast live on State Street's website at www.statestreet.com/stockholder.
This conference call is also being recorded for replay.
State Street's conference call is copyrighted and all rights are reserved.
This call may not be recorded for rebroadcast or distribution in whole or in part without the express written authorization from State Street Corporation.
The only authorized broadcast of this call will be housed on the State Street's website.
Now I would like to introduce Anthony Ostler Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at State Street.
Thank you Crystal.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us.
On our call today are our Chairman and CEO Jay Hooley who will speak first.
Then Mike Bell our CFO will take you through our fourth quarter 2015 earnings slide presentation which is available for download in the Investor Relations section of our website www.statestreet.com.
Afterwards we'll be happy to take questions.
During the Q&amp;A please limit your questions to two questions and then re-queue.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that today's presentation will include operating basis and other measures presented on a non-GAAP basis.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP or regulatory measures are available in the appendix to our fourth quarter 2015 slide presentation.
In addition today's presentation will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those statements due to a variety of important factors such as those factors referenced in our discussion today in our 4Q 2015 slide presentation under the heading forward-looking statements and in our SEC filings including the risk factors section of our 2014 Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements speak only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update them even if our views change.
We're looking forward to our 2016 Investor Day which will be held on Wednesday February 24th at the Mandarin Hotel in New York City.
This new team is the way ahead transforming State Street to extend our leadership position.
Please contact with Liz Bremer at IR at statestreet.com for more information or to register.
Now let me turn it over to Jay.
Thanks Anthony.
Good morning everyone.
Our performance in the fourth quarter reflects the continued challenges presented throughout 2015 including the challenging global equity markets particularly in emerging markets persistent low interest rates strengthening U.S.
dollar and heightened regulatory expectations.
We were successful at managing expenses in the quarter in light of the pressure on revenues.
In addition we grew fee revenue in 2015 and achieved strong new business results as evidenced by new asset servicing commitments of $300 billion this quarter and approximately $800 billion for the full year.
The challenging conditions notwithstanding overall I'm disappointed with our full year 2015 performance and how we performed against the various goals we set.
We generated 2% operating basis fee revenue growth compared to 2014 which was short of our goal of 4% to 7%.
On a constant currency basis our operating base fee revenue was 5.3%.
We also fell short of our objective of generating at least 200 basis points of positive fee operating leverage compared to 2014 as we posted a 79 basis point difference in growth.
In addition to the challenging revenue environment we experienced regulatory compliance costs and operating losses at a higher level than expected.
Actual net interest revenue was in line with our outlook which reflected the continued low interest rate environment and our balance sheet optimization actions.
Our efforts to optimize our balance have resulted in lower excess deposits and stronger capital ratios compared to the levels at the end of 2014 position us well for our long-term capital plan.
Lastly returning capital to our shareholders remains a top priority.
We increased our quarterly common share dividend to $0.34 per share in the second quarter of 2015 an annualized increase of 14% from 2014 and bought back $1.52 billion in common shares in 2015.
As you may have already noted the fourth quarter's results also include a number of items and legal settlements which we have worked hard to address and put behind us so that we can turn our complete focus on growing our business and improving our operations.
Mike Bell will discuss how these items impacted our financial statements.
Now I would like to discuss our asset servicing and asset management businesses.
We added $300 billion of new servicing commitments during the quarter across all sectors and geographies.
The difficult global market environment in 2015 put significant pressure on our clients creating a positive environment for cross-selling and clients consolidating their service business with fewer providers.
Our asset management business experienced net outflows of $19 billion during the fourth quarter of 2015 driven primarily by new outflows of $19 billion from institutional passive mandates and $10 billion in net outflows from cash mandates primarily from securities lending cash collaterals partially offset by $11 billion of inflows through ETFs.
Institutional net outflows were primarily driven by client asset allocation shifts and an expected redemption of one large sub-advisory client that is in-sourcing the business.
Redemptions by this client are expected to continue through the remainder of 2016 and assets under management associated with this client was approximately $35 billion at the end of 2015.
The low headline net outflows were negative annualized revenue impact on flows was positive $10 million due to a favorable underlying business mix.
During the fourth quarter of 2015 we had approximately $11 billion of positive net flows into our ETFs including approximately $4.5 billion of inflows for SPY our S&amp;P 500 ETF.
We continue to invest in our ETFs with a further 13 new launches in the fourth quarter bringing total 2015 launches to 35.
Significant fourth quarter launches included three smart beta ETFs and a natural resources ETF that immediately ranked in the top 10 launches in the U.S.
in 2015.
In addition the SPDR DoubleLine Total Return Tactical ETF was the top product launched in the U.S.
in 2015 with $1.8 billion inflows.
Overall our SPDR ETF business had five of the top 10 new product launched in the U.S.
with combined assets gathered across all new launches of $4.3 billion.
Going into 2016 we continue to focus on what we can control and to do our best to address those elements we cannot control.
As we know the start of year in global markets has not been good but regardless of the implications to revenues it is our objective to strive to generate positive fee operating leverage.
We started the year with new assets to be serviced that remain to be installed in future periods of $378 billion at December 31st and we continue to see deep and diverse pipelines which should help our fee revenues.
Our overall strategy is well positioned against global markets which we believe over the long-term will deliver accelerated growth opportunities.
Knowing we are off to a difficult start in 2016 we're focused on identifying leverage to improve our performance in 2016 and help us outperform in the current macro-environment.
This includes a focus on managing expenses that is in addition to our multiyear transformation program and targeted staff reductions that we discussed on the Q3 '15 earnings call which is called State Street Beacon.
We currently expect State Street Beacon to generate approximately $550 million in the annualized pretax net run rate expense savings by the end of 2020 with approximately $75 million of that run rate savings being achieved in 2016.
State Street Beacon leverages the foundation built by our business operations and technology transformation program that was completed in 2014.
The program will leverage your cloud infrastructure to drive next generation platforms in order to improve scale and flexibility.
Digitization of services and solutions will enable automated access across and improve interfaces with our clients.
We expect the end result of the program to produce a lower cost client centric integrated operating model delivering timely information to our global exchange platforms.
Not only will we continue our firm-wide focus on expenses but we are also looking for more ways to accelerate revenue growth through cross-selling and product innovation.
I am encouraged by some of the developments we've already seen through our digitization work particularly the data solutions we can offer our customers.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mike who will review our financial performance for the fourth quarter and then we will be available to take your call -- take your questions.
Mike? Thank you Jay and good morning everyone.
Before I begin my review of our operating basis results I'll comment on two significant items that affected our 4Q '15 GAAP basis results as highlighted on Slide 5.
First we recorded a 4Q '15 charge of approximately $17 million and a liability of approximately $240 million related to the matter in which we invoiced certain expenses to asset servicing clients primarily in the U.S.
during an 18 year period.
The current period charge reflects an accrual for interest that we intend to pay to the impacted clients.
$223 million of the liability or $145 million after tax relates to periods prior to the 2015 fiscal year and appears in the beginning routine earnings balance of our statement of shareholders' equity as of December 31 2014.
Please note all prior period financial information within this Slide deck and within our earnings release and addendum have been revised to reflect the impact of the reimbursement on each prior period presented.
In addition we recorded an $82 million pretax gain or $49 million after tax related to the final payoff of a commercial real estate loan acquired as a result of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy.
Now please turn to Slide 9 in the slide presentation for a summary of our operating basis results for 4Q '15 and for full year of 2015.
Both 4Q '15 and 2015 full year results reflect the headwinds from challenging global equity market conditions low interest rates a stronger U.S.
dollar and heightened regulatory expenses.
Full year 2015 EPS decreased 3% from 2014 reflecting lower NIR and higher expenses particularly due to the heightened regulatory expectations partially offset by fee growth and the continued execution of our common stock purchase program.
Our pretax operating margin of 29.1% and ROE of 10.7% decreased relative to 2014.
Compared to full year 2014 full year 2015 fee revenue was negatively impacted by the stronger U.S.
dollar largely offset by a similar benefit in total expenses.
On a constant currency basis fees grew by 5.3% versus full year 2014.
Turning to 4Q '15 EPS of $1.21 decreased from $1.36 in the year ago quarter and increased from $1.15 in 3Q '15.
Our capital ratios improved sequentially and from year-end 2014 reflecting management actions to reduce risk weighted assets and to also reduce the level of excess deposits on our balance sheet.
As weve discussed we are particularly pleased with our progress on this priority over the second half of 2015.
Additionally we declared a common stock dividend of $0.34 per share and purchased approximately $350 million of our common stock.
Turning to Slide 12 I'll discuss additional details of our operating basis revenue from 4Q '15.
Servicing fees decreased primarily due to the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar and lower international equity markets partially offset by net new business.
The decrease in international equity markets particularly in emerging markets continues to negatively impact servicing fees.
Compared to the year ago quarter average daily values for the Morgan Stanley Emerging Market Index decreased 16% while the EFA equity index was down approximately 4%.
We estimate that approximately 10% of our servicing fees are tied to emerging markets.
4Q '15 management fees decreased relative to a year ago primarily due to the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar net outflows and lower international equity markets.
Foreign exchange revenue decreased due to the lower volatility in volumes.
Securities finance revenue increased from 4Q '14 primarily due to new business and enhanced custody and was higher than 3Q '15 primarily reflecting higher spreads.
The increase in processing fees and other revenue from 4Q '14 and 3Q '15 reflects higher revenue associated with tax advantaged investments.
It's also important to note that this line item which has a number of elements within it did experience volatility from quarter-to-quarter was higher in 4Q '15 than normal.
In addition the 4Q '15 revenue also benefited from tax advantage investment seasonality so we expect to find that to be a little bit lower in 1Q '16.
Moving to Slide 13 you can see that our operating basis net interest revenue continued to be pressured by the prolonged low interest rate environment.
The decrease in 4Q '15 average earning assets and corresponding increase in the net interest margin reflects the efforts to reduce client deposits that largely occurred towards the end of the third quarter.
Now let's turn to Slide 14 to review 4Q '15 operating basis expenses.
Importantly total operating basis expenses decreased 3% compared to both 3Q '15 and the year ago quarter primarily reflecting lower incentive compensation and other expenses.
Other expenses included a $12 million settlement with the SEC related to the previously disclosed allegations of improper conduct in the solicitation of asset servicing business.
Now turning to Slide 16 to review our capital position.
As you can see our capital ratios remained strong which has enabled us to accomplish a key priority of returning capital to shareholders through dividends and common stock purchases.
Importantly at December 31st our common equity Tier 1 ratio under both the Basel III fully phased-in advanced and standardized approach increased from September 30th principally due to lower risk-weighted assets.
The December 31st fully phased-in supplementary leverage ratio at the bank also increased to 5.7% on a fully phased-in basis principally due to the full quarter effect of our proactive efforts to reduce client deposits in September.
Moving to Slide 17 let me review the financial details of the State Street Beacon program.
We expect to achieve annual pretax net run rate expense savings of approximately $550 million by the end of 2020.
In 2016 we expect to achieve $75 million in annual pretax net run rate expense savings which includes the savings associated with the reduction in force that we announced in 3Q '15.
In 2017 we expect to achieve an additional pretax net run rate expense savings of at least a $125 million.
Included in the targeted $550 million in annual pretax net run rate expense savings are ongoing investments to support the program.
Importantly we expect State Street Beacon to improve our operating basis pretax profit margin to at least 31% by 2018 and to 33% by the end of 2020 all else equal.
To accomplish our savings targets we expect to incur restructuring charges of approximately $300 million to $400 million from 2016 through 2020 and we look forward to providing a further update at our Investor Day on February 24th.
Now let's move onto Slide 18 and 19 for a review for our 2016 financial outlook.
During 2016 we remain focused on our key priorities of returning capital to shareholders prudently managing expenses and investing in the business to provide solutions to our clients.
Although we anticipate that the environment will continue to be challenging in 2016 managing expenses is a high priority.
It is our objective to generate positive fee operating leverage relative to 2015.
Now please be aware that the year-to-date weakness in the equity markets will adversely affect total revenue.
As a reminder a 10% decline in global equity markets is expected to result in approximately 2% of downward pressure on our total revenue.
While upward pressure on regulatory and compliance cost is expected to continue in 2016 we expect the growth rate of regulatory and compliance expenses to be lower than 2015.
We also expect expense growth to be affected by new business as well as continued investments.
Also it's important to highlight that as in prior years the first quarter 2016 compensation and employee benefits expense will be seasonally higher due to the effect of the accounting treatment of equity compensation for retirement eligible employees as well as for payroll taxes and associated benefits.
We expect the incremental amount attributed to equity compensation for retirement eligible employees and payroll taxes in the first quarter of 2016 to be in a range of approximately $130 million to $140 million.
As you can see we developed two scenarios for 2016 net interest revenue.
The first scenario assumes market interest rates remain static at current levels.
Under this scenario we expect full-year 2016 NIR to be in the range of approximately $2.025 billion to $2.125 billion.
The second scenario assumes administered rates in the U.S.
increase 25 basis points in both March and June and in the U.K.
rates increase 25 basis points in both May and August.
Under this scenario we expect full-year 2016 NIR to be in the range of approximately $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion.
Additionally we expect the (2006) (sic) (2016) operating basis tax rate to be in a range of 30% to 32%.
Turning to the last slide I would emphasize that returning capital to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends remains a high priority.
Our 2016 capital plan remains subject to the results of the 2016 CCAR process including a review by the Federal Reserve Board.
Now before I turn the call over to Jay I would like to inform all of you that David Gutschenritter the Company Treasurer has informed me of his intention to retire after 11 years with State Street.
Dave has been an incredible positive force in his role as Treasurer.
As the industry evolved and the regulatory environment became more complex Dave brought the talent processes and leadership needed to assure our continued success.
We will miss him tremendously.
Dave has agreed to stay on in an advisory capacity through July 30th to ensure orderly transition of his responsibilities.
And as part of our succession plan the Board of Directors has elected Tracy Atkinson to Treasurer affective February 1st.
In addition to a number of other leadership roles in finance Tracy has had oversight for Global Treasury for the past five years so we expect her transition to the Treasurer role to be smooth.
Dave has had close relationships with many of you over the last several years and for those of you attending our Investor Day next month they will have the opportunity to wish him well.
Now I'm going to turn the call back over to Jay.
Thanks Mike.
Crystal we are all set to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Maybe Mike and Jay if you can talk a little bit about the market assumptions that you have underlying the assumption of generating stronger fee growth in 2016 versus the operating expenses? And then maybe if you could just give a little bit more color on what youre thinking about for operating expenses on an absolute basis in '16 versus '15? Thanks.
I am sorry Brian can you just repeat the end of that second part of your question? So on the expense side if you can give us a little bit more color on how youre thinking about the absolute level of expenses of operating expenses in 2016 versus '15? Okay.
So thats helpful Brian.
Ill handle both of those.
First in terms of your question on the market assumptions candidly Brian given all the uncertainty in the market environment I am really reluctant to give you at this point a concrete forecast and thats why we didnt include that in the prepared remarks and in the slide presentation.
I am sure it's not lost on you that the equity markets thus far in January for example are down high single digits and the emerging markets even worse.
And particularly with our mix of business that would be a serious headwind.
So instead were really focused on achieving overall fee operating leverage in 2016 and we recognize that that would be more challenging if in fact equity markets remain uncooperative for the rest of the year.
But were focused on as Jay said what we can control.
We feel good about the Beacon savings that well get in 2016.
We recognize that there is some upward pressure on the regulatory expenses but we think that will be at a lower rate than what it's been in the last -- in 2015.
And so were really looking at managing really every expense dollar.
And that really relates to your second question which is in terms of our overall expense growth plan it will be largely dependant upon fee revenue.
We intend to manage expenses at a lower rate than what our fees grow.
And again it will be more challenging if the environment is difficult but thats our plan and thats why were looking at every area of expenses were looking at management layers were looking at procurement were looking at outside consultants were looking at real estate were looking at low return businesses.
I mean really were looking at the entire spectrum with a goal of getting to that positive fee operating leverage for full year 2016.
And maybe just talk about the Beacon program a little bit more.
Maybe just start with the trajectory at the $75 million and the actual -- the addition of the incremental $125 million in 2017.
So from a timing perspective during the year how should we be thinking of that that layering in the quarters? Let me start and Ill let Mike answer the financial question.
But let me just -- I think this will help you understand the pacing.
If we go back to five six years ago we began with the IT and ops transformation emphasis on transformation.
It was really to take our common systems standardized processes establish centers of excellence and we also introduced a public cloud and began to rewrite some of those core systems underlying those applications.
Beacon takes it to the next step and I cant emphasize enough that you cant take the second step unless you have successfully taken the first step.
The second step is to -- Id say wired together all of these different systems which in most financial institutions are not wired together on a real time basis.
So in the future state of Beacon Ill use a simple example.
In our fund accounting area we would expect that an electronic trade invoice coming in from a customer would electronically in real time basis hit the security system the cash system the accounting system and update the pricing on a real time basis.
So if you let your mind wander in a future state that means our whole environment becomes real time and you could dynamically price funds during the day.
That will have the attendant benefits of obviously cost efficiency as you replace human intervention and disparate systems with fully integrated systems.
It will also reduce errors and risk but probably most importantly and I keep covering this ground because I am not sure everybody fully appreciates the value of real time information upstream for our customers form office for purposes of risk management investment management et cetera.
So thats the journey.
Now let me come back to a little bit more narrowly on your question.
This next stage of transformation heavily involves technology development and integration.
And so there is a little bit of [comp] timing that we were doing in 2015 which will continue in 2016 in building the systems and the integration models which means that the trajectory of cost saves will start out slowly and build over time.
So out of the $550 million you can take the $75 million in '16 the $125 million in '17 that will just continue to build.
I will say that the trajectory into a year would probably have a similar path.
But Mike I dont know if you want to add any color to that? Sure Brian the additional color that I would give you is it's important to note that the $75 million is intended to be a net number in terms of our operating expense impact in full year 2016 compared to operating expenses in full year 2015.
So the bottom line is gross savings will be higher than $75 million but there will be some net spending which in particular is very helpful to position us to get some additional savings in 2017 and 2018 which is even higher than what we'll deliver in 2016.
So the spending I would expect to hit to impact Q1 and I agree with Jay the savings in 2016 will mainly begin in Q2 and ramp throughout the year.
So I expect a little bit of a bubble in Q1 and then net savings beginning in Q2 and accelerating through the remainder of the year.
The next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore.
I just wanted to clarify one thing on that expense comment the $75 million in 2016 I think is not on top of the $50 million that you've mentioned at the time of the headcount reduction correct? And that you said your intention is to be a net number '16 versus '15 full year? Yes both of those comments are correct Glenn.
Okay awesome.
Curious I am talking about the investment portfolio it was what you called ongoing repositioning of the investment portfolio.
If you look at your appendix slide it's now 64% fixed grade so I am curious on what's driving that change and is it the duration extension on the government side and does that mean that -- what does that mean for your rate sensitivity? Sure Glenn.
So first of all in terms of the repositioning of the investment portfolio you are correct that we have skinnied down in particular the floating rate assets that are -- had been denominated in U.S.
dollars.
And the reason for that is the same thing that we've talked about on earlier calls in 2015 and that is those are primarily asset backed securities and they are relatively low spread assets compared to for example U.S.
treasuries.
They also don't get counted as favorably as U.S.
treasuries do and they're treated relatively harshly in CCAR because if you recall at the last financial crises spreads blew out for those assets and therefore the mark-to-market under the CCAR stress test is particularly unfavorable.
So the U.S.
dollar based floating rate securities in particular are -- I would characterize it is as the least attractive of the portfolio assets that we're on the books say a year ago.
So that's been the major driver of wanting to move away from those assets.
And in terms of your question on the rate sensitivity again we look at the interest rates sensitivity through several different lenses and I feel very comfortable there has been no change in our philosophy.
We continue to invest through the cycle.
Again we're working to optimize against a number of different regulatory expectations and constraints but I would characterize it as no material change in our thinking around interest rate sensitivity.
Okay.
Just one little follow-up on that when you look at your margin targets I think they included 100 basis points of hikes through the end of '17 so I am just going to guess and say 50-50 in '16 and '17.
Is the math on the impact of the margin if rates don't change the same as the math that you gave us on a static and higher rates scenario? I mean we talk about the same numbers I could just back into that and see that the impact on margin targets if rates dont change? Yes Glenn I think that's fair.
We are going to provide an update at the February Investor Day around the longer term NIM ranges including static including ideally getting to something like a 3/5 long-term interest rate structure.
I think the main pivotal point Glenn though is that I want to make this morning is that we do expect that the Beacon savings will fall to our bottom lines.
We expect that the Beacon savings will be additive to profit margins.
So when we say all else equal we know that there will be other things going on in the world that are impacting margins.
I think that you've mentioned NIR.
NIR obviously can be separately highlighted and analyzed.
But the bottom line most pivotal comments that we're making is we do expect the Beacon savings to be additive.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Mike you had good improvement on the Tier 1 leverage ratio which is your limiting ratio as we get into CCAR '16.
And obviously with the challenges on the environment translating to challenges for your earnings run rate.
I am just wondering plus the restructuring charges still are coming in and affecting net income.
Can you remind us again when you think about CCAR going forward how do you think about your payout ratio? Do you think about it on a net income number or do you think about it on an operating number? And how do these change in the environment if at all change your desire to get through the rest of the buyback to the extent you had recently got an approval and change your thinking at all for going forward? Sure Ken I appreciate the question.
First let me just comment on your first piece because I think it was a very important point and that is as you can imagine for CCAR reducing our excess deposits by approximately $36 billion over the second half of 2015 is particularly helpful for us going into CCAR.
And obviously we dont have the CCAR instructions yet the specifics around the stress test.
But any way you slice it were really pleased with the progress that we made and we feel good about the position well be in for the next CCAR particularly relative to what we would have been in if we hadnt reduced the deposits.
On your specific question around the income both income majors are very relevant.
The net income major is relevant and also the operating income is relevant.
First the operating income really represents Ken our best estimate of what our run rate earnings are.
So if you think about what the next three or four years are going to be the operating income is what we think of as the starting point ideally to grow then over the next several years.
So I think thats a very important data point for the upcoming CCAR.
Having said that net income obviously impacts capital and so left to only that one issue the restructuring charges or the FX settlement charges that we took in the first and second quarter of 2015 or even this out of pocket issue all of that decreased capital essentially dollar for dollar which is why it's very important for us to be managing capital as aggressively as we can.
Because at the end of the day what we believe to be our binding constraint is actually our overall capital ratios and in particular the next CCAR test will show what does that capital position look like under the stress test.
So thats maybe a longer winded answer than you may have been looking for but the bottom line is both of those income numbers matter because the operating income will be more predictive or we expect to be more predictive of what our future income will be.
But the net income impacts the capital position that were sitting here with today dollar for dollar.
Thanks Mike.
And if I can just then follow up just on the balance sheet you said $36 billion reduction second half.
So can you just -- what was the excess deposits at the end of the year and would you continue to expect additional roll down of those going forward or have you worked it to the point where it's now more manageable? And perhaps you wont need -- I guess the question is do you have any incremental need left after all this reduction for any preferreds? So Ken first to answer your factual question we estimate that under our historical methodology our excess deposits averaged approximately $26 billion in Q4.
Now as weve talked about before thats the historical definition under the LCR rules some of what weve thought of as operational deposits no longer account so at some point were going to flip over to a definition of non-operational deposits that for example would include deposits we have with hedge funds and private equity relationships.
And even though those are normal operations with our custody relationships there for LCR purposes they are accounted as non-operational.
But to answer your question factually $26 billion versus our average at Q2 was $62 billion so a $36 billion reduction there.
On your question on the -- are we going to push harder and what about the issue around prefs.
First of all Ken the short answer would be that were really pleased with what weve accomplished.
And this has not been a trivial exercise.
This is an issue thats a sensitive one for a number of our clients.
And so the fact that we feel good that we got to a win-win with our clients after all these discussions we think that got us to a real good point.
So I would say at this point we dont feel compelled to drive more off of the balance sheet relative to where they were for example in Q4.
But it is something that were going to monitor carefully.
It is something thats subject to market conditions.
The situation in Europe for example is just not helpful at all.
I mean with the ECB cutting to minus 30 talking about possibly cutting further credit spreads have come in dramatically in Europe because of their quantity of easing.
So for all those reasons I think we have to continue to monitor this but at this point I feel good about where we are.
Now your question on prefs is one of those I cant yet answer fully because we dont have the CCAR stress test.
I mean obviously were in a much better position but until we see the dynamics around that stress test and go through that modeling over the next 60 days.
I am just not in a position to give you an estimate at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Luke Montgomery with Bernstein.
I just wanted to take another quick stab at Brian's question on the 2016 outlook maybe you've answered it but it wasn't clear to me.
When you establish the positive fee operating leverage goal did you factor in the decline you had in the markets year-to-date or are you assuming year end market levels? Luke it's Mike.
We certainly factored in what we know about markets as of today and I think deep down we feel like there's more opportunity for improvement over the course of the year but I think the most important thing is that we are focused Luke on controlling expenses.
The item that we can -- that's within -- best within our control.
And we do expect again barring a catastrophe in terms of further deterioration in markets to be able to get to that net all-in positive fee operating leverage for the full year.
Now again it is something that -- because it is subject to market conditions it's probably something that we want to update you on at the Investor Day in February at each subsequent quarter our focus and Luke I guarantee the management team is really galvanized around this.
Collectively our focus is to generate positive fee operating leverage for the full year.
Okay thanks.
And then just a follow-up on the balance side.
I know it depends on client behavior but apart from that are you assuming any growth from the current earning assets of $200 billion in your guidance for 2016? Luke we anticipate a small decline in the average earning assets over the course of the full year but I think the more important point is the point that you've just made which is in large part it will be a function of market interest rates and just overall market conditions.
But our feeling is that if the Fed funds rate increases by an additional 50 basis points if Bank of England increases by an additional 50 basis points that a good chunk of those excess deposits that are remaining will naturally come off the balance sheet and we do expect growth in our core business.
So we would expect some growth in the operational deposits from growth in our core business.
But I would say net-net I would expect that the average earning assets to be modestly less by year end 2016.
Now importantly if there is a crisis again God forbid all bets are off I mean we're on a safe haven in terms of crisis so hopefully that's not going to happen but that would be another wildcard.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi I wanted to understand your guidance a little bit more.
So your target had been to grow fee revenues to expenses by 200 basis points last year it came in at 79 basis point and now your target is simply I guess 1 basis point right just 1 positive operating leverage.
So on the one hand you were disappointed that you didn't meet the target last year on the other hand the new target is basically just positive operating leverage.
So I just want to reconcile those thoughts of being disappointed but then again lowering the target quite a bit and I think I've heard the reason the lower stock market lower rates in Europe currencies and regulatory costs but rather hear you validate that or you elaborate on it? Sure Mike it's Mike.
I'll start and if Jay wants to add.
I mean importantly Mike we want to get every dollar of positive fee operating leverage that we can in 2016 and we're committed as we talked about to aggressively managing expenses to work towards achieving that goal.
But it's the point that you've made.
I mean with equity markets off almost 10% and we're not even through January yet it just seemed to us to be irresponsible to put a specific number out there even in light of how confident we feel in Beacon.
So again as I said to a couple of the earlier questions I mean sure this is something that we'll talk about through the course of the year but it's not a question of lowering our expectations.
It's being cognizant of the environment and focusing aggressively on what we can control.
And as far as the actual expense guidance with project Beacon last year your core expenses were $7.520 billion and so for this year should we simply subtract $75 million since that's the net number or that doesnt reflect the additional expense pressures? Well it doesn't reflect for example expenses that I would expect to bring on to service the new business that we're winning out in the markets.
So that's why I wouldn't stay away from just a raw expense number and it's going to largely depend upon our fee revenue growth.
Since we're in the service business we tend to need to bring on servicing capabilities to service new revenue.
As I mentioned earlier as well the regulatory related expenses will likely increase we don't think it will increase as much as they did in 2015.
But that's why really Mike we're focused on fee operating leverage positive fee operating leverage as being the overall goal recognizing that the equity markets in January really make that a challenging objective.
And then lastly the way you look at it what was your pretax margin for 2015 especially since youre looking to take that quite a bit higher? 29.1%.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Beatty with Bank of America.
I wanted to ask about the NIR guidance and in particular youve been asked about some assumptions.
Youve noted in your presentation the impact of foreign exchange on NIR.
So I was just wondering what is kind of your base case for the NIR scenarios was in terms of currency flat from here or something different from that? And then maybe how sensitive that number would be to currency? So in terms of the NIR ranges that we provided it essentially assumes todays foreign exchange currency rates.
Now again we recognize that that's a wildcard and as an example if we look at full year 2015 versus full year 2014 we estimate that NIR was negatively impacted by $54 million as a result of the stronger U.S.
dollar over the course of 2015.
So obviously I dont expect that the U.S.
dollar will strengthen further at least at that kind of magnitude that we saw in 2015 but that would give you at least a sense of the magnitude if we had a repeat of that level of strengthening thats the ballpark that we can see as a additional headwind in NIR.
Obviously if the euro turns around and it got stronger in particular that would be helpful.
So the portfolio hasnt been repositioned such that the currency effect will be drastically different? Thats correct.
And then turning to the new business wins in asset servicing you mentioned the positive mix shift in asset management despite the negative flows over the positive revenue impact.
So I was just wondering about asset servicing and the new wins how that mix is shaping up? And also in terms of implementation how soon you would expect the current backlog to be installed? Thanks.
Sure Adam let me take that.
So I mentioned $300 billion-ish of new commitments on the asset servicing side a little bit unusual that was [tilted] to the U.S.
with $250 billion of the $300 billion being U.S.
and then I think you had $35 billion and $15 billion in EMEA and Asia Pacific.
So to me it's a little bit indicative of some of the pressure that the asset management industry is under now that it's not global but it's probably a little bit more acute in the U.S.
And so the opportunity to do more deeper level of outsourcing as well as consolidate more activities with State Street is probably the underlying theme there.
You also asked about the backlog which again is a little bit higher at $380 billion and I think thats probably historically been in the $200 billion to $300 billion range.
Its elevated because there is some bigger chunkier deals that had a little longer implementation time line.
Those should layer in the first couple of quarters of 2016.
Additionally I would say from an outlook pipeline standpoint actually quite good with some different color from the U.S.
to the Europe to Asia.
Asia continues to be moving in a pretty positive line.
Europe is again dominated by the offshore markets which is where the asset is coming from.
And Id say the U.S.
it's a combination of hedge and as I mentioned earlier the traditional loan-only managers who are really grappling with fee pressure and flows and [where] an opportunity for them to streamline their operations and get more efficient.
Thats great color.
Am I right in assuming the asset management outsourcing is relatively high fee versus the current mix or not so much? Asset management outsourcing broadly would be very consistent with the existing business from a fee and margin standpoint if I heard your question right.
Yes I think you did.
Thank you Jay appreciate it.
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Just a quick follow-up first on the Beacon question and the $75 million.
Sorry to come back to it.
I just want to make sure I understand.
You expected it to be in number but you also talked about growing regulatory expenses albeit at a selling rate.
So does that $75 million net reflect what your expectations on the regulatory front or is that regulatory headwind albeit at a declining rate a separate issue and if so can you help us frame the regulatory headwind by letting us know how much -- what the growth rate was full year '15 versus '14? Sure.
Brennan this is Mike.
First it's the latter.
The regulatory expenses -- regulatory related expenses we look at them as a separate category from Beacon so I do expect that some piece although certainly not all of it or anything but some piece of the Beacon savings would be offset by the additional growth in regulatory related expenses that we expect for 2016.
And as we have talked about in the past Brennan I am really reluctant to try to give a very specific number on regulatory related expenses.
I just think that at this point it's truly embedded in the enterprise.
I mean we're all spending more time and attention on regulatory related issues and I just think that I mean it would take this sort of massive time and motion kind of study to give you a number that would accurately portray it.
I mean it's fair to say there is significant upward pressure although as I said it's certainly fair to say that we still expect the bulk of the $75 million of the Beacon savings to drop to the bottom line.
Again all the things equal the conversations that we had earlier.
Sure and I get that it's a tough one to try to frame and then we're in unchartered waters just figured I'd give it a shot.
Second question is on the asset management business.
So just curious if you could help us think about the ETF flows.
You had a good December which certainly helped out on the quarter but seems like outflows were a little bit of a struggle on the ETF front for the SPDR's platform in 2015.
So obviously you guys are working to try to launch new products as an offset there but can you give us maybe broadly and strategically whether or not you think that's sufficient? Is it all just Vanguard and Price competition and given how the legacy or the previous SPDR's platform was positioned you're more subject to that type of competition which is why you're going in the new direction? And how should we think about seasonal outflows which is it the other side of just the seasonal inflows in December any color you could give us on that front just to help us model for this quarter would be great? Thanks a lot.
Great Brian I am happy to pick that one up.
Let me give you some numbers and then maybe I'll get to some more of your qualitative questions as to where we're on a journey to make ETF more important business for us.
If I look at full year 2015 our net outflows were approximately $23 billion our net outflows of the SPY which is the S&amp;P 500 was outflows of $31 billion.
So if you take the influence of the S&amp;P 500 out of the mix we would net up [$80 billion] and we would net up $11 billion in the fourth quarter.
So there is a -- if you look at trends and you normalize for the S&amp;P 500 which is a very large fund with fairly low fees that move a lot because people use it for liquidity purposes all over the globe.
Right in that we have -- we've been on a two year journey to invest in our ETF platform in really two directions.
One is that initially our ETF orientation was more to the institutional market.
We've ramped up considerably our intermediary sales force over the last couple of years.
And the other place that we focused is on product.
And our focus on product which really gets at maybe the heart of one of your questions has been away from the more commoditized type product and more towards the higher revenue yielding products.
And so you saw some evidence in my quote in 2015 we had five of the top U.S.
new products in the marketplace and in fact we had 37% of the flows into new U.S.
ETFs came to SSGA in 2015.
So to me very good evidence that our strategy of not only building up our distribution sales force but reorienting our product towards the higher yielding products.
I also referenced the smart beta theme which you tend to read about a lot lately we think that's a big deal which is to take ETFs and bundle them in an asset allocation model and package them and sell them through largely intermediary market.
We introduced three new smart beta ETFs to our model portfolios there's another name given to that in the fourth quarter.
And then the final point I would make next to final point is that we continue to be the only of the large players that are willing to open our platform to outside strategies.
So the most recent would be the DoubleLine Fund which generated -- which is the largest new fund launch in the U.S.
in 2015 at $1.8 billion.
So I think we're doing all the things we're executing on all the things that we set out to execute and I think we're in a good track to make ETF not only a growth engine within SSGA but a bigger product overall State Street.
So we are pleased with the progress.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
One quick follow-up on expenses just so I fully understand what you're saying.
If fee revenue is flat or down can you have expenses down or is there a presumption of fee income growth despite the equity market decline so far? Jim it's Mike.
First of all obviously given the uncertainty around the environment it's difficult to answer your question definitively with full confidence.
But I stand by what we talked about earlier which is we do expect to manage expenses at a lower rate above growth in the revenue.
At this point I do expect that as long as markets reasonably cooperated we would still end up with full year net fee revenue growth.
But again as we talked about earlier it's something that well probably need to continue to update you on over the course of the year.
But our expectation is to manage expenses aggressively and to manage those to a lower growth rate than the fee revenue.
And just maybe on your NIR guidance with two rate hikes the low end is actually lower than the high end of your additional rate hikes.
It seems pretty modest impact from two rate hikes despite the 10-Q disclosure.
So is that a change in deposit outflow assumptions or is it just timing in terms of the remaining six months of the year versus the full 12 months and beyond? How should we think about your NIR leverage given your 10-Q disclosures which are much more significant? Sure Jim.
First of all the 10-Q disclosures importantly number one assume no client behavior change.
And we do anticipate with a couple of more hikes for excess deposits in particular to come off the balance sheet.
Second importantly the 10-Q disclosures are for a consistent interest rate change globally.
And I would tell you that that is in my view highly unlikely to be the case in Europe.
The ECB now has cut rates to minus 30 there is talk about cutting that further.
As I mentioned earlier the credit spread compression that weve seen in Europe because of their quantitative easing program has been significant.
So I mean just to give you perhaps a number to help with the modeling we estimate that on an all in basis this year versus full year 2015 that the euro NIR is expected to decline by approximately $40 million year-over-year and thats assuming the interest rates in Europe where they sit today just not factor in fully additional deterioration.
So it is the case that we would expect things to be stronger in the U.S.
but thats a headwind.
And again relative to full year 2015 the decline in the excess deposits would also be a headwind to NIR; on the other hand obviously still very positive versus having the issue of the prefs to pay for those.
And then last question from me about securities lending you saw short term spreads widen quite a bit in the fourth quarter that seems to be continuing so far.
Was most that impact already felt in 4Q or should we see some further benefits to wider spreads if they stay where they are in 1Q on the sec lending side? Jim it's obviously a little bit early to give you definitive guidance on sec lending for the first half of the year.
I would say that we feel very positive about the uptick in sec lending.
In Q4 specifically we saw an increase in the average assets on loan both fully enhanced custody business as well as the Agency business.
We saw higher spreads particularly on U.S.
equities and believe that the demand for short interest and in particular for specials in Q4 helped significantly.
I wouldnt at this point -- I mean I see nothing to believe that that is going to come down.
On the other hand I wouldnt try to project additional growth since Q4 was as strong as it was.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
Thank you for taking the question.
Ive got a question on the senior secured bank loan book.
Do you know where that would be if you look to sit on a mark to market basis rather than an accrual accounts end basis? Sure Geoff it's Mike.
I dont have the very specific number off the top of my head because we have been tight in terms of our credit underwriting and also have been investing in the upper end of the credit scale for those leverage loans it would be closer to par than the overall market.
Its at a slight discount but I want to say round numbers about $0.98 on the $1.
And whats the energy component within that portfolio? It's relatively small.
It's approximately $55 million of the $3.3 billion in the overall portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
Jay can you share with us you mentioned about the new program Beacon as a step two and you needed to take step one of course to get to step two.
Is there going to be a step three is this an involving process? I know this goes up to 2020 which is a ways away but when you look out longer term is this just an ongoing fact of this business that you've got constantly have these big programs? I would say largely Gerard I would view this being a two stage event.
Stage one complete stage two just commenced.
There will always be opportunities to apply technology to this business both to generate revenue opportunities and expense saves.
But in my vision there's Beacon.
Since we have gone through the staging of standardization centers of excellence rewriting a lot of the applications I think once we wired them together and for me the Holy Grail is to create an environment within State Street that's all real-time.
And if it's all real-time you have minimal human intervention you have all the attendant benefits of it and in my mind as we get out to 2020 we should largely be there.
Not that there won't be -- I'd say if there was a stage three it would be more revenue oriented.
Once we can create a real-time infrastructure we have the opportunity to build systems and build capabilities to generate global exchange type opportunities is probably where the next big move is.
But again it's not cost oriented it's more how you take the data on analytics that are created in this Beacon environment and create information based services to our customers that would be obviously chargeable.
Now is the technology that you're anticipating to get this going is it all available now or are you anticipating there will be even more advances in technology three years from now that will make deposits even better for the customers? That's a great question and I would say we have a plan with a lot of detail around it but I would fully expect that as we get out in years that technology advances will cause us to make adjustments to the plan.
And I'll just give you an example Gerard that hopefully will resonate.
When we went into the ITOT as we call it we were very determined that we wanted to create a cloud environment and we're also very convinced that the only cloud environment that was appropriate would be a private cloud that we would own and operate and control it.
I think today it's quite a bit different.
We would envision that some of that the test modules that we would build we might run around a public could.
That as long as you encrypt the data you are as safe running it out in the public cloud as you're in a private cloud.
And I'd say if you talk to people that are deeply involved in this world you would find that to be a fairly meaningful shift in philosophy.
So within our Beacon plans some of that is bled-in but I think for us to imagine what the technology enablements will be five years out is pretty tough to do.
I think though it's back to a point that I made and you reinforced which is unfortunately you can't leap frog.
So you have to modify along the way and we think we've got a plan that not only enables us to get to that future real state but it will also allow us to take advantage of advances in technology as they unfold over the next five years.
Great and then as a second question coming to you again Jay you've mentioned that the assets under management this year a large client was going to take out $35 billion I think you said.
Couple of questions one why is the client leaving? And two $35 billion is that a real big customer medium-sized customer small customer how would you characterize that type of client? Sure so I would say it's a customer where we have a long-term multidimensional relationship this is just one component of it.
I would characterize it as a smallest kind of customer and I say that because it's all passive assets.
So it' a little bit my SPDR S&amp;P 500 example where the headline number is big but the revenues associated with it are not all that not significant.
The other point I would make Gerard is that well not a trend it's not exceptional that somebody would say I want to run my passive assets myself and this particular customer was a bank decided that as opposed to outsourcing that to us they would in-source it to themselves.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Kleinhanzl with KBW.
Hi just a quick question.
On the expense billing program are the costs associated with that billing error I guess it is? You said you had a $223 million pretax liability associated with that.
I was just curious as to why that didn't hit the P&amp;L and is that excluded from your operating guidance when it is expected at P&amp;L I guess sometime this year? Brian it's Mike.
First this does relate to overbilling that we have had historically in fact it goes back to the late 1990s.
So as a result rather than charging the Q4 2015 P&amp;L with that amount we have revised the other financial statements that we provided this quarter to basically make an adjustment to the most recent P&amp;L periods and also to the retained earnings account for year-end '14.
So this is reflected in that retained earnings statement so it's already negatively impacted our capital that piece for the liabilities that I talked about in the prepared remarks that is behind us at this point.
Now obviously as you can imagine other things can develop but at this point thats already reflected in the balance sheet and in prior earnings periods.
And then just on the operating leverage guidance so if were assuming taking your 10% decline in equity markets there is 2% decline in revenues just kind of putting that through the year-to-date numbers I mean a 7% decline in the equity market thus far equates about 1.4% of decline in the revenues.
So given that the $75 million reduction in expenses that youre expecting to hit is just about 1% of your operating expenses where also that $75 million of expenses come from to get you to positive operating leverage assuming no further change in equity markets to year end? Importantly Brian were looking number one at expenses across the board.
So I do expect that well find additional expense opportunities beyond what is part of project Beacon.
Second youre assuming that there is no other fee revenue growth over the course of 2016 in your comments.
And I would anticipate that between net new business and potential growth in for example global markets revenue that we would still be able to get there.
But again it's something thats an evolving situation since the market environment is as challenging as it is.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
I wanted to focus on the net interest income which if you look at the last year you were down 13% if you adjust for currencies down 11%.
Thats really the major source of underperformance relative to the other trust banks that were both up around 8%.
So their ability to add duration on their side or benefit from rather upticks you get in that fund rate is kind of swamping what youre having to deal with.
Catalysts that you see balancing restructuring or maybe more focus in Europe how do those catalysts begin to wane and when do you get back on track to be in line with the other peers? So Marty it's Mike.
First I am really reluctant to try to give you specific comparisons to our various benchmark competitors.
Our business mix is very different.
As you correctly pointed out weve tended to have more impact from changes in Europe than our competitors over the long-term.
I think that served us well.
But in the near-term thats a pressure point.
We have different portfolios.
We have different mixes of business that those portfolios back.
So again I would hesitate to try to give you a very specific comparison because I dont know specifically how theyre managing their balance sheet.
What I can tell you is how were managing our balance sheet and in terms of the catalyst as we talked about we do expect that the recent increase in the Fed funds rate to be particularly helpful.
That for example even though it's just for the U.S.
dollars it does mean that the floating rate assets that we have that are dollar denominated have been resetting over the course of the last three months and thats been helpful in terms of the near-term NIR outlook.
If we do get additional Fed fund increases again we expect that to do a couple of things for us.
Number one we do expect that to be accretive to NIR because while we will share in all likelihood some of that with clients we do typically share a percentage for example of the Overnight Index and would retain a portion of that for ourselves.
And then just longer term it's helpful to have these increases in interest rates because Marty one of the big things that weighed on us in 2015 is the grind in the fixed rate portion of the portfolio.
About two-thirds of the portfolio is fixed rate and thats been rolling over the yield on the maturing assets has been quite a bit higher in ballpark like 75 basis points higher than the fixed rate yield of new purchases.
So if interest rates particularly in that call it three year five year 10 year kind of zone would increase consistently where the Fed fund rate may increase that would be helpful in terms of reducing that grind.
And then maybe lastly you mentioned it and I am just repeating it.
If conditions got better in Europe either in terms of getting the ECB rate back closer to positive territory and ideally some credit spread widening that would be very helpful as well.
And just another question if you look at the emphasis you had on trying to push some of the marginal deposits out of the balance sheet have you seen any implication to customer relationships because of that? Fee income seems to be doing relatively well market share holding in there.
But just was interested that efforts you're doing to try to overcome your emphasis on that side.
Yes Marty let me take that this is Jay.
I would say broadly no.
I think that -- what I think we did well is we got way out in front of this.
So that was really the beginning of 2015 where we began to have a series of conversations with our customers and there was a shorter percentage of customers who are holding the lion's share of the excess deposits which made it helpful.
But we worked with customers over the course of six months to make sure one they understood the issue and our pressure point and two begin the layer in a set of fees to hold excess deposits on our balance sheet.
And so we gave customers enough lead time in order to manage the situation or pay the freight to hold excess deposits on our balance sheet.
So I think the nature of the way we went about it and also I think the other thing that's probably safe to say is that we are probably out front on this.
I think everybody else is catching up.
So I think this conversation about excess deposits is not unique to State Street anymore but I think we executed the plan pretty well.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Just a clarification Mike on the timing of the run rate for expenses the $75 million and the $125 million for 2016 and 2017 respectively is that a 4Q '16 and 4Q '17 annualized run rate or rather a full year which should imply higher 4Q run rate? Brian this is a full year comparison so the $75 million is full year '16 versus full year '15 and importantly is a net number to operating expenses.
So for example we're going to have some IT spending and just overall programs spending in Q1 and that will continue throughout the year.
The $75 million is the gross savings minus the investment spending that I just mentioned.
Importantly it doesn't include any potential restructuring charges.
I would suspect that a portion of that $300 million to $400 million of overall expected restructuring charges over the period 2016 to 2020 some of that may impact 2016 that would not be included in the $75 million.
Right okay so then just to imply that as you work through the quarters and we get to the fourth quarter the run rates will be higher than the full year run rate moving into next years? Yes that's likely fair.
I think the only reason I hesitate a little bit is that the investment spending particularly the IT spending is somewhat of a fluid situation.
So again we will be focused on the net.
But I think your modeling assumption is a fair one.
Okay great.
Just lastly one the FX trading I know the direct sales component of the FX declined much more than the indirect.
I guess Jay is there anything FX product with that other aside from the lower market volatility and would you expect that given what we know about FX volatility in client volumes do you expect that to rebound in 1Q on that part of it? I would say Brian it's feels to me more episodic than anything that is a trend line and I think that our volumes were pretty much in line with what we saw in the industry volatility hung in as now I would view it more of an episodic.
At this time there are no further questions in queue.
Thank you for your time and attention this morning and look forward to hopefully seeing all of you in New York on February 24th.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.