Welcome to the Q1 2011 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Teresa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Kate White Vanek.
Ms.
Vanek you may begin.
Thank you Teresa.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for joining us on the Stanley Black &amp; Decker First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren President and CEO; Jim Loree Executive Vice President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
I would like to point out that our earnings release which was issued after yesterday's close and the supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the Investor Relations portion of our website www.stanleyblackanddecker.com.
This morning John Jim and Don will review Stanley's first quarter results and various other topical matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 2 p.m.
The replay number and access code are in our press release.
As a reminder you can download the earnings replay as a podcast from iTunes and even set up a subscription for all future replays of the calls that we post.
They should be ready this afternoon.
[Operator Instructions] As always if you have any additional questions please feel free to contact me with anything after this call.
We will be making some forward-looking statements during this call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risks and uncertainties.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
And we direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K which we filed with the press release and on our most recent '34 Act.
With that I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Kate.
Good morning everybody.
If you will take a look at the presentation posted to the website I'd like to first summarize some of the first quarter highlights that we experienced.
Then I will say as Kate has pointed out this is the last quarter where we'll provide -- feel the need to provide as much pro forma data from the second quarter forward.
Everything will be quite clean.
As a reminder the transaction with Black &amp; Decker closed on March 12 2010 so there are a couple weeks of Black &amp; Decker performance included in the GAAP measures.
And from second quarter onwards it'll be clean.
It'll be more clear.
But we think the pro forma comparisons are most helpful to you in understanding our business.
Revenues increased 9% on a pro forma basis to -- up 9%; on a pro forma basis $2.4 billion; organically up 4%.
Strong growth in emerging markets particularly Latin America.
We had some great share gains.
New products are doing well.
Jim Loree is going to talk about that in the segment breakdown.
And certainly some successful implementations of the first signs of some positive growth from our revenue synergy plans.
Diluted EPS was $1.08 reflecting a significantly favorable tax rate.
Diluted GAAP EPS was $0.92.
Per the press release the tax rate contributed about $0.12 to earnings relative to our planned rate.
I'll come on to that again in just a sec.
Free cash flow of $61 million was up $24 million versus the prior year.
That excludes the $37 million of merger-related payments.
As a reminder we increased our dividend 21% in February and we've announced a $250 million share repurchase program that will begin in the second quarter.
That $250 million program when completed will consume less than half of the $7.8 million authorization that's still outstanding.
And I think it's important at this stage Don will spend more time on it but to be clear the purpose is simply to avoid creep.
Our stock is up 16% year-to-date almost 30% on a 6-month basis and 80% since we announced the merger.
The guidance we provided in our plans were for average share count during 2011 of approximately 170 million shares.
As options have been exercised that creep would drive us up to above 175 million shares.
So with the repurchase our current best estimate would be about 172 million shares is our share count which is 2 million shares higher even including the repurchase program than was assumed and provided when Don provided our initial guidance for the 2011 year.
That's hopefully will be helpful to you in your modeling.
Commodity inflation headwinds continue to persist.
We think they'll peak in the second quarter based on everything we know and we'll recover 80% of that or more be it pricing in the second half as many of the price increases that we've already negotiated will take effect late in the second quarter and early in the third quarter.
2011 guidance as a consequence has increased to the range of $5 to $5.25 due to the tax rate favorability that I discussed.
So far so good on the integration.
And if we could flip to Page 5 I think it is important because the integration remains our top priority.
So I think an update on where we stand is relevant for this morning's call.
Our Steering Committee and our major footprint review group continued to meet regularly.
We're looking at $165 million of realized synergies this year in calendar 2011.
And in the first half of '11 we completed the end of a refresh process including all new opportunities some of that we discussed on our analyst day but we constantly monitor and update it formally on a monthly basis.
In the first half of '11 several major footprint-related projects will have been either launched or completed.
We obviously don't talk about them in advance to the -- publicly or make no disclosure until Works Councils if it's in Europe or employees if it's in the U.S.
have been notified and consulted.
Some of those programs are underway for instance our Rock Falls distribution center consolidation and some are behind us in Jackson Tennessee.
The others we'll update you as appropriate but no public disclosure on exactly which facilities are involved as is our policy and that just makes good business sense.
We will have completed some of those consolidation this year.
And by the end of year we will have executed programs that represent almost 75% of our 2011 cost savings of $425 million which as Don has pointed out represents $460 million on an annualized basis in terms of cost synergies.
And finally revenue synergies remain -- the opportunities remain encouraging and they're going to contribute about 50 basis points of growth already in 2011.
Moving on to a look at our business by geography.
Our largest market of course being the U.S.
which accounts for 53% of our volume was relatively flat.
There were a lot of puts and calls that I won't talk about because Jim is going to go into it in more detail with our Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair platform up; Mechanical Security Hardware &amp; Home Improvement down; others relatively stable.
Second-largest market being Europe with tremendous performance across the board particularly in our Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair platform as well as our Engineered Fastening business.
Latin America really strong growth.
While it only accounts for 8% of our combined volume that number will continue to grow.
And as you see growth in essentially every geography in the country and as the successful execution of revenue synergy plans continues.
Looking at earnings on Page 7.
As we reported the $1.08 up 54% on a GAAP basis excluding the $37 million of merger-related charges which of course was a much larger number in the prior year.
As mentioned in our press release and as shown at the bottom underneath the bars it was helped $21 million or about $0.12 from tax.
And as I think you all know historically we and all other publicly listed companies would estimate spread and then reconcile any tax settlements or tax reserves that we held.
We're now required to report them only when the audits are completed and fully settled which regrettably makes for a very lumpy quarter-to-quarter tax rates.
There is absolutely nothing we can do about it.
It's an SEC requirement.
We'll try to live with it and we'll try to provide the best guidance we can.
And Don will have a little more flavor on that as -- later on this morning.
So the earnings were up.
Volume leverage cost synergies favorable tax rate all helped.
I've talked to the share count and what we think of the modest repurchase program we'll do to that share count.
And Don will touch on it a little later in his guidance.
Looking at our sources of growth.
I think first and foremost volume up about 7% on the legacy Stanley side which is helpful.
Pricing was again with some puts and calls by business was flat.
Currency helped us 2% on a GAAP basis this quarter.
And of course acquisitions overwhelmingly Black &amp; Decker and then several minor acquisitions that Jim will talk about their impact and their influence on our revenues in the segment breakdown gave us an 89% lift in revenue.
Looking at legacy Stanley legacy Black &amp; Decker just very very quickly.
Hand tools fastening and power tools essentially our CDIY segment the legacy Black &amp; Decker portion up 4%.
Good movement on power tools.
And as pointed out in the press release hand tools and fastening was essentially flat.
Nice performance on the 12-volt lithium ion introduction which is really giving us a lot of traction in the marketplace.
We talked about Pfister and the loss of a significant number of SKUs in the line review early in the year the impact that that's had on volume in the home centers.
The Industrial segment including the former Emhart or Engineered Fastening business both those businesses showed great momentum as suggested.
IAR plus -- and Infrastructure plus 17%.
And the legacy Black &amp; Decker Industrial business which is primarily Emhart up 12%.
Security and HHI again legacy Stanley up 4%.
On the legacy BDK side down 12%.
The suggested Kwikset has performed extraordinarily well for the last 12 to 24 months.
There was some meaningful inventory correction at the big-box customers in the first quarter which did have a negative impact on Kwikset.
We still feel very good about that business and its future prospects in the marketplace.
So in total we see the legacy Stanley business up at 6% legacy Black &amp; Decker business up 2% with lots of puts and calls.
Let me turn it over to Jim Loree who's going to give you some more flavor on the performance within our 3 major reporting segments.
Thanks John.
Let's start with CDIY.
CDIY had a solid quarter in line with our expectations except for the loss of some Pfister business that John talked about at a major customer which is unfortunate but not surprising given the inherent challenges of that product line.
I'll come back to that in a moment.
Total CDIY segment sales were $1.211 billion up 2% on a pro forma basis and up 3% excluding Pfister and up 4% excluding Pfister and the exits of the various small Delta stationary and consumer auto electronics product lines.
So really when you cut through some of the dispositions or nonstrategic elements of the performance a real nice solid 4% growth.
Power tools were up 4%.
They really drive the segment up 6% taking the exits into account.
Professional power tools were very strong with continued success in the 12-volt lithium ion program.
And consumer products was flattish with solid power tools sales offset by some timing issues in outdoor between 1Q and 2Q; a few premerger SKU losses some of which have been recouped already in anniversary in the third and fourth quarters; and the effect of the exits as previously mentioned.
All of that was as expected.
On a regional basis Latin America remained a highlight up 22% and up 19% with -- excluding the effect of FX.
North America up 5% without the exits.
And excluding Pfister the profit rate was up 90 basis points including as you see on the chart up 50 basis points to the 13.1% as the cost synergies and the volume kicked in and partially offset by unrecovered inflation some of which will be recovered in the fourth quarter we expect.
Let me address Pfister for a moment.
Back on March 3 at our Analyst Day Jim Lucas from Janney Montgomery Scott asked a question and we answered it.
The question was are there other potential divestitures down the line any either in product lines or brands that are sticking out that are not -- don't have the potential to be #1 or #2? And I answered that question by saying there's nothing really glaring except I would say in the HHI business which is where we manage Pfister out of -- although it's reported externally in CDIY.
We have this thing called Pfister.
And Pfister for us we have to make a decision about whether we invest in that particular plumbing products product line or whether we divest.
And it's a strategically challenged business in the sense that a lot of what it produces or sells is actually sourced.
They do a lot of the design work and it has a fashion element to it as well which is not something that we love and it's very concentrated with a few customers.
So it reminds me a little bit of the home decor business that some of you long-time followers will remember.
It's a very good business if you look at the industry.
There are definitely examples of companies that make a lot of money in plumbing products but it would take a lot of effort.
And so right now we don't have the resources to put that effort into it.
But we also don't have the appetite as we sit here today to do all the work that it would take to actually dispose of it.
So right now we're in kind of a maintain mode.
We'll see what the future brings.
We've asked the team that runs Pfister to do everything they can to fix the strategic challenges associated with that business.
And if they do it it will only make it more valuable if we choose to later dispose of it.
And if they don't it will make the decision a lot easier.
So when you step back from Pfister it is a roughly $200 million business.
It has 2% share of the global plumbing market.
It's #5 in the U.S.
with 8% to 10% share behind Moen and Delta KOHLER and American Standard all formidable competitors.
And so the strategic challenge starts there.
And then we add to that the sourced aspect of greater than 50% sourced greater than 50% concentrated in U.S.
home centers and it's tendency to be a fashion business.
So the challenges are obvious and it's probably more valuable to others than it is to us.
And the only reason we still own it is that disposition would be a distraction with the integration going on.
So the loss in the first quarter of $50 million of annualized business was unexpected in terms of timing but not surprising.
And we have to deal with Pfister on an ongoing basis and we will.
I'll finish my comments on CDIY with some thoughts on the second quarter.
I think we can expect a pretty good sequential bounce in the organic growth rate in the 2Q even with the exits and the Pfister drag.
Organic growth should be between 5% and 10% in this segment as new product introductions even more new product introductions and customer programs gain steam the revenue synergies take hold and the timing issues between one and Q -- 1Q and 2Q work themselves out.
So we're very excited and enthusiastic about what the second quarter should bring for CDIY.
Moving now to Industrial.
Industrial had a super quarter with sales increasing to $613 million up 105% versus the first quarter of '10.
The addition of a full quarter of Emhart and CRC provided acquisition growth and legacy Industrial grew a very robust 17% organically.
On a pro forma basis Emhart grew a solid 12% despite exposure to the Japanese auto industry which production was down 27% in the quarter.
And pro forma operating profit was up 400 basis points to 17.5% incredibly strong performance from a margin rate and growth perspective and strong operating leverage is evident here.
In the Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair business sales volumes were up double digits across all regions due to market share gains in North America and Europe as well as strength in all major industrial distribution channels.
And we note that revenue synergies kicked in in the industrial and mobile distribution channels in North America with DEWALT products being sourced through those channels.
And in the second quarter DEWALT products power tool products will be launched to industrial channels in Europe and the early signs are encouraging there.
Now that's about a third of the segment.
The second third of the segment is Engineered Fastening which is the legacy Black &amp; Decker Emhart business.
They had a terrific performance as well with their pro forma revenue up 18% due to additional penetration with their existing customer base and some vehicle production increases in the Americas and Europe.
However this performance was against the backdrop of 4% growth in global auto production.
And they do have about $200 million of exposure to the Japanese market and they're dealing with the headwinds from that and dealing with them very effectively especially with the added growth in China that we're experiencing.
The Infrastructure segment which is our subsegment which is the last third of the Industrial segment includes Hydraulics and CRC-Evans.
CRC-Evans had a respectable quarter.
Revenues were up 8% organically and Hydraulics had a terrific performance with their revenues up 49% leveraged by the strong steel scrap market.
So in total a welcome outperformance by our Industrial team which helped to offset the Pfister issue in the quarter.
Moving to Security.
Security had a mixed quarter with pluses and minuses.
The biggest plus of all was the organic growth in Convergent.
At last some of you might think as do we.
The SSDS business in France integration going well.
The performance was super and the Healthcare business the core Healthcare growth platform showed solid organic growth and profitability growth.
On the minus side of the ledger we had weak demand market demand in Mechanical Access.
We had a sizable inventory correction in HHI and we had to deal with inflation ahead of price increases.
The latter of which was expected and not a surprise.
The overall sales in the segment increased 17% to $557 million.
Acquisitions were 12 points of the increase and organic growth was accounted for 4 points.
It was a tale of two businesses with the CSS resurgence and the 8% organic growth in the HHI legacy Black &amp; Decker business down 12% on the inventory corrections.
And as John mentioned the underlying Kwikset business remains very very healthy.
Just to highlight a few facts on CSS.
The revenue from both installations and RMR grew in the quarter which was very encouraging especially given that installations increased 10% and RMR increased 3%.
And as I mentioned the organic sales were strong in Healthcare.
They were up 5%.
For this quarter we added a chart to help clarify the margin performance and if we could turn to that.
This chart shows the Security margin rate walk on a year-over-year basis this time starting with a pro forma 1Q '10 which happens to be the same as the legacy Stanley with a little Black &amp; Decker mixed in last year after March 12 but it is the same 16.3%.
And this chart will walk you then to the 13.9%.
And we start with the impact of volume and inflation in HHI which totaled 2.4 points.
That's the first yellow bar to the right of the 16.3%.
That was split between volume of 1.0 points and inflation of 1.4 points.
Next was the impact of acquisitions dilutive to the rate by 1.4 points.
Then legacy MAS inflation accounted for 0.9 points of headwind and mix in the CSS business within the CSS business and legacy MAS accounted for minus 0.7 point effect.
That was roughly split equally between the RMR and install mix effect within CSS and weaker retrofit sales versus new construction in the legacy MAS business.
Now all of that totals about 5.4 points of headwind which was a pretty dramatic headwind within the quarter in the Security segment but it was partially offset by a really strong performance in synergies and productivity which provided a 3.0-point benefit.
And thus you get to the 13.9%.
Now of the headwinds we think that about 5 points or so of the 5.4 were really simply timing related.
So for instance the HHI volume which accounted for 1.0 point was simply related to the inventory correction.
As we said the underlying business remains strong.
Inflation accounted for 2.3 points when you take into effect both HHI at 1.4 and legacy MAS at 0.9 and that will be positively impacted by price increases in the latter part of the year.
In fact because of the increase in inflation it's actually made the whole process of achieving price increases more pragmatic.
And then finally acquisitions with a 1.4-point headwind they will correct themselves over time as the integrations proceeds.
So what could appear to be a more challenging story than it actually is a lot of it's just related to timing.
But I think this -- I hope this chart you'll find helpful to understand what's going on in the Security segment.
On working capital I'll just touch up on this briefly it was a positive story.
The turns improved 15% on a pro forma basis versus the prior year.
There's really no dramatic improvement in the numbers yet in terms of absolute numbers.
I mean over $100 million is a good start minus 6% year-over-year quarter-over-quarter and moving from 4.6 to 5.3 turns.
However the key here is that the rollout of SFS and the implementation of that initiative is well underway and we expect to see good progress here as the year goes on.
And now I'll turn it over to Don Allan which -- who will illuminate the financial aspects of this in a little more detail.
Thank you Jim.
And we start on Page 14 which is free cash flow for the first quarter of 2011.
You can see that it excludes all the M&amp;A charges or payments which is about $11 million in the first quarter.
The working capital was a negative in the first quarter.
So normal trends historically when you go back both legacy companies have had a negative working capital performance in virtually all the first quarters of the last 10 years.
And that's really just the trend of revenue as well as the aspect of building certain inventory levels for the spring season in several of the businesses.
But the good news from our perspective is the relatively modest negative trend in working capital of $70 million.
The other item of significance is other/restructuring.
We had some significant timing of payments associated with various things such as pensions and derivatives that resulted in the $90 million negative.
We do not see that as a repetitive issue.
It's something that was onetime in nature in many cases.
Moving down to capital expenditures about 2.9% of revenue in the first quarter.
So slightly above the guidance range we provided of 2.5% to 2.8% for the year.
However we still believe that range makes sense on an annualized basis.
It's more of a timing aspect to it.
The end result was $61 million of free cash flow in the first quarter versus $37 million last year.
So a $24 million improvement and in line with what our expectations were for the first quarter.
And we reiterate our guidance of $1.1 billion free cash flow for the year of 2011.
I'd like to spend a little bit of time on the next page because inflation is such a relevant topic to us and many other companies.
And this is a page that I presented at our Investor Day back in March and the focus is on the pricing center of excellence.
As many of you know we have been very active in pricing actions and have implemented many of them and we'll continue to do that as we go forward.
There's two different aspects to it.
There's one related to reacting to the changing cost structures such as inflation drives in our business and how you respond with price increases to your customers.
And then the second piece is more of a longer-term pricing alignment with the value that you deliver to your customers and making sure that your products are appropriately priced.
Clearly in the timeframe that we are right now in the short term we're very focused on the inflation we are experiencing in commodities and how we pass that on price to our customers.
We established the center of excellence back in 2004 over 7 years of experience and we've gone through -- this is our third inflationary cycle that we've gone through since that started.
We have 10 different business consultants that are focused on the analysis that needs to be done which is really providing the data to our customers so they understand the reasons for the price increases and why they're needed.
We also have additional finance resources embedded in our major business units to assist in driving this analysis and sharing the facts that are appropriately put on the table in these discussions.
As a result we have over 100 years of pricing experience with all these individuals in our company.
And they're really focused on training and coaching and mentoring our business units through a process like this to ensure that we're passing on inflation appropriately to our customer base.
As we indicated at the beginning of the year we believe this year in 2011 we can recover 1/3 to 1/2 of the inflation through price increases.
And in particular as you hear about in a few minutes and as John has mentioned earlier on we expect that recovery actually to be 80% in the back half of 2011 because of the recovery in the first half due to timing is relatively low.
So with that I'd like to move the Page 16 which is an update of our outlook for 2011.
First of all as indicated previously our earnings guidance we raised from $5 to $5.25 versus our previous guidance range of $4.75 to $5.
The main driver of that is the tax rate where our tax rate now we believe will be between 20% and 21% from the previous range which was 25% to 26%.
As John indicated there's definitely a little pressure associated with share creep and the average outstanding shares we're projecting to be 172 million for the year.
So that's slightly offsetting some of that tax benefit in our new guidance range.
The other thing that I want to touch on is when you look at the timing throughout the year of our earnings per share there will be significant inflation impact in the first quarter and in the second quarter.
And as a result our EPS for the year and the percentage first half versus second half will be 45% and 55%.
So what that means is in the first half of 2011 we believe when you take our annual guidance about 45% of that will occur in that timeframe because of the timing of the inflation and the price recovery as well as the timing of additional tax settlements that are expected later this year.
Digging in a little deeper into inflation as I mentioned the 1/3 to 50% recovery which is causing that 100 basis point negative drag on our operating margin that we discussed back in January.
If you look at the timing by quarter we believe that we will see about $40 million of a net negative impact in the second quarter as many of those price increases will be put in place in late June and early July as John indicated which results though in the back half of the year of seeing us 80% price recovery on inflation.
So we really begin to see the impact in the back half of the year and then net negative is only $20 million for the entire second half of 2011.
John touched on the share repurchase of $250 million which is really trying to partially offset the share creep that we expect to experience and have experienced getting to that average outstanding share number of 172 million.
So those are the major changes in our guidance.
We are reiterating to the right side of the slide many of the operational components that we reviewed back in January such as: net organic sales are expected to increase 5% to 6% on a pro forma basis off a pro forma level of $9.3 billion for 2010; the revenue synergies will add an incremental 50 basis points of revenue to that number with a modest EPS impact as previously disclosed; the acquisitions of CRC-Evans SSDS GMT and InfoLogix will add about 3% growth to that pro forma base; our cost synergies are still anticipated to be $165 million in 2011; and our operating margin rate is expected to expand by 150 basis points or just over 14% for 2011.
The one thing that I want to point out that may be lost in a little bit of various different changes here is that our Pfister business as discussed by Jim had a negative performance and lost some significant SKUs with a major customer.
That's about a $50 million revenue impact for the year and about $25 million negative operating margin impact for the year.
We're offsetting that with stronger performance in Industrial and a little bit in our CDIY business or hand tool and power tool businesses.
So we were able to absorb that negative impact with outperformances in other parts of the portfolio to maintain our operational guidance numbers.
And then the last thing I'd indicate is the non-merger and acquisition-related restructuring is still expected to approximate 2010 levels.
So moving to the next page a little bit more discussion around the segments as we look forward to the remainder of the year.
Starting with CDIY.
We still believe that we will see mid-single digit pro forma organic revenue growth.
Jim gave you a little indication for 2Q and some of the nice growth rates we're expecting there but the year is still anticipated to be strong in this particular area.
We will see operating margin headwinds in the second quarter from inflation as I just discussed as a lot of the inflation price recovery is in our CDIY business.
The operating margins headwind in 2Q will also be impacted by the promotional spend as we disclosed back in January of this year and the timing of that versus lower levels of promotional spend in the second quarter of 2010.
We're seeing really strong revenue growth performances across the globe in CDIY as Latin America will continue to outpace many of the other areas as we really expand our hand tools presence down there through the existing Black &amp; Decker infrastructure.
The share gains are going to continue as we see robust product pipeline for 2011 across many of the business units.
So we feel very good about the prospects of our CDIY business this year and going forward.
Security.
We believe that we will see low single digit pro forma organic revenue growth this year.
We did -- I did indicate back in January that we expected a relatively slow performance from a top line perspective in the first part of 2011 which we did experience in Q1.
It was a flat revenue performance overall.
We believe that will continue to improve and as a result we'll see a low single-digit revenue story for 2011.
The good news from our perspective is CSS organic sales are strong.
They were very strong in the first quarter.
We believe that will continue.
We will see a bit of a mix impact from installations versus RMR as we saw in Q1 but we don't expect that impact to be very significant to operating margin for the full year.
We're very focused on productivity and pricing synergies and some additional costs actions in our MAS business to offset some of the operating pressures that we're seeing there from inflation and a little bit of lower volumes.
So we're very focused on making sure that we're maintaining our operating margins across the Security segment and improving them from the levels we saw in Q1.
Industrial.
Fantastic performance in Q1 as Jim reviewed with you.
We believe we will see a mid-single digit pro forma organic revenue performance for 2011.
That may seem conservative to many of you based on a 14% performance in Q1 but we do have to recognize that the comps the comparisons get very difficult starting in Q2.
As in Q2 of last year we began to see some significant growth across this segment.
So as a result we believe we'll likely see mid-single-digit growth for the entire year.
The Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair tool business continues to exceed market growth and we feel very good about the prospects for that across the year.
The Emhart business as Jim mentioned definitely had some challenges associated with Japan but the good news here is that production continues to be forecasted as strong in U.S.
and China and in Europe in certain cases.
And we believe that stronger performance will be able to offset any of the negative performance we see in Japan as they begin to ramp up production throughout the quarter and throughout the year.
So in summary I like to just wrap up the presentation portion of our call today and reinforce five different points.
The integration continues to proceed with success.
We're very much focused on that.
That is our top priority.
The cost synergies are on track and in line with our $165 million objective for 2011 which will really drive a lot of that 150-basis-point operating margin expansion for this year.
The inflation headwinds are real.
We all know that.
But our actions are swift and we're trying to focus on recovery and have many things in place at this point that will go into increases in price in June and July of this year which will result in that 80% price recovery in the back half of 2011.
The revenue synergies are off and they're progressing smoothly and yielding nice results particularly in emerging markets like Latin America and also within our Industrial portfolio.
We're very focused on SFS and rolling that across the company.
And that will continue to be a cultural penetration throughout 2011 and of course beyond.
And then last but certainly not least $1.1 billion of free cash flow is forecasted for 2011 as we really see the cash begin to generate from this great merger that happened a little more than a year ago.
Our acquisition pipeline is robust as we've indicated before but our integration continues to remain our top priority.
Thank you so much Don.
Teresa we'll now open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jason Feldman.
[UBS Investment] A quick question on price cost.
The basic expectation is unchanged.
But in March I think you said you didn't expect to get back to an 80% cost recovery level actually for a couple of years.
What's going to change to make you more optimistic about the second half? And does this imply kind of that the first half is going a little bit more slowly than expected? Jason it's Don.
I would say there's a few dynamics happening here.
First of all we've had two waves of inflation associated with commodities over the last 6 to 8 months.
We had a wave back in third fourth quarter of last year and then we had a significant second wave in February-March timeframe of this year.
The fact that we had the additional wave and it increased the negative impact of inflation to us actually allowed us to have a more pragmatic factual discussion with our customers based on more significant inflation levels which allowed us to get many of these price increases in place or they will be in place in June and July of this year.
So really it had to do with the timing of it and those two different waves.
And the more inflation that you tend to have in one of these cycles the more factual robust discussions you have with your customers and your ability to implement price increases.
I wouldn't say it's easier but it's a little less difficult when you're dealing with lower inflationary numbers.
Okay got it.
And for power tools specifically obviously very good results in the quarter.
Do you have a sense of how much was related to share gains as opposed to market growth? And has you also seen changes in the competitive environment given what's going in Japan Techtronic's and Makita's position in those markets? We've kind of heard they're shipping less to the U.S.
given the demand there for the tools.
Yes.
Well this is Jim.
The one thing I would say about the market growth is it's pretty soft in Europe and the market and in North America.
And by soft I mean if you look at point of sale at the big boxes or the merchants mass merchants to see a positive POS is a good day for the total markets.
So I think what we're seeing is kind of a sluggish bumping-along-the-bottom kind of market.
And a couple of points have outperformance on share in the power tools and it's mainly the cordless where I think that's occurring and mainly in the 12-volt area.
Jason this is John.
Your last piece on product coming from Japan stay tuned and watch.
You're well aware that the travesties and tragedies in Japan took place very late in the quarter.
Any U.S.
shipments or POS were already here.
The supply chain is longer than that.
So any impact from Japanese producers shipping to the U.S.
as a result of the difficulties in Japan would not have shown up in first quarter numbers.
To the extent they exist they'll take place in the second quarter.
And I think you will also find that Japan power tool production tends to go to Japan although there are some export.
But most of the power tool production that comes to the U.S.
is probably from China even if it's a Japanese company.
So their plants themselves have not -- we've studied the locations of their plants and the plants haven't been impacted.
The final finished goods plants haven't been impacted in any significant way from what we can tell but we don't know to what extent their supply chain might've been impacted.
We know that ours is pretty much unharmed with a one or two little very very small immaterial items here and there.
You probably can count them on one hand.
But as the Japanese companies might have a little bit more tendency to have Japanese subcomponent suppliers and that's what we'll really have to see in the second and third quarter.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim.
[Credit Suisse] Thanks very much.
I was wondering if you can talk a bit more about Kwikset.
You talked about the inventory correction there.
Where do you think the inventories are at this point? Do you think it's fully done in terms of correction? And just how are you looking at that in terms of the sales environment there? Yes I don't think we can provide anymore direction Dan than we already have specifically inventories were too high.
They were corrected and we think they're right about where they need to be at this stage which is why -- I worry about a lot of things but this is not one of them.
As Jim described we really do think it was temporary.
This business has performed the Kwikset business extraordinarily well over the last 18 months in terms of both POS customer acceptance and performance in the marketplace.
And as you know home center inventories are always depleted in the month of January due to their fiscal reporting and reorders took place later in the quarter than we anticipated.
But that's a long way of saying we think they were a little high.
They probably got a little low by the time the quarter was over and we think they're pretty much in line with where they need to be given our customers' projections and our projections on demand going forward.
Great thanks.
And just a second question wondering about the comment on commodity costs.
You said you still expect the commodity costs to peak in the second quarter.
Can you add a little any color in terms of what's driving that just in thinking about it for the second half of the year? Sure I'll start.
And Don Jim and I are also extraordinary close to the pricing center of excellence and our global commodities sourcing team.
I think we're probably all equally attuned to respond.
If you think about the commodities that affects us the most primarily it's steel then we get into the non-ferrous metals resins and now that we're in the power tool business in a big way batteries.
But it's still far less of an issue than steel non-ferrous metals and resins.
We've seen pricing out through essentially the third quarter.
So as Don made the reference and it was a very good one when there was very modest inflation in the fourth quarter of 2010 we absorbed it or tried to with productivity because it was not enough to justify a price increase.
When we got it the second time dramatic increases particularly in steel it was enough to go and get the pricing.
And as Don suggested most of it -- that we've had the negotiations.
It will go into effect in June or July and we think that will offset at least Dan what we've seen coming basically through September.
Beyond that we don't have prices.
And obviously our prices in the marketplace will be -- are pretty much set up until that time and we think one will offset the other.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut.
[JPMorgan] This is actually Will Wong in for Mike.
Just a quick question regarding CRC-Evans.
I was wondering if you guys could talk a little bit about how that's backed up to your expectations this quarter and also in terms of whether if you guys have seen any sort of weather impact on some of the operations at CRC-Evans.
Well we haven't seen any weather impact.
I mean the business overall I think is on track for what we expect for the year.
It's a lumpy business.
This quarter was not as robust as we would've liked but it certainly was a solid quarter.
We had 8% organic growth and low single-digit operating margins.
So we're going to have to get used to the lumpiness of that business.
I think we're all going to have to get used to it especially when Infrastructure becomes a bigger part of the portfolio.
But right now we're more than happy with the integration the way it's going.
I think the interesting thing as nuclear becomes a little perceived as more risky in the wake of the Japan situation I think natural gases and clean coal are basically the two areas that you're going to see a lot of interest in in terms of helping supplement the energy base here in the U.S.
And CRC strength is natural gas onshore North America so we're right in the sweet spot if and when that takes off.
In the meantime the offshore business in CRC is a burgeoning area.
I'd say CRC brings more to the table in offshore and has a very small business there but significant contracts have been signed in the last 3 to 4 months with the providers major providers.
And we really have a great value proposition.
We see a lot of growth coming from that.
So I think that CRC is going to live up to our expectations and maybe then some but time will tell.
Our next question comes from Nicole DeBlase.
[Deutsche Bank] So first of all if we could talk a little bit about the repurchase.
What is the timing that you guys expected? Is this more of an accelerated repurchase that will occur in 2Q or is this going to be balanced across the year? And then also is there room to do more repurchases based on how the M&amp;A pipeline looks right now? Nicole it's Don.
It's likely that the repurchase the bulk of it happens in 2Q and I wouldn't expect it to go much beyond that.
And as far as additional repurchase I mean John gave an indication that we have approval of about double the size of what we're doing.
So we could certainly look at that as a possibility.
We'll have to balance that against the pipeline.
As I mentioned in the summary comment the pipeline is robust.
And combining that with the fact that a lot of our vast majority of our cash is overseas we are looking at the utilization of that.
And hopefully through acquisitions we can do that in particular.
So I would imagine that some we'll continue to evaluate as we move throughout the year.
Nicole let me just -- to clarify.
The repurchase for the third time is to avoid creep get our share count back in the 170 million to 172 million range where we guided at the beginning of the year and it has zero to do with lack of a robust business development pipeline.
As Jim has pointed out on numerous occasions and I think it's important to reiterate the integration of Black &amp; Decker remains our highest priority.
It's organizational capacity not lack of opportunity that will allow us to tread softly and be very thoughtful in terms of which types of acquisitions that we think we can pursue.
We're very pleased to have a position from a balance sheet perspective to be able to pursue some meaningful acquisitions.
But if it's the same people working on those acquisitions that are working on the integration that will detract from our primary objective.
So that is our biggest concern staying focused on the integration of BDK.
The pipeline's robust.
As you're probably aware we have full-time BD professionals on every continent and a very very active group.
It's just something we're spending less time on short to intermediate term because we are focused on the Black &amp; Decker integration.
Yes.
And I'd also -- and this is Jim.
At the analyst meeting I mentioned that our expectations for acquisitive capital allocation in 2011 was nothing substantial in terms of multibillion dollars or billion dollar plus.
I think I said probably around $0.5 billion would be our target for the year with maybe a little bit more but that's kind of the range that we're thinking of here.
And so if anybody is worried about a major multibillion dollar transaction you could put that aside for the rest of this year at least.
They're certainly -- that's not going to happen.
Okay great.
Thanks for color on that guys.
And then in the outlook what are you guys embedding for FX? And what Euro rate are you using? We're utilizing the -- as far as FX we utilized the latest rates in the last week or so.
That's what we utilized in our guidance.
And so whatever the Euro is a week ago $1.43 or $1.44 in that range is what we've utilized.
And how much of a positive impact does that have on revenues in your outlook? Relative to what? Year-on-year? Oh year-over-year? I think that's just like 1 to 2 points.
2% so far Nicole.
So our sense would be unless we've missed something that would be about 2% tailwind due to FX.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill.
[Zelman &amp; Associates] Thank you guys.
First question just wanting to understand the creep a little bit more because the $5 million I think you mentioned seems rather sizable relative to the $8 million of options that were exercisable at year-end.
So can you kind of split that between new issuance and what's been exercised? And from the exercise component everything you're laying out certainly points to a very strong market moving forward and results moving forward.
So even when the stocks been strong we certainly would hope that results continue to indicate stronger appreciation as we move forward.
So can you maybe elaborate on where within the organization you're seeing those exercising? As far as the outstanding share creep question the reality is is that because of the rise in the stock price it's not only the exercising of options it's also the sudden impact of anyone who has options that are in the money.
That has an impact on the shares outstanding and on a diluted basis.
So as stock price goes up it puts pressure on the number of outstanding shares as a result of that.
And we also have -- you combine that with the fact that we do have certain tranches of options that we know will be expiring from a vesting period perspective later this year which will likely result in many of those options being exercised.
And so when we forecast that and look at it it indicates possibility of $5 million -- 5 million shares of creep from the 170 million level to potentially 175 million.
That's why we're looking at a share repurchase which is about 3.3 million as John indicated but it doesn't completely offset that potential creep.
Now if all of those exercises don't happen which would be unlikely because if you have people's options expiring in a vesting period they probably just wouldn't let them expire they're going to exercise them.
So as a result we believe that's why 172 million makes sense.
Just to clarify in that point then of the increase then the vast majority of that is just timing of options that have already been issued as opposed to an new issue? Oh yes.
Absolutely.
Not new shares that have been issues or new options.
This is previously issued options.
Okay perfect.
And then the second question would just have to be around the pricing realizing there's a lot of focus here.
Can you talk about within the key power tools and hand tools area have you seen announcements from competitors of similar magnitude? And if you had to think about the 80% recovery on a 1 to 10 scale how confident are you in achieving that based on what you know today? Is there any uncertainty as we think about the back half of the year? The 80% is a back half number which -- at the same time inflation is abating the price increases are kicking in.
So our total price recovery is going to be far from 80% for the total year quite a bit lower.
And as far as competitive reaction we are the market leader so we have to go first in order for the rest of the competitors to make their decisions.
And time will tell whether they follow or not.
Frankly our value proposition is so strong right now.
We feel very confident that the price increases will stick.
The discussions are underway.
In some cases commitments have been made.
Agreements have been forged in some cases.
And we're not feeling terribly concerned right now about the willfulness of the channels to take the increases in general.
Now we'll see what happens at the point of sale and whether competition follows.
And we'll have to do whatever we do to protect our market share and just watch and observe and respond as circumstances unfold.
Our next question comes from Sam Darkatsh.
[Raymond James] John Jim Don Kate this is Josh filling in for Sam actually.
I wanted to follow up a little bit on the last question with pricing in power tools.
You talked about 80% realization overall.
Could you maybe give us some sense of how much realization you're counting on in power tools given that's been historically a little tougher? This is Don.
I would say that we're not going to say break it down by power tools and hand tools and Industrial businesses and Mechanical Security.
But if you look at where we're experiencing inflation the vast majority of it is in our Mechanical Security business HHI business and CDIY and both CDIY hand tools and power tools.
We do as Jim indicated and I indicated we do expect 80% price recovery in the back half.
I don't see a significant deviations in businesses as a result of looking at each business component to that percentage.
But you also have to recognize that for the year we're only going to get 1/3 to 50% price inflation recovery.
It's just the back half that we're experiencing.
And if you look at previous cycles there tends to be a period up front where you don't get the price recovery and then you get a higher percentage later on.
But you rarely get to a point across the whole cycle where you fully recover all your inflation.
And 30% to 50% for the portfolio would be at the very low end of our historical post-2004 inflationary era norm.
So I think we're in a good place there.
Exactly.
Okay I appreciate that.
And then just a little bit of a modeling question with -- I appreciate the walk with the Security margins.
Could you give us a sense of how you see those progressing as the year goes on and subsequent quarters? No we don't tend to forecast operating margin percentage by segment.
I think you can take the information that Jim presented.
And he talked about things that he felt were temporary and things that he felt were permanent and the vast majority of them were temporary.
You can take that as an indication of the future.
Our next question comes from Jim Lucas.
[Janney Montgomery Scott] All right thanks.
No inflation question but two on Security please.
Within CSS with the installation growth could you give a little more color of what verticals you're seeing that growth occur in? And then on the Mechanical side where the legacy Stanley business has been a little choppy any particular markets standing out? I mean have we seen the bottom there? Well in the CSS business Jim I think without a doubt it's the national accounts that we're gaining traction with.
So it's the corporations and the very large commercial customers.
What remains weak is municipalities and education.
Government is modestly positive although I'd say we're making good strides in government from a share perspective because we have a big initiative going on there.
So that kind of breaks it down for CSS.
Mechanical oddly enough the construction business is stronger than the retrofit business.
But when you think about that in the context of education budgets being constrained in this environment and municipality budgets being constrained I think it makes sense.
We're not seeing any huge recovery in commercial construction.
But I do think that there's a general feeling with our people in Mechanical that the construction market whether it's our own execution or whether it's the market that the volume has kind of firmed up a little bit there.
And we're certainly not decreasing I'd say in the municipalities and education at this point in time.
So it's really kind of a sluggish situation in Mechanical.
We're talking the Best Access commercial MAS what we call level.
And I think we'll probably see a little bit of positivity but not a whole lot.
I think there are -- Electronics is going to carry the segment for the rest of years would be my guess.
And any update on the retail channel of what you're seeing there? Retail channel it's very -- but for the inventory corrections it's very stable.
It's a point or 2 of growth that type of thing.
Nothing dramatic but certainly no downdraft going on.
And it's just -- what we saw this quarter was a little resizing in the inventories.
I was actually referring more to from construction versus retrofit? Yes Jim.
That remains slow to be very candid.
I mean part of what we experienced in the second quarter was a large very very good customer delaying some retrofits and some store expansions.
And a lot of competition in the retail space on both the door and the locks side.
So I guess the simple answer is that remains low.
We think we've certainly have hit the bottom.
But we'd like to see a little more robust activity in that if you will retail-end market or retail vertical as we refer to it both for our Mechanical locking and our Access Technologies business.
We have not seen it yet.
And as you know well having followed legacy Stanley second and third quarters are normally the best quarters for that business due to a lot of work no weather-related issues and just a lot more construction than normal.
But it's still bouncing along the bottom to be very candid.
Our next question comes from Eric Bosshard.
[Cleveland Research] One question.
Jim you talked about CDIY growing 5% to 10% in the second quarter an acceleration from what you saw in the first quarter.
Can you just give us a little more color in terms of what you see going on and how much of that is end market or how much of that is new product or market share that's driving that improvement in 2Q? We're going to get a little end market but I think it's going to be mostly ? Stanley Black &amp; Decker specific.
We've got new product major initiative in hand tools through the DEWALT hand tools.
We've got additional generations of power tool product development that'll be introduced here as we go forward.
We've got timing issues that affected the first quarter that won't repeat.
We've got revenue synergies.
I mean everything's pointed in the right direction.
From an end market -- and I appreciate that.
From an end market perspective or from a channel interest in supporting or promoting or bringing inventory in the category is there any change within that? No the customer receptivity is as strong as ever.
Our next comes question from Peter Lisnic.
[Robert W.
Baird] I guess first question on the inventory and just ignore HHI.
Can you give us a sense in -- especially the power tools business I would've expected maybe some pressure with inventory adjustment there but may give us a sense as to what you're seeing in terms of sell-through there.
Any inventory risk related to that business as you kind of look forward? Pete this is John.
I guess it would be naive to say there's no inventory -- there's inventory risk every day.
We experienced it in HHI in the first quarter.
But I think simply said what you're after POS is in line with shipments and retail inventories across the board to the best of our knowledge and that's one area where we've really got good data are totally in line with what we're used to seeing.
Now there's a modest seasonal build because it's a busy season but we see that there's nothing at retail to suggest a risk in that regard at this stage of the quarter.
Okay perfect.
And then just second question on the Infrastructure piece of Industrial.
Understand that comps getting tougher but from the global Infrastructure players and suppliers that piece of the economy is certainly strong and maybe even strengthening.
Can you give us a sense as to how your backlog in that piece of the business is evolving? And when you say sort of a tougher comps in the second quarter and second half does that apply to that business specifically? Let me start and then Jim will give you a little more detail.
The Infrastructure piece of our portfolio is extremely small right now.
It's $350 million annualized revenue.
About 1/3 of that is legacy Stanley hydraulics and 2/3 is CRC which Jim talked about our optimism in that business but the lumpiness of it.
If you think about the third that we've got a lot of history on there is a very very close correlation between our backlog and our future projections and the price of scrap steel in our Hydraulics business.
And as Jim referenced scrap steels very high relative to historical levels right now which would indicate our legacy Hydraulics business is in very very good shape.
CRC-Evans is newer to us.
And as Jim indicated in the segment breakdown it comes in bigger pieces on a less regular basis.
And to be candid we really don't have the history with that business to project it quite the way and too read as much into backlog good or bad as we would if this had been part of our portfolio for 5 or 6 years.
Jim you may want to elaborate.
The only thing I would clarify in addition to that is that when Don referenced more difficult comps on a prospective basis he was really referring to the Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair business which has been booming since the second quarter of last year as well as the Engineered Fastening business which has also been extremely strong if you look over the last three quarters or so.
That's what we're up against in Industrial is that the comps for IAR and for Emhart are both getting tougher.
Hydraulics is not big enough to matter in the overall scheme of things.
Next question comes from Michael Kim.
[Imperial Capital] LLC</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the Convergent Security business.
With the step up in installations how should we think about the pull on RMR through the balance of the year as we exit the year? And then can you talk a little bit about maybe the pricing delta between the national accounts and your core commercial customers? I guess two things.
We are not going to get into detail on the pricing between national and core commercial.
I just don't think it's appropriate on this call.
As it relates to install and RMR as Jim said install is up 10% RMR is up 3%.
We've been saying for about the last 18 months that our margins have been flatter for lack of a better word or certainly helped by the fact that installs were so low.
And as a consequence RMR as a percent of the total is higher and our margins are higher.
So the shift to install is growing at 3x the rate of RMR is not healthy short term in terms of margins.
But I think as we've alluded to all along we feel very very good about it because you know well without those installs the future RMR won't be there.
Historically we've had a tremendous national account focus.
I will say that much.
And the small -- the local or small- to medium-sized enterprises as we refer to them offer a great opportunity for us going forward.
And Brett Bontrager Tony Byerly the North American team are really really focused on it.
But we are not going to get into profitability by customer or by channel on this call or ever if it helps you going forward.
LLC</strong> And then just maybe to clarify with the neutral impact to the balance of fiscal year on the mix of installation and RMR.
Can you clarify what are the puts or takes then to drive sort of a flat operating margin performance for the balance of the year? Yes.
I think our [indiscernible] -- and frankly the impact wasn't that significant in Q1.
It's not going to be that significant throughout the year.
It's a relatively small impact of 20 to 30 basis points on the Security sector and it's not something that we should be overly concerned about as a result of this year and going forward.
That was our last question.
I will now turn it back to you for any final remarks.
Thank you all for joining our call today.
Again if you have any questions or need any sort of follow-up please do not hesitate to reach out to me.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q2 2011 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Kate White Vanek Vice President Investor Relations.
Ms.
Vanek you may begin.
Thanks so much John and good morning all and thank you for joining us for the Stanley Black &amp; Decker Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself are: John Lundgren President and CEO; Jim Loree Executive Vice President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release which was issued after yesterday's close and a supplemental presentation which we'll refer to during the call are available on the IR portion of our website stanleyblackanddecker.com.
This morning John Jim and Don will review Stanley's second quarter results and various other topical matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
There is also some very helpful information in the appendix of the slide deck as it relates to your models in particular.
If you have any sort of questions please contact me.
Replay of the call will be available beginning at 2:00 p.m.
today.
Replay number and the access codes are in our press release.
And as a reminder you can download the earnings replay as a podcast from iTunes.
As always please feel free to contact me with any sort of follow-up questions after today's call.
We will be making some forward-looking statements during this call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such may involve risks and uncertainties.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements and Form 8-K which we filed with the press release and our most recent '34 Act.
With that I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Kate.
Good morning everybody.
Just -- I'm going to touch on some highlights before Jim gets into some more detail on the segments but as we look back on the second quarter we remain on a steady course of organic growth despite an unfavorable macroeconomic backdrop.
We did get some better news this morning that Jim and Don will touch on as it relates to the macroeconomic environment.
But nonetheless our performance and the organic growth we were able to achieve were driven primarily by new products that we introduced to the market where we gained share in established markets and continued strong performance in the emerging markets.
Again that -- I'll touch on it a little later.
Second quarter revenues were up 11% to $2.6 billion organically plus 3%.
And that of course excludes the favorable impact of foreign exchange.
Organic growth in Power Tools and Accessories Industrial and our Convergent Security Solutions was somewhat muted by weakness in Hand Tools Outdoor Products and ongoing Pfister impact.
Don talked about the Pfister impact in the first quarter but just to shed a little more light on Outdoor which we referenced in the press release particularly for those of you who are less familiar with that business Outdoor is a $550 million to $600 million business and it is one of the few businesses that's quite seasonal.
It's split roughly 60/40 first half second half historically with the second quarter almost every year being the largest quarter.
We all know there was -- across the country the weather was terrible in the second quarter regardless of where we were.
But just in round numbers it's just math the 20% decline in the second quarter unrecovered on an annual basis is almost 70 basis points of organic growth across the entire company.
So just take that in mind as Don is doing his outlook and the fact that we lowered organic growth estimates for the year 100 basis points.
The overwhelming majority of that is the result of Pfister business that we did -- excuse me of Outdoor business that we didn't achieve in the second quarter much of which based on history is gone and won't be recovered.
Our EPS was $1.46 excludes M&amp;A charges and does reflect the $0.28 benefit attributable to the favorable tax settlement of the outstanding tax contingencies.
GAAP EPS of $1.14 includes the M&amp;A related charges and the $1.18 excludes the charges and as well as the favorable settlement.
And that was in line with management's expectations and the direction that Don gave on our first quarter call that approximately 45% of our core earnings would be achieved in the first half of the year and 55% in the second half based on the way the year was rolling forward for us.
13.6% operating margin again that excludes the charges.
120 basis point sequential increase in CDIY.
Security profitability to total segment increased 300 basis points sequentially and 120 basis points VPY or versus second quarter 2010.
And Industrial increased 110 basis points versus the second quarter of 2010.
Our integration remains on track.
In fact it remains ahead of plan.
Good progress there and we -- as the year progresses we were able to shed some more light on that.
We've been able to accelerate some of the 2011 cost synergy realization specifically by $35 million.
So our total synergy target we've been able to raise from -- to $450 million by the end of 2012 that's up from $425 million.
And for clarity that means the annualized impact at the end of 2012 goes from $460 million to $485 million.
Last but not least as it relates to the integration you won't see this in the numbers directly but we just completed a global employee survey and it yielded very positive results as it relates to the cultural integration of these 2 companies.
As we said at the time of the merger there were many similarities but there were also some differences in these 2 companies and we were very very encouraged that 12 to 15 months later that we received the kind of results that we did from this survey that in general suggests everyone's on the same page everyone's focused on the same objectives everyone's motivated and while that won't show up directly in the numbers I think we all know it will show up long term in the numbers and we took a lot of comfort from that survey and it validated -- further validated the success thus far of the integration both on a qualitative as well as quantitative perspective.
Working capital another good story.
Turns increased 14% to 5.8 as SFS operational principles are expanded and embedded across a larger business base.
Looking at the integration specifically in some of the key milestones the biggest news as I think was quite clear in the press release is that we're moving $35 million forward into -- from 2012 into 2011 yet holding 2012.
So essentially we're $100 million higher than our original estimate and we're getting it 3 months earlier.
So it's all in all a continued good story.
Looking at the top left of the chart we were able to do that because our Synergy Steering Committee continues to meet quite regularly.
We did our annual refresh process and we identified $25 million of additional opportunities.
Several of our major footprint-related projects that we've talked about have been launched and we've said these are -- but even more important we track these carefully because there is much more interdependency there's more complexity.
Some of the months that we've talked about are in East Greenwich Rhode Island Rock Falls Jackson Tennessee all underway or nearing completion.
We recently announced plans as it relates to our Redding Pennsylvania facility.
There are others in Europe that need to be worked through our work councils unions and employees et cetera that are not yet announced.
But much in North America underway or completed Europe's starting to roll and we continue to be very confident about our ability to achieve all of the objectives that we've identified in conjunction with those programs.
By the second half of '11 we'll have completed the 2 major distribution center and 3 major plant consolidations.
And relative to the numbers that we've talked about by the end of 2011 we will have executed projects that represent 75% of the 2012 cost savings of about $425 million.
And that was what we've said as little as 3 months ago.
What we're doing with our update is saying that by the end of '11 we will have executed projects now that represent almost 85% of the 2012 savings of $450 million.
So 10% of higher completion rate of a pool that's $25 million higher than we estimated at 3 months ago.
So needless to say we are a; pleased and b; confident.
Pleased with the progress thus far and confident in our ability to continue with that pace.
Last but not least on the integration compelling revenue synergies opportunities continue to surface and grow.
DeWalt Tools through the Industrial channels Hand Tools in Latin America are among the 2 largest successes to date and Jim will talk a little bit about those when he reviews the segments.
So we're in a good place on cost synergies that allowed us to raise our estimate which is a good thing in the face of this current economic environment.
Looking really quickly at the region revenue and profit growth continues to be driven by the emerging markets really good story.
The emerging markets now account for 15% of our total revenue.
That's up from 11% at the end of 2010.
So these markets continue to grow.
We're dedicating both financial and human resources to these markets because we recognize what an important part of our future they represent.
In North America on the left organic growth of 1%.
Lot of puts and calls Jim's going to come on to those so -- in the interest of time and not wanting to duplicate efforts.
I'll move on to Europe which is our second largest geography where organic growth was 2%.
It represents 24% of the company and Industrial performed very well in Europe.
CDIY was soft but all in we were able to achieve 2% organic growth which is a good story in Europe.
Latin America up 26% now represents 9% of our total company's revenues.
We're really pleased.
Canada was down 7% primarily Weiser Locks within the MAS segment or HHI.
It's a new neighbor to outdoor in terms of a lot of it is weather related and we don't regard that as a continuing trend but it did have an impact on organic growth in the quarter.
Canada 6% of our revenue and it was down 7% so the numbers are clear.
We remain pleased with our performance in Asia.
It represents 5% of the company organically up 4% but if you see the blue balloon excluding Engineered Fastening in Japan Asia organic growth was up 15%.
Jim is going to talk about this a little bit in the segments about Emhart but Japan is bouncing back nicely from the tragedy that they suffered late in the first quarter.
Our largest Engineered Fastening customer is up to about 80% of its historical production levels as that gradually becomes a more normal working environment.
But considering the importance of Japan to our Emhart or Engineered Fastening business we're quite pleased with our performance in Asia as well.
Moving on to the sources of growth as mentioned in my first bullet point Power Tools Industrial and Convergent Security they posted the more solid organic growth during the quarter and that was partially offset by weakness in our Mechanical Security business the Outdoor that we've talked about and the Pfister issues that we absorbed in the first quarter but will be with us throughout the year.
Really quickly volume was up 3%.
Price was flat.
A lot of puts and calls but for the quarter as Don guided price was flat in the second quarter consistent with our expectations.
Currency added 5% acquisitions another 3% so that gets us to our 11% total revenue.
Looking at some of our larger businesses.
Industrial continues to be a really positive story 9% organic growth.
Hand Tools Fastening &amp; Power Tools together or our core tool businesses if you will up 7%.
Convergent Security up 4%; Mechanical Access down 1%; Outdoor Home down 17%; and Pfister 21%.
A lot of puts and calls but at the end of the day 3% organic growth across the entire system and Jim will give you a little more detail on each of the segments as he walks through those.
I'll turn it over to him.
Okay.
Thank you John.
Let's start with CDIY.
Second quarter CDIY revenue was $1.364 billion up 5%.
Excluding FX sales were flat.
Price was flat.
That's the tier of Delta Woodworking and the consumer auto electronics product line cost 2 points and that basically offset the 2 points of unit volume growth.
Operating profit was $195 million down 3% versus 2Q '10 but profit rate was 14.3% off 120 basis points versus a year ago but up 120 basis points sequentially.
That's almost $40 million of inflation in the quarter which was expected that would offset the benefit of synergies.
Now the pricing actions that we've taken do not take hold until the third quarter.
So some of this margin degradation that was associated with the inflation was definitely anticipated.
The organic growth was a little weaker than expected.
As John mentioned it was 2%.
There was a lot going on behind that number certainly as we already talked about to some extent.
Pfister was a headwind of about 2 points the divestitures I mentioned were another 2 points and the lost outdoor season that John described cost us 1 point so total headwinds of about 5 points.
So if you take the 2% growth with those headwinds the rest of the segment actually had a terrific performance in this kind of a market up 7%.
And if you look at the organic growth chart there you can see the Professional Power Tools &amp; Accessories and Consumer Power Tools were both significantly positive with Professional Power Tools &amp; Accessories up 13% and Consumer Power Tools up 7%.
So very very good performances fueled by the new product introductions some of the revenue synergies and a very successful quarter from that perspective for those units.
Hand Tools and Fastening it doesn't have quite -- to the same extent of new product activity and you can see although it does have the DeWalt Hand Tools which we began shipping in the quarter was slightly negative.
And then the Outdoor and Home Products part of the company or part of the segment was down 17%.
So I'd say in light of the weak market it was still a very strong performance.
So in the face of this weaker than already weak market that we predicted as well as a hefty dose of inflation as we also predicted CDIY held its own and now looks forward to a stronger second half with little-to-no help expected from the markets although there was some encouraging news this morning on housing starts which I'm sure everyone has seen it would emphasize that we haven't really built any of that into our forecasts.
We think that we'll have this better performance in the second half from an organic growth perspective because the revenue synergies will continue our pricing actions will kick in the 18 volt 20 volt cordless launch and the DeWalt Hand Tools launch will also gain momentum in the second half and it should be a pretty good story and who knows with a little help possibly from the market that we haven't built in.
So that's CDIY.
Moving now to Security.
In Security second quarter revenue was $622 million up 9% 5 points from acquisitions 3 points from currency 1 point organic.
Operating profit was $103 million which was up 16%.
The profit rate was 16.8% up 120 basis points versus a year ago and 290 basis points sequentially and without the acquisitions the profit rate was actually 17.6% due to the dilutive impact of the GMT and InfoLogix acquisitions in their early stages.
The profit growth derived from synergies associated with the merger productivity projects very strong performance there and tight SG&amp;A control which more than offset the inflation.
Moving to organic growth the Convergent business was up 4% and that was a very encouraging performance given that installs outpaced RMR growth and national accounts showed very strong signs of life.
So we continue to see progress in the CSS area and I would expect to see that continue as we go forward.
The Mechanical business or MAS as it's called here residential is flattish to down 1 point access technologies the automatic door business was off 4 points organic growth.
And that was driven actually by their largest customer who has cut back on some remodeling scope as the year has progressed.
And then the commercial locking business I thought was quite encouraging with organic growth of 3 points.
And you can start to see the benefit of a little life in the commercial markets in the U.S.
affecting that.
So the Electronic business is showing signs of better growth momentum is growing there Mechanical still dealing with weak markets although Commercial looks more promising both businesses are managing margins and profit growth effectively.
And then just going to the geographic mix for a minute it's one of our issues with this business for a long time has been the fact that it is so North-American-centric.
And that's not surprising since we basically created this business almost from nothing about 7 or 8 years ago.
And today it's a $2.4 billion business roughly.
But at 77% North American right now and with the recently announced Niscayah acquisition this issue is going to be addressed.
This will add about $250 million of revenue per quarter to our Security segment of which 85% is outside the U.S.
and it will take the non-North American content of this segment to over 50% of the revenue.
So that's some very encouraging news.
And speaking of Niscayah just a couple of brief comments on that.
On June 27 we announced the offer.
This week we were notified or we -- the mandatory waiting period under Hart-Scott-Rodino expired so the U.S.
has given us the greenlight for the transaction as it relates to antitrust.
EU approval is still pending.
The process with the Swedish company is -- the Swedish regulators and the EU work in tandem.
We have filed -- we have been in contact with the authorities.
We filed the paperwork that's necessary.
We expect to hear some news in the next few days and we're hoping that the EU commission will confirm that it has no further questions and that we will be able to take the next step if all goes well there with short form clearance.
And then we will begin a 30-day offer period which will enable the shareholders to tender their shares and we will at the end of that 30 days determine if 90% of the shares have been tendered.
If so the offer will go unconditional and we'll close shortly thereafter.
I will remind everybody that the acquisition if successful which we hope it will be is highly accretive with $0.20 of accretion in year 1 and $0.45 in year 3 most of which we'll begin to see the impact of in 2012 as -- if the transaction closes as expected.
Moving on to Industrial.
Industrial is once again a strong sales and profit growth driver for the company.
Second quarter revenue was $636 million up 29%.
Acquisitions provided 13 points of growth FX accounted for 7 points organic growth was 9 points or 9% including 2 points of price.
Operating profit was $98 million up $27 million or 38% and it came in at 15.4% up 110 basis points versus 2Q '10 and down 210 basis points sequentially.
If we go to the organic growth chart there we can see the Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair business had an exceptional performance with 13% organic growth and a terrific performance in North America with both Mac and Proto up almost 20% each organically with very strong operating margins and storage sales were also strong.
And just as a sidenote we've just opened up a new Vidmar plant in China which can make the high-end Vidmar cabinets of the same quality and performance in China as we make in Allentown Pennsylvania.
They will be for the Asian market and not for import into the U.S.
for the most part.
Engineered Fastening was up 6% which was a heroic effort I think given the tremendous difficulties that we had in Japan with production down in Japan automotive production down 40%.
And in the quarter Japanese auto production was reduced to 8% of global production down from 13% a year ago.
So for -- in total global auto production was down 2% for the quarter.
So for these folks to be up 6% that truly is a great story involving increased penetration of fasteners new products and good nameplate mix.
So great story there.
CRC-Evans performed well with revenue up mid-single digits and despite a slow natural gas pipeline market in the U.S.
in North America.
And hydraulics some -- a business we don't often talk about when we talk about the quarter here because they're only 10% of the segment was up 40%.
So a huge growth driver in the segment with really strong markets and really great performance in handheld railroad and their mounted product lines.
So the entire segment was a terrific story.
It looks like it will continue to perform well in the second half although we think the growth rates may moderate somewhat but the profit rate and the momentum will continue.
Now I'll turn it over to Don Allan.
Thank you Jim.
I'd like to spend a little bit of time talking about working capital on Page 12.
We're very pleased with our working capital performance this quarter where working capital turns increased 14% and revenue increased 11%.
It grew 11% as you heard from John earlier.
So that means our turns went from 5.1 to 5.8 turns year-over-year which is an excellent performance.
And sequentially they went from 5.3 turns up to that 5.8 number which was about a 9% improvement.
What I find really encouraging about this particular chart is when you look at the aspects of rolling out the Stanley Fulfillment System into any new aspect of our company in particular Legacy Black &amp; Decker what we tend do is attack the receivables and payables first.
And you're starting to see the effects of that where receivable days are 56 and payable days are 70 and you had a nice improvement in both those categories year-over-year.
As we focus on credit and collections and the efficiency of collecting our cash on our receivables as well as improving the turns and the relationships with our vendors so they're more in line with how we like to do business for those particular companies and entities as we go forward.
So it's great to see that progress and really beginning to see the traction as the global enterprise continue to embrace the different tenets of the Stanley Fulfillment System.
How does that translate into cash flow? On the next page first of all I just want to remind everybody that the cash flow the free cash flow that we're showing here is -- exclude M&amp;A or merger and acquisition payments.
So it gives you a good sense of the operational cash flow performance is.
If we start with working capital you can see there wasn't a large benefit because we did have a large growth in revenue.
But we were able to maintain the cash flow performance in the second quarter.
We do expect that to turn positive as the year progresses.
As many of you know we tend to have a seasonality of our working capital performance in the fourth quarter in particular as well as combining that with the different projects and initiatives around the Stanley Fulfillment System will allow that to become a positive number by the end of 2011.
One thing of note on this page as you see in Other there's a large negative $131 million in the second quarter and about $218 million year-to-date.
What you have going on there is a couple of things the primary drivers of that is the tax settlement that we achieved in both the first and the second quarter which totaled about $70 million the large part of that was noncash.
And so you have the benefit in net income and you have the negative effect being backed out in Other which is really what's driving a lot of what's in that line.
The other thing in there is we do have pension contributions as many of you know from the Legacy Black &amp; Decker pension plan slightly underfunded.
So we continue to make some pension contributions which are about $40 million $45 million year-to-date.
Those 2 things are the large driver of why that's negative.
And we do have a few timing items in there through the first half of the year that we expect to reverse in terms -- and those results in a slightly lower negative by the end of the year.
The other item here is CapEx.
CapEx is trending very nicely.
It's at -- through 6 months 2.1% of revenue which is at the lower end of our guidance range and we would expect that trend to continue throughout the year.
Now one thing you might look at when you look at this page is that $235 million of free cash flow through 6 months and we are reiterating our guidance of $1.1 billion.
If you look back historically at both legacy companies Black &amp; Decker and Stanley the vast majority of the cash flow that's generated by both companies happens in the back half of the year and a large part of it in the fourth quarter.
And the 5-year history of both companies indicates that the first half as a percentage of the full year tends to represent somewhere between 22% and 25% of the full year free cash flow performance.
If you take those percentages there's [ph] the $235 million you get very close to that $1.1 billion which is why we feel comfortable reiterating that cash flow guidance for all of 2011.
So a little more information on P&amp;L guidance on Page 14.
As our press release indicated we have raised our EPS guidance range excluding M&amp;A charges to $5.15 up to $5.40.
That's an increase of a $0.15 from the previous guidance range we provided back in April and that is solely due to the $0.15 of additional settlement of tax contingencies that occurred in the second quarter.
If we look at the year for our tax rate related to our guidance range we're now expecting the tax rate to be 19% to 20% which is down 1 point from the previous range that we provided in April which was 20% to 21%.
Looking at operational aspects of our guidance as indicated by John as well as in our press release we have lowered our guidance for the year on net organic sales by 1 point down to 4% to 5% based off the pro forma level of $9.3 billion of sales for 2010.
That's down from the 5.5% to 6% that we provided back in April.
And as many of you know the guidance that we provided did not have any market growth in the mature markets in particular in Continental Europe and the United States and Canada.
That continues to be the case in the guidance that we're provided.
But it certainly creates an ability to offset some of the headwinds that we're seeing in both the weather-related outdoor performance that John and Jim discussed as well as the weaker European market that we've experienced in the second quarter in the CDIY segment which was down modestly in that period.
So we do have a slight negative as a result of that and as of now we do not have any market improvement in the mature countries that I mentioned.
But we'll see as housing starts was positive as Jim indicated earlier up 14% in the month of June.
We'll see if that is something that allows for improvement in the back half of the year but we're not including that in our guidance at this point in time.
Cost synergies as John mentioned we believe will now be $200 million in 2011 which is up from $165 million estimate that we provided 3 months ago and how that translates to 2012 we believe will be at $450 million in that timeframe which is an annualized number of $485 million as we go into 2013 which means the implied 2012 number is approximately $115 million.
Another item of note is that due to the situation with Niscayah and the potential acquisition we did suspend our repurchase program in the second quarter of stock of 250 million but we will commence that program again either later this week or early next week and we expect our shares outstanding to approximate 172.5 million for the year.
We are reiterating certain aspects of our guidance on the right side of the page.
As you can see revenue synergies we expect to still be approximately 50 basis points of growth in 2011 with a modest EPS impact.
The acquisition revenue for the acquisitions listed here on the page approximately 3%.
And we continue to believe that our operating margin rate expansion will be 150 basis points from the 2010 levels which is just slightly over 14% for the year and embedded in that is that negative 100 basis points from the price inflation arbitrage that we've primarily experienced in the first half of the year as we start to see the positive impact to price the second half of 2011.
In the non-merger and acquisition-related restructuring we still expect it to approximate to $25 million or consistent with 2010 levels.
So with that I'd like to provide a little more insight on each segment on Page 15.
Consistent with the company we're tightening our guidance range or our thoughts around performance of CDIY for the year for revenue organic revenue to be approximately 4% to 5%.
And it's really due to the weaknesses that we mentioned in Outdoor products as well as in Europe that's driving the vast majority of that.
The first half performance for organic growth was approximately 2% but when you adjust it for certain things such as the outdoor product performance as well as the expected price benefit in the back half of the year and comps as they become easier in the second half because we saw significant stock or restocking in the first half of 2010.
And then we saw a slower performance in the back half of 2010 which makes the comps easier as we go out through the remainder of this year.
We expect operating margin accretion to continue in the second half of 2011 because of incremental cost synergies positive impact from new products the pricing actions that I just referred to are really helping to mitigate the inflation that's now in our run rate.
Jim touched on the share gains that we're getting in the various new products that are continuing to be rolled out.
Many of them started in the first half but we'll see the full effect of that in the back half of the year with the cordless power tools as well as the DeWalt hand tools that started to launch in late June and will continue to roll out through the summer.
Moving to Security we're very pleased with the Security performance in the second quarter as Jim mentioned.
And from a top line perspective through 6 months the organic growth is slightly positive.
We expect that to continue to get slightly better as the second half progresses and we believe we'll have a low single-digit organic growth performance for the entire year that's being driven by the Convergent or Electronic Security growth as it continues at a healthy pace.
It continues to get better as the second half progress.
Also we will see more favorable performance in the back half in our residential hardware business as we did have some inventory corrections if you remember in the third quarter of 2010 and that will provide a slightly easier comp as a result of that.
And we do expect the strength that we saw in the commercial hardware business in the second quarter to continue at that modest pace into the back half of the year.
Margins will continue to slightly improve across the entire Security segment as we continue the integration of the SSDS business.
And we continue to drive the integration across mechanical security and residential hardware.
Moving to Industrial.
Industrial as Jim mentioned very strong performance through the first half of the year.
Organic growth is 11%.
We are indicating that for the year we expect mid single-digit growth.
And let me make sure that people understand what that means.
We define mid single-digit growth as somewhere between 3% to 8%.
And clearly we expect this to trend to the high end of that range which is at 8% based on the performance they've had in the first half of the year and expected performance in the back half.
There will be a lower growth rate in the back half versus the 11% due to the comps as well as other items that I'll touch on in a few minutes.
Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair continues to be strong.
They continue to gain share and exceed market growth that's occurring in the industries that they serve.
We're very pleased with that performance and they're really starting to get some traction with revenue synergies as well.
The Emhart business or Engineered Fastening business is seeing nice growth even though the light vehicle production was slow in the second quarter.
We expect that to be better in the third quarter and the fourth quarter as we see improvement in Japan.
And we expect that our business will continue to outperform the production levels as we've seen in the first half of the year.
And in the offshore channel business we're starting to see more activity and more life there in our infrastructure business.
So we expect that to drive some growth as well in the back half which is why we believe we'll see that performance in the -- around that 8% level for the year for this particular segment.
So to summarize the call this morning we feel excellent about where we are with the integration.
It continues to proceed very well.
We've accelerated synergies into 2011 as you saw by increasing our estimates to $200 million.
And we've raised the overall estimates for the whole program to $450 million by the end of 2012 which again it creates the $485 million annualized into 2013.
The volume and margin growth expected in the second half due to new products the pricing actions emerging markets really allows us to feel like we're on track so that 150 basis points year-over-year OM expansion that I discussed earlier.
John touched on the revenue synergies and the progress we're making.
It's very smooth in the implementation and the results have been compelling so far.
So we continue to invest in that in both people and other assets to really drive that growth throughout the remainder of the year.
I touched on the Stanley Fulfillment System and the impact on working capital and working capital turns improving by 14% year-over-year which is really nice to see the tenets of SFS really getting embedded in our company globally.
And then of course we are reiterating our $1.1 billion in free cash flow forecast for the year.
With that that completes the presentation portion of the call I want to turn it to Q&amp;A.
Time for Q&amp;A all.
John our operator will be kicking it off and as always we'll follow the one question and one follow-up routine.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Eric Bosshard from Cleveland Research.
Can you give a little more color on the 80% cost recovery in the back half a little bit just across the portfolio where the expectations are? And then also provide perhaps a bit of input on what you've learned as you started to have these discussions and how things have fared to this point? Yes Eric this is John.
I'll kick it off and Don will give you a little more granularity.
From 36 000 feet we're absolutely holding to that recovery.
We're getting a little less price than we'd anticipated and one of the reasons we're getting a little less in CDIY is inflation is abating or the -- if you will the escalation has slowed down so we're getting a little less second-half inflation compared to where we left off.
So all in the 80% is still good.
But I'll let Don give you a little more granularity.
Yes Eric.
I mean we are comfortable that we will see an 80% recovery as indicated in the back half of the year.
There's been a lot of moving parts and dynamics associated with inflation and price.
The vast majority of our price increases are in place although we still have a few smaller ones that we're negotiating over this month.
But by the end of July we feel comfortable that all price increases will be in place.
And on the inflation side we've seen some pluses and minuses.
As John alluded to we've seen some trends that have caused production inflation and we've also seen some trends that are increasing inflation.
So we're managing.
We're continuing to manage that dynamic but at this point we still feel comfortable that we'll have 80% price recovery in the back half of the year.
Our next question comes from Jason Feldman from UBS.
So obviously there's a lot of focus on the Black &amp; Decker related cost synergies.
I find it interesting though that at IAR your margin expansion was very substantial.
So legacy business without the acquisition-related synergies and I think it was actually second quarter of last year it started doing much better.
Are there other areas in the legacy business not included kind of in that $450 million synergy target where you see material opportunities for operational improvement? Well this is Jim.
I mean IAR is predominantly a nonrevenue noncost synergy story.
It's really an execution story.
And I'd say they've done a great job over the last year pulling that business together on a global platform basis and treating it as if it were one company instead of a series of popcorn stands.
So I think that's a terrific story.
Engineered Fastening which is another part of the Industrial segment when they went through the downturn they dealt with severe contraction in the automotive market.
And they really did a phenomenal job bringing their cost structure down even before the merger.
And as the automotive market came back last year and into this year prior to the second quarter with the Japan issues they have kept their cost structure intact and they have a tremendous operating leverage story.
So I think that is another one that we're particularly proud of.
But I think you're still seeing across the portfolio for instance in Security their margin growth is not driven solely by revenue -- or cost synergies.
It's driven almost equally as much by a terrific story managing productivity projects and controlling SG&amp;A levels.
So you've got those stories I think across the portfolio and the CDIY folks have -- are battling a lot of headwinds.
But I think they too have managed the productivity element of the equation extremely effectively.
Okay.
And a quick clarification on the guidance.
I'm just I guess a little bit confused and I'm sorry if I'm missing something.
On the 150 basis points of margin expansion that was reiterated for the year the revised guidance has basically lower revenue and more cost savings so wouldn't that suggest that the operating margin expansion would be higher than in the prior version of guidance? No.
Jason this is Don.
I get the question but I would say no.
When you look at the components of revenue and then the profitability of those revenues and -- as well as the increased synergies and other dynamics that are changing that are pluses and minuses it puts you roughly to the same place year-over-year expansion in operating margin.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim with Crdit Suisse.
Just wondering if you can talk a little bit about the launches of DeWalt in August what you're thinking about doing in terms of just the spending behind the marketing of that to make sure it's getting traction there in this tough climate? I'll take it Dan.
We're not going to reveal our spending plans for competitors to jump all over or counterpunch.
But simply said if you look at SG&amp;A it's totally in line with expectations and with former guidance.
We have very robust plans in support of those launches and one of the reasons we talked about CDIY in the second quarter margins we really had a semi-hiatus same period a year ago so we are comparing against a low spending base.
Essentially I'll call it brand support and product introduction support.
In fact the historical level in line with where it should be as a percentage of SG&amp;A.
And I'll go so far as to say thus far customer acceptance and future plans we're quite -- we're very encouraged by it and we would not have gotten that level of acceptance without meaningful levels of support.
But it's just not appropriate to give you any more granularity than that.
And I hope you understand.
Sure I understand that.
And I guess secondly just wondering in terms of as you look at growth opportunities as you're pursuing Niscayah right now would you be content to -- finishing with the integration of Black &amp; Decker and looking at Niscayah or are you still looking at other opportunities here at this time? I guess any of us could take that.
The pipeline is really full but the playbook will be the same.
We will look at both financial capacity and organizational capacity.
The beauty of Niscayah as we pointed out it's primarily a foreign acquisition made with foreign cash extraordinarily good use of a somewhat dormant resource.
That in and of itself would make it a good deal.
The fact that it's highly strategic it's been a coveted asset and it's quite accretive makes it an even better deal.
We'll still have plenty of cash.
If it's a business and a geography that will not interfere with the integration of either of those businesses we could still opt -- unlikely this year's 2/3 is over from an M&amp;A perspective unlikely we could execute -- would execute anything else this year.
But we'll start the meter running again as we look forward to next year.
The pipeline is quite full.
The only change in environment that I know you're well aware of is with financing being relatively inexpensive.
Private equity or financial sponsors are far more meaningful part of any competition for good assets than perhaps they were 2 or 3 years ago when we did the Black &amp; Decker deal.
But it's a robust environment with a lot of opportunity.
Jim may want to add something.
Yes.
I think just in -- to take it from a complementary but slightly different perspective what we're basically doing here from a capital allocation perspective is taking about 1/3 of our excess capital and returning it to the shareholders in the form of dividends and repurchases and taking the other 2/3 and investing it in acquisitions that are strategically linked to our key franchises and our growth platforms but are also able to produce cash flow return on investment returns in the 13% to 15% range over time.
And we think that is a great way to create shareholder value.
However if we don't execute on the acquisitions and deliver those returns then we could destroy value.
So we're very conscious of making sure that we only invest when we are confident that we can do that which means we have the organizational capacity to do so.
And so financial capacity organizational capacity getting back to what John said is critical both from a tactical and a strategic perspective.
Our next question comes from Mike Rehaut from JPMorgan.
This is actually Will Wong on for Mike.
Just a quick question.
When you talk about your outlook not including any rebound in residential construction first can you just remind us how much residential construction exposure you have across the 3 segments? And then secondly when do you expect sort of residential market to rebound and when that will be built into your forecast? Hi Will.
This is Kate.
First I'm going to point you to the appendix of our investor overview which is always on our website.
That has the breakdown by segment and by business of our exposures to residential construction.
So as of 2010 pro forma about 20% of total Stanley was residential 28% was other residential meaning sort of outdoor repair remodel.
Second we're not going to be in the business of predicting the housing rebound and I think you understand.
And I think if we were we would be embedding it in our guidance and having a lot more conviction behind it.
But that's not the stance that we're going to take today.
Okay.
Great.
And then just my follow-up question in terms of the weather-related weakness in outdoors how are you guys able to discern what was sort of weather-related weakness versus maybe an overall demand coming in weaker? Yes I'll take it Will the one -- essentially overwhelmingly it was weather-related.
We can take it off-line but the one reliable source I've seen that measures essentially hours available for outdoor activities through May not through June because the data isn't available yet that would mean using our outdoor products participating in various sports et cetera it's syndicated resource.
Through May those hours were down 26%.
So if you think about -- we were down about 19% with our outdoor that would tell us that we may even have gained a little bit of share.
But the overwhelming majority if not more than 100% of the softness was weather-related.
You don't hear us talk about weather very often.
Legacy Stanley I think the only businesses that would have -- are impacted by that are Access Technologies and to a small extent Gate Hardware in our legacy hardware business.
So this is new for the Stanley side of the merger not new for the folks who've lived with this business for a long time.
But the simple answer is I would say 100-plus percent of the shortfall was weather-related.
Thus we don't anticipate that it's going to repeat itself.
That's the good news.
The bad news is second quarter is always your biggest quarter and when you get past June or July and you haven't sold it it's generally gone for the year.
Our next question comes from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
First off the change -- the 1% change in the organic growth it seems like the vast majority of that is already spoken for with Q2.
I'm looking on a go-forward basis how much have you revised your European demand expectations and what are those European growth expectations given as 1/4 of your business? Sam it's Don.
I would say on the outdoor component I would say the vast majority of that is behind us.
As far as the European component we do expect slightly negative performance in the back half of the year which is what we experienced in the second quarter.
So that trend will continue and contribute to the whole 1% decline that we talked about for the year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then John hopefully I'm going to be phrasing this question right.
Based on a bunch of recent security industry transactions and multiples it would seem that the overall stock market might be materially undervaluing either your Security business or your Tools business.
And I was just curious as to what your view on the subject might be and maybe what options you and the board consider in terms of unlocking latent value? I guess I'll say 2 things.
It should be obvious that the markets grossly undervaluing both our Tools and Security business but I would argue that those of us on this side of the call are biased.
Look Security at legacy Stanley grew from nothing to almost 40% of our revenues.
And Jim Don and I spend a lot of time talking about that and with the board.
And we always felt that if it got to 50% of our revenues and wasn't being valued properly we'd think about some alternatives for it.
With the acquisition or merger of Black &amp; Decker Security has slipped back to less than 25% of the business.
With Niscayah it will be about 30%.
So you can argue just based on market multiples we have an 11x or 12x EBITDA business trapped inside a 7x or 8x company.
We would all argue that's a very very high-class problem because we're -- were it to be -- come to a point where it's a stand-alone company that would be valued higher.
We'd create a tremendous value for our shareholders and it's something we'd have to talk about.
It's the furthest thing from our minds as we speak right now.
We love our business.
It's a very important part of a diversified portfolio that served us so well through the last economic downturn while our Tools business was down 15% to 20% on an organic volume basis and not quite as much in terms of earnings because we took out some cost.
The Security business stayed flat in terms of volume increased in terms of earnings and it's what makes us we think a reliable and a valuable diversified industrial company.
That's the place we want to be and our board wants us to be.
But every year we go through a strategic planning exercise with our board.
It's one of the things we talk about.
Right now Security is as I'd say 25% going to about 32% of our revenue with Niscayah.
We love the business.
We love having it as part of our portfolio and we're always open to considering various alternatives.
Securitas I might add and they've been public with this had the same thought 5 years ago a guarding business a monitoring business and a residential security business based upon 2 of the model but it didn't work very well for them.
So it's not magic but if you take essentially high EBITDA multiple business and spit it out and put it on its own that you've created wealth overnight due to financial engineering.
If it was that simple and straightforward we have an incredibly capable and savvy Board of Directors and I think a pretty good business development team and a lot of good financial advice we would have done it 5 years ago.
It didn't make sense then doesn't make sense now but it's certainly something Sam that we will always look at always consider at the present time.
Our next question comes from Michael Kim from Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> Specific to Convergent you talked a little bit about installs being greater than RMR.
Can you quantify how much stronger install was over RMR? And then with RMR specifically was that primarily account growth or ARPU growth or is it split pretty evenly between those? Well that's an incredible amount of granularity that you're asking for.
What I will say is that the RMR or the install growth was a couple of points higher than the overall line average organic growth for CSS.
So we're talking kind of in the 5% to 7% range.
And it was largely derived from new account acquisition.
And also I think the RMR growth was also aided by the fact that our attrition rates are coming down as well and they're in a very good place as it relates to historical performance.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then you guys also called out some order strength from national accounts and a rebound in commercial.
Can you talk a little bit about where you're seeing the vertical strength or are there any particular segments in the market that you're seeing some good activity? I think the state and municipal markets continue to be horrendous.
I think we're seeing good in the multifamily we're clearly seeing some positives.
Education is stronger than it has been.
Healthcare slightly stronger.
So we're -- that's kind of where we're seeing from a vertical perspective the better performance.
And the order rates are in excess of the install growth.
So I mean they're doing well from an order perspective and our job now is to convert that in the back half of the year.
And Michael I'll just add to that because you'll get cut off because it was your follow-up that's up.
As you know -- you know our Security business so well.
We're heavily skewed towards retail but working very hard to diversify into 6 other verticals that we're actively pursuing.
Retail simply isn't getting much worse.
It's been bad.
It's hit bottom.
And I'm not suggesting a rebound there but to Jim's point all the positives that Jim has talked about which are modest but in the right direction are not being offset to the extent by retail declines as they have been in the prior 4 or 5 quarters.
Our next question comes from Ken Zener from Keybanc.
I wonder if you could I thought it was interesting on in CDIY obviously the difference between the Power Tools and the Hand Tools.
So I'm wondering if you could maybe just expand on your comments about the relative difference.
I know you mentioned the product launches were very impactful on the Power Tools side.
But does that imply on the Hand Tool side you were are gaining share or were you holding share in a market that was down that much? And if you wouldn't mind refreshing us I know you addressed this at the capital markets day but the introduction of the DeWalt hand tools if you could kind of refresh us on why you don't think that will be a high rate of cannibalization towards the high-end Stanley hand tools that you might or might not have in the same channel? Sure.
I'll take the first part of your question for sure.
It's Jim.
I clearly believe that the overall market was negative modestly negative for both Power Tools and Hand Tools in the quarter.
And the reason I think that we had strong double-digit performance in Professional Power Tools and solid single-digit performance in Consumer Power Tools is primarily a result of the new product introductions and share gains in cordless that are derived from the 12-volt that we did last year and the 18-volt that we are just beginning to introduce now.
So this is not surprising to us that we're performing well in this regard.
We expect to continue to perform well.
And so really the market which was exacerbated by the weak European performance down I'd say a couple of points.
And then with the hand tools and fastening number of minus 1% probably would've been minus 2% to 3% had it not been for the revenue synergies that are being pursued selling hand tools through power tool channels that existed with legacy Black &amp; Decker especially in Latin America but also in Europe now.
So I think that's certainly a driver.
And then of course the DeWalt power -- hand tool line which really didn't have a huge impact in the quarter but I think we'll continue to see progress in -- as the year develops and we take that across the U.S.
And I'll take -- I'll just take the second part on the cannibalization which I think is a very logical question.
Jim touched on it.
Remember DeWalt hand tools are available in one large big-bucks customer primarily the staff [ph] channel.
Stanley hand tools were significantly underdeveloped in the staff [ph] channel.
That's why this was a tremendous revenue synergy opportunity to Jim's point and there's not much to cannibalize to be very candid which is why that was the -- a; the product line and b; the channel of focus on where we wanted to introduce this high-quality product with obviously a terrific brand name to support it.
Okay I appreciate that.
And for my follow-up I'm not sure if you don't mind commenting on Niscayah.
It's kind of Security in the U.S.
which we are seeing more of a nascent recovery obviously on the Convergent side less on the Mechanical side.
But if one looks at the Niscayah business which is a bit more on the install side than your existing business I believe it's seen pretty negative growth.
I mean could you kind of without getting into detail but kind of describe your thoughts around how that installation versus the kind of the recurring market is occurring? And given recent changes that we've -- where pressure that we've seen on the European economy relative to the U.S.
is more nascent commercial recovery? Ken this is Jim again.
The big difference between Niscayah and our business is they both have pretty strong recurring revenue.
I think we're about 50% they're about 40% but only 10% of their revenue derives from monitoring and we're substantially higher than that at least double that.
And the monitoring business is by far and away the most profitable part of the recurring monitoring business.
But the other recurring revenue is service revenue.
And I would offer that I think Niscayah does a fantastic job signing up their customers for service.
And I think we could learn from them actually in the U.S.
and take some of what they're doing with respect to their contract service and leverage our service base even more effectively.
I think that one of the problems that they have is that given some of their historical constraints they haven't been able to really size their service fleet in accordance with their level of demand.
So there's opportunity all over the place for both Niscayah and for us to learn from each other and to make our entire enterprise even more profitable.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Just wondering if -- I'm sorry if I missed this if you touched on this already but can you just talk about how inventory management in some of your bigger customers have impacted results during the quarter or the outlook for the third quarter? Yes.
Dennis this is John.
I think we've been pretty public and granular.
Inventory is not at dramatically low levels although our data tells us that at the larger customers we won't name any by name we're down about 1.5 weeks from historical level and that's arithmetic.
That did have an adverse impact particularly in our HHI channel and to a modest extent in hand tools.
We're not going to go through inventory by SKU or by product line but in general as you know we get good TOS data from our 7 largest customers and we get it almost realtime.
And we're down about 1.5 weeks from what I think we would agree with our customers are historically optimal levels.
To the extent they keep it there.
That won't come back to the extent they rebuild.
There'll be a little bit of a lift in the second half.
We've built no lift based on inventory rebuild into our forecast because we think our customers just as we do are getting better managing their supply chains with a little less inventory.
We know historically when it went from about 12 to 8 weeks they were out of stocks all over the place.
That was neither good for vendors or customers.
But to think over time retail inventories could come down a week or so which is 8%.
Of course it varies a lot by category.
And turns would increase and out-of-stocks wouldn't.
That's quite feasible.
And so we've built no lift into the numbers going forward.
But it clearly did have an impact in the first half of the year in general and the second quarter in particular.
Okay.
And then just -- that's is very helpful John.
Just to be clear then though the 1.5 weeks roughly would also be down versus the year-ago period? That's -- yes.
Our best estimate is yes.
1 to 1.5 weeks across the big bucks is going to [indiscernible].
That's right.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up on a comment you made earlier about Outdoor.
I think you said it's $500 million to $600 million business.
Does that include the legacy BDK cleaning and lighting and some of the household products or was that strictly the Outdoor category? Yes.
It's all of that.
Our next question comes from Nicole DeBlase of Deutsche Bank.
I just wanted to clarify the comments that you made on pricing.
I think it was probably the first question on the call.
You said that -- it sounds like your getting a little bit of pushback from your CDIY customers and I'm a little bit confused because I thought that that was all unrecovered inflation.
And so I'm not sure why they'd be pushing back? So just -- if you could clarify that comment.
It's not like we're getting pushback Nicole what it is is that -- there was the profits just continual discussion on data and information sharing trends that happen in inflation on a daily basis gets discussed.
So we're at the later stages of these discussions but it's relatively small amounts we're referring to that haven't been finalized at this point.
And frankly we have no choice but to finalize them.
So we've implemented the price increases across the rest of the channels so that they will come at the home centers and we will work through that.
And I think Nicole just another point we talked about inflation abating.
It's true.
To Don's point as they ask for more data and we provide it most folks are focusing on steel which is without question the biggest single commodity with which we deal resins' import et cetera.
But if anybody has looked at rare earth metals lately they're up 600% 700%.
Now that being said they're a tiny piece of costs but it's important as it relates to power tools.
And our customers understand that because they source those products directly themselves.
So to Don's point the data's there to support the increases.
What Jim said is absolutely right we can't have 3 sets of prices in the marketplace so we either raise the prices or don't ship.
And we've been here before and we don't expect much of a fallout from where we are.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
For my follow-up Industrial margins on an incremental basis came in at about 20%.
It's a little bit lower than we've seen recently.
Is there anything to call out there? Are you saying on a contribution margin basis? Yes.
Yes.
Well we are investing in the business so contribution margin is one way to look at it but that assumes that SG&amp;A is steady-state and that's just not the case.
We're -- in the Industrial business we're investing in new products.
You're going to see an absolutely stunning new air tool introduction the first industrial power tool -- air tool that will be introduced here in the next few weeks in about 15 years in the industry.
So just -- those types of things are going on.
And we're spending money on advertising and sales promotion and working the emerging markets aggressively.
So you can't just take the contribution margin of that.
Some of that has to fuel growth.
This is a dynamic business.
Our next question is from Peter Lisnic from Robert W.
Baird.
I guess the first question on Security I just want to make sure I understand the profitability here.
Up 250 bps x acquisitions which I consider to be pretty strong especially on the Mechanical side where organic growth was down one point I think you pointed out.
So I'm just wondering what the levers are in that Mechanical business.
My guess is that profitability there actually improved even though organic was down.
Am I kind of on the right track there? And then just kind of what led to that? Yes.
I guess I'll start Todd -- Pete.
It did improve but I'd like to feel better about it.
We predicted it.
It improved from an extraordinarily low base in the first quarter which Don -- I don't think could have been more clear to say we considered it an aberration.
We said what we thought contributed to it specifically a lot of softness in MAS and the mechanical locking subsegments of the business.
And it isn't so much that second quarter was terrific.
Second quarter was a terrific improvement off a low base and quite frankly we felt sanity was restored to our margins rather than we did something special.
And you are seeing the impact of the Black &amp; Decker Stanley integration in the mechanical business as we integrate HHI into our commercial locking business.
You're starting to see the synergy effect really this year and it'll continue into next year.
We didn't have a lot of that last year.
Okay.
And so the implication is the second half should -- we should continue to see the improvement in mechanical if you're not kind of putting for par in that business to use an analogy I guess? That's a perfect analogy.
Pros putting for pars and dogs chasing cars don't last very long in...
On the CDIY business I just want to make sure I understand the organic growth forecast for the second half.
4% to 5% can you give us a breakdown of price versus volume? Well we're not going to give that level of detail but there definitely will be 1 point or 2 of price in the mix.
And then beyond that it's going to be volume driven.
The whole company will add about a point of price in the back half of the year.
That's going to be the best way to look at it.
Yes.
And CDIY is about 80% of the inflation.
So you can figure out where the pricing action is most aggressive.
Our last question comes from Mike Wherley from Janney Capital Markets.
This is Mike Wherley standing in for Jim Lucas.
I just had a follow-up on the Security business.
You said that -- I was just wondering about the productivity gains.
Are they more from SSDS or spread more evenly across the segment and part of that BDK integration you were talking about? They're across both CSS and MAS.
And as I said when I gave my comments there were 3 principal factors that drove the earnings growth in security.
One of them was synergies one of them was productivity projects and the last one was SG&amp;A control.
Those are the 3 things that drove the profit growth.
Okay.
And then was there any change to your full year material inflation recovery forecast of 33% to 50% that you gave us last quarter? No.
We're still on track for the 80% in the second half and the 33% to 50% for the full year.
Thanks all.
This concludes our call today.
Again please feel free to reach out to me with any questions about any sort of matter and thank you so much for coming in today.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q3 2011 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Kate White Vanek Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
White Vanek you may begin.
Thanks so much Kim.
Good morning everybody and thank you all for joining us for the Stanley Black &amp; Decker's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren President and CEO; Jim Loree Executive Vice President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release which was issued yesterday after the close and a supplemental presentation which we will certainly refer to during the call are on the Investor Relations portion of our website stanleyblackanddecker.com.
This morning John Jim and Don will review Stanley's third quarter results and various other topical matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
There is some helpful information in the appendix of the slide deck as it relates to your models.
If you have questions please contact me directly after the call.
In addition you'll note on the cover of our PowerPoint presentation for this quarter you'll see a barcode on the cover.
You can access our DEWALT Hand Tools mobile site by downloading the free scan app available on your App Store and you'll be able to access the site by clicking on the code from there.
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 2:00 today.
Replay number and access code are on the release.
And as always you can download the earnings replay as a podcast from iTunes as well should you be interested.
We will be making some forward-looking statements during this call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate.
And as such they involve risks and uncertainties.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
And we direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K which we filed with the press release and in our most recent '34 Act.
With that I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Kate and good morning everyone.
If we could focus on the first slide I think the greatest highlight of the third quarter '11 is in the earnings number itself which excluding merger-related charges increased almost 40% versus the prior year.
Revenues were up 11% $2.6 billion organically up 4% in what you'll hear is a relatively soft market.
By segment CDIY grew 5% organically excluding Pfister and previously announced divestitures such as the Delta business.
Within CDIY our Professional Power Tools sales rose over 20% on the strengths of some very exciting and very well-received new product introductions that Jim is going to talk to you a little bit about in the segment analysis.
10% organic growth in our Industrial segment.
We're seeing great strength there both in IAR as well as some of our Infrastructure segments.
Security was flat versus prior year.
There are a lot of puts and calls within Security in general and within the Mechanical Access portion of Security in particular.
But despite the flat volume our margins as you'll see in a second were very strong in Security.
Dilutive GAAP earnings were $0.92 a share $1.34 excluding the M&amp;A-related charges and repeat that that is plus 38% versus third quarter 2010.
13.9% operating margin.
That excludes Niscayah which is included for about 3.5 weeks in our results.
That's up 130 basis points from the same period a year ago.
Strong margins in Security as I have suggested earlier 20.2%.
And that was within Security our Convergent Security Solutions business posted record profitability.
SFS continues to be embraced.
And as a consequence working capital turns increased 24% to 5.7.
Again excluding Niscayah which was only part of the company for 3 weeks in September.
As Don will point out in our outlook and as he looks at our balance sheet and cash flow working capital turns and the improvement in turns and many other things as a result of the embedding of the Stanley Fulfillment System across the larger company is a tremendous ongoing source of cash.
Niscayah closed on September 9.
We've made really good progress in the first 5 weeks.
And per our announcement and I'll talk about it a little bit later we're expecting $0.20 of accretion next year $80 million in synergies by 2013 resulting in even further accretion.
$350 million share repurchase took place during the third quarter and that's about $100 million more than we previously communicated.
We bought in a total of 5.6 million shares.
So the earnings was driven by a lot of things: healthy organic growth relative to the market and cost synergies from the ongoing success of the Black &amp; Decker integration.
We've had a lot of conversation on various geographies and it is a mixed bag around the world but generally positive as this chart will show.
Organic revenues as I mentioned were up 4%.
But if we start on the middle left in our largest market plus 3% in the U.S.
That represents more than 55% of Stanley Black &amp; Decker's total revenue.
Canada was flat represents 7% of our total revenue.
And Europe our second largest market was plus 3% again with very strong performance in the Industrial segment relative softness in CDIY but healthy performance nonetheless relative to the market and some good relatively good early results in Security from a margin perspective and relatively flat from a volume perspective.
Looking at Latin America.
Our revenue synergies are really beginning to gain traction in Latin America.
It represents 9% of our combined revenues and we had 23% organic growth in Latin America during the third quarter.
Asia grew 9% organically and is becoming an increasingly large part of our portfolio.
But if you see the bubble that we've highlighted if you exclude Engineered Fastening our Emhart business organic sales growth in Asia was 19% a tremendous achievement not dissimilar to Latin America.
Engineered Fastening grew sequentially.
It had a very good quarter but it's still feeling the aftereffect of the second quarter tragedies in Japan that had a tremendous effect on the automotive industry coming back nicely but still not back to pre-tsunami and earthquake levels.
And last and arguably least representing 1% of our volume organic sales were down 8% in Australia.
We think that's a quarterly aberration rather than an ongoing trend.
Australia remains a very important market for us despite its small size.
So Europe is steady and emerging markets Asia Latin America continuing to expand at a tremendous rate.
Looking at the sources of growth.
As I suggested earlier Professional Power Tools and the Industrial business posted really really strong organic growth despite relatively subdued end markets.
Volume 4% as I've said.
Price was flat.
Jim and Don will come onto that a little bit.
We had some positive list price increases and some greater-than-expected promotional activity on some of our older-generation products to enhance and help the sell-through.
But all-in flat price during the quarter with organic volume up 4%.
Currency helped us 3% and the impact of acquisitions 4% for your total top line growth of 11%.
If you're looking within the businesses Professional Power Tools &amp; Accessories 17%; industrial 10%; Security excluding the automatic door business or Stanley Access Technologies was plus 2%; Consumer Power Tools were flat; Hand Tools and Fasteners most of which is the legacy Stanley Hand Tool business was down 6% with relative softness in the U.S.
and Europe and strong strength everywhere else.
Access Technologies as Jim will talk about in the segments our automatic door business down 9%.
It's rare for them to have a down quarter.
Some retrofit business with large customers was delayed.
The business remains very strong.
And Pfister down 22% not dissimilar to last quarter as that reflects the impact of lost SKUs at a major customer that's been in place since the first of the year.
And we'll have one more quarter of that type of comparison before we've reach if you will steady state on the Pfister business.
So it gives you a little more granularity inside the segment.
And Jim will give you some of the cause and effects in just a minute.
Finally integration first and foremost on many of our minds certainly mine in the senior management team.
I'll talk about 2 different programs running in parallel.
First the Black &amp; Decker integration within Stanley to become one company remains on track.
We're projected to achieve $450 million in cost synergies by 2013 and enter 2014 at a $485 million annualized basis.
We're getting into the major project implementation phase.
We've consolidated 2 major distribution centers 3 plants they are progress on time and on budget.
We're tracking these very very closely because the interdependency of these projects and the resulting increased complexity is very very important and it's as important as ever that we stay on top of these.
We are as part of our I'd say rigorous and I think well understood integration process.
Senior management and the relevant project managers meet regularly with our normal dashboard format to ensure that these programs stay on track.
We have $115 million in incremental cost synergies this year.
That's going to drive about $0.50 in earnings accretion.
And something that we're very excited about is our revenue synergy projects.
They're beginning to yield strong results.
They're still on track for $300 million to $400 million in incremental revenue and $0.35 to $0.50 EPS accretion by the end of 2013.
The biggest opportunities it's already showing up in the numbers are in CDIY and IAR in Latin America both Argentina and Brazil and it's really encouraging to see these results.
Niscayah as I mentioned closed on September 9.
It was a publicly traded company.
The first 4 now 5 weeks of the integration confirmed our ability to achieve the stated cost synergies of $80 million.
It's more than just a European business.
I think it's important to understand there is overlap in the U.S.
about 15% of Niscayah's business is in the U.S.
and about 15% of the legacy Stanley Convergent Security business was in the U.K.
and France.
So there's really good opportunity in those 3 geographies as well as an opportunity to drive some synergies through improved practices across the rest of the system.
The management team is in place.
Massimo Grassi one of our most senior executives in Europe has been named to head Security Europe.
He brings global experience and a lot of experience managing cross cultures cross integrations.
We very much like what we found with Niscayah.
Tremendous field organization quite decentralized relative to the Stanley model.
We will get everything that can be done in one place done in one place and Massimo has been overseeing that for about 4 years with our company.
And anything that touches a customer and end user will continue to be done locally because that's the way we do it in Europe.
That's our model for success and we're quite encouraged by the prospects for Niscayah 5 to 6 weeks into it.
The pro forma financial impact is per our information release we're expecting $45 million of cost synergies and $0.20 accretion next year another $35 million in the following year which will ultimately result in $0.45 of accretion.
Both the incremental accretion from Black &amp; Decker and next year's accretion from Niscayah are included in the 2012 preliminary outlook that Don provided.
But let me turn it over to Jim to give you some more granularity on our 3 reporting segments for the third quarter and going forward.
Okay thank you John.
In light of the continued difficult global construction market CDIY delivered a very solid performance.
Total sales were $1.338 billion up 6% from the third quarter '10.
Segment profit of $170 million was also up 6% and the profit rate held nicely in the 13% range.
Organic sales were plus 3% but up 5% as John said excluding Pfister and the divestitures.
And the Professional Power Tools &amp; Accessories business was overwhelmingly positive with 17% organic growth on the strength of its lithium-ion share gains as well as increased promotional activity on older-generation power tool products.
Consumer Power Tools was flat organically with a weak backdrop in the U.S.
and Europe offsetting double-digit gains in Asia and Latin America and Hand Tools and Fastening was down 6% of which 2 points of that erosion was due to a business model change with the Bostitch industrial business which shifted over from a direct to a distributor model.
But broad POS pressure in the U.S.
and Europe was really at the core here.
And it more than offset DEWALT Hand Tools share gains listing gains and strong emerging market -- and a strong emerging market performance.
As you can see CDIY revenues in Latin America grew 19% with above-average operating margin rates.
But the highlight really was in Professional Power Tools which grew over 20% due to the success of the 18- and 20-volt Max lithium-ion line and continued strength from the 12v lithium-ion line that was introduced a year ago.
And Power Tool Accessories were strong as well up 6% which is a continued focus for us to grow that highly profitable recurring abrasives and accessories line.
Let's talk about pricing.
And I know that's on a lot of people's minds.
But pricing actions were successful in CDIY during the quarter.
We locked in the final increases that were out there hanging and we now have successfully achieved our goals in terms of list price increases to offset inflation.
But during the quarter we chose to offset the benefit from that with higher promotional discounts on NiCad and other older-generation products.
And you can understand with limited store traffic and increasing dichotomy between the pros who simply want the best power tool out there i.e.
our new lithium-ion and those who are more interested in good performance at a lower price point we felt that this was the best gambit available to us to affect the phase in phase out and maximize revenue and profit.
And we think it did.
So all in all a decent showing for CDIY.
Revenue growth profit growth and share gain all against a tough market backdrop.
Security also had strong profit growth in a weak environment.
Total sales were $656 million up 17% with acquisitions contributing 15 of the 17 points.
Organic sales growth was flat.
Segment profit was $110 million up a very strong 26% a nice operating leverage.
And synergies from the Black &amp; Decker and other acquisitions price and productivity more than offsetting inflation and ex acquisition charges the segment profit rate was 18.4% and ex the temporary margin dilution from the new acquisitions Security OM percent was actually 20.2% certainly a very good place for that to be and we haven't seen that in a long long time.
As the businesses went CSS or Convergent Security was up 1% with 4% growth in RMR recurring revenue monthly revenue and install volume was down 2%.
But healthy order flow from both national accounts and core commercial accounts left us with an increasing backlog and orders were up 10% in the U.S.
U.K.
during the quarter and up 4% overall in this subsegment.
Also notable CSS France the home of the ADT France acquisition which we made a year ago really progressed quite smoothly and now we've gotten that operating margin rate into the mid-teens as we promised and are now ready to digest the Niscayah activities as well in France.
So that's definitely another highlight.
And then in addition a business that we will be featuring in the future as a growth engine in the coming years Healthcare Solutions was up 12% organically indicating some of the power and potential of that unit due to strong sales in both patient security and RFID-enabled storage systems.
Turning to Mechanical.
Excluding the Access business organic growth was up 2% which we think was an excellent performance given the very difficult market conditions especially in residential that we and our competitors have been encountering.
The story there was clearly share gain specifically Kwikset which comported itself quite well at retail during the quarter.
Now turning to Access.
John mentioned down 9% continued to fight market headwinds.
In this case Access does have some significant customer concentration and its largest customer elected to delay remodels during the quarter.
The rest of the business was quite healthy.
But that delay with that large customer resulted in a 9% overall decrease so we expect that to be a temporary phenomenon.
They also maintained their strong profitability right around 20% operating margin in Access despite that setback.
And overall Mechanical Access operating margin percent was greater than 19% with 300 basis points of year-over-year expansion reflecting synergy realization strong productivity and successful pricing actions.
So for 4Q you can expect another solid quarter for Security with 3% to 4% organic growth we think characterized by very strong Electronic Security and continued market headwinds for MAS and Access.
Niscayah will also be accretive to OM dollars but certainly not to the rate.
Turning to Industrial.
Once again Industrial had a great quarter.
Revenues were up $642 million up 19% over the third quarter.
Segment profit was $106 million up 31% and the operating margin rate expanded to 16.5%.
All 3 of the subsegments had healthy organic growth during the quarter leading to a 10% organic growth performance for Industrial overall.
IAR was up 6% organically as industrial and mobile distribution as well as Engineered Storage benefited from strong customer demand and market share gains.
And for the old-time Mac aficionados Mac had its third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth and is operating at record operating margin rate levels as we go.
Solid revenue growth for the entire North American segment of Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair it was up 12% organically.
And in emerging market volume was up 20% more than offsetting a modestly softer Europe.
New products particularly in the mid-price point range as the market has shifted slightly gained traction globally with strong results in emerging markets and the operating margin rate expanded 350 basis points driven by operating leverage cost synergies and successful price inflation recovery.
Engineered Fastening had a terrific showing with organic revenues up 14% 3x the growth in global light vehicle production as new products such as the T-Series Stud Welding which debuted at Volkswagen during the quarter and increased platform and penetration market share gains and as John mentioned production in Japan rebounded sequentially as we expected.
And that is now on the road to recovery well on the road to recovery.
Infrastructure was the star of the quarter in terms of organic growth up 19% in the segment and pro forma revenues for CRC were up in the mid-single-digits on stronger international product sales.
And operating margin rate for that acquisition topped 18%.
Hydraulic sales were up 30% on continued market strength in that small but very very successful business.
On balance another strong quarter for Industrial really complementing the other units and helping us drive a pretty good performance for the total company.
Now as we move to working capital.
On working capital we made excellent progress during the quarter and we have started the multiyear trek to drive legacy Black &amp; Decker to 8 to 9 turns thus enabling us to extract over time a $0.5 billion of cash from unproductive assets.
This quarter the highlights were accounts receivable and accounts payable.
And as you can see accounts receivable drove $96 million of cash vis--vis the prior year.
That was in the face of 11% sales growth.
So very difficult to do but that obviously was a very nice improvement in days.
Payables drove $118 million of cash flow versus the prior year and took its days from 60 to 74 a 14-day increase.
Inventories on the other hand I would look for a significant inventory turns increase in the fourth quarter.
Inventory takes a little bit longer when you make the process improvements to get the results.
But from where I sit I can see excellent progress in the business units across the company.
We have solid plans in place to affect this improvement in the fourth quarter.
I think that's going to go a long ways towards contributing to the $1.1 billion of cash flow that we expect to drive this year.
Working capital through SFS is a momentum gain and we are gaining momentum.
So more to come and stay tuned.
Now I'll turn it over to Don Allan who'll take you through the financial aspects.
Thank you Jim.
So we start on Page 12.
I'd like to spend a little bit of time talking about our free cash flow performance.
As a reminder this does exclude M&amp;A charges the numbers on the page.
Specifically if we start with working capital as Jim mentioned on the previous page we had a very nice performance year-over-year.
But sequentially we had a little bit of a retraction of working capital which is why you see a $45 million negative.
Very much a seasonality phenomena where we tend to see a great deal of our working capital benefit occur in the fourth quarter of both legacy companies for Stanley and Black &amp; Decker.
And so throughout the year we've had a slight negative performance in working capital as you see $121 million.
We would expect that to turn positive in the fourth quarter closer to $100 million and $150 million of a positive.
That will drive a lot of the strong cash flow performance that we'll see next quarter and will allow us to feel that we've achieved our $1.1 billion of free cash flow for the year.
A couple of other items of note on the page.
If you look at other large negative in there and we talked about this throughout the year as I mentioned in the July earnings call we had a significant tax settlement in the first and the second quarter that was noncash of about $70 million.
We also have a large pension payment that's occurring throughout the year which will be about $80 million by the end of the year $60 million through 3 quarters.
And then a few other items that make up that $233 million of a negative.
Even with that though we feel that we'll be able to achieve our $1.1 billion free cash flow by the end of the year.
Another item of note is CapEx.
In line with our projections it's about 2.1% of revenue.
And this will be CapEx excluding any M&amp;A-related capital activities.
But it's on track for our expectations.
So why would we feel comfortable that we can achieve $1.1 billion in free cash flow for the year? Well one of the big items is what I've mentioned working capital will swing to a positive of about $100 million to $150 million for the full year after the fourth quarter has been completed.
And that's really due to the phenomena of seasonality as well as the SFS activities that Jim was describing on the previous page.
Additionally if you look at history of the 2 legacy companies over the past 2 years anywhere from 50% to 60% of the free cash flow is achieved in the fourth quarter.
If you utilize both types of analytical statistics it gets you to $1 billion $1.1 billion of a projection for the year hence why we feel comfortable that we can achieve the free cash flow performance by the end of 2011.
Moving to the next page spending a little bit of time on 2011 outlook.
The first item I want to talk about is net organic sales.
Our current projection for the year is 3.5% organic sales which is down from the 4% to 5% we provided in July.
I'll remind everyone that our guidance throughout the year has really been predicated on very little market growth in the mature markets in Europe and in the United States.
But what we have seen in the third quarter and we expect to continue in the fourth quarter is a bit of a retraction in the U.S.
hand tool volumes as Jim discussed on the segment slides earlier.
We would imagine that likely will continue in the fourth quarter.
We're also seeing modest softness in Europe.
We discussed softness in CDIY back in July.
We're also seeing a little bit of softness in our Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair tool business and a flat performance in our Security business in Europe.
Offsetting that is a great performance in our Engineered Fastening business as both John and Jim had discussed earlier this morning.
But we'd expect those trends to continue.
Hence why we believe we'll have a lower organic growth performance in revenue this year.
What that means to EPS is that we still believe we'll be able to achieve our EPS range where we communicated in July a range of $5.15 to $5.40 although we would be at the lower end of the range and the Q4 EPS will be $1.30.
A few items embedded in our forecast for the year.
They're more nonoperational in nature as you can see on the last bullet on the left-hand side of this page.
We certainly did a buyback of $350 million or 5.6 million shares which drove our share count down and our average for the year will now be approximately $167 million versus $170 million we communicated in July.
The tax benefits that we had in the third quarter where our tax rate was around 20% in the third quarter we would expect this for the year the tax rate will be between 17% and 18%.
So lower than we communicated in July.
So those 2 items together about an $0.18 EPS positive for the entire year.
Offsetting that though is what's been happening with foreign currency and we see a significant decline in the euro versus the dollar.
Primarily that's the main driver.
And that's having a negative impact of $0.13 cents on our forecast as well.
So the net impact of that is about a $0.05 positive on the outlook for 2011.
Moving to the right side of the page we believe the total revenue growth performance will be about 12.5%.
I mentioned the organic piece of 3.5% and then we believe acquisitions which a large part of that will be Niscayah as well as currency will add an additional 9% for the year.
And then a little bit of housekeeping related to interest other net and restructuring.
We still expect that to be approximately $330 million as we're definitely having lower non-M&amp;A restructuring this year.
However we have higher amortization that's coming from Niscayah that pretty much offsets that so a net mutual versus what we were seeing in July.
We're reiterating a few items.
We expect $200 million in cost synergies in 2011.
We believe that even with the promotional discounting that Jim described around pricing we still will achieve price inflation recovery of between 33% and 50% closer to the bottom end of that range.
And then our free cash flow I mentioned earlier of $1.1 billion being achieved.
So we're still achieving our lower end of our guidance range that we started with earlier in the year despite very turbulent market conditions and a few unforeseen headwinds.
So looking ahead to 2012.
We thought it was important to give various folks some insight into what are thoughts were related to 2012.
If we assume economic conditions remain as is so we have a little bit of softness in parts of Europe and in some of the U.S.
hand tool markets we have strength in some of our Industrial businesses expecting modest growth in Security et cetera we believe $6 EPS for 2012 appears achievable and here's why.
If you start with 2011 as a base if you're utilizing the $1.30 guidance I just provided for the fourth quarter and adding that to our year-to-date EPS performance of $3.89 gets you to a $5.19 EPS for 2011.
John mentioned that we have $115 million of cost synergies related to Black &amp; Decker in 2012 which is about $0.50 EPS earnings accretion.
We also have the Niscayah transaction that John discussed.
That will be $0.20 accretion in 2012.
So those are 2 items that we can execute upon and perform which will drive accretion of a significant nature.
Additionally if we just take an assumption around volume and revenue synergies that will have a consistent performance to what we've seen this year which is in essence driving growth in emerging markets both market growth and revenue synergy base gaining market share as well as a relatively flat performance in the mature markets of Europe and the United States you could see that we would have a relatively consistent performance with 2011.
Offsetting those 3 positives will be a tax kind of clawback where we had a 17.5% tax rate in 2011.
I would imagine that would return back into the 20s for 2012.
That will be a bit of a negative as we walk to 2012 $6 EPS.
A few items that are not shown here that offset each other would be general productivity as we drive productivity through our supply chain.
That will be a positive.
But we will have a bit of an overhang especially in the first and part of the second quarter of inflation versus price that will carry over into next year.
And then if currency rates stay where they are today we will have a bit of a negative drag from FX.
Those 3 items will offset each other at this point in time which is why we feel comfortable that the $6 is achievable.
So to summarize the call this morning the integrations of both Black &amp; Decker and Niscayah are progressing very well.
We're comfortable with the Niscayah leadership and the integration teams are in place.
As Jim and John touched on the market share gains they're very evident across all 3 of our segments.
Professional Power Tools are up 20% despite no increase in housing starts.
The Engineered Fastening business up 14% which is approximately 3x global light vehicle production around the world.
Our Security hardware business up 10% in a declining market.
The ongoing global company-wide SFS implementation is definitely gaining traction.
You saw the numbers that Jim presented.
Working capital turns have increased 24% versus the prior year.
It's really demonstrating the organizational agility and the effectiveness of integrating Black &amp; Decker and assimilating them into the Stanley Fulfillment System.
This powerful accretion from both cost and revenue synergies that have existed in 2011 that will carry over into 2012 which is why we believe we can drive an EPS performance of $6.
With that we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
Great.
Kim we'd like to open up and begin our Q&amp;A.
As always we're going to follow the one question one follow-up model going forward.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we have a question from Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you -- you talked a lot about the thoughts going to the $6 earnings for 2012.
Can you give any sort of quick thoughts in terms of your cash flow and thought on what you can do to SFS next year for cash flow generation but also thinking about any potential contributions to the pension? Yes Dan it's Don.
I would say that the pension -- just to deal with that last part the pension contribution will be consistent with 2011 so there wouldn't be any significant increase there.
As far as the free cash flow performance we do believe we will exceed $1.1 billion next year as well and we will have a nice working capital performance embedded in that.
And I would imagine you'd see working capital turns improve about 0.5 turn in 2012 versus 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also I guess the follow-up would be just really into hand tools in terms of the promotional activity in terms of pricing there.
As you look forward to the coming year assuming sort of a challenging environment here are you assuming that there is continued pressure in terms of pricing and margins in that area? Yes this is Jim.
The way we constructed the promotional activity it was essentially a one-quarter phenomenon.
Now we also have some promotional activity in the fourth quarter.
This time it will be in the Consumer Power Tools business and much more so than the Professional as you get into the seasonal aspects of Consumer Power Tools and the gifts and so forth that tends to be more in their fairway.
Beyond that it really remains to be seen what happens with the competitive backdrop in terms of pricing.
All our competitors have like we have faced significant price inflation.
We raised our prices they didn't for the most part.
So we're going to be just kind of stepping back and observing and we'll see what happens with respect to that and we will do what we have to do to maximize our share and our profitability.
Our next question comes from Jim Lucas from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question regarding the M&amp;A pipeline.
With Niscayah now closed and the share repurchase largely completed this year could you talk a little bit about the appetite for deals as well as what you're seeing in the pipeline these days? Sure Jim this is John.
We always have an appetite as those who follow the company know because historically between 50% and 2/3 of our free cash has gone to acquisitions.
That being said those who follow us will also know we're very disciplined in terms of our credit rating financial hurdles for acquisitions and our organizational capacity all of which will come into play.
Our 5 strategic growth platforms remain the same.
We've been pretty public with what they are: Convergent Mechanical Security Engineered Fastening Healthcare and Infrastructure.
There is a good pipeline.
I think the important thing to know is the majority of that pipeline is outside the U.S.
number one and in very high-growth emerging markets number two.
But 2 things importantly there those do take longer to incubate many are private companies and we need to be quite comfortable that we have both the financial and organizational capacity with the cash we generate as well as with the people we can put on the field before we pursue one.
So our strategy remains the same.
Our financial discipline remains the same.
Organizational capacity remains a discipline.
The focus is on those 5 areas.
And from a geographic perspective it's in very high-growth markets.
And I guess I'd go so far to say it won't be in the first half of the year where you see something game-changing and that we don't feel that we have either the organizational or financial capacity to do that.
Yes.
And I would just like to follow up and this is Jim to say that as we look at an acquisition at this point in time we're looking at trading that up against a share repurchase.
And as you saw in the quarter we bought $100 million more than we had previously planned because of the opportunistic price that we felt was on the table.
And we will continue to make that evaluation on an ongoing basis.
When you're trading for 6x EBITDA it's hard to get your head around paying 11x or 12x or 10x or 9x even for something unless the synergies are so rich that after the implementation you get to a point where you're at or near the market multiple of the company.
So it's a tougher decision.
It's a more thoughtful decision right now as it relates to whether we buy our own stock or whether we buy another company.
Now in this case of international acquisitions as John mentioned that will probably be our focus.
The pipeline is certainly strong there and the obvious benefit from that strategically is there.
But you also have the opportunity to use international cash that otherwise could not be deployed in favor of share repurchase.
So it's the U.S.
acquisitions that really get the tough scrutiny as to whether we should do them or not in the face of what I just described.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And as a follow-up you gave us some color on the initial revenue synergies that you've captured using Latin America as an example.
Could you talk a little bit more about some of the early successes of any standout as well as you're looking at it are others beginning to emerge that you didn't identify initially? Sure.
I'll take it and Jim should feel free to follow up.
Couple 3 that are in the marketplace so we're quite comfortable talking about it.
I'll start with Latin America first.
The fact that we're producing and selling Stanley-branded Hand Tools in Uberaba.
That's our plant in Brazil our legacy BDK plant with a tremendous adjacent distribution center where historically Stanley ran a very high-priced import model.
It was subject to 18% plus tariff.
So Stanley Hand Tools produced in Latin America sold in Latin America through a well-established Black &amp; Decker distribution channel jumps right out as probably the biggest one Jim.
The second one bring to mind is things like DEWALT Hand Tools at a large domestic customer which of course could not have been done under the previous regime.
DEWALT is an incredibly powerful brand name but Black &amp; Decker didn't have the capability to produce or source hand tools that would merit the quality and performance that would merit the DEWALT name or they would've done that on their own a long time ago.
That's the second example.
Third just in distribution.
Jim mentioned the Mac aficionados.
I think most people on the phone understand how the Mac model works.
They're essentially franchisees.
And while they drive Mac trucks everything on their truck isn't Mac.
The fact that a Mac distributor has DEWALT power tools on his truck you can only imagine the competitive advantage that gives them and the opportunity that is for the Mac sales folks which has really helped improve their top line as well as their bottom line.
So those are 3 that are in the marketplace more to come.
But we're really pleased with the traction it's gaining and the results that those synergies are generating.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question if I could just go back to 2012 guidance and the positive impact that you expect from volume and revenue synergies.
Obviously we're still a couple of quarters away but -- or at least a quarter away rather but I was wondering if you could parse out kind of of the positive impact how much incremental -- you've been talking about a 50 bps of positive top line growth from revenue this year what that might be next year? And of the core volume let's say how much from developed markets versus emerging markets? Michael it's Don.
I would -- we're certainly not giving specific guidance yet but to give you a little bit of an indication of our thought process.
Certainly we've seen about 3.5% organic growth in 2011 and about 50 basis points of that is coming from revenue synergies.
As we go into 2012 we would expect that the revenue synergy number to increase a little bit from a percentage point as we go into the year so somewhere between 50 and 100 basis points coming from revenue synergies.
Combining that we do expect emerging markets around the world to grow from a market growth perspective and gaining share not really duplicating what I'm describing around revenue synergies.
So that's going to give us some growth.
And then our belief right now is we're going to continue to see some of the softness that we've seen in Europe continue next year.
So maybe a little bit of a retraction for the first part of the year and a stabilization and flat performance in the back half.
And then the U.S.
will be similar I think in that regard.
What we've seen this year will continue or what we've seen in the back half will continue into next year.
So the mature markets we wouldn't expect much growth in some cases a little bit of a retraction.
And then a lot of our growth is going to come from emerging markets and revenue synergies.
And that's our current thought process.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
I appreciate it.
Second question if we could just go back to the promotions in the power tools if you could just kind of give us a sense.
You said Professional grew over 20%.
How much you might think came from the promotions themselves? And I guess conceptually speaking you put through the price increase yet you also had these promotions.
What's your view in terms of the stability of that price increase? And is it just something that I guess like you said before you're going to have to take on a quarter-by-quarter basis? Sure Mike a fair question.
I think I fear you misinterpreted Jim's comments.
And I'm really glad you asked the question to give us a chance to clarify.
Essentially none of that growth came from promotion.
Let me break the power tools.
The overwhelming majority of that increase came because we had tremendous sell-through on the 12-volt lithium-ion Max product and tremendous pipeline and sell-in on the really really well-accepted 18- and 20-volt.
That's where the overwhelming majority of the lift came.
It's where we got the pricing.
And of course we have to announce pricing -- not have to but we chose to announce pricing across the entire Professional Power Tool line and sell-in and sell-through of those at higher prices was terrific.
The promotion that we talked about recall that's still a very large part of our franchises in the older nickel cadmium technology.
And the point Jim made is a very important one.
It's a high-performing product but the reason lithium-ion is growing so much is the charge lasts longer and it is greener.
It's also a lot more expensive.
So there are folks who are looking at good performance for a good price who want the NiCad but we're required to promote it more heavily than the lithium-ion product.
And then the last point that Jim raised remember the Black &amp; Decker brand which is very powerful is less focused at the professional user as opposed to the DIYer and it's also a very very important gift item.
It's one of the few brands and products in our line that has any seasonality at all.
They are very popular Christmas gifts for dad for granddad for the child with a new apartment or a new home.
And so there is some fourth quarter seasonality historically promoting of the Black &amp; Decker Consumer Power Tool brand.
Having said all that we will maintain or continue to grow share.
We will not be at a price disadvantage or premium to our competitors.
We are the market leader and as a consequence behave like the price leader.
And if we're out there alone we'll promote to get back to competitive market prices.
And if we're not we will continue to gain share at higher prices.
And I think that's the best guidance we can provide you.
We look at this daily not quarter-to-quarter or in the rearview mirror.
I think so you don't get cut off another very important point to make we've talked about this on previous calls our pricing center of excellence works very closely with our global sourcing organization to see inflationary increases long before they show up in product costs so our SBU managers know they're coming can either reengineer or condition the sales force for the need to take a price increase so we get out ahead of it.
The result at the end of the day we're in an industry where historically real prices have declined 1% to 2% a year for the last 10 years.
Gross margins are about 35%.
If you didn't somehow between productivity and price get 3% a year your margins would decline.
Our margins are not declining.
In fact they're growing.
So it suggests a combination of price and productivity has historically and will continue to deliver well above industry average margins.
And we think we have the programs and processes in place and look at it closely enough to carry that forward for the next 12 months.
And If I could just take it to a very tactical level the impact from the promotions from a revenue perspective in CDIY might have been somewhere between 1% and 2% of sales in the quarter.
And our estimation is that the market was probably slightly negative.
And so that probably just got us right up to about flat.
And anything beyond that was driven by new product introductions.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Guys I was wondering if you could address the issue of inventory destocking.
Obviously as we're looking across the Industrial group it's something that people -- as we look ahead into the fourth quarter and year end people are a little concerned that we may see a wave of inventory destocking.
Typically I would think that your product mix isn't going to be particularly susceptible to that.
However we have in the past seen Black &amp; Decker talk about that probably a little bit more than Stanley.
So I was curious if you could talk about what you see from your customers in terms of vulnerability to an inventory destocking wave if one were to come.
Sure Stephen it's Don.
I'd be happy to talk about that.
Obviously I think as you're aware and many folks are we are monitoring POS and weeks on stocks on hand on a regular basis.
So we get that information for our major customers and we're always monitoring to make sure that we're not getting ahead of ourselves from an inventory perspective.
Right now where we are we feel comfortable where inventory levels are.
We tend to want them to be somewhere between on average 10 to 12 weeks of inventory on hand in our major customers.
And you may have small pieces that deviate from that range.
But overall if we're in that range we feel reasonably comfortable with the levels of inventory.
Additionally we're always listening to any signals from our customers as to whether there's change in thought process of levels of inventory that they may want to maintain.
At this stage we're not aware of anything that would cause a concern in that light.
Our inventories are at the right level based on the range I provided as well as we're not hearing any signals from our customers that that's a particular initiative or set of actions they may be considering or evaluating.
Research Division</strong> That's comforting to hear.
Thanks a lot for that.
Second question relates to the geographic breakdown that you provided on Page 5 where Latin America was up organic 23%.
I was curious as to whether or not you could talk about what the margin profile looks like for your Latin American offering whether it's generally higher margin or lower margin to your company average.
Yes we actually put that in the presentation.
And we'll say this much it's a very fair question and it's an important answer.
It is above line average margin.
We are not going to get more granular than that on this call for obvious reasons.
But when it's growing that fast a very logical and fair question is: Are you growing volume up at the expense of share and margin? We are really pleased due to a combination of premium products and a very competitive cost position due to a world-class manufacturing facility and a good local management team that the entire business in Latin America is above our line average for each specific segment.
And we can say the same thing for Asia as well.
You grow into Asia you grow into Latin America you grow into mix and the higher margin.
Our next question comes from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
One small one I guess that's left for me CRC-Evans the margins look terrific the sales being up only mid-single-digit.
I would've thought that that end market would have been a little bit more robust with pipeline CapEx where it is.
I know it's a niche business for you.
But what do you ascertain that the market share trends there for CRC? And is the integration perhaps affecting top line execution? This is Jim.
Certainly we're very encouraged by what we have purchased.
And what I will tell you is that if there's any governor on sales right now with CRC-Evans it is the onshore business in North America.
And the onshore business in North America has been characterized by -- especially at 48-inch pipeline in that segment which is our sweet spot has been characterized by bureaucratic unnecessary delays that are related to environmentalists government et cetera.
And it's incredibly frustrating.
There are all sorts of opportunities the Keystone Pipeline being the biggest that could really drive tens of millions of dollars of revenue and many jobs for this country.
And unfortunately it's delayed.
Now it looks like it might be breaking loose.
And if it does it will be a great market for us.
In the meantime we're not sitting still.
We have -- actually I'd say the integration has helped these folks in terms of their product development strategy because where the action is today is in the less than 48-inch pipeline.
We are completely redeveloping products that are suited for that particular market but that's unfortunately a couple of quarters out before we really get the benefit of that.
So the shale and those types of things it's all going to be a narrow pipeline.
So when we get prepared to serve that market it's also going to be very strong for us.
And then finally the offshore business which is really the outstanding part of this business that we have made so much progress in over the last year winning accounts with the 2 major pipeline suppliers in the world on the offshore basis.
We have a terrific value proposition with welding coating pipe laying inspection and so forth.
We've gained market share.
We've had many many wins around the world and that will be coming next year in force.
It's a $30 million business today.
We expect it to be $100 million to $200 million within a couple of years and next year will be a very significant growth from offshore.
So no matter what happens in the onshore business we're going to get great growth from the offshore.
If we can get the products configured to the smaller diameter pipelines and if the government can get off dead center here and get going with the Keystone project and some other major projects I think we'll be in great shape.
Sam this is John.
So you don't get cut off and you're able to ask a second question I'll add 2 things.
First of all Jim Loree is not running for public office.
He's too valuable as a senior executive at Stanley Black &amp; Decker as much as we think he'd make a wonderful government official.
Second probably equally important point simply for us this is a very lumpy business that we're getting used to.
You know our business well and in our Industrial platform about 80% of what we do is made to stock.
It comes out of a customer's maintenance budget.
It's no less predictable than our CDIY business.
Infrastructure in general but Hydraulics and CRC in particular these are generally big numbers big projects and quite frankly depending on when they're executed when they're completed and when they hit the P&amp;L if we have $400 million business it isn't $100 million a quarter.
It's $70 million one quarter and $130 million the next.
And I think it's important that as we look at it that we understand that.
And we're looking at longer-term trends because the orders they tend to come in much bigger numbers and bigger chunks.
And as a consequence it's just a lumpier business than 80% of what we do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The other question is what's the latest plan and update for Pfister at this point? Yes.
Well it's a business that needs to like any and all of our businesses needs to earn its cost of capital to remain a valuable part of our portfolio.
And what I'm able to say at this stage Sam is it took a tremendous bowshot in the first quarter lost 20-plus percent of its business.
Since then it's recovered very very nicely.
They've got a very sound strategy in place.
We're looking at the business hard to can it in fact recover to the levels of profitability and ongoing strategic position that it can remain part of our portfolio.
And if not as you know we're fairly dispassionate about these things.
And if it can't and we make the decision long term that it won't it will no longer be part of our portfolio.
Jury's still out at this stage but stay tuned and we'll keep you updated.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
I just wanted to talk about the CDIY margin as a whole segment.
We talked a lot about power tools within that.
But as we think about the fourth quarter and beyond I think year-to-date margins in that business are at 13.5% and you still have somewhere in the neighborhood of $75 million to $100 million of cost synergies to come.
Is this a business that can do 15% to 16% type operating margins? Or because of the competitive nature of the peers and the end channel do you have to start reinvesting that back into the business? I guess just some help thinking about the fourth quarter rate as well as just longer-term.
Dennis it's Don.
As far as the fourth quarter rate goes I mean I think if you look at the third quarter it's indicative of what you're going to probably see in the fourth quarter roughly.
As far as long term I believe that this can be a 15% segment from an operating margin perspective.
It will require continued execution on the cost synergies.
It will require price discipline around inflationary environments et cetera.
And of course the most important thing it will definitely need to be able to provide continual new products into the marketplace like it's done over the last 12 to 18 months than frankly both companies have done over the last several decades.
So those are the keys to being successful and being a market leader with the powerful brands that we have in that particular sector.
And when economic market growth comes and it will some day I just don't know when there's no doubt in my mind it will be above 15% operating margin.
Okay.
The second question relates to just the overall business mix in Europe.
I think most of the comments you made seems as though business held in pretty well during the third quarter and you noted maybe some modest softening into the early part of next year.
How do you sort of think about the risk of what's going on over there the risk of the recession parts of your business that would maybe be most impacted or any red flags that you guys are on the lookout for that we also could be thinking about as it relates to the international exposure? It's interesting when you look at what are the risks to our revenue line from a double dip for example.
Let's say that Europe were to drive a double dip in a global sense.
The construction market today accounts for about 2/3 of our revenues when you take into account both resi non-resi and I include DIY in that and commercial.
I don't know how much less construction could go on.
We're approaching very close to 0.
So now could you have inventory corrections? Yes but they tend to be temporary.
So there could be some volatility in some quarters.
On the Industrial side if I go back to 2009 and think back to the implosion that we had in Industrial driven primarily by inventories our Industrial production globally was down 2 or 3 4 points and volume in Industrial was down 20 to 30 points.
And that was characteristic across the industrial universe.
That could happen again.
So as we look at it we have a reasonable amount of confidence that they will get their act together in the EU over time.
I think most people have a reasonable level of confidence that they will.
Nothing happens quickly because there's so much consensus that needs to be built.
But if for some reason the wheels come off this is a management team that took this company through the 2008 2009 downturn which was gut-wrenching successfully and we will do it again.
And we will use exactly the same approach which is we will resize the cost structure to line up with the revenues that we will be looking at at the time.
And we will go on the offense during that timeframe and we will take actions to position the company for success both within the downturn and as we come out of the downturn.
Do we think that's going to happen? Absolutely not.
Are we cognizant that it could happen and it's more than the de minimis probability? Absolutely and we're ready for it.
Our next question comes from Jason Feldman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So if we look at the 2012 guidance the earnings guidance is up about 15%.
Free cash guidance looks like its flat to up slightly.
It's still pretty good free cash conversion.
I think it's about 110%.
But when I think about the discrepancy between the growth rates and earnings versus free cash flow for next year is that primarily because the incremental working capital opportunities are lesser next year or that a big chunk of that work was already done this year? Or is there something else there? Jason it's Don.
What I said was we expect to achieve $1.1 billion next year.
So we didn't actually give a specific number.
We just expect it to be higher.
As we finalize our guidance in January and provide more detailed insight we'll give more specifics about what we think that number is.
But to your point about working capital I think there -- and Jim mentioned it in his presentation there's a great deal of opportunity to continue to drive working capital benefit.
And Jim indicated $0.5 billion of assets that can be freed up from legacy Black &amp; Decker over the next 2 to 3 years.
We would expect a portion of that number to be achieved in 2012 and then the vast majority the remainder of it in 2013 and maybe part of '14.
Yes Jason it's John.
I mean it's early days I think in fairness to be projecting cash flow.
We had a lot of discussion as to what we wanted to say about 2012 but we thought it would help you and everybody on the phone.
But I'm quite comfortable saying that remember a meaningful percentage of the entire management team of Stanley Black &amp; Decker's incentives in measurement is based on cash conversion.
So you know it's a focal point for the company.
But I think on the same token taking $100 million or $200 million out of working capital out of inventory specifically year in year out is not a 2-foot putt straight uphill.
There are a lot of moving pieces.
And I'm very comfortable with SFS the traction it's gaining.
But the last thing anybody should do including this management team or anybody on the phone is take it for granted that that goes on in perpetuity.
So there's arguably some thoughtful conservatism in the guidance that Don's giving.
And we'll get more granular on that on our first quarter call and obviously on the fourth quarter results in January.
But your question's a fair one.
But I think we're where we need to be for the time being.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Also if we're thinking about 2012 I understand that none of us has a crystal ball.
But if we assume the macro environment remains the same which seems to be kind of the underlying premise behind the framework that you created for 2012 how should we think about some of the company-specific business situations that you had this year? And what the impact could be on growth rates? And specifically you have the access business where you had some remodeling delays so maybe there could be some catch-up there.
Presumably next year we won't have a headwind in fastening in Japan.
The Pfister issues anniversary I believe next quarter and kind of the alleviation of those headwinds.
Does that wind up potentially having a material impact on the growth rate next year even if the macro environment is unchanged? Jason everything you mentioned and approximately 15 things you haven't some of which are far greater impact some of which are less are what went into our thinking as we put our preliminary numbers together.
It is really too early to talk about each and every one not because we won't it's because we don't think we have a better view than you do.
Everything you said and everything we've thought about is baked into the 3.5% global organic growth that in mid-October 2011 is our best guess off a base from where we think we will depart 2011.
Our next question comes from Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could talk about the strength in North America IAR which is if Europe was down kind of -- soft it would appear that you had a high single low double-digit success in America.
I know you're talking about the trucks channel penetration.
Do you see that as really structural? And how much of that structural component is related to kind of key competitors Apex Tools not being as focused? Or could you kind of describe what's going on there because it contributed so much to the margin expansion? Ken we're not going to talk about specific competitors on our call.
We never have and never will.
But Jim can give you a very granular perspective on what's going on and it's all good.
Yes.
And I think we clearly are getting some help from the market no question a couple of points of help from the market.
It's been in auto repair with the aging fleet in this country has been a good market not spectacular but solid.
And so that's helped.
But I think underlying that the industrial markets have been healthy as well.
In certain segments such as automotive OEM for example in aerospace and some other key segments for that business.
So we've had some market tailwinds.
But I think the biggest positive thing going on in IAR North America and around the globe is the emergence of that business as a global platform being run as a global platform as opposed to a series of smaller business units that were not coordinated.
And the single biggest benefit from that has been leveraging the product development from the FACOM group based in Europe and driving new products into Mac Tools.
And then from a Proto perspective I think we benefited greatly from its strength in some of the verticals such as petrochem and aerospace and some other verticals that have been strong around the globe.
And taking the Black &amp; Decker and Stanley-merged global distribution structure and leveraging Proto across the globe into the emerging markets in other areas around the world that shows up in North America because it's Proto.
And Proto shows up in North America today.
I think that's helped as well.
So it's been a combination of market strength and at the same time I think improved execution in this business deriving primarily from changing the business model to be a globally coordinated business with product development centered in Europe and driven into various markets around the world.
Research Division</strong> And this next question just because we're going to be approaching the 3-year anniversary of Black &amp; Decker I wonder if you could just kind of have kind of a broader look back.
Obviously the $6 number which you guys came out early on in 2012 kind of coincides with that 3-year outlook.
Could you kind of talk about how obviously there's different -- I think the top line has been pretty similar to what you guys expected at 2%.
You guys obviously got more upside on the cost synergies sales and you have Niscayah and some other things.
Can you just kind of talk about the prospect of how that $6 that you came out with do appreciate early compares to kind of what you thought the business would be like 3 years ago? If that's a fair question.
Ken it's Don.
If you think about going back to November of 2009 when we announced the transaction we had a view of the top line that was very little growth about 2% or so 2% or 3% and we had $350 million of cost synergies and we haven't provided any estimates of revenue synergies at that point.
Subsequent to what's happened since then and the last almost coming up on 2 years I guess of the announcement in the next month we've increased our cost synergies to $485 million on an annualized basis for 2013.
We've got revenue synergies of $300 million to $400 million.
And frankly the top line growth has been a little bit stronger than that 2% number that you were talking not a lot.
So you have a little bit of that going on as well.
Offsetting some of those positive things as we certainly didn't expect the commodity inflationary environment we had in 2011.
We've been able to mitigate that partially with the price increases we talked about throughout the year and today.
But we had a vision of being $5 EPS and $1 billion free cash flow in year 3.
We're achieving over $1 billion free cash flow this year and we're over $5 EPS this year.
So we're certainly well ahead of schedule based on the items that I kind of laid out and feel very pleased with where we are in the current state of the integration.
And Ken I'll add because you'll get cut off.
From a qualitative perspective we're very pleased.
It's as simple as that.
Starting at the board level the way the expertise from the 2 boards have come together.
We just finished the board meeting and you have to stop and think who was the legacy Stanley director who was the Black &amp; Decker director.
Corporate headquarters is in New Britain Connecticut.
Stanley was the prevailing company.
That makes sense.
We're running our CDIY business from Towson Maryland the entire CDIY-wide business that's where Black &amp; Decker Power Tools is headquartered.
We run the entire Security business from Indianapolis.
We run our IAR business as Jim said as a global platform from Brussels Belgium in a neutral site.
And if you sit in a meeting whether it be a strategy review a budget review or a quarterly review we're at the stage where you have stop and think that the person presenting was legacy Stanley or legacy Black &amp; Decker.
I would tell you and Mark Mathieu our Senior Vice President of Human Resources would tell you that's the acid test beyond the numbers how it's coming together.
And less than 2 full years into it or exactly 2 years post-announcement I feel very good as the CEO of this company where we are.
That being said I feel equally passionate that we need to continue at the same pace to truly differentiate this company from its competitors.
And that's what we intend to do.
Our final question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
With respect to Europe I know there's a lot of concern about Europe these days.
Don in your remarks I think you mentioned that you expected Europe to be soft in the first half and stable in the second half.
Can you help us calibrate the risk in the 2012 European story by giving us some kind of EPS sensitivity to a percentage change in your revenue or maybe an incremental margin? David this is John.
In the interest of everybody Don has done that and so maybe we could check the transcript that simply said "We don't think it's going to get any worse." And when the global CDIY and construction market was down 75% our unit volume was down 15%.
So we just don't see step function changes due to a 2% or 3% softening in European GDP.
It's 23% of our business.
We've got meaningful platforms with all 3 businesses.
I mean round numbers.
We've got $800 billion Security business CDIY business and Industrial business.
So it's a 3-legged stool.
So I don't want to be cavalier and hopefully I don't sound that way about the macroeconomic conditions in Europe.
There's nothing we can do to control it.
We spend our time worrying about the things and focusing on the things over which we do have some control and making sure we have contingency plans as Jim described in great detail.
Were it to get really bad what we would do about it? So as a consequence that macroeconomic conditions in Europe had a more than 100 or 200 basis point negative impact on our top line we would adjust our cost structure accordingly to deliver our earnings commitment.
Okay.
I guess just as a follow-up question.
You're active on the share repurchase program this quarter.
You've indicated in the past that you devote about 1/3 of your free cash flow back to the shareholders.
On the $1.1 billion free cash flow look it's what $350 million $370 million of free cash your dividend consumes about $280 million of that.
I guess the question is just how much more active you can be on the share repurchase front going forward? I think Jim touched on this and I believe he was answering a question earlier on.
We will continue to evaluate if we're looking at a U.S.
acquisition the alternative of doing a share repurchase.
That being said our cash is all overseas.
And so for us to do that we have to pay a tax and that really makes it very difficult hurdle when you're measuring against the potential acquisition.
I don't foresee a great deal of share repurchase in the short and medium-term but that's something we continue to evaluate as market conditions in particular the equity markets seem to fluctuate and have volatility.
Kim I believe that concludes our call today.
I want to thank everybody for chiming in and joining us.
As always please contact me afterwards with questions.
And thank you all.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q4 and Full-Year 2011 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Conference Call.
My name is Monica and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations Kate Vanek.
Kate Vanek you may begin.
Thanks so much Monica and good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us for the Stanley Black &amp; Decker fourth quarter and full-year 2011 conference call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren President and CEO; Jim Loree Executive Vice President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release which was issued after yesterday's close and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the Investor Relations portion of our website as well as our newly launched iPad app which you can access through the App Store.
This morning John Jim and Don will review Stanley's fourth quarter and full-year results and various other topical matters followed by Q&amp;A.
There is some helpful information in the appendix of the slide deck as it relates to your model.
If you have any questions as always feel free to contact me.
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 2:00 p.m.
today.
Replay number and access code are in our press release.
And we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate.
And as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today and we direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K which we filed with the press release and in our most recent 34 act.
With that I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Kate and good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us.
Just in terms of fourth quarter highlights and basically a summary of what we will talk about this morning some points on the fourth quarter some points on the year and a couple of points on 2012.
All of which we'll get into in more detail.
Fourth quarter revenues per the press release up 17% to $2.8 billion organically up 6%.
CDIY was up 8% organically excluding Pfister.
Good solid 7% organic growth in industrial.
Security as a total segment up 1% with 4% organic growth in Convergent Security.
And I'm going to give you some more granularity in that on the very next slide.
Fourth quarter diluted EPS of $1.36.
That of course excludes the merger and acquisition-related charges.
Fourth quarter diluted GAAP EPS of $1.05 also a significant increase.
Looking at the year in total we saw revenues grow 12% 4% organically from a $9.3 billion pro forma 2010 base.
You'll recall the Black &amp; Decker transaction officially closed in mid-March 2010.
So up 4% from the pro forma base.
Emerging markets now represent 14% of the company that's a nice growth from the 11% of the company they represented at the time of closing and it continues to be an area of focus for us.
Diluted EPS for the year $5.24 a 26% improvement.
GAAP EPS of $4.06 free cash flow was slightly in excess of $1 billion and working capital turns reached 7.0 a 23% increase versus prior year and a 52% increase since the merger closed.
That's clear evidence that the Stanley Fulfillment System's gaining traction and I think of significance.
Those increases were across all businesses and across all regions and Jim is going to give you some more detail on that a little bit later on this morning.
Don's going go through guidance in detail.
There was quite a bit in our press release but we're guiding for 2012 of fully diluted EPS of $5.75 to $6.
In order to get there and ensure we achieve it we're also announcing a cost containment action with about $150 million of benefit in 2012.
That benefit is separate from previously communicated and quantified integration-driven cost synergies both from Black &amp; Decker and Niscayah.
Simply said since the last time we gave a preliminary look at 2012 the external environment is we've -- we've experienced a lot of headwinds with very little tailwind.
Don will give you some of granularity but the euros and the reals have weakened significantly.
The European economy is certainly weaker than it was 3 to 6 months ago.
And there's some carryover inflation that thus far is unrecovered.
We've -- that's what we've learned in the last 3 months and we have 2 options or had 2 options of accepting that and accepting higher risk and lower earnings or moving proactively as we did in 2008 to get ahead of what we feel get ahead of the curve where we're going to have more headwind than tailwind.
Given the choice Stanley Black &amp; Decker is always going to choose to move proactively to get ahead of the curve and that's exactly what we're doing and Don will give you some more detail on that as he outlines the guidance.
2012 cash flow we think we'll approach or slightly exceed $1.2 billion.
A lot of that is going to come from working capital and you'll see the sources of that when Don and Jim walk you through a little more detail.
Moving on to the next slide just in terms of where did the growth come from and how did it look by business.
Primarily in the fourth quarter as well as the year continues to be driven by new products and emerging markets.
More detail on geography in just a minute.
But very encouraging organic growth.
Looking at the fourth quarter 6% in total most of which came from volume 1% came from price acquisitions out at 11% adding to a total of 17% growth in the fourth quarter 6% of which was organic.
For the year volume was up 4% pricing was flat a little less than historical recovery of inflation for a total of 4% organic growth acquisitions added 6% you will recall Niscayah being the largest acquisition closed in the fall of 2011.
And currency was favorable in 2011 of 2% so for a total revenue growth of 12%.
I think that the box on the right will be helpful.
It's a lot of granularity but we've elected to provide it because I think it will help you business-by-business think through where we were and as a consequence where we're going.
In the fourth quarter Professional Power Tools and Accessories grew 9% nice strong finish to a very very good year in which that product line grew 13% on the strength of 20 volt lithium-ion and some promotional activities supporting the nickel cadmium platform.
More from Jim in a minute on that.
Industrial remains a bright spot across the company 7% in the fourth quarter 10% for the year.
It's across all of our global platforms and just gaining tremendous traction since we've done a better job at managing some of those businesses as global platforms with regional focus as opposed to managing those businesses in silos as we'd -- as quite [indiscernible] we had done in the past.
Convergent Security grew 4% in the quarter and 4% for the year while the Commercial MAS business had a good fourth quarter flat for the year.
Consumer Power Tools including outdoor had a very strong seasonal finish.
That business is a little more seasonal than any of our others that's some of the Black &amp; Decker branded power tool items as well as Outdoor.
But the Black &amp; Decker branded power tool business did very well in the fourth quarter around the season.
It's flat for the year.
You will recall a very very weak spring in terms of the outdoor products some of which was weather-driven but a strong finish resulting in flat year-on-year performance for that business.
Handtools and Fastening up 6% in the quarter 1% for the year.
As we talked about MAS residential was down 5% in the quarter 3% for the year and Pfister is stabilizing it was 5% in the quarter 20% for the year and the loss of a large piece of business at a large customer in the late first quarter early second quarter of 2011 will anniversary at that same time next year.
So more detail on that within the segments.
So total fourth quarter growth 6% organically 4% for the year solid performance clearly above market growth in both areas which obviously implies some share gain.
Moving to the slide on geographies we'll take it I guess in order of size and priority.
The emerging markets continue to be the primary source of our growth.
But if we look in the middle of left-hand side U.S.
remains our largest market for the year.
It's 52% of our volume and it was flat.
Second largest market to the right of course being Europe.
Good solid performance in Europe driven primarily by our strong Industrial business in Europe up 4% for the quarter and 5% for the year.
Europe as the emerging markets grew Europe as a percentage of our total business is now 20 -- is -- was 31% in the fourth quarter but up to the year it's 27%.
Probably the next most important market to focus on might be Canada just quickly a strong finish resulting in a flat year at 6% of our revenue.
Latin America bottom left strength-to-strength.
We grew 26% in the fourth quarter 25% for the year and fourth quarter being about equal to the year reflects the fact that our revenue synergies are more than offsetting or completely offsetting the fact that that market while still growing at nice rates the growth in Latin America has slowed down.
Our growth has remained at the same pace due to the unique advantage or situation of some tremendous revenue synergies between the 2 businesses in Latin America.
Asia grew 12% in the fourth quarter 18% for the year.
Fourth quarter growth being slower than the year is consistent with the market slowing down still achieved share gains for the year in Asia and we're pleased with that.
And Australia down about 4% it's primarily CDIY it's stable.
Consistent with market performance.
And Australia we have a very strong franchise there but obviously it's far away and it's relatively small country represents only 2% of our total revenue.
So revenue synergies new products and some good marketing support are helping increase brand awareness expanding our global customer base and that thrust towards continuing to develop our franchises in emerging markets will carry forward into 2012.
Last but not least for me before I turn it over to Jim to give you some more granularity on the segment I think we'd be remiss not to provide an update on 2 major integrations that are in process and simply said they're still in really good shape.
The Black &amp; Decker integration is anticipated to achieve another $115 million incremental synergies in 2012.
That's helping offset a lot of the headwinds that Don will walk you through.
It's -- that's driving $0.50 of EPS accretion.
We anticipate achieving $450 million in cost synergies by the end of the year so we'll be at a run rate of $485 million as we leave the year.
Revenue synergies remain on track $300 million to $400 million that'll add $0.35 to $0.50 of accretion by the end of 2013.
We're just gaining traction there as the next bullet points out a lot of that Latin American growth as I previously indicated came from -- was -- contributed to $100 million total CDIY revenue synergies which we're very very pleased with.
Qualitatively our best judgment is the cultures of the 2 companies are melding well together.
The best data point we have is that -- is something we take very seriously.
A global employee opinion survey obviously completely objective not traceable to individual employees as any objective survey would be.
And 90% of the responses were favorable or highly favorable.
We have never had results like that in our history.
So it gave us a very very good feeling that 2 terrific companies have come together with some similarities and some differences in culture everybody's getting on the same page and we're focusing on the opportunities rather than the issues.
Last but certainly not least with that integration Stanley Fulfillment System's been fully embraced.
You don't get CDIY working capital turns which is where the majority of the integration takes place from where it was to 7.1 without everybody being on board and the same page.
Jeff Ansell's team and Steve Stafstrom and the operating folks within that business are just doing a great job embedding that within our culture.
And as I think you all know certainly we believe the road to improved margins and another source of cash that we can reinvest in growth or return to shareholders is coming -- is the fleet of SFS being embedded across the system.
Quickly on Niscayah we're still forecasting $45 million in cost synergies in 2012.
It's going to drive about $0.20 of accretion and about $35 million more in synergies in 2013.
That's the $80 million that we projected upon announcement of the acquisition.
We haven't backed off from that at all.
Most -- much of it is in Europe and it takes a little longer but we have every bit as high a degree of confidence that we will achieve it.
The integration is progressing as planned.
As I think some of you know Brett Bontrager runs this business for us.
Brett is probably our process expert on integration.
He led the Black &amp; Decker integration.
So we have one of our most seasoned and experienced executives in the quarterback position.
Major upgrades to leadership are complete.
With Niscayah not surprisingly it was a relatively small publicly-traded company in a spin-off so there were a lot of folks good people in corporate positions not necessarily industry or subject matter experts and as often happens in these situations they have moved on to other opportunities.
But the counter of that is terrific strength in field tech and field sales and installation both in Europe and the U.S.
So we've had -- again have the opportunity to combine the best of the best the very very capable Niscayah field leaders sales marketing operations technology have joined the team both in the U.S.
and Europe.
So it's a nice upgrade with the combined team.
As you would expect we have reporting rhythms and weekly project tracking.
This has been our DNA it's what we do it's how we operate and it is a very large acquisition and the processes are essentially identical to what we did with Black &amp; Decker.
A lot of questions on the European market.
We didn't anticipate the European market being very strong when we acquired Niscayah.
The -- a relatively soft forecast for the global European market was anticipated in our -- when we made our commitment and we haven't backed off from the synergies or the accretion despite probably more headwind in Europe than many would have expected or anticipated.
We remain focused on execution.
So all in we've got about $0.70 of accretion from the 2 integrations next year which we have a very high degree of confidence.
We will achieve irrespective of the macroeconomic environment in general and that in Europe in particular.
Let me turn it over to Jim Loree who's going to give you I think I know more granularity on the segments and some of the drivers going forward.
Okay well thanks John.
And maybe one of the untold and really elegant aspects of Niscayah is the fact that it was a $1.2 billion acquisition that was paid for with no incremental debt or equity i.e.
a redeployment of idle cash.
So not only is it accretive to EPS but also to the return on capital employed rate and cash flow return on investment.
Well moving to CDIY.
CDIY had a solid quarter and is well-positioned for 2012.
Revenues totaled $1.324 billion up 6% operating margin was $171 million up 22%.
They delivered 8% organic growth that was their strongest quarter this year despite flat volume in Europe.
And they achieved a 170 basis point increase in segment profit rate -- in the segment profit rate driven by solid execution of the Black &amp; Decker merger synergies as well as volume leverage.
Along the geographic axises once again high teens organic growth was achieved in emerging markets.
Europe was flattish driven by the market conditions there and new this quarter is the fact that the all-important North American region picked it up a notch and delivered mid-single-digits organic growth.
From a product perspective both Consumer Power Tools and Professional Power Tools and Accessories posted strong growth numbers with 10% and 9% growth organically respectively.
These healthy increases were fueled by strong new product sales especially with respect to the lithium-ion spectrum of products across the brands and we received little help from the market in the fourth quarter.
Most of these increases were driven by share gains.
The revenue synergies also had a positive impact and then Handtools and Fastening was strong but lagged slightly the power tools units add up 6% organically.
This was also propelled by new products and revenue synergies especially as it relates to the DEWALT Hand Tools.
Looking forward we remain positive on 2012 CDIY growth prospects for both revenue and margin despite concerns surrounding the European markets and to some -- and a lesser extent the emerging markets.
Europe will be a headwind but it will be offset we think by strong new product carryover plus a strong new product pipeline as well as revenue synergies which are now gaining momentum in the third year of the Black &amp; Decker integration.
We have assumed continued sluggishness in the U.S.
but the market does appear to be firming for housing and home improvement but we really haven't seen a big rebound yet.
But that could happen.
Lithium-ion lines will be broadened as we look forward and as we speak and the line up of new Black &amp; Decker branded products and power tools outdoor and home products is the most impressive that we've seen in several years.
So look for an exciting NPI year and a good act to follow what have been 2 really good NPI years already.
Any concerns on the margin front for CDIY should be unfounded as we enter 2012 with our ongoing productivity initiatives set to deliver 2% to 3% annual productivity much more limited unrecovered inflation for this year although the tailwind will still be an issue or the headwind will still be an issue in the first quarter.
And we're mixing in to both new products and emerging markets both of which have higher than line average gross margin.
And that -- in addition to that we have the big slug of incremental cost synergies and CDIY share of the company's $150 million cost reduction.
So in short the table is set for CDIY to perform well even if the European economy retrenches.
It is also set to outperform and ride the volume leverage if and when the U.S.
housing and home improvement markets take off.
And moving on to Security.
Security forged ahead in the fourth quarter and put some excellent numbers on the board while assimilating the game-changing Niscayah acquisition.
Their revenues totaled $827 million up 49%.
They were powered by the Niscayah acquisition which closed in September and put $1.2 billion of idle cash to work as I mentioned.
It adds $0.20 of accretion this year and $0.45 over 3 years.
It is a high-quality franchise that needed some management attention and some TLC but we're very happy with what we have and where we are in the integration process.
Security is now 30% of company revenues up 23% from a year ago and the Security revenues are now at a $3.3 billion annualized run rate.
Security segment profit was $129 million up 37% and their profit rate increased to 18.5% excluding acquisitions.
The increase was driven by strong price inflation recovery acquisition synergies and ongoing productivity initiatives.
And now with the Niscayah acquisition Europe represents about 40% of Security revenues.
For the long-term this certainly provides a better balanced geographic footprint than the prior configuration and clearly enhances the overall value of the franchise.
But given European market conditions there may be some short-term revenue pressures on Niscayah.
And as John mentioned our announced EPS commitments assume significant downward pressure.
We can handle up to a 10% negative growth -- organic growth downdraft and it can absorb that with no negative impact on our committed EPS accretion.
And notably Niscayah pro forma organic growth was minus 4% in the fourth quarter so pretty far off from minus 10%.
It was an encouraging quarter for CSS with overall organic growth of 4% with relatively slack geographic markets performing well for example the U.K.
was also up 5% and France was up 6%.
We had healthy order flow and installation sales were up 12% globally with monitoring RMR of 3% with a positive outlook.
On the other hand Resi hardware was down 5% organically.
We don't think this is an ongoing issue.
We had an inventory adjustment at our largest customer due to the implementation of an automated replenishment system.
The PLS turned positive in the fourth quarter first quarter all year and Kwikset we believe is continuing to gain share.
We had solid organic growth at both MAS Commercial and in automatic doors both were up 5% organically.
And finally the integration of GMT is going very well.
This is a small but important toehold in China and the Southeast Asian markets.
So all in all a very busy but productive quarter for Security which is set to be a stable and profitable growth engine for 2012.
Now let's turn to Industrial.
Once again Industrial delivered an outstanding performance.
The revenues were $641 million up 9% 7% organically.
The operating margin was $106 million up 19%.
The profit rate was a very attractive 16.6% up 130 basis points from a year ago.
The drivers were volume leverage productivity and strong price inflation recovery.
At IAR or Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair organic growth was 9% which included 2 points of price.
All geographies were strong except for Europe where volume was up only 1%.
Organically Mac was up 7% Proto was up 8% and the storage engineered storage business was up 18%.
Asia was also up in the high double digits.
Engineered Fastening continued its strong performance with an 18% organic growth performance.
Outpacing the global auto production which was up only 4%.
They achieved high double-digit growth in the Americas Asia and even Europe the latter in the face of modestly negative auto production.
The -- their overall growth in Engineered Fastening was driven by new products new applications and the resurgence of Japan.
Infrastructure was off 7% as CRC-Evans was impacted by regulatory-driven project delays in the U.S.
onshore business.
I -- need I say anymore about that.
John says "no".
The fourth quarter was -- capped off 2 years of exceptionally strong performance for industrial.
So the question becomes "What's ahead for this segment?" There are several inherent growth drivers in place for 2012 and thus we are confident of continued success.
Earlier this month we completed the Lista acquisition which will add about 3 points of growth and broaden out Vidmar's product lines and distribution channels.
Last year we completed a small but very important acquisition called Crib Master which as we speak is unveiling a revolutionary new line of RFID-enabled tools and storage systems which will play very well in the aerospace industry and will contribute to growth in 2012.
We're also putting an intense focus on the emerging markets now about 15% of industrial revenues and that will power strong double-digit growth in these markets which will also benefit from the Black &amp; Decker revenue synergies.
Engineered Fastening has a new successful stud welding system and also a self-piercing riveting system which benefits from the penetration of aluminum vehicles and should be generating a fair amount of growth.
And CRC has secured a very very strong position in offshore services.
We'll see substantial growth in 2012 from that.
And in addition has won some significant business in joint coating in Australia which should provide another $30 million of growth over the next 2 years.
So despite the slow North America pipeline onshore market we think CRC should flourish in 2012.
So there are several exciting new growth drivers that should enable a strong and successful year for industrial as we go.
And now we'll move over to working capital.
This working capital story is exactly where we want it to be.
We made tremendous strides with integrating the Stanley Fulfillment System into Legacy Black &amp; Decker as John mentioned last year and we achieved a 1.3 turn improvement from 5.7 to a very respectable 7.0 turns.
That was a $234 million reduction in working capital.
Excellent progress was made in accounts receivable and in payables.
In receivables we took out 5 days.
In payables we added 11 days.
Those are both very good.
The payables in particular came from terms changes and process improvements and nothing else.
We benefited from our centralized sourcing and our scale making that happen.
And a lot of heavy lifting was done in inventories as well.
And we should really begin to see commensurate improvement in inventories as 2012 unfolds.
And we are on a journey to 10 working capital turns by mid-decade.
We have the knowledge the expertise and the momentum to get there.
So you could expect more progress along that trajectory in 2012.
And now I'll turn it over to Don Allan.
Thank you Jim.
I'd like to start on Page 12 and quickly touch upon the free cash flow performance for the company in 2011 and the fourth quarter before I move into 2012 guidance.
As you can see we're very pleased with our achievement of a greater than $1 billion free cash flow for the first full year of our combined company which really significantly outpaced our original goal which was by year 3 post-merger we would achieve this level.
You heard from Jim that the significant progress in working capital and you can definitely see that in the cash flow statement as we had $255 million of cash flow in the fourth quarter from working capital and for the year a positive amount of $134 million which is pretty close to what we were estimating back in our October earnings release as we do see significant seasonality improvement in working capital in the fourth quarter.
So very pleased with the result.
As I also mentioned back in October we do have a few unusual items in other that drive negative cash flow performance.
And those items are: Pension contribution of about $80 million; and then noncash benefits from some of the tax items we had in our P&amp;L as we settled audits of about $70 million.
Those are the main drivers of the $200 million in negative that you see here for the year.
Another item of note is our CapEx.
We've done an excellent job as a company of managing that to within our objectives of somewhere between 2% and 2.5% of revenue and it came in at about 2.1% of revenue for the year.
With the end result of that just over $1 billion in free cash flow.
So let's move to 2012 outlook on Page 13.
As John mentioned earlier on and also in our press release last night we're guiding EPS to a range of $5.75 to $6.
Let's walk through some of the assumptions associated with that and then on this particular page and then I'll walk through a little more detail on the next page on a couple of the items.
The first item is organic net sales assumption for 2012.
We believe our organic net sales growth will be approximately 1% to 2% in 2012 on a pro-forma basis.
That includes the effect of Niscayah for a full year in 2011.
This does include the impact of BDK revenue synergies in that estimate.
Several of you have -- are probably wondering why does that make sense based on the performance that you saw in the fourth quarter was organic growth more around a 6% number and for the year 4%.
We're definitely seeing some signs and signals in certain parts of our company and particularly in Europe and emerging markets that things are slowing down.
There is a possibility of a recession occurring in Europe and no one knows for sure whether that's going to occur.
But we believe it's prudent to put fourth an estimate that is more conservative in the sense of what could happen and how we might respond as a company and specifically taking out cost to respond to that.
Additionally in emerging markets we do see a little bit of a slowing in Brazil and China although they're continuing to grow.
They're just not growing at the pace that we saw in 2011 which in some cases was greater than 20% in particular Brazil.
Moving on to the cost synergies that John touched on for BDK and Niscayah.
That contributes approximately $0.70 in total year-over-year $115 million for BDK and $45 million for Niscayah.
The cost reductions that we're putting forth are approximately $150 million or $0.70 benefit year-over-year.
And a little bit of color on that about 50% of that $150 million will come out of our CDIY business and the remaining 50% will be spread across Security segment Industrial segment and as well as some corporate overhead.
And approximately 2/3 of that will be U.S.-based and the remaining third will be European based.
Positive impact year-over-year of $0.08 associated with our lower share count as we implemented the share repurchase program in 2011 of $350 million.
And then we do have a $0.07 negative impact year-over-year associated with 2 items: Carryover inflation net of price impacts as well as FX or currency headwinds.
I'm going to walk a little more detail on that in the next page.
Our tax rate we believe will be somewhere between 22% and 23% versus the 14% that we achieved in 2011 as there were a few one time items that we do not expect to repeat and that's about a $0.55 headwind.
And then interest and other should approximate $380 million in 2012.
We do believe our free cash flow will continue to increase as we -- we'll see another improvement in working capital year-over-year and we approximate free cash flow to be $1.2 billion based on these earnings assumptions and a modest growth in working capital.
A little bit of flavor of a geographic split for revenue.
If you look at North America we believe we're probably going to see a modest 1% growth and it really reflects our ability to continue to gain some market share with the various new product introductions.
It does not assume a residential construction rebound however.
As Jim articulated as he was talking about CDIY.
Europe we do believe will be down approximately 3%.
That's currently what we've kind of forecasted within our company and the cost actions are really in response to that.
This does exclude the effect of Niscayah and I'll walk through a little more detail on that in a few pages.
Because we have baked the effect as Jim mentioned on Niscayah within that $0.20 accretion number for 2012.
I mentioned emerging markets slowing down although we do expect them to grow somewhere between 10% and 15%.
So it reflects a continued strong growth as well as the continued impact of revenue synergies in that part of our company.
And the last thing to mention it's just a reminder on seasonality.
When you look at the different quarters the first quarter does represent a much smaller percentage of our total year.
And if you look at history it's approximately 18% to 19% of the full year EPS.
So just keep that in mind as you look at the quarterly split.
So on the next page is a detailed walk of the guidance and many of the things I've walked through already specifically lower share count the volume revenue impact the BDK and Niscayah impact and then the cost actions as well as the higher tax.
But I would like to spend a few minutes walking through the net inflation and FX number of $0.70.
When you look at that approximately 2/3 of that $0.70 was associated with foreign currency and the remaining 1/3 is associated with inflation versus price.
Looking at inflation versus price when we look at inflation we look at all inflation not just commodity-based inflation.
So this has SG&amp;A wage inflation in it it has utility inflation et cetera.
When you break down the different components of that we are fully recovering the commodity-based inflation in our price actions.
So we're very pleased to see that in our estimates for 2012.
But the other inflation is something that is a carryover negative impact or a new impact in 2012 associated with other types of inflation and it's approximately as I mentioned 1/3 of that $0.70.
The FX component is really driven by 3 currencies.
If you look at the operating margin for our international businesses approximately 3 quarters of the international operating margin is impacted by 3 currencies: The euro the Brazilian real and the Canadian dollar.
The average rate for some of those as an example the euro was a $1.39 in 2011 and the spot rate has been anywhere from $1.27 to $1.30 over the last month.
That's about a 7% to 10% decline from the average in 2011.
The Brazilian real very similar about a 10% to 11% decline when you look at it from that perspective and the Canadian dollar although not as significant has been somewhere between 3% to 4% of a decline.
So clearly that has a significant impact on our company.
A little rule of thumb that we've used in the past is when you look at the euro and the euro movement if it moves $0.01 it tends to be what we've said in the past is about $0.01 of EPS.
Based on our current makeup we think it's actually closer to $0.015 EPS now versus $0.01.
So just a little guideline for those interested in that information.
On the next page I'd like to spend a little time on Europe because there's been a lot of questions about the makeup of our company in Europe and potential for recession or concerns for a slowdown in that part of the world.
So if we start with the 3 segments and look at -- first of all look at the Security segment on a pro forma basis which is -- will be about 35% of our European business at $1.1 billion.
As we've mentioned a few times on the call this morning this revenue weakness that we're anticipating is built into the Niscayah EPS commitments.
And we do believe about 2/3 of the revenue associated with this business is in relatively stable countries in Europe.
The business looking back is about 20% off the 2008 peak and it's at trough levels.
So we have not really seen a recovery at this stage in our Security business.
Moving to industrial approximately $700 million in revenue.
Two main businesses there: Engineered Fastening and Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair.
Engineered Fastening has actually seen a significant rebound from the 2009 low they experienced.
And are approximately 100% back to peak levels in response to that low.
So it's about $85 million of revenue rebound from the low in that particular business.
One thing to note about this business though is that it's heavily concentrated in German automotive manufacturing or production.
And we've seen a lot of strength in that part of the business in 2011 although we don't expect it to be quite as strong as from a growth perspective in 2012.
We think it's remote that we'll actually see a retraction in that revenue in 2012.
Moving to Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair they recovered about half from their low performance in 2009.
So a peak performance that brought them down about 20% in revenue they've recovered about half of that since 2009.
And that's approximately $50 million in revenue.
On the CDIY side 30% decline from the peak down to the low period and now they've recovered about 10% or about $100 million in revenue since that low.
So when you look at this you have 2 businesses that if you're concerned about a recession you're concerned about retraction in IAR and CDIY which if they did retract back to the low that would be about $150 million in revenue loss.
Our 3% assumption related to Europe assumes about half of that possibly happening possibly occurring.
So it's just something to give you a bit of an impact although it may appear dramatic or significant it really is not as it's only about 1.5% of our total company revenue.
So lastly on outlook just a quick flavor on segments we've touched on a few of these items already so we'll not be repetitive but clearly we're looking at low single-digit organic growth for all 3 segments with a possibility of mid-single digit growth for Industrial.
And CDIY will continue to have the rollout of the 18-volt lithium-ion tools in the first half of 2012 which will be a nice driver for the activity and growth and help gain market share.
And in the back half of the year we'll have some new product introductions as well that will be launched to drive that activity.
We do expect weakness in Europe as I mentioned and that will be mostly offset by some -- little bit of the growth in North America and continued strength in Latin America and Asia as I touched on emerging markets.
In Security couple of items of note.
The Niscayah operating margin rate will continue to improve as we execute on the synergies and the integration but it will continue to be a drag on the entire segment in 2012.
But as the year progresses that operating margin rate will continue to improve.
And then in industrial Jim touched on these items around Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair and Engineered Fastening.
One item of note on Engineered Fastening  is we do expect the Japan market to continue to recover from the tsunami disaster they had in early 2011.
We've seen that in the fourth quarter and we expect that likely to continue in the first part of 2012.
So to summarize the presentation portion of the call this morning we're very much focused on margin accretion really trying to maximize top line growth even though our outlook is somewhat prudent or conservative we are focused on trying to drive as much market share activity as possible as well as driving emerging market growth and revenue synergies.
And we are at the same time focused on our acquisitions and integrating them in an effective manner as we've done over the last several years.
Our long-term capital allocation strategy remains intact the same and we will be reviewing the potential for a meaningful dividend increase in 2012 as the year progresses.
The Stanley Fulfillment System continues to drive significant benefits and continuous improvement in our working capital performance and 2011 was a great indicator of that as we achieved 7 turns excluding Niscayah and expect more progress in 2012.
Our free cash flow continues to grow as it will be $1.2 billion in 2012.
And additionally we'll be able to achieve -- approach $6 in EPS in 2012.
So with that we'll move to the Q&amp;A.
Monica [indiscernible] the questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jason Feldman of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm looking at the cost savings newly identified $150 million benefit you're talking about this year.
I'm trying to get a sense of 2 things: First what sorts of projects does that include; and what the cash costs are associated with it whether that's part of the $242 million of M&amp;A charges or whether they're separate cash costs or aren't any? Sure.
Don can give you a lot of granulary on that Jason because we've given it a lot of that.
Yes Jason first of all the point of -- what type of actions or this associated with really what it is is it's a continued evaluation of our organization structures and looking at combining different pieces of the organization flattening out pieces of the organization looking at our supply chain as well in the indirect and direct ratios of their manufacturing plants.
In essence really tightening the belt a little further into our organization to drive out more cost and be more efficient.
Anytime you take on a merger of this magnitude you're going to have inefficiencies as you put 2 companies together.
We've done a lot of great things with the integration and had significant cost synergies associated with it.
But this is an opportunity for us to really as I said tighten the belt a little further.
As far as the actual cost associated is included in the $240 million estimate and it's approximately $55 million associated with $150 million of cost actions.
Research Division</strong> And then last thing is is $150 million benefit in 2012 what do you think the kind of annualized run rate will be as we exit the year? It's not going to be much higher than that it might be $125 million to $130 million because we're -- we've either taken some of these actions already or they will be implemented by early to mid-next week.
So the vast majority of them will be completed within the first 30 days of the year.
Our next question comes from Nicole DeBlase of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just want to dig a little bit more into the cost actions that Jason just asked about.
Can you guys just talk about how you view the tradeoff between cost-cuttings and investment.
And the reason I'm just a little bit concerned here is because we've been cutting costs here for the past 2 years.
And just give us some comfort that there's no cuts in the new product innovation area.
Nicole this is Jim.
Yes there are absolutely no cuts in the new product and innovation area.
This company thrives on its new products and its innovation and that is definitely something that is absolutely excluded from these cost cuts.
You said we've been cutting cost for 2 years we've been cutting cost for 12 years.
And I think we're fairly experienced at it at this point in time.
And as Don mentioned when you take on you put 2 organizations together 2 $4 billion companies and you plan an integration in the first 90 days of your time together and you come up with the synergies that we came up with and then outperformed even beyond that.
You learn a lot after 2 years of being together almost 2 years of being together.
And I think we're taking that knowledge that we've gained and we're really focusing the cost cuts on efficiency and effectiveness of organization.
If you look at our track record over the years when we make cuts like this normally it's improved the effectiveness of the organization and that's what we expect in this case as well.
This has nothing to do with new product innovation.
Has very little to do with go-to-market strategies or resource levels and it has everything to do with efficiency and effectiveness.
Nicole this is John.
I'll just add a little maybe a little more light because I couldn't agree more strongly with Jim that there should be anything but concern.
An analogy that my colleagues and teammates are tired of hearing but I think it'll really help SG&amp;A we describe within Stanley Black &amp; Decker internal speak as cholesterol and there's good cholesterol and bad cholesterol.
And my colleagues are laughing as I say this but I think it's a really good analogy.
If it involves new product development and supporting our brands that's good cholesterol not only are we not cutting it we're improving it.
If it involves back room operations paperwork processing nonvalue-added activities or a duplication of effort that's bad cholesterol and we're eliminating it.
That's exactly what Jim's describing.
So I apologize for the simplicity of the analogy but I think it'll help.
SG&amp;A in total will come down a lot.
I think Don said that about 60% of the reduction is in SG&amp;A and about 40% is actually cost of goods affecting plants and things of that nature.
But of the SG&amp;A reduction it is all on the side of money that is required to spend -- that are required to spend to do business but doesn't necessarily strengthen our brand or improve our product portfolio.
And every P&amp;L owner within Stanley Black &amp; Decker looks at it just that way approaches it just that way and it's a very serious trade off that we think about before we make any of the cuts.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks John that's really helpful.
One more if I may.
Can you guys talk about some of the moving pieces in the q-on-q CDIY margin decline this quarter it was down about 30 basis points or so? I understand the year-on-year dynamics but it seems like price costs should really be improving and the promotional spend should've been consistent with what you guys sell in the third quarter.
So can you just explain that a little bit? Yes you're absolutely right.
It was modest and as Jim said in his segment review we don't anticipate it going on.
We grew the business 6% in the fourth quarter when the market was flat-to-down.
There was promotional activity on NiCad and there was less than historical inflationary price recovery.
We can make that comment with a 100% benefit of 20/20 hindsight.
And so what you said is exactly right.
There was very modest margin decline.
That being said we grew the business at 5x to 6x the rate of the market.
The balance between margin and volume and share growth should be or will be a little bit different going forward.
So I think your statement is absolutely correct.
Jeff Ansell and his team understand it again you don't have the -- you don't always have the value of all that information until you've closed the books.
We were driving for volume we got it we got it at slightly less margin than historically we have.
We've got a very very good team that understands that and we're highly confident they'll get the balance even better.
And also it would be remiss if we didn't mention that if you look at historical gross margin and operating margin percents for Construction and DIY and if you disaggregate them and look even before these 2 companies came together you would find the same exact pattern in both company -- in both companies which is the first quarter generally is right about the same as the fourth quarter or slightly higher.
The second quarter goes up and it's the peak gross margin for the year generally speaking.
Third margin quarter margin steps down a little bit and then the fourth quarter margin tends to step down a little bit sequentially.
So you can't really just look at these margins there's a seasonality to them.
On a pure -- everything is the same so there must be something wrong if it's going down or something right if it's going up.
I mean there's all sorts of seasonal aspects to this.
For instance in the Consumer Power Tools business if you mix in the Consumer Power Tools in the fourth quarter it tends to have a slightly lower gross margin and operating margin than the Professional Power Tools as an example.
There's also Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays which tend to be days that people are paid for but they don't do any work and so there's a more of concentration of holidays less productivity less margins.
And these types of things that just drive you crazy if you try to just track the margin sequentially at any 1 point or 2 points in time.
Next question...
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question just to go back and make sure I'm fully understanding and great detail so far I'm referring to the restructuring or further cost saving activities.
I guess you're saying that within a couple of weeks it'll all be implemented.
Is that mostly headcount reduction or are there other buckets? And I guess how much of it would you consider perhaps even further upside to your original cost synergy estimates when we started with Black &amp; Decker a couple of years ago? Michael this is Don.
It's approximately 75% associated with headcount.
So it's people-related costs and then the other 25% is what we call discretionary cost and just hunkering down on T&amp;E and other types of cost consulting fees et cetera and those particular that's really the split.
As far as how much is associated with synergies probably not a lot.
I mean it might be maybe 10% of it or something like that when we look at it but it's not significant.
And to be clear it's all incremental to the synergy.
I think I'm sure that came across when Don made the point but this is not -- this is all in addition to the synergies that have already been announced.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Also on the $0.70 of net inflation and FX this might be hard to do but -- is you kind of broke out the cost savings in terms of the different operating lines or operating segment lines.
Can you give us any sense of how the $0.70 of negative impact from inflation and FX is it -- can we think of it as a similar type of distribution? I would say that if you look at the 2 pieces FX and inflation.
If you start with FX clearly there's you have the CDIY business and Industrial business they're both very global and so if you just look at the makeup of revenue you're going to get a sense of the FX impact for those different businesses.
So roughly 30% or so of the business is international.
On the Security side it's probably not a dramatically different ratio at this stage given the inclusion of Niscayah.
So I think if you look at that revenue mix it will give you a sense of where -- of how things will go.
And so if each one of them is roughly 30% of the makeup then it's probably 1/3 1/3 1/3 impact roughly.
Then you've got to look at the magnitude as well.
I think we can use a little bit [ph] of the FX versus inflation of the $0.70 that you've already said by the way.
Yes and so if your question was more around the split between FX and inflation as I mentioned 2/3 of that $0.70 is FX and 1/3 is inflation.
I thought you were going more down the path of give me a little sense by segment of those pieces.
On the inflation side the vast majority of our inflation frankly is in our CDIY and Industrial businesses and the remainder of it would be in our Security businesses.
The next question comes from Dan Oppenheim of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering in terms of the European business I guess you talked about that in terms of the risk and expect it to be potentially down 3% for the year.
But then broadly speaking for the plans for the year in terms of -- talked about margin accretion top line growth.
When you think about Europe and then expectation for potentially if there's any decline in revenue how are you thinking about margins there and running the business with a focus on so that preserving margin versus the revenue? Dan it's Don.
I think if you think about the cost actions that we're executing on and roughly a third or so of those are associated with Europe.
Those cost actions are in response to clearly volume and FX pressures.
I don't think that you're going to see a dramatic decline in rate.
I think we'll be able to maintain our margin rates in Europe as a result of the cost actions.
That's one of the main reasons we're taking the actions to ensure that we maintain them.
And then when you look at the cost synergies associated with Black &amp; Decker and the synergies associated with Niscayah obviously those are accretive to the rate.
So when you factor in all these different things you're likely to see actually margin rates in Europe improving in 2012 even though you have a little bit of volume pressure.
And as is always the case Dan I know you're well aware on -- the magnitude is proportional Europe and U.S.
as Don had said we've done everything in our power to not slow down the growth of emerging markets.
But geographically those cuts are shared equally among the -- pro rationally among the businesses as well as among the very various functions.
But it always takes longer to get it in Europe which I know you understand well 3 to 6 months longer just due to some -- anything that's subcomp-related procedures go with it and it takes a little longer to realize.
But that being said that's built in to our guidance and our anticipated timing.
Research Division</strong> Great and just related to that in terms of the proactive cost cuts here you talked about that given the expectation that there could be more weakness.
If you don't see more weakness how -- is that just locked in so you'll end up having greater leverage in terms of the overhead and such there? How do you look at those costs -- the cuts overall if you were to see any improvement? Yes one of the I guess if there's a significant positive associated with cutting costs one of the positives if the top line performance is not what we anticipated and it's better.
The reality is is we're taking cost out of developed countries that are more infrastructure and organizational related.
That frankly you're not likely having a need to add that back if you grow 5% in Europe versus being down 3% you're not going to need to add back this cost that we're taking out because it's more structural in nature and organization based.
Yes and let me just also comment that the way that we are thinking about this too is that back in October we indicated that we had a roadmap to get to a number approaching $6 when we as Don mentioned earlier found out that we had significant euro-related and market-related pressure in Europe we decided to do everything we could from a cost perspective that made sense to protect that cash flow and earnings range that we were discussing in October.
Because we really felt -- we really feel like we've set the company up very well to be a -- to outperform when and if the U.S.
home improvement and housing market returns and we wanted to preserve that optionality if you will for the investors so that folks that were thinking that this could be a good proxy for playing the home improvement and housing rebound but felt concerned about the European negative exposure could feel more comfortable continuing to invest in the stock because it still has the upside associated with the U.S.
home improvement and housing rebound if and when that happens.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the detail.
But as usual we could always ask for more I suppose.
If you could talk a little bit about the working capital improvement and I guess maybe in terms of free cash flow generation you've given a target of $1.2 billion.
I'm curious if you could give us some sense for how that will be generated either by region or by segment if you were to take the regions -- I'm particularly interested in what you think the European operations are going to contribute roughly of that $1.2 billion.
And of the segments I'm particularly curious as to what the working capital dynamics and free cash flow dynamics of the Security business are in your guidance.
Let me Steve let me start by saying we're just never going to provide that level of granularity on this call and you know that.
We can't hate you for asking.
Cash flow by region by business isn't something that we tend to A we tend to track ourselves B that we're going to put out there.
What I can say and I think Jim touched on it but perhaps didn't quite finish the thought that's clear with us.
When we implement SFS the immediate benefit comes from receivables and payables because our very powerful global sourcing operation is involved and our field sales force and business controllers and business CFOs are closely involved.
Normally the dramatic improvement in inventory inventory reduction and ultimately in absolute terms and days and the result on turns comes 6 months later because it requires more forecasting accuracy and better process changes.
We have the experience of trying to reduce inventory for the sake of doing it and with a negative impact on fill rates before the process changes have been put in place that happened to us 2 years ago in Europe with our industrial tools business and we learned from that lesson.
So more of the increment to try to simplify it will come from inventory improvement or we anticipate it will in 2012 because we've gotten the lion's share of what we will get from receivables and terms.
Geographically assume it's going to split about commensurate with our businesses and with our revenues but there is no business or region that's particularly far behind or ahead.
We run global platforms with local P&amp;L leaders.
Everyone is incented the same way.
Everyone is equally focused on it.
And while emerging markets are a relatively small percentage of our total 14% they're in pretty good shape in terms of working capital turns.
And while you might think credit terms are loose or things of that nature they're not because in many of the markets the -- a lot of the business is done through letters of credit or cash.
So in fact the turns among our Asian business in particular are very near the top of the heap.
That's about all the direction our business -- direction or detail that we're in a position to provide.
Research Division</strong> My second question relates to something Don mentioned.
I apologize I didn't quite grab it all.
But he -- you mentioned Don something about the -- that the Security business and I think you meant Niscayah's specifically could absorb business being down 10% and still hit your 12 EPS guidance contribution from that segment and in fact it is was only down 4% in 4Q.
One I just want to make sure that I heard that right.
And then secondly can you give us an idea of what you're anticipating in your 1Q outlook? Sure.
Jim did mention in his presentation that Niscayah the assumptions of $0.20 EPS accretion does have a 7.5% volume decline built into those.
That was part of the model that we created initially related to this transaction.
And he indicated that we could absorb as much as a 10% volume decline and still achieve that $0.20 EPS.
So that's just to clear about that point.
And also indicated that we saw about a 4% decline in the fourth quarter.
So we're not really trending to that number but we do have it built into our assumptions that it could get worse as we do make business model changes in particular associated with profitability a third installation revenue project and making sure that it's more aligned with the Stanley Legacy Security business.
As far as the first quarter we don't tend to give a lot of information about first quarter Steve.
So I'll just kind of leave it at that.
Next question comes from Ken Zener of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just want to explore Niscayah.
Obviously it's a big acquisition for you guys.
It happens to be in a market that's slowing down.
So you said Niscayah was down 4% in fourth quarter.
Was that a similar rate for the year given it's 8% decline in 2010? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then I think the $45 million that you talked about in Niscayah to me appears from an execution perspective very easy given that it is consolidating supply bases and kind of more back-office.
But if I think about the HSM model and the integration that was very successful in the United States I wonder if you could give us a little more color there given that Niscayah margins were 6% in '10 looking to go to 10% in '12 just on your consolidation.
But how are you going to balance the shift of going trying to get higher installation revenue tied to recurring revenue amid a slowdown in demand in those end markets? Could you just discuss that how much that hurts if it matters? Ken this is Jim.
First of all the integration I would not characterize as easy because there are multiple countries involved with multiple P&amp;Ls and very -- some very small some very large and many different cultures and Niscayah has -- some embedded -- a very localized embedded management practices that have to be -- more operated in a more central manner while remaining keeping their local flavor.
So this is not a slam dunk.
That said we feel great about the $45 million.
We have a very clear roadmap.
We have very talented experienced people in charge working on it and so we feel good about it.
And what we will do is essentially the same thing that we did with ADT France and the same thing we did with GDP in Europe and Blick as well which is we will take the HSM model.
We are taking the HSM model and we are implementing that so that you have a nice blend of central oversight with local regional management.
And that's going to take about 3 years to fully implement.
But this year I would call it the low hanging fruit will be absolutely executed to get to the $0.20.
And that's kind of the play here is that we are going to -- we are doing the things that are going to generate immediate results have priority to do that and then there's kind of a medium to long-term organizational transformation that's taking place which is why we put a very strong leader Massimo Grassi in charge of this who's multicultural speaks 5 different languages and has been with us a long time we know him very well and he's bolstered the organization already.
He's mustered the resources from the Security business and they're working in earnest to effect this transformation and we feel very good about what we bought -- Ken one other thing -- It's going [ph] be a long haul.
Excuse me Jim I'm sorry.
Ken one other point you mentioned mix and the need to do install to get recurring revenue which we've been talking about for years.
We've mentioned this on the acquisition call.
But to remind you and everyone the Niscayah business was heavily skewed towards install with a far lower than line average and certainly Stanley Convergent Security with recurring as a far lower percentage of the total revenue base.
So part of Brett and Massimo's charge is obviously maintain the flow of profitable installation to keep the pipeline full but to dramatically improve the mix toward recurring.
And if you think about that for those who have followed this company a long time that was the HS -- the Legacy Stanley model was much closer to the Niscayah model where we were way too skewed towards installation without enough recurring revenue and service coming with it.
A very successfully HSM model was very much focused and directed and incented toward recurring revenue which is why we described it as a reverse integration of Stanley Convergent Security into HSM.
What we -- so simply said we've seen the Niscayah model before good business too much installation not enough recurring.
We know what to do with that.
And oh by the way we have a history with security acquisitions of improving margins up 400 to 1 000 basis points within 2 to 3 years.
That's what's in our model for Niscayah.
And to Jim's point we've seen absolutely nothing having worked with this business now for about 6 months and owned it for 4 that would let us -- that would want us -- lead us to back off from that...
And there's some hidden benefits as well because -- and I mentioned this before that the Niscayah people happen to be very good at recurring service revenue in other words maintenance scheduled maintenance prepaid maintenance those types of things service contracts for equipment that we frankly in HSM had not really pursued too aggressively.
And so we're really learning from that and that's going to be something that's implemented in the U.S.
and in the non-HSM or non -- excuse me Niscayah parts of the Legacy Stanley Security and I think we'll benefit from that.
That's not included in any synergies or anything like that.
And then the other thing is the vertical marketing prowess.
And Niscayah clearly is -- was better and is better than we were at that and we've been trying for years to figure that out and I think they bring excellent talent in that area and experience.
And that's something that we will also leverage into our legacy Stanley Electronic Security markets.
Yes particularly in the financial services vertical as Jim's referring as you know Stanley has done -- historically done very well in retail and some other verticals.
Niscayah is equally strong in the financial services sector and brings to Jim's point and we'll leave it at that really strong vertical marketing capabilities strategy execution.
It was a real plus of the folks that we've inherited both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
Our next question comes from Sam Darkatsh of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First off you mentioned in the summary that the long-term capital allocation strategy remains the same.
That said which would suggest that more than half of your free cash flow would go to acquisitions.
You have a low valuation you're asking for more productivity with your organization now with the restructuring.
Your cash is tied up in Europe but Europe is going into a recession and things are slowing down.
All of that would argue that you would be a little more reticent perhaps with making acquisitions on a go-forward basis.
Is that the case or is it still full steam ahead? We're -- we look at each and every acquisition first on its strategic value and benefit and second on its ability to meet or exceed our financial hurdles.
And we very very carefully internally and if it's a large acquisition with our board evaluate that relative to returning cash to shareholders.
So in that regard our process hasn't changed.
If what you predict is correct it will make it harder to achieve our hurdles and it would mean there's a greater opportunity to return cash to shareholders if valuation's low or we think unfairly low via repurchase as we did $350 million worth in 2011.
If we think valuation's somewhat fair but in a 1% return environment for the next year or 2 which based on what the Federal Reserve announced this morning seems to be the case then there's probably more potential for an increased dividend in terms of improving the total shareholder return for our investors.
So the strategy's the same Sam and we will obviously respond to conditions in the marketplace and allocate our capital.
And as you know well it's not year-in year-out it is over time.
And if you look back in history it's been roughly 50-50 even though we have a stated objective 2/3 of our capital allocation going to acquisitions.
It's been about 50-50 and it's because we as I say evaluate every acquisition relative to share repurchase or relative to a meaningful change in the dividend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my last question.
Obviously restructuring's going to occur all over building products land.
But after having covered you guys for a long time that you've got a consistent history of what we'll call proactive restructuring.
John does this make it ultimately more difficult to attract incremental top talent at the middle-management levels if the company has a reputation of being hypersensitive with employment levels related to business conditions? Would it -- I guess I couldn't be more on the other side of that spectrum.
It -- this is -- you've followed Stanley longer than I've been here which is 8 years.
This is -- it is so much easier for our senior HR staff and our business leaders to do their job because we are now a $10 billion company that 6 years ago or 7 years -- 6 years ago was a $2.5 billion company.
There is tremendous growth opportunity.
Jeff Ansell would cite the statistics and he has publicly at the last investor meeting he's promoted 200 people internally.
So simply said the talent -- we've been a magnet for talent of late what it's not a good place to be is if you'd like to just punch the clock maintain the status quo and have your secretary water you everyday and collect the large paycheck this probably isn't where you want to come to work but that's not the kind of talent you're referring to or that we want to retain.
So I just couldn't be in a more different place.
We're -- we really have -- the success and the size of the Black &amp; Decker merger combined with the growth rate Sam has actually made it a lot easier to attract talent.
And I'm not saying it's easy because there's tremendous competition for talent all over the world particularly in emerging markets.
But we have people seeking us out as opposed to us having to pound the streets for talent.
So it's actually gone in the other direction.
Fair question but the impact has been exactly the opposite of what you might be concerned about.
The next question comes from David MacGregor of Longbow Research.
Jim thanks for the color a few months ago on the CDIY category but you'd referenced the promotional activity there.
And I was just wondering if it was seasonal and it's now over or whether it's carrying into the first quarter? Well there's always going to promotional activity in CDIY.
It tends to be -- peak around Father's Day and then peak once again around the holidays at the latter part of the year.
So and then it typically hits the tailwind of the third quarter and the beginning of the fourth quarter.
I would expect a very similar promotional calendar for this year.
I think it's quite possible that I think we'll be looking for better even better returns on the promotions this year and maybe a little tighter but probably the same amount of activity.
Okay and then you mentioned you were driving for volume is that just part of your ongoing pursuit of growth this year? Or was there something specific going on there that would...
Well the company before we -- before it became part of Stanley it lost a fair amount of market share in the lithium-ion area in particular.
And so we are definitely regaining share in lithium-ion and while we're not aggressively promoting because the product's really -- the price value proposition speaks for itself that's where we really look to be gaining share and as we look at the NiCad business while we're in the NiCad business and will continue to be in it that will become a smaller part of the power tool business as time goes on and so when there's promotional activity it typically revolves around that.
And then the other area where we're regaining share in I'm speaking principally about CDIY right now and the other area would be in the emerging markets especially related to revenue synergies where Black &amp; Decker had some really strong infrastructure in the emerging markets in Latin America the Middle East and we both have kind of subscale infrastructure in Asia.
And when you put that together it's pretty strong.
So we now have excellent infrastructure.
We have great brands that we can leverage across into these markets across what the legacy business is and I'd say we're really making some great progress in that respect gaining share.
And David just one more point on promotion because -- so you don't get cut off.
We pride ourselves on being a learning organization.
And again I referenced that our CDIY team as you would expect analyzes every promotion that they conduct whether it's in Consumer Power Tools or to a lesser extent they do the same amount of analysis less promotion in Professional Power Tools.
And we did -- you got a lot of learning late in the year as the team drove to recapture some lost share on which promotions were effective and which weren't both in terms of which generated enough incremental volume to make it if it was a price discount or something else that was offered to make it a good business decision versus bad.
With every promotion we run we learn.
And I think it's continuous improvement.
We'll do a better job every year while to Jim's point the level of promotion will be above -- will be about the same the effectiveness of that promotion if we can continue to perform the way we have in the past will be improved every year.
Our last question comes from Peter Lisnic of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess the -- to continue on the CDIY margin question I understand that clearing out some of the old products and the promotional environment just wondering if you're seeing any sort of structural change when you look at new product introductions and the margins that you're getting there has the competitive landscape changed? Does it alter how you think about CDIY going forward from a margin potential perspective? No not at all.
I think the new products -- I think they've done such a phenomenal job with the design particularly of the lithium-ion I think you're going to see -- if you look at those margins they're at -- they're at very acceptable levels and will continue to be so for a long time.
It's in Power tools is different than Hand Tools so we can -- we all understand that but I think we're managing it pretty effectively and to be able to achieve overall margins in the 13% range for the year for CDIY and to have more rapid -- more cost synergies coming in next year and the expectation that we will get some accretion in the rate next year meaning this year is a -- I think it's reasonable.
I mean there is a certain limitation to that over time and we've not reached that yet but I think there is a point where in the power tool market in particular it just becomes difficult to -- there's a feeling to surpass that ceiling.
But I don't think that ceiling is at 12% or 13%.
Research Division</strong> That's actually a good lead-in to my final question which is if I'm doing the math right your op margin guidance basically is about 15% for 2012 which is sort of been a longer-term target so not to put the proverbial cart before the horse but how much upside do we have if we actually get better volume and not necessarily just for 2012 but as you kind of look out 3 to 5 years with a better construction environment? Peter you're right about the 15%.
I mean clearly the cost actions above and beyond the synergies adds almost 1.5 to our operating margin rates from 2011 levels.
There are negatives against that as I walk-through but for us to achieve that range at these volume numbers you are looking at that level of operating margin rate.
To your second part of your question around if we performed higher volume levels I mean we typically indicated that our leverage affect or contribution margin is somewhere for Legacy Stanley around 40% for Black &amp; Decker it was in the low 30s.
I think for the new company it's probably somewhere between 36% and 38% and that's probably the best way for you to look at it.
We have no further question at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Kate Vanek for closing remarks.
Thank you so much for tuning in today.
Please contact me if you have any questions.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Your line is now open.
Two things first of all can you talk about the sustainability of the margin improvement which was quite remarkable in the core CDIY business as well as in the Power Tool business of Black &amp; Decker Power Tool business? Obviously you talked about cost improvement contributing to that but can you talk about the sustainability of what are pretty strong levels of profitability in those businesses? You said two things Eric.
That's the first part.
There's a second part as well which hopefully I'll be able to ask once you're done with that.
Jim why dont you talk about COE and everything else that contributes to that?  Clearly the story as I mentioned in my remarks has everything to do with the fact that on a combined basis these companies you know took out well over $600 million of costs close to $700 million of cost in the last six quarters before the end of the year.
So that cost is obviously not all coming back and when the volume comes in there is some cost add backs and both of the businesses but were here to enjoy some operating leverage and make some selective reinvestments in growth as we move forward and we will monitor and allocate those growth reinvestments as we go but the expectation here is that weve gone through a lot of pain both organizations over the last couple of years and we expect to enjoy the fruits on a more granular basis when you get into gross margins both companies have a tried and true productivity regiment somewhat different were taking the best of the best and putting them together in those cases.
I think Stanley has probably been a little more Legacy Stanley has been a little more focused on pricing core competency in the organization and I think we have some opportunities to drive that through the new company and help drive some positive improvement in gross margins in particular in that area but I would also say that I think that inflation is something that we all need to be as Don pointed out we all need to be cognizant that as this economy heats up were already seeing the early signs of commodity inflation so there will be some puts and takes here as we go and were probably not going to get a 100% price recovery just like we didnt get a 100% price recovery in legacy Stanley since 04 we got 80%.
We can get somewhere between 60 and 80% as a combined company I think well be doing quite well but itll be a lag time in that regard and thats why Dons guidance may seem a little cautious to some folks including you Eric based on something I read.
I think its probably appropriate I think the margin rates that were at today certainly seems sustainable to us but you know were three weeks into our relationship here so you know time will tell.
And I guess the follow up when you originally presented the targets I think the original presentation was that there would be Im looking at a slide that said $0.20 to $0.45 of dilution in year one and theres a lot of moving parts with these numbers I understand but can you help us understand how this guidance is up from the core Stanley Works guidance for 2010 the stand alone guidance you gave out of 4Q and so it looks like your guidance suggests that this is going to be accretive the combination will be accretive in year one and the original guidance was for dilution hopefully thats clear enough but can you just talk about what that is relative to where we started? Theres a lot of puts and takes there.
But Don will give you more granularity on that we expected that question.
Eric your exactly right its part of the November guidance we provided.
We did believe that they would be dilutive in year one but keep in mind as you know there were some pretty conservative assumptions around top line growth in that November guidance around 2%.
Total growth for the entire combined company in year one.
Now obviously we are looking at growth rates that are more around four to five percent.
Additionally we are starting to see the effects of the leverage from that volume so you can begin to see the accretive impact of that.
And thats really whats driving that $0.25 to $0.30 improvement from what we were thinking back in November of last year.
Perfect thats great thank you.
Thanks a lot.
And thank you for a lot of good material in preparation for this because I know a lot has to go into making this into a coherent form to us outsiders.
First question if we look within the CDIY business you commented that you're not seeing a lot of orders in the home center channel.
Could you comment on the sell-through of what you're seeing there? And then the second question big picture as it relates to synergies if you could comment early read on revenue synergies of what you're thinking there? And with regards to SFS how long do you think it takes Black &amp; Decker to get the rhythm that Stanley has from an SFS standpoint? Jim this is John.
I never heard four questions knocked in so quickly well we dont have you on the buzzer but let me try them all and Jim will jump into help.
In terms of restocking and sell through its a little early as you know and everyone on the call knows the home centers close their fiscal books at the end of January which is always a relatively soft month for we as suppliers in terms of volume.
So when we shift in February and March we do believe its helping with restocking.
In terms of POS all I will say is there is nothing out of the ordinary yet.
And I dont want to say any more than that the simple reason being without inventory there cant be any sell through and inventories have been so low up until about March that we think POS has been constrained of our lack of inventory at retail.
So weve seen no dramatic increases weve seen no decreases but the simple answer is its one to three months early to make any kind of I would say projection or draw any kind of conclusion based on that.
And I hope that its clear so modest restocking constant sell through we think we are going its going to take a few months of inventories.
Being at a more robust level in the stores before we can expect the kind of POS lift that we are hoping to see.
In terms of revenue synergies its early days weve been in I would say file and agreement across the two companies that they are there as I referenced they are more its much more motivating and inspirational to work on revenue synergies.
But I have to say first and foremost we need to be sure the cost synergy plans are in place.
They are being executed and thats embedded.
Weve only recently since weve been able to put the two companies together at the very senior levels of management top 12 people in the combined company established a process for identifying re-sourcing and managing any potential conflict with revenue synergies relative to cost synergies.
Because conceivably one could get in the way or the other so there has to be a way to establish the appropriate priorities and to the extent of conflict exists resolve it.
As I mentioned in my introductory remarks theres actually a formal presentation at the end of May to the steering committee where we think we can we will be a little bit more granular internally and that something material takes place.
Obviously well be public about it otherwise well just talk about the status in out next quarterly review.
Lastly in terms of timing for SFS Jim said it best.
Its an evolution its not a revolution.
This is not a silver bullet its not an overnight phenomenon its a very very long journey.
Id like to think with the very willing audience and or if you will body and thats the entire Black &amp; Decker operating and management team.
Theyve seen the positive impact its had for Stanley over the last three years.
But I'll say our own experience.
We started talking about it four years ago.
We started really embedding it three years ago and its taken while the improvements been gradual its taken three years to really really really see the fruit on those trees.
So I like to think we can do a little quicker because we have some more.
As Jim pointed out were applying it across a much much larger base.
So thats going to have an impact as well but I think its going to be 12 to 18 months before its appropriate to see any process driven changes that the result of SFS and I think you can expect steady improvement from there.
And I think everyone needs to understand that when youre implementing $350 million of Synergies in a $9 billion company while it may not sound like much on a percentage basis its really all consuming and hence were putting off the revenue synergy deep dive kind of planning process a couple of months and SFS may take a little bit longer to implement their cross to platform because we cant do everything at once.
So were trying to sequence these things in a rational and orderly manner.
But there is that huge opportunity out there and I think also the fact that there are fewer skewers in the power tool business than in the hand tool business will help us the fact that we got the experience the joint reference will help us expedite.
But its going to be a very large undertaking and it will take at least somewhere in the range of probably 18 to 24 maybe 36 months to get it done to that level.
And the last thing I would just comment on the revenue synergies a little bit.
I had the opportunity to spend about four weeks visiting far flung regions of the world and meeting the Black &amp; Decker folks and learning about their business in great detail around the world and starting to kind of frame out what the revenue synergy areas might.
And I think theres five really significant ones and some more that I dont know about yet that will kind of be surfaced during our betting process over the next few months.
But they have a very strong organization in Latin America.
They have production in Brazil which is expandable they have a distribution center down there which we dont have and for those of you that are familiar with Brazil those are both enormously important assets in order to be successful in Brazil which is really on fire from a market growth perspective.
So we will quickly as quickly as possible take advantage of that opportunity to gain market share with the legacy Stanley business down in Latin America.
The business leader down there is terrific.
Likewise in the Middle East and Dubai which covers the entire Middle East and Africa region for Legacy Black &amp; Decker and now Stanley Black &amp; Decker.
Very strong organizations in the Middle East as well and a good infrastructure significantly bigger and better than ours in the Middle East we will leverage that as quickly as we can and in Asia I think we find that both companies have fledgling operations there.
When we put them together I think we have sufficient scale to have a meaningful growth initiative in Asia and really leverage off each other and our distribution channel access and our talent over there we were fortunate enough to retain both leaders from Stanley Legacy and Black &amp; Decker legacy Asia and we have them now kind of divided up that territory within both of their regions so they both are now we have twice the senior talent working in Asia and the emerging markets and then closer to home I think well really that staff the channel is something that Stanley has coveted for a long time and aspire to do better in and the Bostich hand tool launch is just an example of something thats really targeted at the staff channel but when you look at the Black &amp; Decker relationships and the staff channel there are stronger then and their history is more successful in that channel than ours and so we hope to leverage that and then lastly in the industrial channels around the globe as many of you know Stanley has transformed its market approach in those channels to really drive a global platform approach across the regions and Black &amp; Decker well it has this entity called industrial power tools its really far more construction oriented than some industrial but Stanley has much better channel access into the industrial and automotive repair channels across the world and we expect to leverage that as a revenue synergy as well.
So I hope that gives you a little color into some of the potential areas that could be very meaningful on a go forward basis.
Extremely helpful thank you.
Good morning guys.
Hi the first question I was hoping I believe you touched on the home center trends within the Hand Tool business but I was hoping you could maybe talk about what you're seeing from point of sale and new orders particularly as you exited the quarter across all the businesses there including the legacy BDK that touches that end channel? And then I had a follow-up question as well.
Ive said everything that we intend to say up about order and POS at this stage it is as you know its a very short cycle business weve only had granularity at Black &amp; Decker power tools orders of POS for 3 weeks and as they say at this stage restocking has been modestly encouraging but far less than in the industrial channels and its too early to have a view on POS because inventories are only being gradually restored and we have only 3 weeks of data to go on.
Okay fair enough.
The second question I believe in the press release you guided towards $600 million of free cash flow for the year.
And I was wondering if you could maybe give us some puts and takes as far as what some of the bigger drivers there are and how we might think about that relative to I believe the $1billion or so that the combined entity generated last year? Well talk theres a lot of one times in the billion Dennis and obviously the targets of billion plus on an ongoing basis which is a year 3 but weve had a lot of discussion on that Dons going to give you some of the highlights of where we came out.
Dennis the $600 million as I mentioned was mentioned in the press release really has a very modest impact on our working capital included and so an assets what it is if you take the net income or EPS projections that we have you add back the depreciation and amortization and subtract out CapEx you pretty much get to that $600 million number and our CapEx tends to be anywhere between two and half percent of our revenue.
So even though the kind of boundary you will get to that number.
The opportunity for us going forward is clearly continue top line growth and we are seeing the signs of that 2010 if these trends continue then we will have more growth in 11 and 12 but you know working capital is also a significant opportunity for us.
And getting to the billion required a modest improvement in the Black &amp; Decker working capital turns of about two turns.
And that was really part of that projection that provided back in November.
The other thing to keep in mind is that the performance last year of both companies had had on a combined basis about $450 million of working capital benefit in it and we dont expect that at this point in time and that will peak 2010 but as we move forward as Jim mentioned there is a big opportunity for $800 million of cash flow from working capital.
I just wanted to echo the comments thanking you guys for all the disclosure I know it probably required a lot of work.
So maybe first of all you mentioned a little bit how you're expecting a little bit about your price inflation expectation for the full year.
Is there any way you could provide some detail on pricing when you're expecting to take pricing? Is that something that happens in the back half of the year? I guess Nicole always we try to be as far ahead of the curve as possible in order to maximize recovery of commoditys inflation.
Steel is as Don pointed out he he quantified exactly how much it will be how much we think it will be whats built in to our projections.
But RMB is huge obviously with product both from our competitors and ourselves sourced from Asia 5% RMB inflation its $42 million on an annualized basis.
The simple thing to say is when we see that inflation coming it will take one to three months for it to hit our cost of goods.
We would be out trying to announce and implement pricing.
The second we see it coming if you assume a six month lag in some customers from the day we announced till the day we get it.
We have a three months gap to fill and thats what Dons trying to improve.
So simply said we try to be equal to or ahead of the curve weve done a good job over the last three or four years driven by the central pricing Center of Excellence and people from that organization being embedded within each of the business units.
And thats were well stay well try to stay equal to or ahead of the curve and both commodities and RMB inflation are going to be very very big external factors or market driven factors to look at.
Importantly as it relates to the impact of RMB inflation we are not in this alone anyone whether its private label of the home centers or a foreign competition in CDIY they are going to be impacted as much or more as we are.
So while the numbers are big the forces in the marketplace will our presence that will suggest we wont be alone in the need to achieve pricing to maintain margin.
Okay thanks John that's really helpful.
And then maybe if you could comment a little bit on how Power and CDIY core growth in 1Q compared to your internal plans? I guess I was a little surprised by the volume declines given the mid-to-high single-digit growth we've seen out of both Danaher and Cooper this quarter? Well let me start by saying that both Danaher and Cooper are far more industrial oriented than our CDIY business if you look at their before the JVs their portfolios and when you combine it together it doesnt change anything.
So you have to really if you want to get a Danaher Cooper Stanley Black &amp; Decker comparison or at least Stanley Legacy comparison.
You really have to kind of blend the CDIY and the industrial results and I think you saw the surge in our industrial business as well which was very comparable to what they experienced.
Okay.
Thats fair.
And lastly for me what sort of seasonal pick up do you guys expect for security in the second quarter?  Its always the case that versus two in a obviously not versus 2Q 09 but 1Q to 2Q we get historically a good seasonal pick up in our mechanical security business.
I think Black &amp; Decker hardware and home improvement business will be a little bit less seasonal than Stanleys.
Specifically ours is driven hard as you know by two things in Legacy Stanley.
The tremendous penetration we have on university campuses and mechanical locking and most of that takes place in June and July which spills into the third quarter where we get on to the campuses to change a lot of locks.
That will be less Black &amp; Deckers mechanical security business will not be tremendously impacted by that.
The second point being our access technologies business which we love tends to have a far greater performance in the second and third quarters than first and fourth and its all weather related.
We have never had any slide availability issues when we go to install or in some cases service doors or retro fit doors.
That goes away.
So what youve seen on the Stanley side historically we would expect again whilst we expect very little of it on the Black &amp; Decker side.
Their mechanical security business is less university and large retail oriented.
So essentially on our combined basis that the percentage increase which we often attribute to 100 to 200 basis is cut in half just due to the business twice the size.
Thanks very much.
You talked a lot about this in terms of the CDIY and the encouraging signs in terms of inventory circumstance happening much more on the Industrial side.
In this guidance of 4% to 5% revenue growth for the remaining three quarters of the year is there any customer restocking built into that or are you assuming that it takes place later on?   Well there is obviously is a little bit of customer restocking built into that.
And clearly we experience a little bit of that in the first quarter.
And then what we were to expect that continue in the second quarter and third quarter but I would say that a vast majority of that is really end market pick up.
Thanks very much.
And I guess the other question just wondering about the and think about the Power Tools.
You talk about product launches helping to regain some market share.
Do you think that as you deal with the Big-box retailers is your thought at this point that having the right products and those interests will help to you regain the market share or is there anything different you're looking at with the relationship with them?  Black &amp; Decker had a core franchise to protect in nickel cadmium.
So on the one hand was slow to convert to the emerging technology of lithium-ion one of the reasons being the franchise that it had to protect.
The products are available the pipe line is full.
These are the this is the most powerful and sought after brand in the professional channel thats the DeWALT brand of course.
And we believe not due to the effect that were a larger company we due to the fact that that were a larger company we do due to the fact that Legacy of Stanley brands and DeWALT brands are the most sought after brands in the industry and we have every hope and expectation to gain share as a result of that as were able to put these two companies together and introduce our new products.
Youll recall from following Stanley historically new product launches take place in March and October and we start to see the benefits of that in the second obviously and fourth quarters.
Every year about $100 million in revenue on the Legacy Stanley CDIY side has been generated from new products we see no reasons why that shouldnt continue going forward.
And these DeWALT folks and also Black &amp; Decker power tool folks are very proud and capable people and they didnt take it very kindly when they missed this window which has cost them some market share points over a year and a half and I can tell you that the passion they have for what they do is going to be manifested in some outstanding new products and I think theyre going to regain their market share both through product and also they had reduced a lot of their brand support in taking costs out and a lot of that brand support its not a cost synergy per say and its not a revenue synergy per say we are able to leverage a lot of our existing brand support assets such as our MLB programs we will see with DeWALT in four parts probably already have and also in our premier football over in Europe youll see DeWALT at the games now and so around the world in our Nascar youll see the same thing.
So we really are beefing up the brand support at the same time the products are going at a nice I expect that will help the market share as well.
I guess first question if we could just go back to the revenue synergies and you laid out those five as sort of the targets.
I'm wondering if those are more are they plug and play sort of initiatives.
In other words what sort of capital costs should we think about as you try to enter some of these or take advantage of some of these strategic opportunities?  Pete theres good news and bad news there.
The good news is theres essentially no capital required to do what Jim talked about and I think he articulated extraordinarily well and thats the positive.
The negative is a lot of experience sitting around this table and throughout our combined entities say as logical as it is and as easy as it sounds it takes two to three times as long to realize those synergies as Mikes seen reasonable at first blush.
A lot of cross training on product a lot of the fact that folks know and understand their legacy customers and product lines that they need to be properly incented to go achieve these synergies without losing focus on the core business and as if you will qualitative or subjective as that all sounds Jim and I and all the folks at Black &amp; Decker particularly in the regions have all had the same experience.
It takes longer because it is not as easy as it sounds.
We will get there with very little capital but its all about protecting the core while we layer this on and get out of them as soon as we can.
Well have a better flavor for what those are and how quickly we might achieve them as we live together for 3 to 6 months as opposed to 3 to 6 weeks.
So stay tuned and at some point in time particularly when we get the entire investment community together for an Analyst Day who knows a year from now and we put out some new three year projections we will have a lot more granularity on that for you.
But no capital longer time than you might be tempted to put in your model.
No totally understand.
Thanks for that color.
If we could just get back to the I guess the cash flow commentary where I'm a little bit I see some optimism guess you're doing $600 million in free cash flow this year.
And Jim you talked about an opportunity of freeing up $800 million but you also laid out a target of $1 billion pro-forma.
Can you you sort of set the bars for us when you're talking about the cost savings synergies and how to think about that.
Can you also give us some of the puts and takes and why we shouldn't be more optimistic than your $1 billion target on the free cash flow front? Peter this is Don.
I think its really going to depend on what happens over the next few years and clearly there is significant cost synergies.
Jim laid out some of the working capital opportunities that we have as a company.
But also we have to keep in mind that those working capital opportunities will take some time to achieve.
We feel comfortable that we can achieve a lot of them but the actual to ability to achieve them in a 24 month period is much different than ultimately achieving them so those are all factors that need to be considered as well as the volume pick up that we might experience as a company for the next two to three years little bit of question mark.
So there is different way that you can model it to be more optimistic clearly that we get you to something greater than a billion.
But at this point in time we still think that number makes a lot of sense and as time evolves as we go forward we will continue to update as we see appropriate.
Thanks everyone for joining in today.
Again if you have questions feel free to reach out to me after the call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Q2 2012 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sandra and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations Kate Vanek.
Ms.
Vanek you may begin.
Thank you so much Sandra and good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us this morning for the Stanley Black &amp; Decker Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren President and CEO; Jim Loree Executive Vice President and COO; Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO; and Jeff Ansell Senior Vice President and Group Executive of CDIY.
Our earnings release which was issued this morning and a supplemental presentation which we'll refer to during the call are available on the IR portion of our website as well as our iPhone and iPad app.
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
The replay number and access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim Don and Jeff will review Stanley's 2012 second quarter results and various other topical matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] As always please feel free to contact me with any follow-up questions that you have after today's call.
And as I normally have to do we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such involve risk and uncertainty.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act.
And with that I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Kate and thank you for being with us this morning.
And for those of you who have been able to read this morning's press release I suspect you all have concluded that the strength in our CDIY business as well as continued success with our primarily Black &amp; Decker and Niscayah integration has helped to mute some of the economic and currency headwinds in the second quarter that had a somewhat greater effect on our Industrial and Security platforms.
So much more detail to come.
Revenues were up 8% $2.8 billion.
Importantly organic growth up 2%.
Strong performance in CDIY up 5% organically with an operating margin rate x M&amp;A charges and payments of 15.7%.
The Industrial and Security segments were pressured by certain weak vertical markets as well as their presence in Europe.
And you'll hear more detail on all 3 segments in just a few minutes so I won't spend more time on that in the overview.
2Q diluted EPS $1.32 again x charges $0.92 on a GAAP basis.
Continued positive news and strong momentum on the Black &amp; Decker integration which we now expect to yield an incremental $50 million in cost synergies next year 2013.
That will bring the total to $500 million since our March 2010 commitment in closing as a combined company and that's up from an original estimate of $350 million.
We're not going to spend a lot of time on the synergies and the increment on this morning's call.
Happy to discuss that as is Kate offline.
But the 2 primary sort of drivers of the $50 million incremental saving were our global strategic sourcing organization continues to gain traction across a larger base and seeing some nice savings there.
And some of the programs as we said earlier are major footprint initiatives that required factory moves distribution center closures that were more complex and as a consequence filled with more inherent risk.
They've gone extremely well particularly in Europe.
So the combination of those 2 things has given us the confidence to up that estimate by $50 million and it's something we're very proud of and I'm very proud of the team and the many people involved in executing those changes.
Revenue synergies continue to be important.
FatMax power tools you'll hear a little about from Jeff and Jim DeWalt Hand Tools those are those initiatives driving growth around the globe.
The Niscayah integration also remains on track.
Our pro forma Convergent Security margin in Europe is up 270 basis points year-on-year and that continues to move towards the line average but still with a great deal of room for improvement but right on track from what we assumed and communicated upon closing that deal last September.
We also have increased our dividend by 20%.
That's the 45th consecutive annual dividend increase for our company and that will bring the yield to about 3.3% based on yesterday's closing price.
During the quarter we also completed the $200 million share repurchase program.
And the board has approved our board has very recently approved a 20 million share or about a $1.2 billion share buyback program.
So those are the highlights from the longer-than-normal release that we put out this morning.
And let's move into the business in the 2Q and how it performed.
First of all in sources of growth overall we had our 2% organic growth which 1% from volume with the puts and calls that I discussed more details later and we got 1% in price 10% from acquisitions offset by minus 4% from foreign currency.
Virtually every currency that's important to us the euro the GB pound Brazilian real Australian dollar all went or continued to go in the wrong direction and it is having some headwind that Don has factored into the outlook that he'll talk about later on on this morning's call.
Some great stories within the businesses.
Professional Power Tools up 9%; Consumer Power Tools which includes our outdoor business which in fact was helped by the weather up 9%.
Lots of puts and calls within Industrial globally up 1% but you have our Engineered Fastening business showing double-digit growth offset by some mid- to high-single digit declines in some of our other Industrial platforms that Jim will talk about in the segment detail.
Hand Tools and Fasteners essentially flat.
Convergent Security including Niscayah down 3%; MAS Commercial 4%.
Other Security which is a combination of access MAS residential.
Health care a lot of small moving parts down 5% off a low base.
So some very good stories particularly in CDIY and a very nice performance in our Engineered Fastening business around the globe.
Looking at our geographies on the next slide I'll take them from largest to smallest in terms of the representation of our revenues.
So middle left U.S.
essentially a microcosm of our entire company up 1%.
It continues to represent slightly more than half of our revenue.
Moving across the page Europe in total down 2%.
We could argue that's a victory or very strong performance if you think about the pieces.
Europe CDIY and Jeff will talk about it up 2% one of the best volume quarters or the best volume quarter since the third quarter of 2010.
IAR Security down slightly.
Niscayah down 5% pretty much as we've predicted.
Saw a relatively strong performance in Europe given the headwinds that that geography's facing.
Bottom left looking at Latin America continued strong growth across most platforms organically up 7%.
Canada important business for us very strong performance up 10% with Professional Power Tools and the lithium-ion platform the DeWalt and Bostitch Hand Tools as well as our outdoor business all performing quite well during the quarter.
Over the right side of the page very quickly emerging markets in Asia or our emerging markets group as we define it a small percentage of our company only 3% but continued steady solid growth up 9%.
Japan looks terrific plus 31%.
Remember that's off a very low base of the tsunami-impacted Emhart business this time last year.
But nonetheless extraordinary recovery for our Engineered Fastening business which represents the overwhelming majority of our business in Japan.
And last but not least Australia was down 9%.
It only represents 2% of our revenue.
Hand Tools holding up pretty well.
Our Sidchrome professional mechanics tools business faced some pricing pressure and it's one of the last geographies where we've completed or in the process of completing our technology shift from nickel cadmium to lithium-ion so relatively late conversion.
That's by design based on product availability and we see that turning around in the very near future.
Normally Jim Loree would take us through all 3 segments but as I suggested earlier and Kate mentioned CDIY had an exceptionally strong quarter.
And today we have Jeff Ansell who's our Senior Vice President Group Executive responsible for CDIY which represents about half our revenue on a global basis.
He'll be with us on the call and Jeff over to you for some highlights of CDIY in the quarter.
Thank you John.
As John indicated on Page 7 strong performance within the CDIY segment during Q2 driven by revenue growth and profit expansion.
Some of the key points to make during the quarter starting with revenue growth total of 5% for the segment; 6% excluding Pfister fueled as you can see in the upper left by power tools' performance.
Across the regions North America delivered high single-digit growth across both retail and industrial construction or IC channels driven by power tools and outdoor products.
Hand Tools also had a very good quarter but difficult comp as compared to the prior year DeWalt Hand Tool load-ins that occurred this time last year.
EMEA 2% volume driven by both hand and power tool expansion with particular strength in the U.K.
Middle East Africa and the Nordics more than offsetting pressures in Italy and Spain et cetera.
Even with the known pressures across EMEA we delivered our best volume quarter in that region since Q3 2010 as John indicated.
Both North America and EMEA both positively comped the prior year load-ins from the 18/20 volt lithium-ion loads that occurred this time last year so quite good progress.
Latin America continued positive performance with strength in Columbia Ecuador Venezuela more than offsetting pressures in places like Brazil and Argentina.
Our emerging market's numbers in total were positive consistent with the recent track record and I think the piece that gives us more pride than anything and probably reason for confidence going forward is that we had volume growth in every region of the world excluding Australia and New Zealand which is both small and improving as John indicated.
That revenue growth around the world also enabled at least partially enabled OM expansion of 140 basis points.
Again the combination of volume leverage efficient promotional planning and cost synergy attainment concurrently all enabled that performance.
If you turn to Page 8 perhaps a little deeper dive into the numbers from a quarter and a merger-to-date perspective.
Starting in the upper left box point of sale and average annual growth rates we've spent a good deal of time talking about POS performance over time and repeatedly made the point that volumes and POS may not be consistent in a given month or a quarter but over time they certainly counterbalance one another.
We have attempted to depict that clearly for you all here that if you look at the 3-quarter performance Q4 of 2011 through the first half of 2012 volumes were plus 5%; POS plus 4% with inventories in relative balance.
If you dissect that a little further on a year-to-date basis volume's up 5 POS up 5 in perfect harmony.
Since integration the CDIY POS hasn't grown on average mid-single digits with the DeWalt business in total more than 2x that rate.
And then finally the CDIY average annual growth rate as compared to our key U.S.
customers' comp store performance so our U.S.
volume versus key U.S.
retailer comp performance CDIY is plus 3.5% versus the average of the major customers at about 2.5%.
So point to make would be clearly we feel like we're gaining share but also our growth fuels our customers' growth and their growth clearly fuels our growth.
Turning to the upper right quadrant in terms of market share coming into this integration we held the market-leading market share position globally.
We've since added about 200 basis points of share over 2010 and '11 and obviously those numbers are only reported annually both years representing share gain.
A point of note in the second bullet and that is around DeWalt cordless.
Over the time frame of the integration the DeWalt cordless business has grown at 50% faster rate than global cordless in total to the highest level in history.
We've never had a larger cordless business than we have today.
Since the integration our NiCad business or legacy platform has remained flat while lithium-ion has grown 5x to commensurate size and profitability giving us the strength in the market.
Turning to the bottom left box in terms of profitability CDIY has added about 600 basis points of profit improvement over the period of the integration.
Record profitability has been driven through new product development accessory growth efficiency and enhancements in our SFS process and gains in emerging markets.
Profitability has improved on both an organic and a -- with synergy numbers so in total both numbers improving over the period of time.
And then finally the enabler of all these things really around new product development and revenue synergies.
Some key elements to note DeWalt and Bostitch Hand Tools augmenting the strength of our Stanley Hand Tool business has enabled share gains and in fact over the course of the integration the Hand Tool business had grown which is the key deliverable for this organization.
We've launched FatMax power tools to augment the strength that we have in the Black &amp; Decker and DeWalt brands around the globe.
That began in the first quarter of 2012 and will continue globally through the end of this year and beyond but initially very good response.
Emerging markets have been pervasive in their expansion improving our Hand Tools business our power tool business and our powerful accessory business concurrently.
And then finally during the quarter the latter part of Q2 we acquired Powers Fasteners.
Powers Fasteners was found in 1921 and is a leader in code approvals globally.
They play in a $3.8 billion market and roughly -- they're roughly a $140 million company with strength in the U.S.
and Australia New Zealand.
This creates the only concrete tool fastener and accessory portfolio within the U.S.
fastener business.
Powers also provides the opportunity to pull through such existing products as DeWalt hammers accessories and pneumatics while at the same time Stanley Black &amp; Decker provide the opportunity to expand the Powers portfolio in the markets where we have established market position.
Initial integration results are positive.
Initial customer feedback is quite positive.
So with that said I'll turn the floor over to Jim to report out on the other segment.
Thank you Jeff and kudos to your team under your leadership which really did a remarkable job simultaneously integrating these businesses from Black &amp; Decker and from Stanley each of which when combined is -- this unit is larger than either of the 2 companies in totality before they were merged.
So a $5 billion-plus business a lot of moving parts global a lot of issues to deal with on the NPI front and somehow the execution in delivering this was just phenomenal and I think it's a credit to you.
And I'm glad you're on the call to be able to describe that and answer some questions as we go forward here.
Let's move on to Security.
Security revenues were $792 million up 613 -- or up 29% versus a year ago when they were $613 million.
Segment profit was $122 million up 15%.
The profit rate was 18% which was very impressive excluding acquisitions i.e.
Niscayah in particular and 15% including acquisitions.
The 18% represents a 240 basis point sequential improvement and the 15.3% would be a 200 basis point sequential increase.
The profit rate improvement was accomplished despite weakness in core markets and negative 4% organic growth.
As you look at the organic growth you can see that CSS was down 3%.
They had a flattish U.S.
performance.
Europe was down mid-single digits not surprisingly and that would be the legacy European piece of our business which was primarily focused in France.
And then the commercial MAS which includes access and the SMS business or commercial mechanical security was down 4%.
Access continued to have issues with the CapEx requirements of its major customer which were significantly decreased from a year ago.
That will anniversary here shortly and not continue to be a problem and then the SMS business had some issues with respect to a sluggish U.S.
retrofit market in particular health care government and education all those institutions facing budgetary issues as well as a continuing gap in their product line the MPP product line which as the economic issues have continued over the past few years the products in the market have -- the buying preferences have shifted more to an MPP product the mid-price-point product and we were a little bit slow to design an MPP and introduce an MPP line.
The Tong Lung acquisition which we initiated a tender offer earlier this year is critical towards resolving this issue and we will close that the majority of the shares here in the next few weeks and then get right to work.
We're already actually working on the MPP line for the commercial business through Tong Lung.
And I will also say that Tong Lung Metal is the world's lowest-cost manufacturer of locks of quality locks in the world.
They have plants in Philippines and Taiwan and this is a highly strategic acquisition and places a new advantage here for us in terms of cost competitiveness on subcomponents in the HPP line for commercial security and also fixes -- will help us fix this product gap and obviously makes the HHI transaction more palatable too from a divestiture standpoint.
Moving onto other security that was also down about 5%.
That included the residential business and also the health care.
Resi was down in low-single digits as the market kind of slowed from the first quarter strength it had enjoyed.
In health care the Obamacare Supreme Court decision weighed heavily on CapEx decisions that were made by acute care and secondary care providers.
So that was a very very weak market in health care and so a little bit of an issue there.
And then we also you all know acquired a company called AeroScout in the quarter which is a highly highly strategic acquisition not only in Security but throughout our portfolio and I'll talk about that in a minute.
But they are the #1 player in the RTLS market in U.S.
health care actually global health care RTLS being real-time locating systems for active RFID systems which enable patient tracking temperature sensing asset tracking all on WiFi networks.
And this capability will allow us to really provide a value proposition to our customers that goes beyond anything that we have seen before in our health care business and I will talk more about that in a few minutes.
Moving onto Industrial our Industrial revenues were $635 million up from $626 million a year ago 1% increase.
The organic growth was 1%.
There were 4 points of negative currency offsetting 4 points of inorganic growth.
Segment profit was $95 million down nominally from $97 million a year ago.
The profit rate was up 40 basis points came in at 15.1% but was in the normal historical range for Industrial despite a double-digit contraction in IAR Europe where the contribution margins are near 50%.
So you'll recall the last few quarters the Industrial business has been increasingly profitable in terms of rate.
It was in the 18% range last quarter and so it's down from there but it's almost all driven by cost absorption issues in the industrial and automotive repair European business which as I said has very rich margins.
The European business was down double digits for IAR.
We had high-single-digit organic growth for our North American and mobile distribution business and a very strong OM performance as well.
That's our code word for Mac Tools by the way.
And our Proto business was pressured and was negative in terms of organic growth by weak government sales in particular the Industrial markets through the MRO held up reasonably well.
And we'll talk again in a few minutes about the acquisition of AeroScout which is going to enable our Industrial business to create a new business unit for advanced industrial solutions which will take RFID and RTLS technology to our industrial customers through the IAR business.
Engineered Fastening John mentioned had a great quarter 10th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth despite a situation in Europe with an 11% decline in auto production in Europe so a terrific job by those folks.
Japan did benefit.
We have a reasonably large business in Japan.
It did benefit from the tsunami recovery production; that was helpful.
But in general these folks are making terrific progress on vehicle penetration and managing the business very tightly.
So they were a real success story in the Industrial segment in the quarter.
Hydraulics and CRC-Evans which make up the Infrastructure business in particular were actually were both pressured from a volume standpoint.
CRC had organic revenues down 10% all driven by actually more than a bigger decline in the North American onshore market which we've discussed previously on calls mainly due to the diminished U.S.
pipeline market for gas and oil.
And that is an ongoing saga but they made great progress on the offshore business offsetting a lot of that decline.
So we're in a cyclical trough right now in North America onshore.
Offshore is growing by leaps and bounds.
I think when the onshore comes back and it will this will be a big growth driver for us.
So Industrial produced a respectable quarter under a most -- under mostly difficult market conditions.
Now in the press release we discussed a tactical change as it relates to acquisitions.
And a few folks before the call mentioned when they called in mentioned that they thought this was a strategic shift and I will very clearly say that this is not a strategic shift.
This is merely a tactical move to digest what we have acquired in the last few years and to take what we've acquired and to rev-up the organic growth engine which is essentially another form integrating these acquisitions.
And we just don't buy assets and let them sit in  kind of by themselves; we take them.
When we buy them we generally buy them because they strengthen our value propositions and sometimes it takes a little time and focus to make sure that we get that right and make the moves to drive organic growth.
So what we've done over the last few years in terms of Black &amp; Decker and Niscayah GMT CribMaster AeroScout Tom Lung and CRC-Evans and now Powers as well all of these are going to provide a strong catalyst for organic growth and so over the next 12 to 18 months while we focus on organic growth which I think is timely given the difficult markets in some of our businesses we've got 5 major growth initiatives which we're pursuing which have collectively the capacity to drive 2 to 3 incremental points of organic growth over the next few years each year.
So let's start with emerging markets.
I think many companies are putting some focus on emerging markets.
We've been doing that for a long time.
I think the Black &amp; Decker merger helped us drive scale in this area.
We've gotten to the point now where the basic integrations are complete in the emerging markets.
We're benefiting from that.
But now we're going to rev it up a notch and we're going to create new Asian-based dedicated SBUs for mid-price-point Hand Tools power tools and commercial hardware products.
Why is this important? Because about 70% of the market in emerging markets is in the MPP range.
And in the past most of the high-price-point power tool players and hand tool players have really come at it from taking those types of products and trying to modify them to some extent and then sell them into the MPP and HBP segments of the market and the emerging markets.
That is a strategy that only has so much potential and in order to fully capture the opportunity we feel that it's important that we create these Asian-based SBUs which are going to design and provide products to all our emerging markets around the world.
And so this is a big sea change for us and I think one that's going to lead to significant market share gain.
Obviously there will be plants and production that follows as these -- as we continue to gain market share.
The commercial hardware SBU will leverage the combined capability of GMT which was that China-based commercial hardware acquisition that we made about 1.5 years ago and we will combine that with Tong Lung Tong Lung's capability.
And we will be able to design a full range of MPP products in the EN or in a European standard and also design products that are cost competitive in the American standard.
So we will have all the products that we need to drive share gain and commercial hardware around the world leveraging our network.
We will also make significant feet on the street additions in the emerging markets for local product management local marketing and local sales teams.
We obviously have some of that already but we're talking about ramping up that resource significantly.
Combined all those activities should generate at least $300 million a year of additional revenue by year 3.
Secondly the smart tools and storage for IAR this is the leveraging of CribMaster and the AeroScout technologies into the industrial markets including areas such as MRP vending FOD control which is in foreign object damage which is critical in aerospace markets electronic kanbans and client productivity monitoring.
This technology that we have at CribMaster and AeroScout enables all of this.
And just yesterday we formed a new SBU under JoAnna Sohovich in IAR which will take our capabilities here and form a sales force to take these products to market in a bigger and more aggressive way then we have in the past.
Some of these capabilities are brand new for us.
We've had great success already with CribMaster.
Since the acquisition we've just recently logged about $60 million in new business about half of that in the U.S.
half in Europe and this is all in the MRP vending.
So we're well on our way towards achieving this $100 million goal by year 3.
I think we should definitely exceed that as we go.
Then there's offshore oil and gas pipeline services.
This is about $0.5 billion market opportunity.
We've made great progress here already.
What we do now is we provide bundled solutions to spool-based owners for services such as staging the pipes joining the pipes welding them coating them inspecting them and loading them on the ship.
We -- these spool bases today are operating at about 30% capacity.
The expectation is over the next year or 2 that will increase to about 60% to 70%.
We've already won the business so now we just have to enjoy the growth there.
And then we're -- right now we're working on a new concept which is to provide these folks with automated portable spool bases so that we can move them around the world as their needs change and as the new sources of energy are discovered.
So this should easily be an incremental $100 million of growth potential by year 3.
And then a final one are -- the final one excluding Black &amp; Decker is the RTLS-enabled security.
And this is simply taking the AeroScout RTLS capability and leveraging it into the Electronic Security market.
The biggest thrust here will be into health care in the acute care facility vertical and we're forming an internal sales JV between CSS and our health care business.
We'll have about 30 to 40 reps covering C-level executives in these institutions and they will perform consultative assessments of safety security efficiency and compliance and then they will offer the solutions to solve the problems that are discovered during those assessments.
This concept plays right into the sweet spot of what these types of institutions need right now which is to maximize their reimbursement and to achieve significant cost savings.
And then finally we have these Black &amp; Decker revenue synergies that have been so successful so far.
We've already driven about $250 million of benefit from that.
We fully expect to deliver on our $300 million to $400 million external commitment and hopefully over the next year or 2 get to the high end of that range and perhaps drive beyond it.
So as I said these 5 initiatives when taken in the aggregate have the capacity to drive about 2 to 3 points of organic growth over the next few years very exciting.
And so taking the 12- to 18-month break from acquisitions to enable us to do this I think is probably a pretty good idea.
Okay.
Let's move to working capital.
SFS continues to be a great value-creating story with a 1-turn improvement to 7.1 turns and with an 8% increase in total sales and a 15% reduction in working capital.
We achieved on a year-over-year basis to a $1 445 000 000.
And just to put it in perspective as a refresher in second quarter of '09 our pro forma working capital was $2.1 billion and we were at 3.9 turns.
In the post-merger period we have eradicated $700 million of working capital and extracted that and put it to productive use.
This has been a phenomenal value-creating story and we're well on our way to achieving the legacy Stanley peak performance of 8.6 turns.
We fully expect to get there sometime in 2013 and we expect further progress as the year goes on here.
Now I'll turn it over to Don Allan to take you through some of the financial aspects.
All right thank you Jim.
On Page 13 as many of you read in the press release this morning we talk quite a bit about the portfolio transformation and capital allocation.
And before I get into the details on this page I just want to remind everyone if you go back to our strategic framework that's been in place since 2004 time frame the first tenet there is really about portfolio transformation.
And as discussed mixing it to higher growth and higher profitability businesses over the long term as well as increasing our weighting in emerging markets and specifically having a goal of getting the 20% of the total company in emerging markets by the middle of this decade.
The net result of that as we drive towards the long term and as we grow will be continued diversification away from U.S.
home centers i.e.
as we grow in our growth platforms that will become a smaller part of our company.
So what we decided to announce and to give people an update on where we were in this -- our continued portfolio transformation and we are in the process of evaluating the potential divestment of our Hardware &amp; Home Improvement business.
And just as a reminder for those of you who may not be as familiar with that business it's approximately $940 million in revenues.
It operates largely under the brands Kwikset Baldwin Weiser Stanley National and Pfister brands.
It's not a CDIY business aside from the Pfister business.
We do include the Pfister business in our CDIY segment.
The remainder of the business that's included in our Security segment.
90% of the revenues are North American-based and more than 50% of the revenue is through U.S.
home centers.
We think it's a very healthy business.
It's had operating margin rate performance in the mid-to-high teens over the last few years.
It has -- it is constrained in the North America primarily as I mentioned 90%.
It does have long-term growth prospects however we do think we could potentially reallocate our capital into other areas that are higher growth in different industries and it certainly has a very heavy weighted concentration in U.S.
home centers.
For those of you who asked the question why would you want to sell a business potentially that is at the bottom of the housing market today? Well I'd just remind everybody is we do have a business CDIY that's over $5 billion in revenue which has world-class brands market-leading positions and that certainly provides us a quite significant potential upside to a housing recovery.
As we've told many of you before we think when you look at the peak revenues of that business in the past to where we are today there's a potential of $1.5 billion of revenue upside in any type of housing recovery of significant magnitude.
And that would assume getting back to a level of 2 million housing starts which maybe we'll never get back to that but certainly there's a great deal of upside opportunity just in that business.
If we make the decision to sell the HHI business we do think that the after-tax proceeds will significantly exceed $1 billion.
We're also in the process of evaluating a highly accretive and very strategic asset in our Engineered Fastening business.
It's approximately $500 million in revenue.
It's very synergistic with our current Engineered Fastening business.
It's in favorable growth industries so has that high growth attribute that we are looking for.
very strong concentration in emerging markets where the revenue is -- greater than 50% of revenue is in emerging markets.
Like any particular asset that we evaluate for acquisition we'll go through the process of evaluating whether it will achieve certain accretion profiles as well as other return thresholds that we try to maintain through our entire acquisition process.
And we will only proceed if we are able to achieve those aspects but clearly a very compelling strategic asset that's under consideration for us.
The other area that we're looking at capital allocation is potential doing a share repurchase in the future.
Certainly looking at our current stock price yesterday closing below $60 it is a nice investment for us to consider as part of this capital allocation or reallocation strategy.
So given all know that there are a few -- 2 likely scenarios that I think could play out here.
One the potential sale of our HHI business and utilizing those proceeds to invest in this Engineered Fastening asset I described and on top of that if there's excess cash available utilize that to do share repurchase.
The second likely scenario is that we sell the HHI business but decide not to acquire the Engineered Fastening assets and utilize those proceeds to buy back stock after we do some modest deleveraging in that scenario as we will lose approximately $200 million of EBITDA when we sell that business.
Neither of those 2 scenarios result in any significant annualized EPS dilution and it's very important that people recognize that.
The third scenario which I think is less likely would be that we decide not to sell the HHI business.
However we do acquire the Engineered Fastening assets for the reasons that I articulated.
Again I think that scenario is less likely of the first 2 but it is something that we will consider in this process.
The end result in any of those scenarios will be that we'll be taking 12 to 18 months off from business development aside from some small emerging markets activity as Jim mentioned.
And also as Jim mentioned that is not a strategic shift it's simply a break in really looking at how we need to continue to integrate the acquisitions that we've done and Jim really walked through the details of where we're focused in that effort primarily on organic growth.
So moving to Page 14 and I'll look at guidance over here.
So we've lowered our guidance to $5.40 to $5.65 from the previous guidance range of $5.75 to $6.
Let me walk you through with some of the assumptions associated with that.
We are reiterating our organic net sales guidance for the year.
We do think the pro forma net sales will continue to be 1% to 2% year-over-year so that includes the effect of Niscayah full year for 2011 numbers when I say pro forma.
And when we look at regionally we think the performance will still be consistent with North America up 1%; Europe down 3% and emerging markets between 10% to 15%.
You can see year-to-date North America and emerging markets are pretty in line with that assumption.
Europe is a little different.
Europe is not quite as bad as that 3% as John and Jim have both articulated previously in the call.
We do expect that things will likely continue to deteriorate in Europe so we're sticking with that negative 3% in that region of the world for the year.
We expect the BDK cost synergies to be $115 million this year and $45 million for Niscayah so no change there.
And in the cost reduction actions which were really targeted at discretionary spend back in the first quarter of $150 million that's in place and we anticipate that that will be achieved.
Our share count will be roughly 167 million.
We believe our free cash flow will be $1.2 billion so no change with that.
It does assume an increase for benefits from working capital.
Jim talked about where we stood to 6 months at 7.1 turns so progressing very nicely in that area.
And just a reminder for those of you who may not be as familiar with our company there is a great deal of seasonality associated with free cash flow.
And if you look at our history of the 2 combined companies the first half history as a percentage of the full year tends to represent anywhere from 21% to 24% of the total year.
And if you look at our $300 million performance through the first half that clearly would indicate a path to $1.2 billion performance for the year.
What we're changing to the right of the page or updating associated with our guidance is we continue to see incremental headwinds from foreign exchange an additional $55 million impact to our operating margin.
And then you can see in the interest and other line we have an additional $20 million negative impact as well that $75 million of incremental negative associated with foreign exchange or $0.35.
If you look at the currencies associated with that and I'll just take people back to our January earnings call.
I walked through a fair amount of detail around foreign exchange.
And there's really 3 currencies as John touched on at the beginning that have a significant impact on our business.
They represent about 3/4 of our international exposure.
That's the euro Brazilian real and Canadian dollar.
So back in January I pointed out that going into the year we thought FX would be a negative of $0.45 and it's really being driven by the fact that the euro have been down 7% going into the year the Brazilian real down 11% and the Canadian dollar down 3%.
What has happened since then? Well I think we all know that they continued to deteriorate.
And as of the end of the second quarter the euro was down an additional 5.5% from that $1.29 rate it was at at the end of last year down to close to the $1.22 now.
The Brazilian real which was down about $0.535 at the end of last year going into this year is now down to $0.48 at the end of the second quarter so down 10% an additional 10%.
And the Canadian dollar $0.98 at the beginning of the year now down to $0.965 at the end of the second quarter close to 2% decline.
So you can see we've seen significant declines very similar to declines as we went into the beginning of this year which is contributing to another $0.35 negative drain on our EPS performance.
That's a total of $0.80 year-over-year negative due to foreign exchange.
Hopefully that's helpful providing that level of information.
The other area that we're seeing a negative against earnings is a negative mix impact is although our total revenues are not changing for guidance we are seeing a shift to our CDIY businesses performing very nicely as you've heard.
But we're seeing pressures in our Industrial and Security segments that Jim articulated on.
That is causing a $50 million negative on the year for our performance this year.
Embedded in there is a slight improvement in commodity inflation so we are seeing modest improvements in that area but that is embedded in the $50 million negative.
What we decided to do is we want to quickly take action as we tend to do with the management team is really focus on what we can do to offset some of those market economic and operational pressures.
So we decided to take an incremental $50 million of cost actions in the second half of 2012 largely headcount-related actions.
That's $100 million of annualized cost takeout.
So clearly there's a carryover effect in 2013.
That's really to try to offset the impact of this negative mix that I just described.
We also had a few -- 2 acquisitions in the second quarter as has been discussed previously with Powers Fasteners and AeroScout.
We don't expect that to have an impact on 2012.
However as we move into 2013 we do think that will have an accretive impact of approximately $0.10 in EPS.
So as we begin to integrate and drive on some of those synergies that were discussed we'll start to see that positive accretive impact on that investment we made.
One last housekeeping item.
The tax rate is still expected to be between 22% and 23% for the year.
However we will see a little bit of volatility between the third quarter and the fourth quarter with the third quarter likely being mid- to high-20s and the fourth quarter being below 20% due to some timing of certain tax contingencies.
So the takeaway from this is that we clearly had a significant negative mix offset.
Our volumes are consistent overall for the company.
We're taking incremental cost actions to offset that mix impact and we have lowered our guidance due to the foreign exchange pressure only.
So a little more in-depth discussion here on Page 15 associated with the 3 segments.
We continue to drive margin rate expansion across the vast majority of our businesses in 2012 as well as the whole company.
We're being very proactive about cost containment and driving successful integration in a lower organic growth environment today.
For CDIY we believe this will be a mid-single-digit organic revenue growth for 2012.
We have not assumed any large housing rebounds.
We do expect market share gains to continue the rollout of new products the execution of revenue synergies really to drive this growth.
We anticipate the operating margin rate to expand above 2Q '12 level in the second half due to favorable price inflation trending based on current commodity costs cost synergies that we continue to execute on the cost actions I just described as well as continued volume leverage.
In the Security segment based on the performance through the first half and some of the pressures they are experiencing that Jim described we expect low-single-digit organic revenue declines for the entire year 2012.
Despite this revenue drag on segment margins due to lower volumes as well as Niscayah continuing to be integrated the execution of the cost synergies and the cost containment actions that we've taken on this year as well as we've just started to implement for the back half of the year will still result in a flat OM rate performance year-over-year which will be quite an achievement given some of the volume pressures.
In the Industrial side we do expect to see low-single-digit organic revenue growth for the entire year so nice performance in Q1 up high-single digits difficult revenue performance in the first quarter but still had some -- in the second quarter but we still had some growth.
So we expect modest growth in the back half.
The operating margin rate will likely expand in a modest player -- moderate way versus the 2011 level as we continue to take cost actions to mitigate the volume pressures that we've experienced in Q2 and expect in the back half of the year.
We do think there will be nice growth in the Engineered Fastening business and the revenue lines really moderate some of the pressures we're seeing in the Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair sector as well as that onshore pipeline market that's affecting CRC that Jim touched on.
So to summarize the call this morning we believe we have a very strong track record of navigating through challenging macroeconomic times.
We're very focused on what we need to do and how to continue to move forward with our earnings cash flow and our portfolio transformation.
The negative mix offset -- the negative mix I described is being offset by incremental cost actions but yet the FX pressure will result in lower annual guidance.
So the $0.35 of incremental FX pressure is the primary driver of reducing our annual guidance.
Niscayah and the Black &amp; Decker integrations continue to be very successful.
John touched on the incremental $50 million of cost synergies related to Black &amp; Decker that will occur in 2013.
So we continue to be encouraged with the net impact and result of that.
We're very pleased to announce the 20% dividend increase as we continue to return capital to our shareholders which has been our track record over the last decade and beyond.
We also have put in place a 20 million share repurchase authorization to be able to respond to the potential outcomes I described around capital reallocation.
Outside of the HHI-related activity as both Jim and I have mentioned we will curtail major bolt-on acquisition activity for only 12 to 18 months and focus on some smaller emerging market acquisition activity as well as focus on key organic growth initiatives of $500 million to $600 million of revenue over the next 3 years.
The Stanley Fulfillment System is really continuing to drive improvement over year -- year-over-year and you can see with working capital up 16% -- working capital turns up 16% 7.1 turns.
The net result is a $1.2 billion free cash flow forecast for this year which would be a 20% increase from 2011.
We continue to try to be agile proactive around our cost containment and focus on our organic growth opportunities given a tough macroeconomic environment.
So that concludes the presentation portion of the call.
Sandra why don't we turn it to Q&amp;A? [Operator Instructions] And the first question is from Mike Wood from Macquarie Capital.
To get to the relatively flat Security margins for fiscal year '12 implies a large ramp-up in the second half.
Can you talk about the timing of specific actions that are hitting in terms of what's driving that expansion [ph] on the weaker organic growth in the segment? Yes I think it's really 2 things that are occurring there.
Of course the continued execution of the Niscayah integration as we see more synergies occurring in the back half of the year and as we go into 2013 as well as the very proactive cost actions they've taken at the beginning of this year as well as the most recent ones we're looking at were $100 million of annualized program across the whole company.
Certainly Security will have a significant portion of that.
And I guess the last thing I would mention is that they've been very proactive around passing on price to the customers where appropriate given certain inflationary pressures that have kind of occurred in the past.
We would expect those price increases to stay in place and be able to drive improved margins in the back half.
Okay.
And within that segment can you help us understand how that 6% order growth that you reported last quarter impacted 2Q? So were there customer delays in terms of those orders coming -- turning into sales? Or was there just a substantial weakening in orders in this current quarter? Yes I think the dynamic that's happening there you're primarily referring to our CSS the Convergent Security Solutions business where we did have backlog growing in the last quarter.
And clearly this particular industry is feeling a little bit of pressure around subcontract resources in that space.
The subcontractors that are used in this space are used for not only our business but they're used by the cable companies the telephone companies et cetera.
And so there is a bit of a resource strain right now in that space that's causing a little bit of drag and then you combine that with some of the restrictions we're experiencing in the government channels as well.
It's putting a fair amount of pressure on both order trend and what I would say conversion of orders into revenue.
Yes and this is Jim.
The last few years I think we've been pretty good at getting the orders in CSS and not as good at converting the backlog in a timely fashion.
And I think part of that underlies the leadership change that we made in CSS North America where we now have somebody in place who is a more generalist type of a leader who's got the operations capabilities and focus as well as the sales and marketing.
And the next question is from Jason Feldman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> On M&amp;A you described this pause as a tactical change and I'm sorry I didn't mean to mischaracterize it.
But I guess I'm just kind of curious as to why you think this is the right time.
I understand that you need to focus on integrating what you have but you seem to have strong confidence in your cash flow.
You're possibly selling HHI with sales that are rather depressed and valuations on multiples and potential acquisitions look relatively attractive where they're available.
So isn't this actually the time where you'd almost want to do the opposite for now and then come back to the integration and organic growth initiatives going forward sometime in the future? Yes Jason your observation is very logical but what you're leaving out or missing that I think will be helpful for you and everyone else is we look at 3 things all of equal proportion as we evaluate acquisitions.
This hasn't changed since 2004.
Specifically and you're well-aware we look at strategy the strategic fit.
Does it fit with our growth platforms as Jim very articulately described them? Is it high-growth? Is it where we can compete? Is it where we can have global-class leadership? Is it where our brands matter? That's the first screen.
The second screen is the financial hurdle.
Does it significantly achieve our cost of capital? We might discriminate in favor of an acquisition where we could use overseas cash because obviously it's earning such a low return.
But simply said if it's a small bolt-on it has to get to our financial hurdles 15% operating margin 15% ROCE quicker than a large one.
But that's the second if you will filter.
The third is organizational capacity and I think maybe that's the one that you're leaving out in your observation.
Specifically we are as likely to walk away from a deal or not pursue a deal because we don't think we have the corporate or business-specific capacity to aggressively integrate it manage it.
Two things: a what comes with the acquisition in terms of management; and b to the extent management -- we are as comfortable with the management that comes with the acquisition what exists in-house within our various businesses to give us the confidence we can successfully integrate.
If you just look very quickly within our segments our CDIY team is incredibly capable.
That being said they've for 2.5 years been integrating Black &amp; Decker.
That's been 75% of the activity that's been within CDIY.
We've just added Powers which as Jeff described is strategic.
It's going well.
Their plate is very full.
Within Security we bought Niscayah.
We closed on that deal less than 9 months ago.
A lot of it's in Europe.
Niscayah didn't come with as much operating management as we'd anticipated and as a consequence we've redeployed some of our more capable executives to oversee that business.
It's going very well but Brett Bontrager and his very capable team also have a very very full plate.
That leaves the Industrial platform where some of the opportunities are smaller.
One of our more capable tested proven teams with arguably the organizational capacity is Industrial in general and our Engineered Fastening team in particular which is why Don referenced and Jim did that we're looking at something in that space.
So when you cut through it all the organizational capacity issue digesting what we have be sure -- making sure that we've properly integrated them set a solid foundation and teaming them up for strong organic growth is every bit is important as the other 2 I'll say filters that you I think appropriately pointed out.
And I will just add to that that we always look at one other thing which is our capital allocation strategy over the long term which has been to take about 2/3 of our capital excess capital and allocate it to acquisitions and the 1/3 to return to the shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
And we tend to favor share repurchases at moments when we think the stock is grossly undervalued.
And it's difficult for us to look at Stanley Black &amp; Decker as world-class -- series of franchises trading at 6x EBITDA and then go buy some small private company for a couple hundred million dollars at 9 or 10x EBITDA and justify why we would have want to do that in our heads.
So we're going to work on organic growth digesting some of these acquisitions for all the reasons John said.
And we're going to take the excess cash for that period of time and we're going to maintain our credit worthiness.
And whatever is left over we're going to buy back our own shares until we get to a point where the arbitrage is more -- is closer and makes more sense.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then just lastly but in terms of the repurchases the way that I thought I heard Don describe it the new repurchase authorization seems to be largely a potential redeployment of the HHI proceeds assuming that that deal happens.
So Jim did you just suggest that basically the 2/3 that normally is used for M&amp;A or free cash flow is also on the table for potential repurchases? Historically Jason the allocation is 2/3.
But historically in the last 5 years it has been close to 50-50 between buyback and dividend.
45% to 55% of our cash has been returned to shareholders the last 5 years despite the if you will ideal allocation over time that Jim described as basically 2/3 1/3.
And what that enables if you think back to the long-term financial objectives that we've had in place since 2004 is that we'd like to grow our revenue organically about 3% to 4% a year.
And then we'd like to grow our total revenue somewhere in the neighborhood of 10% to 12%.
We've far exceeded the total growth rate over the last decade growing closer probably around 20%.
However that was aided by that one very large acquisition or merger Black &amp; Decker.
I think if you take that away probably closer to right around the stated goal that we had.
So that particular -- there's no real magic to that other than the fact that our capital allocation between 50% and 2/3 of our excess cash flow with the prices we that typically pay for acquisitions enables us to achieve that math.
And that math when we grow the top line 10% to 12% a year our goal is to grow to expand margins at the same time and to achieve mid-teens earnings growth.
And we have definitely achieved that over the last decade and that's where we're going to continue to do over the long term.
This is -- that's why we use the word tactic to describe this because we do occasionally have a tactical change here where the organizational capacity becomes an issue or the arbitrage the valuations become an issue or an opportunity to characterize it more positively.
And under those circumstances we typically will shift to a more repurchase kind of focus for a period of time.
That served us very well.
In the early part of the last decade we bought back several hundred million -- probably close to $600 million worth of shares in the 20s.
A couple of years ago we bought back another similar amount in the 40s.
And so I think we have a pretty good sense to -- as to when the stock is grossly undervalued and I feel like we're in a -- that kind of a mode right now.
So this makes perfect sense especially given our organizational capacity constraints at the same time.
Jason one final point because you've asked your follow-up and you'll get cut-off.
As it relates to buybacks also keep in mind where that cash is.
As most U.S.
multinationals the majority of our cash is generated overseas.
Buybacks with overseas cash obviously are not terribly tax efficient.
So our desire to do that to do more is somewhat constrained by where our cash sits.
That being said there are ways to work with that work through that work around that.
And Jim's point is a really important one.
We think the best investment out there is SWK at $60.
So the hurdle for an acquisition is higher than it's ever been.
The next question is from Dan Oppenheim from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if can you talk a bit more in terms of the HHI and fastening and potential transactions there.
You've been talking about the stock.
It seems you're very aware of the valuation there in thinking about the repurchase.
On HHI it seems pretty clear in terms of just what you'd like to do with that.
I'm wondering if that's a thought that you're being potentially being paid for the entity growth and that as the business rebounds here in housing? Or if it's more of a strategic issue in terms of wanting to  let's just say divest at this end? Yes I'll take it.
The reason now we feel is a good time to divest HHI is because as Don said earlier HHI has reasonable growth prospects in the next couple of years ahead of it in the U.S.
and that's largely because we're out of stage in this cycle where we expect some sort of a housing recovery.
And so do the potential buyers of this asset and that makes it attractive to them.
From our perspective we using a slightly longer-term strategic lens look at it and say "That would be great to ride that.
We'll get paid for a good part of that.
It's a relatively tax-efficient transaction by the way." And our stock is -- to the extent we use the proceeds for repurchase our stock is undervalued as we've talked about.
So that all makes sense to us.
But over the medium term the strategic attractiveness of that business is okay.
In terms of growth as Don pointed out but it would take an enormous effort too and a lot of capital to invest in international and emerging market capabilities very North American centric.
So there's a short term ride ahead in North America to position that business for the long term the amount of effort that will be required the amount of capital starts to put it in a position where the other opportunities for faster growth with opportunities with more margin expansion potential with locations in the emerging markets in particular emphasis in the emerging markets.
There are other opportunities that are on our growth platforms that are much more attractive to us.
So the timing is absolutely perfect for us to divest the asset because it will command a very good price.
We're pretty confident in that.
And if it doesn't by the way we won't sell it.
So I think that's a very logical time to do it and hence the decision.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly I'm just wondering I think John you've been pretty clear in terms of the thoughts and growth in emerging markets particularly in Asia assets growing to global diversified industrial company.
I think -- would you think you're talking about ramping the local teams? Or do you think that you have enough in terms of critical mass in place? Or how much should we expect to see in terms of just very small acquisitions in terms of bolstering your prices there? Two things.
Most of it is going to organic and Jim touched on this when he described the formation of the new focused SBUs to drive organic growth in emerging markets.
I'll address both your questions.
Most of those are internal resources but that was one of the luxuries of the Stanley Black &amp; Decker merger where each company outside has a desire but honestly not the commitment in terms of management feet on the street et cetera.
We were both rather -- spread rather thinly to be very candid.
And while a lot of people came out of the confined organizations we've talked about this before so I won't repeat it no one came out of emerging markets.
We had the chance to take 2 capable senior executives divide their responsibility take the 2 teams merge them in an effective way and this is just the next step in that evolution.
We've made one small acquisition to the second part of your point in the Mechanical Security area.
That being said small or large acquisitions in emerging markets particularly Asia less so in Latin America are very very difficult and time-consuming to exercise.
The integrity of the financial statements business practices a lot of other things where I think maybe rule of thumb is let's say in Western Europe or more appropriately North American markets of 4 things we look at we might pursue 2 and acquire 1.
In Asia of 9 things we look at or 10 things we look at we might pursue 2 and maybe acquire 1 just because it's a difficult legal environment.
It's a difficult environment to confirm the integrity of the financials relative to the price expectations.
It takes longer.
Taxes are complex and as a consequence I'm going to say no to small bolt-ons but what we're saying is they're hard to execute.
They're very time-consuming so that will not be the driver.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just wanted to drill in a little bit deeper on the Security margins going forward.
You've talked about an outlook for margins to be relatively flat.
I just want to make sure we understand what basis that's on.
Is that excluding acquisitions? Or is that sort of an all-in figure? And then if at the same time if you could give us some sense of if you divest the HHI knowing that that's not a definite yet but if you were to can you get give us some understanding of what the margins look like last year excluding that business in Security? Yes Stephen I would say that your first part of your question is that's -- it is including Niscayah.
So the operating margin rate that we're referring to would include the effect of Niscayah so it's not excluding acquisitions.
And it's for the reasons I articulated I think the first question we had today which is really due to the 3 areas -- the 4 areas because Jim added on which is due to the cost actions that we've taken and that we will be taking in the second half.
It's really continued execution on the synergies of Niscayah and the benefits we will see in the second half the positive pricing trends that we've seen versus previous years' commodity and other inflationary experience.
And then Jim talked about improved execution levels as well in the business and how we can convert backlog more rapidly and more efficiently to revenue.
As far as the impact of HHI on this segment not a dramatic impact.
It's not dramatically off from current line averages.
The next question is from Ken Zener from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Of the $150 million benefit that you guys had initially which is now rising can you talk about how much fell in 2Q and in 1Q as well as the inflation headwind at $0.70? Can you talk about how that might have shifted given the macro changes? Yes.
I would say that the $150 million was executed in the first quarter of this year.
We're now talking about another $50 million that we'll execute here in the month of July by the end of the month early August time frame.
And the vast majority of that was -- $150 million was completed in the first quarter.
So you'd see a full effect of that in Q2 $150 million divided by 4.
So there's no reason why you wouldn't see that.
And then as I mentioned the new actions will be $50 million in the back half.
As far as inflation as I touched on the $50 million of negative mix impact around lower Security and Industrial volumes versus higher CDIY volumes in our original guidance embedded in there is a slight benefit to improved inflation outlook.
So we clearly are seeing a little bit of deflation in certain commodities.
Although we won't experience a dramatic impact of that in 2012 it's just due to the timing of really getting some of those price increases or decreases in place with our vendors and getting it through the inventory and the production of finished goods et cetera before it actually is sold to our customers and see that benefit.
I will remind everybody that we did experience significant levels of inflation.
So even though we are experiencing a little bit of deflation expected this year going into next year we still have not fully recovered that inflation that we experienced in that time frame back in '11 and '10.
The next question is from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Hi this is actually Will Wong on for Mike.
Can you guys talk about the current pricing environment you're seeing especially within CDIY? I know Don you mentioned inflation historically has been offset by price by roughly -- or roughly 85% of that has been offset by price? Does that continue to be a reasonable assumption? Well I would say that -- what we said historically is that our -- we believe our company can offset -- Stanley legacy has offset 85% of inflation with the price.
Our new company since the merger we're trying to achieve those levels of objectives.
But we've also indicated that in CDIY that percentage is much less and it's higher and much closer to 100% in our Industrial and Security businesses or pieces of our Industrial and Security businesses.
So in CDIY and I think if we achieve anywhere from 40% to 50% price inflation recovery through an inflationary period we've done well based on the current makeup of that business in the product line.
And the next question is from Rich Kwas from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the timing of the potential deals the sale of HHI is that predicated on doing anything with the Engineered Fastening business? Or one -- does that have to lead the potential acquisition? Or could you do Engineered Fastening ahead of time you feel comfortable doing that before an HHI sale? These transactions are not interdependent so any one transaction can occur without the other.
We have the liquidity to do it and we have the financial capacity to do it.
So it really -- we could end up with an engineered -- as Don pointed out we could end up with an Engineered Fastening acquisition and not a sale of HHI and we'd be perfectly okay with that.
The next question is from Nicole DeBlase from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to just dig in a little bit to the guidance change.
So it looks like you guys are chalking up most of the $0.35 to FX.
And if I do the math between the $1.29 that you originally guided at and the $1.22 today I think you guys have said in the past that the $0.01 impact of the euro rate typically results in a $0.015 EPS impact so that's giving you more like a $0.10 delta.
So can you explain what I'm missing? Yes 30% of our business is in Europe Nicole.
We actually do business in other foreign countries but Don will give you the math on that.
Yes.
That's just the proportion of it Nicole.
And then we gave that rule of thumb for the euro because it is a dominant component of our FX.
But as I touched on in the call and I also touched on in our January earnings call there's 3 major currencies that drive a big impact to our performance as a company.
Clearly the euro is 1 the Brazilian real is #2 and the Canadian dollar is #3.
That is about 3/4 of our international OM exposure around the world.
So you have to look at all 3 of those currencies to really get it through assessment.
And if you look at how I described it earlier where we've seen -- at the beginning of the year we saw about a 7% decline in the euro 11% in the Brazilian real 3% in the Canadian dollar and then incremental to that since the beginning of the year we've experienced about 5.5% decline in the euro to the dollar.
The Brazilian real has declined another 10% beyond that 11% and then the Canadian dollar has declined another roughly 2% since then.
And so as I mentioned the first wave of that was about a $0.45 impact back in January and the second wave is now a $0.35 incremental impact on top of that.
And that's really the best way to look at it.
I think the rule of thumb is great for just looking at the euro but you also have to look at these other currencies.
Particularly when in emerging market -- Latin America there's as much volatility as there has been of late.
Remember we have a $750 million to $800 million business in Latin America.
2/3 of that's in Brazil and Don talked about the real.
So that's -- in your top line math Nicole that's a big big piece that's excluded.
The next question is from Michael Wherley from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about Industrial.
It looks like you're factoring in 16%-plus margins in the second half.
Does that include European IAR getting worse since you said you expect overall Europe to deteriorate further in the second half? I wouldn't say it's going to get dramatically worse from an OM rate perspective in IAR.
I think you also have to recognize the proactive cost actions that we're trying to take across the company.
Clearly a business like IAR is suffering from economic circumstances.
It's going to be contributing to that extra size in a significant way.
So I wouldn't say that it's going to drop off dramatically from where it was.
Frankly I wouldn't be surprised if it's roughly continued at the same level we experienced like in Q2 or in some cases maybe even slightly better.
And the next question is from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I understand the financial rationale behind potentially selling HHI.
I'm trying to fully understand the strategic rationale however based on 2 things.
First off if you no longer have HHI your European exposure by definition goes up company-wide.
And it also -- I always understood one of the benefits of having the HHI business is it's a -- the lockset business is a very high-margin category for the retailers and therefore you're able to leverage those SKUs into getting more power tool listings at the home centers and so not having HHI may affect your market share.
I'll do it.
Yes Sam the Europe -- this is John and then I'm going to turn it over to Jeff because you won't get a follow-up.
That's after we pick Jeff up off the floor with his reaction to we have leverage in power tools because of lockset margins.
Jeff's the expert and we'll let him talk about it.
Totally different departments buyers and everything else.
But to Europe yes it's math.
To your point if we sell $900 million worth of business that's overwhelmingly in the U.S.
and do nothing else the math will be a higher percentage not in absolute terms but a higher percentage of the total will be in Europe.
Over time we'll shift away from that.
We're not going out of business in Europe.
But yes the math is irrefutable.
Jeff why don't you talk about the leverage you get from the power tools from the lockset business? Or the -- more importantly the lack thereof and exactly how that works in the  home centers because you're the -- you're the homes expert.
Thanks John.
Sam I think you could draw conclusion you just did reasonably.
The fact of the matter however is that every one of these programs stands alone.
And if you look at our size even as the world leader and market leader as compared to the size of the customers that supports the HHI business you'd say the leverage is that -- is certainly a challenge at least.
Beyond that the chain is as strong as its weakest link.
So when you have an issue in any one part of your business it becomes an issue.
When you have a benefit it doesn't necessary translate to a greater benefit.
All those things stand alone.
So there really has been no benefit to speak of in any way of the HHI business on the power tool business or vice versa.
All those programs across various customers departments regions et cetera stand alone.
So there wouldn't be any impact that I could see...
Totally different buyers Jeff totally different departments different merchandising decisions Sam.
We talked about that a lot and we wished it were the case of putting Stanley and putting Black &amp; Decker together because 2 large such suppliers to the home centers.
But at the end of the day we as a corporation are about 1.5% of the large retail -- of one of the large home centers' revenue.
And so dice and slice that it's even a smaller piece.
So it's logical but in fact in reality it's just simply lower nowhere -- not the case.
And if you look at the lockset business everything that we do in the home centers it is the least differentiated.
So it relies most heavily on its cost its brand appeal and its cost position.
The -- and therefore it's so much susceptible to private-label incursions over time.
The -- one of the rationales behind the Tong Lung acquisition was it gets you the world -- it gets us the world's best-cost manufacturing and provides an opportunity for the buyer of this business to participate in any private label business that might end up shifting from the branded business.
But for us we're just not interested in doing a lot of private label business.
So that's just another reason it's strategically less attractive to us than some of the other things that we do in CDIY.
And the next question is from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Just to take advantage of Jeff a little bit more here.
Jeff can you talk about just domestically as it relates to the CDIY business? You talked a lot about market share.
Can you talk about what prices are doing on an apples-to-apples basis maybe year-over-year? How you see the promotional environment today and how that impacts how you go-to-market? And then any quantification you can put behind the market share as you see it would be helpful? Dennis the environment is not so different than it was over the last 12 months.
Growth is at a premium.
Competitors and retailers alike very aggressive.
That said I think our biggest benefit has been far better execution in planning promotionally.
And so if you look at what we've attempted to do inside the year we have moved a lot of things from one period to another products from one to another.
And the desire is to make sure that we provide the greatest value to the end user to the greatest POS benefit of the retailer for our customers and the greatest share gain opportunity for us.
And we've moved a lot of things as a consequence.
The shortcut to thinking is we've done it before and therefore we need to comp it exactly the way we've done it previously.
We've really abolished that way of thinking and revised our promotional plans in the space.
What you've seen us do is promote older legacy products more aggressively to make sure we hold that position while we enable the growth of lithium-ion products to flow through so that's been quite positive.
And I would say all in all most recent periods you'll see that Father's Day the best example promotionally big season for every domestic retail customer.
Our business was up great during that Father's Day period than our POS average year-to-date.
Therefore promotionally we've been successful and you can see we're both successful and profitable in those endeavors.
And the next question is from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Good call by the way on the tactical plan.
I like that.
I wanted to ask Jeff a question on the CDIY.
Demand patterns within the quarter can you just comment on that please? Demand was consistent throughout the quarter.
We started relatively good position in April and carried through the subsequent 2 months.
POS consistent relatively consistent across the periods taking into effect the seasonal nature of June and Father's Day.
Really nothing extraordinary in either direction pretty consistently positive performance across the quarter.
And the next question is from Peter Lisnic from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Seems to be an underlying theme of MPP or focus on it.
Can you talk about any sort of cannibalization impact from that and maybe the margin implication of mix moves toward more MPP broadly? Sure.
This is Jim.
I'd say when we talk about MPP in the domestic markets well let's start with that or the developed markets.
Definitely some shifting going on in both power tools and hand tools and commercial hardware.
However I think in power tools we are very well-situated with our Tradesman line and with our revived Black &amp; Decker line which I think is outstanding to deal with any cannibalization and it's not debilitating cannibalization.
In any case it goes from somewhat lower margin to higher margin business and maybe for a slightly lower purchase price.
So I think in the CDIY business we don't really have a big issue there.
We clearly do have an issue in the commercial mechanical security business as I've discussed previously.
That issue is -- in our case we're getting cannibalized by the competition right now.
So we've lost some share.
So there's no internal cannibalization associated with us developing an MPP line.
It's an absolute essential must-do for us.
In addition to that we need to get more aggressive in the contract construction -- commercial construction market as well.
We historically have been much more of a retrofit business selling our products into the institutions such as education health care and government that have multiple locations and require locks that can be converted and changed over time and replaced.
So we're definitely doing something to address that with Tong Lung in what I described earlier.
And then we move to the developing markets.
And I think in that area there's absolutely no cannibalization whatsoever.
That is -- it's an opportunity huge opportunity for us but it's a markets that we don't serve.
It's generally served by local competition.
We do see Boschs and Makitas starting to kind of poke around in there and start to try to figure out how to develop positions as well.
So I think we're all going to be involved in a land grab in that particular area in power tools Hand Tools.
I think we'll have a better shot at Hand Tools obviously in terms of accelerated market share gain because the competition will be weaker.
And then in commercial security again there's a -- it's pretty wide open space a lot of local competition no cannibalization.
And the next question is from Cliff Ransom from Ransom Research.
Inc.</strong> First of all thank you very much for your detail very useful and in particular I appreciate your comment on the management depth as a factor in the acquisition lull.
I think the answer -- I'm going to ask 2 questions but -- because I think the answer to the first one is no and the second one is more important.
Is there anything you can say about Apex Tools? And number two when I look at the portfolio the one really big hole is that 4% in Asia.
Can you talk about what you're going to do there please? Yes the answer to the first question's no.
And the answer to the second question is yes we would -- we have a -- it depends on how you define Asia as well obviously Asia as a geography but we talk about the non-developed Asia Pacific markets.
I think Jim has been fairly articulate on this on the last call and the portfolio transition.
But simply said our business has grown in emerging markets in total but that would include Latin America and emerging Asian markets from 10% or 11% at the time of the merger to 14% now.
We still feel that we are woefully underdeveloped in emerging markets.
We think 20% is the target.
We've actually publicly stated that.
I think you're aware of that.
And it wouldn't hurt us I think to grow to 25%.
That's the driver behind the formation of the SBUs that Jim talked about at length on that one slide.
And as we think about Jeff Ansell's business our IAR business and to some extent our Security business particularly Mechanical Security that's what's driving all these initiatives.
But in response to an earlier question because acquisitions are much harder in Asia they're a little easier in Latin America we believe we're going to have to do it organically.
And I think Jim did a real nice job articulating that we are going to get serious about it.
We're going to do it with internal resources.
We're going to sell fund them with some of the cost cuts.
And you're absolutely right we recognize the void.
We're addressing it but more with our resources and via acquisition.
And I have -- also when you look at the logic of the Engineered Fastening acquisition it's about $200 million of revenue in Asia so very nice -- that would be a very nice incremental pop for our -- what we're trying to accomplish there as well.
The company's actually headquartered in Asia.
Singapore.
So that's a -- that would be nice and again another one of the reasons behind the decision on capital -- reallocating capital.
And the next question is from Mike Kim from Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just turning back to Niscayah.
Could you talk a little bit about the pipeline you're seeing there and the overall market environment in Europe? Does that sort of suggest maybe a little more headwind relative to what we saw in the first half? Yes as we mentioned the performance in Q2 with Niscayah overall was about 5% pro forma revenue decline.
And we continue to see pressures in our European business.
As we went into the year we felt that we really have baked in 7% of an organic revenue decline for Niscayah associated with the accretion from that acquisition in 2012.
We still see that that's a likely possibility.
We've also indicated that if it got as bad as 10% for the year we'd be able to offset that with additional synergies and still achieve our accretion objective.
We don't see anything that changes that outlook at this point and we're prepared for a more difficult second half which in the Security Electronic Security business you would tend to see an economic impact and a little further down the road because these are longer term longer lead types of revenue objectives or projects.
And you don't necessarily see that as quickly as you would in the CDIY or in Industrial business.
So it's taking a little longer to see that impact.
And the last question is from Greg Hensler [ph] from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
So if you guys are successful in selling the HHI business but you cannot acquire the Engineered Fastening business can you talk about exactly how you plan to delever? And also do you have a particular credit rating target where you -- if you're looking to delever too soon you can hold on to a certain rating? How are you guys looking at that? Yes if that scenario played out where we decided to sell HHI and not acquire the Engineered Fastening asset clearly we would be delevered a little bit as I mentioned because we would be losing about $200 million of EBITDA.
And our objective would be over the next 18 to 24 months is to get our debt-to-EBITDA ratios closer to 2 the way that the credit agencies measure it and that would basically be strong investment credit grade.
That's part of our financial -- long-term financial objective and continues to be the case.
So there are occasions like this where we're slightly higher than that objective but we work it down to that level over a reasonable time frame.
The most important thing is that in that scenario we do buyback some stock to offset a significant amount of the earnings dilution associated with the sale of that business.
So we have a relatively modest dilutive impact in that result.
And we -- and that's tremendous flexibility for our comment to an earlier question from Jason Feldman of UBS.
That is all U.S.
cash so that's a -- gives Don and his team a lot more flexibility with respect to deleveraging buybacks et cetera.
So it's a highly possible scenario but it gives us tremendous amount of flexibility that we feel quite good about.
Sandra I think that ends it for us today.
Everybody who dialed in thank you so much.
Please reach out to me if you have any questions after the call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q3 2012 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sandra and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations Kate Vanek.
Ms.
Vanek you may begin.
Thank you Sandra.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you all for joining us today for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren President and CEO; Jim Loree Executive Vice President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to on the call are available on the IR portion of our website as well as via the webcast and also on our iPhone and iPad app.
A replay of the call will begin today at 2:00 p.m.
The replay number and access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review Stanley's 2012 third quarter results and various other topical matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And as always please feel free to contact me with any follow-up questions after the call.
And as I normally have to do we will be making some forward-looking statements during this call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act.
With that I will now turn the call over to our CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Kate.
Good morning everybody.
And for those of you have been able to read the press release this morning hopefully you've taken away from it that our focus does remain on driving long-term growth and achieving our mid-decade vision of being a $15 billion-revenue company with 15% operating margins irrespective of the macroeconomic backdrop.
What we're going to try to cover this morning is what we're doing to counter some of the headwinds in the marketplace in an effort to essentially determine our own destiny drive organic growth in the face of relatively flat developed markets through among other things an increased focus in emerging markets and some I think very very exciting programs in well-developed markets.
Revenues in the third quarter did increase 6% year-on-year to $2.8 billion.
Organic revenues were flat.
CDIY grew 4% organically with an operating margin rate excluding charges of 15.8%.
That is the highest operating margin rate we've been able to achieve since the merger of Stanley Black &amp; Decker almost 3 years ago.
Industrial and Security were both pressured by certain weak end markets and particularly Europe.
And to counter some of those you're going to hear a lot from Jim a little later on in his presentation about some of the investments and organic growth initiatives that have already begun and will carry on throughout the next 12 to 24 months.
Our third quarter diluted earnings per share was $1.40.
Again that's excluding charge of $0.69 GAAP EPS including all the charges we do in the appendix of this presentation have a detailed definition and explanation of what's in the charges.
The Niscayah integration continues to go well operating margins to exceed 12% this year when it's finished.
That's up 500 basis points from fiscal year '11 shortly less than -- exactly 1 year after closing that deal.
Importantly we've reached definitive agreement to divest our Hardware &amp; Home Improvement business which marked another key step in the continued transformation of our portfolio.
We've discussed this a lot over the last 2 to 3 years.
This is a good business with a capable management team and it's been under review from day 1 of the merger.
And our conclusion was that while it may not be the best business long-term given our strategic objectives and geographical portfolio we needed to fix it first.
It's a much more profitable business than it was 3 years ago.
And we believe we've accomplished the major strategic milestone in placing that business in the hands of new owners.
It brings our U.S.
home center exposure not down to too low a level but back to the pre-merger Black &amp; Decker levels in the low teens.
It does retain nonetheless the upside to the U.S.
housing rebound and that our CDIY business which is still over $5 billion is $1.5 billion below the revenue a pro forma revenue from peak.
That's simply the pro forma Stanley Black &amp; Decker revenue 2009 '10 prior to the more recent decline.
And as a consequence HHI never factored into that calculation.
And finally Don will give you some more detail on this in his forward look but when considering Infastech some of the smaller acquisitions we've completed in 2012 this divestiture -- and this divestiture the revenue splits geographically around the country will be -- around the world will be approximately 46% U.S.
27% Europe 16% emerging markets.
And again to reemphasize Jim is going to talk to you about some of the programs designed to drive that 16% to and beyond our 20% objective by mid-decade.
Moving on to our -- the global footprint versus prior year.
Organic sales as I said were flat as strength in U.S.
and emerging markets was offset by weakness in Europe and some of the smaller developed markets.
You'll hear a lot about this in the segments.
But quickly looking at the U.S.
which still accounts for 53% of our business in the third quarter we grew 1%.
Europe overall was down 3% organically but with a lot of moving pieces.
Excluding CDIY Europe was down about 8%.
That's primarily IAR and Security.
Jim will talk about this in the segment detail.
Including Niscayah Niscayah is down but actually slightly less than our model at the acquisition time.
And operating margin as previously mentioned for Niscayah is up almost 500 basis points.
Importantly our high-growth emerging markets Asia up 15%; Latin America up 12% continue to be strong points growing well albeit at a slightly slower pace; and last but not least some of the smaller developed markets such as Canada Australia and Japan down low to mid-single digits.
Looking at our sources of growth.
Engineered Fastening and CDIY were clearly the bright spots in the quarter in terms of organic growth and as suggested offset by softness in Security markets IAR and Infrastructure.
Globally adding all 3 segments together volume was flat.
Price was flat which arithmetically is 0% in terms of organic growth.
We added 9% via acquisitions plus 3% due to currency and as a consequence that gets you to the 6% revenue growth for the company in the quarter.
Looking at some of the pieces.
Engineered Fastening up 7% despite being down 3% in Europe that's obviously a significant share gain for this strategic business which is what gave us the confidence to add Infastech to this platform to continue to advance that business on a global level.
That organic growth rate is obviously well above the rate of light vehicle production and that's due to increased vehicle penetration across the board.
Great work by that team because about 60-plus percent of that business still focuses on the automotive end markets.
And one of the strategic -- the primary strategic rationale behind Infastech was to further diversify the verticals that our Engineered Fastening business serves.
Strength across the board in our Tools business.
In our CDIY business Professional Power Tools up 5%; Hand Tools and Fastening up 5%; Consumer Products Group primarily the Black &amp; Decker brand up 4% just very very solid performance in the third quarter which gave us tremendous satisfaction and obviously strong indication that our -- the new product engine continues to work and share gains continue to be achieved.
Our mechanical residential security business was up 3%.
The commercial security locking business was down 3%.
And Convergent Security excluding Niscayah was down 4%.
Jim will talk to you a little bit about MAS Commercial and we're addressing an MPP product gap that we think we've resolved.
And in CSS it's more about conversion of existing backlog that has been and will continue to be our focus.
And finally IAR and Infrastructure.
IAR in Europe was down 7% tough market conditions.
We continue to have a very valuable business there.
IAR North America Mac continues to perform well tremendous improvement in that business.
And the Infrastructure subsegment of our Industrial platform was impacted by very little offshore activity in our CRC-Evans business -- onshore activity pardon me.
Offshore is doing well.
It's growing rapidly but it's a very small part of the business.
And there's virtually nothing happening currently in the onshore market.
And of course in our Hydraulics business the scrap steel prices are tremendously depressed and that has a significant and direct impact on our Hydraulics business.
So that's the view from 36 000 feet.
I'm now going to ask Jim Loree to take you through some of the segment detail looking backwards but of equal or greater importance.
Jim is going to introduce the highlights of some of our organic growth programs new organic growth programs that are coming into play right now.
Okay.
Thanks John.
I'll move through the segments fairly quickly today as the story is relatively clear and I'd like to spend more time outlining the details of our new organic growth initiatives which will enable us to achieve our long-term objectives with no help from the environment.
Starting with CDIY.
CDIY had a respectable organic growth quarter with impressive margin rate expansion.
Revenues totaled $1.38 billion up 3%.
The OM rate was record 15.8% up 260 basis points versus a year ago.
Organic growth was up 4% with unit volume up by the same percentage.
The majority of OM rate accretion was driven by merger synergies volume leverage and variable cost productivity.
Along geographic axis mid-teens organic growth in Latin America once again more than offset EMEA which was flat latter a laudable achievement given weak margin conditions especially in Southern Europe.
The U.S.
was up 5% organically.
Sales by product line were solid as Professional Power Tools were up 5% Consumer up 4% and Tools Fastening up 5%.
Each subsegment had its own success drivers to overcome what was on balance a tepid market environment.
Professional Tools continued to exploit its ongoing cordless launch success.
Consumer enjoyed growing momentum from its highly innovative Gyro and Matrix product introductions.
And Tools and Fastening benefited from Latin America revenue synergies and the DeWalt Hand Tool launch.
Looking forward we expect continued solid organic growth performance in the segment despite ongoing external market issues.
And we also expect the fourth quarter margin rate to hold in the same zip code as in the third quarter.
Now moving to Security.
Security margin rates continued strong sequential progression as Niscayah synergies are realized.
Security revenues totaled $790 million up 22%.
The OM rate was 16.5% and 18.8% excluding Niscayah.
The operating margin rate including Niscayah is up nicely for the third consecutive quarter.
As a refresher 1Q was 13.4% 2Q was 15.3% and 3Q again was 16.5%.
Organic sales were down 3% with Convergent down 4% Mechanical up 2 points and Healthcare a small percentage of the segment under some pressure.
CSS Europe was down 6% organically or 5% on a pro forma basis which more than offset legacy CSS North America which grew 2% organically.
A solid performance in Resi hardware up 3% was partially offset by Access Technologies and commercial hardware which were down 6% and 1% respectively.
Access continues to experience declines at its largest customer associated with reduced remodels and store openings which was responsible for all of its decrease.
Commercial hardware markets are weak in the retrofit segment including healthcare education and municipalities Stanley's traditional strengths.
New construction markets are modestly stronger but rely upon -- more upon MPP or mid-priced-point products which are currently a gap for us as John mentioned.
The Tong Lung acquisition which is near completion will quickly address this gap.
And just to clarify part of the Tong Lung acquisition will be going with the HHI disposition and an important part including a Taiwanese plant and an important engineering center in Taiwan will stay with us in the Commercial hardware business.
Healthcare continues to bear the brunt of lower hospital CapEx spending levels as well as its customers' propensity to defer ordering until its next-generation patient security products are released in 2013.
And when the AeroScout acquisition anniversaries in mid-2013 and the legacy product updates are complete this business should become a robust organic growth driver.
Moving to Niscayah.
The integration continues to progress well and it appears the cost synergy realization will be in line or better than expected and should be sufficient to protect EPS accretion in light of the difficult European markets.
In this regard the Niscayah OM rate will exceed 12% for the full year 2012 and we expect its run rate to approach segment line average rates by the end of 2013 with the mid-teens performance for full year 2013.
And now on to Industrial.
In the face of difficult global markets Industrial maintained a solid OM rate performance.
Revenues were $621 million down 2% both organically and in total.
The OM rate was 15.4% down 150 basis points versus a year ago and up 30 basis points sequentially.
For Industrial &amp; Auto Repair Europe and the U.S.
were down organically 7% and 4% respectively.
Emerging markets were a bright spot with a mid-teens organic growth rate and Mac also delivered a solid growth performance.
Once again Engineered Fastening demonstrated why it is a growth platform with an impressive 7% organic growth performance.
Emhart Europe was contained to a 3% organic decline and the Americas and Asia both kicked in for double-digit organic performances to enable a strong overall 7% result.
This was achieved with only a 3% increase in global auto production as well as very weak industrial markets especially in Europe.
So across the company in summary weak markets with Europe by far the weakest and the slowing but still strong demand in the emerging markets and policy uncertainty in the U.S.
this was anything but an easy quarter.
CDIY benefiting from favorable U.S.
conditions and strong product introductions clearly outperformed.
Both Security and Industrial maintained respectable margins in the face of market-related growth issues.
However one thing became crystal clear as we move through this quarter now 5 years into a sluggish macro environment and that is that we must take our growth destiny into our own hands.
And during the July conference call I introduced the major organic growth initiatives that we are pursuing which we'll do just that.
Today I will expand on that further to give you a lens into what we are doing to drive growth with no help from the environment.
So on the organic growth slide.
In 2Q we identified close to $1 billion in organic growth programs over a 3-year period which we shared with you during the July call.
Since then we have refined our approach by staffing the programs with leaders and building the programs out with detailed project plans and resource requirements.
And on this page you can see the 6 programs provide $800 million to $900 million of annualized growth building over a 3-year period.
We expect the growth phasing as follows: 2013 $150 million; in 2014 and 2015 $350 million each year.
And operating expense investment of about $100 million will be made to drive the growth which will be at about a $65 million level for 2013 and also will commence in the fourth quarter.
The $100 million includes $20 million of brand development expense for the emerging markets.
There will also be about $50 million of CapEx required to support the programs which will be included within the company's normal CapEx run rate levels.
So let's take them one at a time.
First emerging markets a $400 million opportunity in addition to the robust growth that we are already enjoying in these regions.
And I'll come back to emerging markets in a page or 2 and expand upon this because we have a fair amount of information on that but let's cover the other ones.
Advanced industrial solutions.
The objective here is to create a market the smart tools and storage market using RFID and RTLS technology.
There are several elements to this.
We have electronic kanbans we have an MRP vending business and several other elements to it that all basically have one thing in common that is that they utilize technology to drive productivity on the factory floor.
What we're going to be doing in this business since we've already assembled the pieces with CribMaster and with AeroScout what we are missing at this point is a really sizable field force.
And we've put a leader in charge of this.
We've created this as a business and we're going to put 30 to 40 commercial resources on the street in the U.S.
in 2013 and get going by really scaling up this business.
The next item is the RTLS penetration in Healthcare and some Security verticals such as education and financial services.
Taking Healthcare as an example we're creating an RTLS-based ecosystem stitching together the other parts and pieces that we have in our Healthcare business today such as patient security asset management asset tracking storage.
And we are going to again add about 30 to 40 high-level sales executives on the street blanket the U.S.
with folks that can call on the C-suite folks in acute care facilities and present to them our differentiated value proposition which can help them take out cost improve their safety and security and also help them with the revenue recognition and compliance with the new and changing regulations that ObamaCare and other legislation brings to bear.
This is a very high value-added business leverages our technology and it will be growing at a very fast rate within several quarters.
The next area is the U.S.
government.
It seems like a strange time perhaps to be scaling up to go after the U.S.
government business but quite the opposite for us since we haven't really ever earned our fair share of U.S.
Government business primarily because historically our go-to-market strategy has not been aligned properly.
After intensive study of this issue we have determined that we can make significant progress despite whatever spending cuts might be coming along in this area in Healthcare Security and Industrial.
And so we're redefining our go-to-market strategy.
And basically the idea here is instead of having a few people sitting in Washington hunting elephants we're going to increase coverage at the local level at the bases and the other places out there across America where the purchase decisions are actually made.
And the Washington teams will be repurposed to go after market and business development and provide leads and provide intelligence to the folks out in the field.
And not only that but the government specialists in the field will be working hand-in-hand with the regular sales reps in those businesses.
So it's really going to be quite a different approach.
And we're already organizing around that as we speak.
The next area is offshore oil and gas.
This is an exciting opportunity in the CRC business which already has a pretty strong -- the #1 position in what we do in welding and coating and inspection in offshore.
And this simply takes it to a new level by growing both in the areas I mentioned but also by establishing portable factory coating units and portable spool-based capabilities which nobody else has today.
And we have some terrific know-how and innovative ideas here as to how to do that and we've actually developed some prototypes.
And we already have the strong customer relationships with customers such as Subsea 7 and Technip the big pipeline companies out there.
And they're excited and we're excited about pursuing this opportunity together.
And each one of these opportunities that I've talked about so far has about $100 million run rate to it over the period.
And then finally we'll continue to capture the BDK integration revenue synergies that have been out there the whole time and we've been working on them.
And we've done quite well.
We're already at about a $315 million level and you can see some of the organic growth that I did discuss derived from that.
However with the integration coming to a close here over the next quarter or 2 we want to make sure that we capture the remaining $50 million that we think is left there.
And so there's a few things there on the page such as expanding Black &amp; Decker Hand Tools the DeWalt Hand Tool expansion and so forth that we will pursue.
And I -- it would be remiss of me not to mention though that frankly the entire emerging market opportunity derives from putting these companies together because prior to that time we really didn't have sufficient scale to go after the emerging markets the way we have -- are able to now.
So I'll talk about that more in just a minute.
But in any event we have a solid list of initiatives here with a high level of confidence that they can be executed effectively.
And why do we have this level of confidence? Number one because the market opportunities are real.
And secondly in each case we are uniquely qualified to exploit them.
And third we're implying what I think is a very sound approach to execution here.
And the first part of it is that we're funding the initiatives through what I'll call long-term productivity improvements or strategic cost initiatives.
We've embarked upon a journey to implement design-to-value techniques in our CDIY business which will enable us to take out something in the order of about $100 million of costs over a 3-year period.
And then we're also elevating the capabilities of our global sourcing team to go beyond traditional sourcing and really take it to the next level which includes things like clean sheet analysis that we take to vendors and we explain to them that their costs are not in line with where they need to be from a world-class standpoint.
Or -- and so either they're getting too much margin in our relationship or they don't have the capability or the designs that will achieve the clean sheet objectives in which case we can help them in that regard.
So that too will generate $50 million to $100 million of benefit.
And then there's -- in addition to that there's some structural reductions primarily as we adjust our factory footprint in Europe that will take place over time.
And most of these benefits will kick in in the '14 to '15 time frame.
But they will be sufficient to fund the growth initiatives that generate the $1 billion revenue over 3 years with some timing issues of course as the cost benefits are realized.
So that's the first element is that we want to make these programs self-funding through some cost takeouts because the dilemma here is how do you invest in growth at the same time that you have a low-growth external environment and that's what we're trying to solve here.
And then the other part of this is that we're attacking this challenge to drive growth the way we've discussed here with a methodology that is very very similar to what we have done with our acquisition integration which has become a core competency of the company.
So we're program-managing this with the integration methodology.
We've got a small dedicated corporate team that is overseeing these initiatives and coordinating with the business units that are actually driving them helping allocate resources and removing the obstacles to growth.
We have seasoned team leaders that are in the field reporting to the businesses that are accountable for execution.
John Lundgren myself Don Allan our senior HR folks are -- will be conducting biweekly steering committee meetings beginning in the fourth quarter.
We have robust scorecards and tracking tools exactly analogous to the ones that we utilize for acquisition integrations.
And we have a very controlled and efficient resource allocation review and approval process but it is also one that has kind of a fast track so that we don't end up with big delays.
Now I promised to talk a little bit more about the emerging markets and I will right now.
This is a great opportunity.
Frankly we're doing pretty well at it already.
This page just outlines how -- what the numbers are by region.
You can see the largest is Latin America then the Middle East and Africa and then China and so forth.
As you get into Southeast Asia India Russia you can see we clearly have a lot of opportunity there.
And -- but when you add it all up it's been a great growth story.
Now this is excluding HHI and pro forma for Infastech but it just shows you that on that basis 2012 would be about $1.6 billion or 16% of the company and almost 17% growing at about a 20% rate over a 3-year period with 20% operating margin.
And that's driving over $300 million of growth a year.
And obviously it's a nice compounding effect that actually increases the percent of total particularly given the fact that the developing countries are not growing anywheres near this rate.
So I think kudos to the people that have been working on this for years and also the Black &amp; Decker strength that they brought in Latin America and Middle East in particular.
We've got a great team working on it already.
The approach is generating good benefits.
But with the growth initiatives that we are now embarking upon we will -- actually it will enable us to increase the CAGR of our efforts here by somewhere in the neighborhood of 5 to 10 points over run rate and almost certainly ensure that we blow through the goals that we've set on a long-term basis for the company.
So we're actually undertaking a radical change to the approach to the emerging markets and I'll go through this fairly quickly.
But we're going from incrementally investing in these markets to a major commitment to resource to the size and the scope of the opportunity.
We're funding it as I described through this initiative.
We're moving from a business unit-centric center of gravity to a regionally led center of gravity and we're appointing a corporate officer to lead all the emerging markets.
Now I've said that we're doing a good job already and we've got good people leading these efforts and teams already today so we're simply overlaying a corporate officer over that structure to make sure that we coordinate and we actually execute effectively and maximize and optimize the resource allocation and the best practices across these markets.
Then we're moving from high-price-point Western-design products which generally represents about 10% to 20% of the market in most of these markets to a mid-price-point product approach which is on the average about 70% of the -- of these emerging markets.
And we need to be able to do this to have the products designed by folks that are in these regions because the Western engineers really don't have it within their DNA to scale down the products and to kind of orient the products to the local markets the way they need to be especially as it relates to the mid-price-point products.
So we're moving from a kind of tweaking our designs to conform to what we think are the needs of the emerging markets to actually completely redesigning new products to attack the mid-price-point segment of the market.
We're also going from reinventing the local MPP product lines in each emerging market to one globally coordinated effort again with the help from that corporate officer.
But also through 3 new product SBUs with global emerging markets responsibility: one in Power Tools one in Hand Tools and one in Commercial Hardware.
All these SBUs are located in the emerging markets the leaders have already been appointed and they're off and running.
We're also going from a limited product line and MPP to one that was -- and one that was generally sourced to one -- to full product lines of the MPP segment internally manufactured in local markets.
And to do that we need to blanket China India Brazil and Turkey with local plants.
We just acquired Bajaj in India which is a power tool plant in India.
That's our first foray into that.
We have a plant in Brazil.
We have a plant -- several plants in China so we're in good shape there.
We need plants in Turkey and some of the other areas.
In some cases we need a hand tool plant in addition to a power tool plant et cetera but that is all captured within either our acquisition strategy for emerging markets or the $50 million of CapEx that I mentioned earlier.
And then we're going from an under-resourced commercial organization to one that's sized to the market opportunity.
What that implies is the addition of 300 to 400 commercial resources throughout the emerging markets over the next year or 2.
And finally we're going from an approach where the CDIY business is separately going after these markets and the IAR business is separately going after these markets and they're kind of running into each other sometimes because the channels -- many of these markets don't recognize the distinction between the 2 the one unified effort focused on gaining profitable market share.
And to do that we're actually creating an internal joint venture between the IAR business and the CDIY business where we can marshal the resources from both of those organizations and really focus on what's important to driving share gains in those regions and not into internal discussions about who gets credit for what.
So we're going to have a little Board of Directors internal Board of Directors with governance from CDIY IAR and corporate and should work really well.
So a really exciting initiative which is already in progress and will be in full gear by mid-2013.
And I will finish this by saying that we have put this company in a position to execute this opportunity through the Black &amp; Decker-Stanley merger.
We are now the only tool and hardware company with sufficient scale to exploit this opportunity to its fullest.
And now I'll turn it over to Don Allan.
Thank you Jim.
Before I move to the 2012 outlook I just want to touch on free cash flow on Page 14.
As you can see our free cash flow for the third quarter was approximately $170 million; and year-to-date almost $465 million.
For those of you who are familiar with the trends and the seasonality of our working capital and cash flow you're well aware that a large part of our cash flow does occur in the fourth quarter of each calendar year.
And so in this particular case the working capital through 9 months or September 30 of this year is a negative of $286 million.
So it's a little larger than we would normally see in this time frame but however it is on track with our expectations because we do believe that we will be at somewhere between 7.5 and 8 turns by the end of this year.
And as a result we'll see anywhere from $400 million to $500 million of free cash flow in the fourth quarter just from working capital pretty much in line with our expectations as well as the seasonality that does occur had met a large part of the revenue in particular in our CDIY business occurs in the month of October and into early stages of November.
And then it slows down in the month of December which allows for reductions of inventory as well as collection of many of our receivables within -- or by the end of the fourth quarter.
Another thing to keep in mind as you look at the trending and where we are through 9 months is if you look back in history I've reminded folks of this over the last few years is that fourth quarter tends to represent anywhere from 50% to 65% of the total year's free cash flow.
And if you look at those factors that would just extrapolate to approximately $1 billion to $1.3 billion of free cash flow for the year.
So based on our forecast based on our plans for working capital we feel comfortable that our $1.2 billion of annual free cash flow is achievable.
So with that I'd like to move to 2012 outlook and give an update on our latest assumptions.
As you saw in this morning's press release our new estimate for EPS this year is $5.25 versus our prior range of $5.40 to $5.65.
It's based on the following key assumptions.
The first one is organic revenue and this is pro forma organic revenue so it assumes Niscayah was part of the base in 2011.
We previously guided 1% to 2% organic revenue for the year.
We believe now that will be approximately 1% for many of the pressures that you heard about from both John and Jim earlier in this call.
In particular though our Industrial European businesses are seeing a great deal of revenue organic revenue pressure as well as some of our MAS businesses in particular MAS Commercial businesses.
That combination of those businesses which are very high profitable businesses with lower volumes as well as having a negative mix because of the high profitability of those businesses is resulting in a $0.30 EPS pressure or headwind to our previous estimate for 2012.
This provides us and what that implies is that for the fourth quarter our organic volume will actually be slightly down probably approximately a negative 1%.
Looking at the segments to give you a little sense of what they'll be for the year.
We still believe that CDIY will continue to be approximately mid-single digits.
Security will be down low single digits as we previously indicated in July but Industrial will be flat for the year for organic growth where we're expecting to see some low single-digit growth back in July.
And that's really where we're seeing a significant amount of the change versus our July expectations and today.
The second factor that we're updating is based on all the growth initiatives that Jim just walked you through we will incur approximately $15 million of operating expenses in the fourth quarter and so that's really beginning to get these initiatives started.
Jim talked about some of the hires that we've already done so it's reflected in those numbers.
It's really about getting more feet on the street as well as creating some more infrastructure in emerging markets.
The third area that we're updating is we do expect a slight positive associated with FX rates.
When we talked in July we had seen a big drop in the euro the Brazilian real the Canadian dollar in particular that drove about a $0.35 negative to our expectations for the year.
We think we'll call about $0.10 of that back in the fourth quarter if rates stay where they are today because we have seen a tick-up of about 5% to 6% in those 3 currencies in the later stages of September.
We didn't experience much of the benefit in Q3 but if the rates hold we would expect about a $0.10 benefit for Q4.
We're maintaining other assumptions.
Specifically when you look at organic growth by region we're relatively in line with our expectations but the mix within North America and Europe is quite different as I just mentioned.
The emerging markets will be at the low end of our range but still growing nicely but just at slower paces than we have seen in the previous 2 years but in line with our expectations that we created in early January.
Cost synergies were both related to Black &amp; Decker and Niscayah continue to hold firm at $115 million and $45 million as well as the other cost actions we completed in January and July of this year that totaled $200 million.
Our tax rate in Q3 was a little bit lower than our expectation so for the year we still expect to be at 22.5% so in line with our previous guidance in July.
So you can see at the bottom of the page if you take the midpoint of the previous range add the 3 factors or major changes it gets you to that $5.25 which is an implied fourth quarter EPS of $1.45.
So moving on to thoughts about 2013.
And one of the things that we need to consider is the affect of the portfolio transformation of divesting HHI the acquisition of Infastech and what that impact will be.
We have not factored that into our 2012 guidance that I just reviewed with you as we will wait till these particular transactions close which will either be late -- in late December or early January of next year.
So to start with HHI.
As you know $1.4 billion of cash proceeds associated with that which is a 7.5x multiple of LTM which is approximately $186 million through June 30 of this year.
The after-tax proceeds are expected to be about $1.3 billion so a relatively small tax cost due to the tax basis we have in the United States in particular so the tax is primarily related to the small international piece of the business.
And we believe on an annual basis the dilutive impact to our company will be approximately $0.60 in EPS.
The proceeds that we'll actually receive here in the U.S.
of that $1.4 billion is approximately $1.1 billion.
And what are we going to do with those proceeds? How are we going to utilize them? As we've indicated previously we wanted to make sure that we took a large portion of it and did some share repurchases.
So we're going to take approximately $700 million to $750 million of those proceeds to repurchase shares once the transaction closes like I mentioned in late December or early January.
If you utilize a $75 stock price which was our stock price when we announced the transaction in early October it's approximately a $0.30 accretive benefit of buying back those shares.
The other areas is utilizing some of these proceeds for the Infastech acquisition in particular the U.S.
portion of the acquisition.
So approximately $300 million of that $1.1 billion will go towards that transaction which we expect to close roughly in the same time frame.
As a reminder the accretion associated with Infastech is approximately $0.15 in 2013 assuming a full year and $0.35 by year 3.
The remaining $550 million of purchase price will be financed by overseas cash as well as some of the HHI offshore proceeds that are included in the $1.3 billion.
And then a modest deleveraging of approximately $100 million is the remaining portion of that $1.1 million that we'll utilize.
The net result of this on EPS is approximately if you utilize the numbers I just went through will be about $0.15.
We've provided a range of $0.10 to $0.20 of annualized dilution given that there are some factors in here such as what will the stock price be when we purchase the stock back as well as the dilutive impact could move slightly for the HHI.
So it's going to range somewhere between $0.10 to $0.20 which is in line with our expectations but not being a significant dilutive transformation of the portfolio.
The good news from my perspective is we're taking approximately 70% of the onshore proceeds in utilizing that for share repurchase.
So some other thoughts associated with 2013 here on Page 17.
At this stage we feel it's too early to comment on our 2013 views of organic growth.
However there are a few tailwinds and headwinds that are very apparent which are in our direct control and that's really what this page tries to highlight.
The first is the tailwinds.
We've taken various actions as you know and some of them are associated with acquisitions such as back in July we indicated that we have $50 million of Black &amp; Decker cost synergies that will occur in 2013 approximately $0.23 of EPS.
We'll have incremental Niscayah cost synergies of $0.15 or $35 million in 2013 and then incremental cost actions the actions we took in July that carry over into 2013 of $50 million.
Strong tailwinds as you'll go into an environment that is still very difficult from an organic growth perspective.
The headwinds will be the -- really be what I just reviewed to you which is the net dilutive impact of HHI Infastech and the share repurchase which is anywhere from $0.10 to $0.20.
Another factor to consider is we certainly expect commodity deflation to occur in 2013 based on current commodity prices.
However we do think that's primarily going to offset some of this mix headwind that we're experiencing that we'll experience probably in the first half of 2013 if these trends continue.
So that will be a net neutral impact.
The net of all that is approximately $0.40 to $0.50 of net tailwinds going in 2013 which is not a bad place to be considering the difficult macroeconomic environment we're in today.
Now Jim touched on the growth initiatives and I just want to reinforce some comments that he made about the revenue for 2013 specifically.
He mentioned $115 million in revenue in 2013 associated with these programs will probably have approximately $50 million of investments operating costs -- investments in 2013 which means there'll be a neutral impact to 2013.
It's really '14 and '15 that we would expect to see the benefits of both the cost initiatives that are funding this as well as the continued growth of these growth initiatives a $350 million incremental in '14 and '15.
So to summarize this morning's presentation.
We are investing in organic growth initiatives.
We continue to look at the environment as difficult and we don't see it changing significantly at least in the next few years.
As a result we're responding with these various initiatives that Jim went through in great amount of detail earlier today.
The continued volume retractions we see are affecting our profitable businesses therefore they've affected our guidance for 2012.
We feel that we've taken very sufficient cost actions in both January and July but they were not enough to stop the deterioration.
However it's not time now to take more costs out.
It's time to invest in areas where we can really spur some organic growth in this company.
And we're investing in $15 million of organic growth initiatives in the fourth quarter that will help kickstart and jump these programs that we just walked through.
The focus here is really on the long-term benefits for the businesses and ultimately our shareholders.
And we really think this is an important step to move forward in the attainment of our mid-decade goals.
And last thing I'll mention is Niscayah and Black &amp; Decker integrations continue to be very successful and we're pleased with where they are at this stage.
So with that that concludes the presentation portion of the call and move to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Jason Feldman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> First just briefly I understand it's early for you to be willing to comment on organic growth.
But on the headwinds and tailwinds for 2013 there were 2 that were absent that I would have expected.
One is FX headwinds based on current rates kind of what you think that could be -- at least in the first half I would expect kind of some sort of modest headwind? And also I think you touched about AeroScout and Powers Fasteners being accretive next year to some degree or another.
I think it was $0.10.
I would say the FX components actually were pretty much back to the level we experienced early in the year for most of the major currencies.
So we don't see a lot of FX headwinds based on current rates going in 2013.
As far as the other acquisitions I would say yes they're kind of in the net neutral category.
We didn't call them out because it's a relatively small number but when you look at the impact of commodity deflation the mix headwind and those acquisitions they'd all be in that kind of bottom category that I called net neutral.
The next question is from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Really appreciate all the comments and detail.
I had a question about the emerging markets strategy.
You mentioned that the 2012e [ph] was also pro forma for Infastech.
It looks like that Infastech revenues and I believe you said Asia Pac was about $270 million or so are there any other acquisitions in that number? I'm trying to get to the organic growth number.
And I guess looking forward as you continue to expect to build that business I assume there'd be -- it would be good contribution from acquisitions as well as organic growth.
Yes I mean the numbers are pro forma.
So the -- whatever Infastech was in 2012 would be in the base as well.
And as far as the acquisition strategy for Stanley right now it is almost exclusively on emerging markets.
And we tend to be looking for power tool hand tool commercial hardware and Electronic Security acquisitions which are very relatively small in most cases less than $100 million but very strategic on a one-off basis in a given market.
We really feel that some of these companies have strong local distribution which when combined with our product and manufacturing expertise that we're developing or the manufacturing expertise that we have and the product expertise in the emerging markets that we're developing can be very powerful.
So yes it will be supplemented through some acquisition.
None of that is included in the organic growth rate numbers that I shared obviously that would be in incremental to that.
And Mike this is John.
Just so you don't get cut off I mean Jim referenced a plant acquisition which was really a manufacturing base in India.
That's a good example of the kind of thing Jim's talking about.
And collectively we have spent a lot of time on target identification and development.
Jim has spent with mine and Don's and our board's full support a tremendous amount of his time focused on emerging markets in the last 3 to 6 months because as you know these relationships large or small have a far longer incubation period than say a North American acquisition.
So that's all part of the thought process.
But importantly the focus is in emerging markets on business development but it's small.
Our hiatus on significant acquisition activity going forward remains because we're going to focus on organic growth.
And as I said we're going to run it.
I think Jim explained it really well we're going to run it like we run a large integration because that's a model that's tested and proven within our 4 walls and it looks well for us.
The next question is from Eric Bosshard from Cleveland Research.
The CDIY growth number was in line a good performance.
Can you just give us a little more color on what you're seeing in that market in the U.S.
in terms of growth in terms of your share performance in terms of price competition and promotions just a little more color on what you're seeing in that important business? Yes basically I think we're outperforming the market for sure in the U.S.
Probably market may be up 1 to 2 points at this point and I think given our performance a couple of points higher than that.
Most of it is coming from the things that I referenced the cordless in particular in Professional Power Tools and to some extent in CPG.
But also the -- now we're getting the introduction of the very innovative products that we have in CPG the Matrix and the Gyro.
I think that will definitely be again outperformance in the marketplace.
And then the revenue synergies from Hand Tools in particular with respect to the DeWalt tools are also kind of differentiating us in the share point of view.
So we're probably outperforming by a couple of points there.
And Eric the second part of your question we're seeing no abnormal level of promotion or price activity comfortable at that level.
As you know there's been some commodity deflation which is helping margins but not so much that it's placed a tremendous pressure on price.
And fourth quarter there's a tiny bit of seasonality in the consumer piece but that has been what's driving our business.
So right now I think another thing that's always an area of interest our best view in our top meetings with customers is inventories are at a very normal level.
The data is so much better both at the customer base and internally and the ability to share it transparently because nobody wins when the channels are stuffed and nobody wins when they are out of stock as you all know.
We see inventories as of mid-October approaching a busy season up in -- prior to I'll say the December doldrums as quite normal.
And the next question is from Dan Oppenheim from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> When you're talking about the emerging markets you can -- you had shown that Latin American and Middle East being 75% of the emerging market revenue.
When you think about the growth initiatives how much is going to be focused on those regions versus the rest of the world in terms of emerging markets and thinking about sort of what we need to achieve then in terms of growth there and also what you're thinking getting sort of organic revenue growth in Latin America and Middle East without more initiatives? Yes well clearly the resource allocation will be towards the larger markets that are -- that we're currently underweight in today.
I think where we -- in Latin America and Middle East Africa -- well Middle East I'll say we have excellent coverage sales coverage.
And really the key there is just we can -- and we have pretty good MPP products that we've developed locally in both those cases.
However in some cases the products are sourced so the products that we will manufacture in local markets is -- that's part of the strategy there and then just to leverage the resources that we have in the market today in those large markets that we're already pretty overweight in.
In the underweight markets it is absolute majority probably 70% to 80% of the resource allocation will go there.
It's all about getting the right products with our SBUs and then basically flooding the market with feet on the street that can develop the distribution channels to drive share growth in those markets.
China India obviously are the 2 biggest.
But I will tell you I just got back from Russia Turkey Dubai and some other countries earlier in the year.
And some of these kind of medium-sized markets that I'm talking about really offer enormous potential and it's really just about getting the right products and getting the feet on the street.
The brands that we have are phenomenal.
The recognition of the brands is amazing.
The markets are hungry for some market development and we're going to provide it.
And Dan this is John.
Just to follow up and certainly hopefully just expands what Jim just said in a very simple manner.
As you know or some of you know I've spent 14 years of my career living and working abroad.
And as Jim myself the business leaders huddled to talk about the organic growth opportunity I guess we always knew but we've come to the realization that one size doesn't fit all and that's really been the model that we've been using which is why we elevated it as a corporate priority.
But simply said it's going to be different in each and every one of those markets.
But I think Jim just said it well.
It's what's the customer's focal point? It's going to be different in each of those markets depending on its degree of development.
What is the product design? We can't simply design one product in Towson Maryland and dummy it down a little bit and sell it all over the world.
So there's 3 engineering centers around the world that are going to drive this activity.
And last but absolutely not least how we are organized.
And Jim described that in great detail but who is accountable who's accountable in the region what's his or her relationship with the relevant business and with corporate and then finally how do we track it? So that's nothing different than what Jim said.
But I think to summarize it it is a -- it's a new approach for us but it's one that we believe it's tested and proven.
We've got a lot of experience behind it.
And I think we've just validated it with the work we've done with consultants advisors and most important our own team over the last 3 or 4 months.
And the next question is from Nicole DeBlase from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to ask a little bit about 4Q the implied 4Q guidance.
So it looks like you're now looking for a modest organic decline in 4Q and the bulk of that is driven by a little bit of weakening within the Industrial segment.
So it would be really helpful to get some color around your expectations Q-on-Q for IAR versus Fastening what's driving the weakening? Yes Nicole it's Don.
What I mentioned was that we saw in the third quarter that all of our Industrial European businesses retracted.
We expect that to continue at a slightly worse trend so we would imagine that IAR would retract a little bit more than we saw in Q3.
Engineered Fastening will probably have saw 7% growth rate overall.
In Europe they were down 3%.
That will be slightly larger as the Industrial European piece of that business which is not tied to automotive manufacturing will be down high single digits maybe double digits at this stage.
And then we'll see probably a flat performance with European auto business for Engineered Fastening.
So those businesses are expected to experience a fair amount of pressure.
There's a little bit of our Infrastructure business in Europe as well which will be pressured but that's not a significant number.
And the next question is from Ken Zener from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the last question which you addressed for the European businesses.
How much of the cut is kind of related to what you're referring to in the U.S.
in locks and doors? And are you really seeing a delay of backlog so you have it or is it just that it's kind of weaker backlog? And sticking on the U.S.
the recent transfer of Apex to new a owner.
You guys have had stellar results in the business that had problems if you go back 5 years ago.
So do you think Apex's new owner is likely to bring more margin pressures as they seek to regain market share? I guess 2 points.
Ken the backlog I referred to is primarily in convergence security not mechanical locking.
The issue that Brett's team is dealing with in mechanical locking is that the market got smaller and faced tough economic times.
There was a tremendous move from premium to mid-price point.
And full disclosure our mid-priced point offering was not up to snuff and the teams worked very hard to get that developed in the marketplace and it's there.
That's on the Mechanical Security side.
The backlog conversion is simply the orders are there we've got to get them converted we've got the installations done we've got to get them done right the first time.
And that's one of the things that led to a management change within our Convergent Security business where within the last 6 months we've -- 2 internal 1 external -- have added 3 senior leaders to Brett Bontrager's team to accomplish that.
Regarding Apex it's not our role to speculate on competitors and what their new owners will do.
It's quite a I'll say diverse portfolio of brands many of which are secondary and tertiary.
That in and of itself is a challenge.
Joint ventures are a challenge.
And so as a consequence we felt that -- we don't think that was a major factor the Apex joint venture in our ability to gain share.
And I would think that's not going to be a major factor going forward.
It's an interesting business.
It's in good hands from a very very professional private equity owners.
Talk to them about their strategy as opposed to us.
It's not our place to speculate.
I think the only thing I would add is that it's -- of all the various outcomes that could have occurred it's probably the best for us because they are rational people.
They are highly levered.
And they will pursue some growth opportunities for sure but there's plenty of opportunities out there for 2 of us.
So I think it's probably in a very good place.
And it will probably be for sale in a couple of years too so we'll have a look at it then.
And the next question is from Mike Wherley from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was just looking at Latin America and it's been very strong for you guys despite some slowing of GDP growth in Brazil.
Now I was just wondering how much of your growth in Latin America is from the BDK revenue synergies and how much is from countries outside of Brazil? There's -- BDK revenue synergies are not just Brazil Mike.
You've kind of asked 2 questions that are hard to answer.
Brazil is 65% of our Latin American business.
And roughly 65% of the growth has come in Brazil and 35% has come outside.
The overwhelming majority of all of that growth think of it as BDK revenue synergies specifically Black &amp; Decker legacy Black &amp; Decker had a very capable manufacturing plant with a very capable local leader well-established commercial teams and distribution channels in all markets in Latin America and a very capable business leader in Jaime Ramirez.
And what we've been able to do is leverage 2 things.
Production in Brazil but for -- it serves all of Latin America through the -- our Uberaba plant where we've been able to do some simple hand tool assembly and production there number one.
And number two take very very popular but previously cost competitive black and yellow Stanley products that were imported that are now managed and sold locally through a well-established distribution channel.
That's been the big lift.
So simply said the business is pro rata with the size of the markets.
And you can contribute the overwhelming majority of that to what we do refer to as the Black &amp; Decker revenue synergy.
And the next question is from Mike Wood from Macquarie Capital.
Security margins are tough for us to model given the mix shift that you mentioned in the Niscayah integration.
Last quarter in the conference call you talked about flat operating margins in Security for the full year.
It looks like that may have come down.
So can you walk us through what's changed in the Security side since last quarter on the margins? Yes I would say that the big thing that's changed is really the impact of what we're talking about around MAS Commercial.
So that's clearly creating what we are calling a negative mix impact to the company but it's also true for the Security segment.
So we saw as Jim mentioned a really solid performance in Security from a rate perspective given those pressures but we would expect it to sequentially from third quarter to fourth quarter retract a little bit more given those pressures and probably obviously will be down slightly total year when you look at it versus expectation of flat back in July.
And the next question is from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> As you guys think about the organic growth initiatives historically obviously have been focused on acquisitions and that's a bit of a cultural change.
Can you talk about what you're doing internally either from an incentive compensation structure other initiatives to change that culture or shift that culture to an organic growth focus that can be sustainable even beyond when you go back to M&amp;A? Yes Dennis it's a very fair and I think appropriate question.
8 or 9 years ago I implemented with obviously the tremendous support of Jim Loree who is already here with our Chief Financial Officer Mark Mathieu our head of HR organic growth as a significant portion of the short-term incentive for the entire management team.
It made good sense.
There were very specific goals for each and every business.
And we carried on for 4 or 5 years I think with tremendous success both organically and via acquisition which is where we deployed most of our -- 2/3 of our cash flow.
As we faced what was clearly going to be some really tough economic times 2008 '09 -- 2007 '08 '09 quite frankly some very thoughtful and experienced board members led us to the conclusion -- or helped us to the conclusion that it was going to be very difficult to grow organically in that environment and protecting our balance sheet focusing on cash flow was a very important thing to do to weather that storm.
It's exactly what we did.
That was the initiative or the driver if you will behind SFS which has generated tremendous amounts of cash and quite frankly I think it's why Stanley was in the position to acquire Black &amp; Decker.
As Jim pointed out we didn't think that would last 5 years but it has.
And rather than continuing to work focused just on cash flow on income conversion we've decided if you will to take organic growth into our own hands.
So the simple answer to your question is yes.
Anyone and everyone involved in this a significant portion of their short-term compensation will be based on profitable organic growth.
The exact specifics to that I'm not going to reveal at this stage.
It will be in our proxy that we publish next February.
But it will be a specific part and there'll be a select -- a precious few number of individuals.
And Jim talked about how this team was staffed and organized.
There'll be a handful of individuals that the overwhelming majority of their incentive will be based on that but that will be specific to the initiative.
Yes another element to this is which is not compensation-related or at least it is indirectly is that we are a very very tightly managed company when it comes to P&amp;Ls and especially at the business level and the region level.
In both cases when there are revenue shortfalls the initial reflex in the organization is to cut costs.
And frequently the businesses were attempting to make emerging market growth investments but when the cost cutting kind of came to bear typically emerging markets were not unscathed although we directed them to minimize that they just couldn't help themselves because they are measured on P&amp;L and they're very capable people when it comes to delivering those kinds of results.
So the overlay that we've created here by absolutely making the investments at more of a corporate level or at least corporate oversight level we can protect those investments and we have to kind of sort of put our armor on and kind of get through -- if the environment gets tough we have to protect these investments and we will.
And that will be a big difference.
The other thing is with respect to kind of creating the center of gravity at the region level you don't have the same incentives to cut costs that you would in the emerging markets that you would if you are running a business that had a global footprint because -- and you are measured on a quarterly P&amp;L.
In the emerging markets your -- the measurements of these individuals are going to be -- well yes they are going to be P&amp;L focused.
There's going to be a clear understanding between them and us at the corporate level that our expectation is that we achieve organic growth and we do that with investments and the investments are protected.
So there's a couple of other subtleties there beyond just direct compensation that we're addressing through this change.
And the next question is from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question regarding the sale of HHI receiving a 7.5 multiple on EBITDA whereas the -- at least the housing pure-play comparables that are publicly traded are considerably above that.
I know you guys are very savvy as it relates to capital markets you're very thoroughly advised.
I was just curious as to the reasoning behind selling it privately versus a potential carve-out or going to the public markets for that.
Was it because the market wouldn't bear it based on your research or data fact that you were getting immediate cash created that decision? Just a little bit of background if you could.
I think 7.5x when you really look at that business I think is a very fair price.
And spinning it didn't make a whole lot of sense given all the extra cost and the fact that it's a very tax efficient transaction.
If you look at the composition of the portfolio the one thing that is perhaps underappreciated is that $200 million of that business was Pfister.
And Pfister we attempted to sell on its own and frankly couldn't get it done at anything over 5x multiple and that would have been a victory if we could have gotten that and would have required seller paper and a number of other things.
And we finally just said the heck with that let's mix it in with HHI locks and so forth.
And so you have to kind to think of it in terms of we got for what really is the heart and soul of that portfolio we got something closer to 8.5x.
And that's a pretty good price in relation to -- especially the after-tax proceeds that we received for that.
It's also a highly profitable business Sam.
And I mean it's just math.
One of the reasons 7.5 doesn't look meteoric relative to some of the comps that you're comparing to is this is $186 million or $190 million EBITDA business.
There aren't a lot of housing pure plays to use your words with those kind of EBITDA margins.
And lastly not so much the multiple or the margin or how to sell it we just -- we wanted as disruptive a process as possible because this is an ongoing business that if we didn't sell it successfully we wanted as little disruption as possible because it was a business that had then turned around nicely and was performing well.
But lastly remember this is primarily a design source and ship business.
And to Jim's point Pfister is 100% design source and ship business.
Not that we can't do that.
We're a manufacturing company and we think we do it pretty well between global sourcing product design and production.
And that lever for us and ability to further improve the business really didn't exist in this business and that was part of the driver.
But at the end of the day we're really happy with the...
Yes.
And there's also a missed perception with respect HHI being so tied to the housing market.
When you look at the company's exposure to construction before and after HHI it is still right in the 30% zone.
And the fact is that HHI is a replacement business for the most part.
It is not a new construction business.
You look at channels that it sells into they are not going into the builder market for the most part.
They're going into replacement remodel those types of markets.
So we haven't really changed the complexion of our portfolio dramatically as it relates to exposure to the construction market.
And the market would not have viewed this business as a construction pure play very important point which would indicate that we got a very fair price for it as was mentioned.
And the next question is from Richard Kwas from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on '13 in terms of your initial outlook.
When you're assuming for Europe and I know it's early and you're giving formal guidance in January but should we assume that Europe is down similarly in '13 or is that how you're thinking about the business right now and that could be offset by the U.S.
and then some of the revenue and cost synergies that you have factored in.
Is that the right way to think about it? Well as I mentioned Rich we're not really giving thoughts on organic guidance for 2013.
There's just too many factors out there that are going to change most likely over the next 90 days.
There's things in Europe there's things in the United States et cetera.
And as a result we're not really giving thoughts.
But I think if you look at what's happening to us in Europe this year there's no reason to suddenly indicate we're going to see growth in the first quarter of 2013 in Europe.
So I think you can use it from that perspective and look at our overall portfolio but there's going to be variations that happen in the next 90 days.
Things like the fiscal cliff in the United States that we don't know the impact of that and the U.S.
economy the continued crisis in Europe and the Eurozone as to what will happen with Spain and how that might impact business in that particular area.
And then slow growth in China and emerging markets as well.
So it all goes back to the theme that we started with which is that we don't -- the macroeconomic environment is not real robust.
And overall when you look at it doesn't feel like you're going to see a lot of growth beyond 1 or 2 points.
So we're looking to stimulate it with these growth programs which is what we've tried to focus on this morning and get people to recognize that we're taking action in response to an environment that we don't see changing or improving dramatically going forward.
And the next question is from Michael Kim from Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a specific to Niscayah.
Can you talk a little about the organic growth profile and how much of that headwind is from project rationalization versus the macro environment particularly in Europe? And what you guys can do on your own actions to keep more of a flatter growth -- or flatter organic profile and potentially gain some share? Sure.
I think when you look at the pro forma and Niscayah business being down roughly 5% I think it's an actual -- it's a pretty good performance given the macro environment in Europe in particular given that they're really shifting to a more profitable business model around installation revenues as well as trying to drive more recurring revenues into the business model long-term.
They'll be down 5% versus our expectation of 7% or even possibly 10% we think it's a great story.
But we would imagine that that type of situation would continue probably into the early stages of next year and then depending on the macroeconomic environment would start to improve.
If you look at the 5% today I would say that probably at least 1/2 of it is due to the macro environment and the other 1/2 is more due to the model shift.
And the last question will be from Peter Lisnic from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Lots of moving parts here but if we could look at 2013 and Don if you could maybe give us a little color on the puts and takes for the free cash flow conversion for the year and maybe if you could include any sort of pension impact and what the preliminary outlook there might be would be very helpful.
Sure.
I mean I don't have a precise view on free cash flow of 2013 but if you want to get a little input I would expect that we would imagine we would have continued improvement in working capital next year and our expectation is usually about 1/2 a turn as we go into the year.
We will be making more capital investments related to emerging markets to make sure we have the right products in the different countries that we walked through this morning.
So that could be a little bit of pressure but even with that I still think we'll have improvement in working capital turns in 2013.
There's no major pension fundings beyond the current run rate that would pressure 2013 that would be a new item.
So I would expect based on continued accretion in our earnings continued improvement in working capital we would expect that our free cash flow would go -- be accretive to the $1.2 billion that we're experiencing this year.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session of today's call.
I will now turn the call back to Kate Vanek for closing remarks.
Thanks everybody for joining today.
Please feel free to reach out to me if you have any questions following the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q4 and Full Year 2012 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lorraine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Vice President of Investor and Government Relations Kate Vanek.
Ms.
Vanek you may begin.
Thanks Lorraine.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you so much for joining us for the Stanley Black &amp; Decker Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR portion of our website as well as our newly revamped iPhone and iPad app and mobile website.
A replay of the call will begin today at 2:00 p.m.
The replay number and access code are in our release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review Stanley's 2012 fourth quarter and full year results and various other topical matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] As always please feel free to contact me with any sort of follow-up questions.
And as I normally have to do: We will be making some forward-looking statements during this call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may or may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act.
With that I will now turn the -- our call over to our CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Kate.
Good morning everybody.
Listen this morning beyond reporting our fourth quarter '12 results and providing our 2013 guidance which I know everyone on the call is interested in a couple of other objectives of this morning's call are to essentially close the books on the Black &amp; Decker merger and of equal or even greater importance lay the groundwork for what we believe is a series of really exciting organic growth initiatives.
So thanks for joining us early this morning.
Quickly on the fourth quarter.
Revenues were up 4% to $2.7 billion.
Half of that was organic growth up 2%.
And very interesting on the organic growth 6% in CDIY and Engineered Fastening 2 of our strategic businesses performing really well and those were -- that growth was offset by declines in Europe due primarily to market conditions in IAR as well as Security.
A little more on that later.
Diluted EPS of $1.37 combination of strong operations and a favorable tax rate.
That was up 12% versus same period a year ago.
GAAP earnings of 70 -- were $0.79.
Full year revenues up 8% 2% organically.
And 2012 EPS of $4.67 x charges was flat versus prior year.
But if you normalize the tax rate i.e.
equal -- 2012 make it equal to 2011 diluted EPS GAAP was $2.70 but with a normalized tax rate would have been a 12% increase year-on-year.
And Don is going to provide a lot more granularity on tax and its progression '11 '12 to '13 when he gives you some more detail on the outlook.
Strong year in cash flow $1.1 billion x charges for the year.
Working capital turns of 7.5 a 42% increase since the pro forma pre-merger levels.
2013 guidance for diluted earnings of $5.40 to $5.65 a share.
That's a 16% to 21% increase versus 2012 driven by organic growth in the range of 2% to 3% 100 basis points of which we believe will be driven by the early returns on some of the organic growth initiatives that Jim is going to walk you through a little later on this morning.
And finally March 2013 marks the 3-year anniversary of the merger between Stanley and Black &amp; Decker.
It's an important milestone.
It came with a few notable executive management changes and those were announced in a press release on January 14 and they're taking effect during the first quarter of this year.
So let's turn to the final chapter of the merger.
And I guess it's both a pleasure and my good fortune to be able to talk about it at least on this call this morning and it's probably the last time we'll talk about it in any particular detail.
But let's wrap it up.
We did really well on cost synergies.
By the end of 2013 we will have achieved $500 million in cost synergies significantly exceeding our target and commitment of $350 million.
We've exceeded that target by 43%.
As you all know CDIY right now represents about 50% of our revenue.
The $760 million in CDIY of operating margin in 2012 exceeded the entire 2009 operating margin of the entire company legacy Stanley and legacy Black &amp; Decker combined.
That's the impact of cost and revenue synergies a prolific new product development activity in process and exceptionally strong execution by the CDIY team led by Jeff Ansell and comprised of really the best athletes from each of the 2 legacy organizations.
So it was just a terrific opportunity and thankfully in retrospect we were able to take advantage of it.
Revenue energy projects continue to yield strong results.
We've surpassed $300 million in revenue synergies versus a goal of $300 million to $400 million.
And probably the simple example just to refresh everyone's memory Stanley Hand Tools are up $25 million in Latin America -- or will be by the end of 2013.
Business was virtually nonexistent but -- as we were able to sell premium-branded Stanley products through a well-established Black &amp; Decker distribution network.
It's just one of many many examples of how the -- of the power of the combination of these 2 companies.
The cultures driven by world-class innovation have resulted in more than 1 500 new products and $1 billion of organic growth over the last 3 years.
And probably one of the greatest achievements in terms of results from the combination is the degree to which the Stanley Fulfillment System has been initially embraced and fully embedded across the 2 companies.
Working capital turns were 7.5 up from 5.3 pro forma pre-merger levels.
And within CDIY which is where the majority of the integration activity went on working capital is down 50% from the 2009 pre-merger levels.
That is a lot of freed-up cash to reinvest in our businesses.
So by all measures we truly believe the merger to date has been a resounding success.
Let's move on to the quarter.
In terms of sources of growth as you saw in our earnings release this morning Stanley grew 4% in the fourth quarter 8% for the year.
Of the 4% in the fourth quarter it was 2% organic which was 2% volume and flat on price.
Acquisitions added 3%.
Currency was a 100-basis-point headwind for a total of 4%.
Quite similar to how it played out for the year where volume was up 2% price was flat leading to 2% organic growth.
Acquisitions added 8%.
Currency was a 200-basis-point headwind and that yields the 8% total growth.
Looking quickly by business to give everyone a flavor for the fourth quarter and the year.
Exceptional performance of Professional Power Tools in the quarter and on the year driven by the 18- and 20-volt lithium-ion DeWalt product introductions just tremendously well accepted across our customer base.
The Consumer Products Group also had a terrific fourth quarter and a great year.
The fourth quarter 9% was driven primarily by new products Gyro and Matrix as well as some really good acceptance of some of the smaller products in Japan which is a small but important market where that business continues to perform well.
Engineered Fastening another bright spot up 6% for the quarter 9% for the year.
MAS commercial up 3% for the quarter reversing a trend where they were down on a year-to-date basis.
Hand tools and fastening was flat for the quarter 2% for the year.
Europe actually grew but offset in -- by the U.S.
where we made the conscious decision to exit some lower-margin businesses in hand tools and fasteners.
Infrastructure down 2% in the quarter 6% for the year.
The primary driver there was our oil and gas business where the onshore business was slow across the board offset partially by strong growth albeit from a low base in the offshore business and Jim is going to talk about that a little bit in his section a little later on.
Quickly convergent security was off 3% for the quarter and for the year.
U.S.
Security actually grew in the fourth quarter.
Most of the decline was Europe and a lot of that was Niscayah much of which was planned.
And finally last but certainly not least IAR was down 5% for the quarter 2% for the year.
You will recall that IAR is one of our few businesses where we have more business in Europe than the U.S.
due to the extremely important FACOM franchise among others.
That franchise is stronger than ever.
I won't dwell on European market conditions but we've -- we have at a minimum maintained and likely gained share in Europe by being off only 2% for the year in our Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair business.
So the key organic growth initiatives are in process we're going to expand on this and a couple programs in place to rev up the engine for a couple of our smaller businesses that are lagging fleet average in terms of performance.
Let's look real quickly on a geographic basis.
I don't want to spend too much time on this.
But upper left if we want to look at North America very strong quarter in Canada and a very good year.
More importantly the U.S.
which accounts for 48% to 49% of our business grew 1% in the quarter 1% for the year.
CDIY and Security were up offset by the Industrial segment as we've talked about on an ongoing basis.
Moving to the middle of the chart.
Europe was off 3% in the quarter 2% for the year.
It does represent 26% of our business.
Again in the fourth quarter CDIY grew whilst convergent security primarily Niscayah as well as IAR were off in the fourth quarter.
So a total of 3% organic volume decline 2% for the year.
Emerging markets remained -- go from strength to strength: a plus 15% quarter 11% for the year.
And then just very very quickly Japan and Australia together account for 4% of our business.
Japan a flat quarter but very strong year driven by Engineered Fastening.
And Australia was down high single digits.
We think we have a program in place to leverage the opportunity to improve collaboration between IAR CDIY as well as leverage the infrastructure of backroom abilities with Stanley Security Solutions.
Let me turn it over to Jim who's going to spend a little less time than normal on segment detail.
And we've included a great amount of detail in the appendix so that you can spend a little more time on introducing some of the growth initiatives to which I've spoken.
Okay.
Thanks John.
As John indicated I'll hit the segment info fairly quickly.
It is a fairly clear and relatively simple story this quarter operationally.
And the first part of the story relating to CDIY is just a terrific performance by that team with a 6% organic growth and 180 basis points of profit rate accretion.
The organic growth was 7% in North America.
We had double-digit growth in the emerging markets and we were flat in Europe.
Now of all those accomplishments I would say the last one perhaps was the most challenging to deal with and perhaps the most impressive because they were able to take what in Southern Europe was a down 10% to 20% type of performance across those countries and translate it into an overall flat performance.
Really outstanding work in the U.K.
and real strong in other parts of Europe excluding the south as well.
So they've taken the new products and they've done some really creative promotions and they've really worked hard to offset the difficult market conditions in Europe.
And now moving to the global business.
The Professional Power Tools up 14% as John mentioned; consumer up 9%; hand tools and fastening was flat as new storage products and Black &amp; Decker Hand Tools strengths were offset by lower U.S.
sales as we exited some dilutive-margin promotion activity that we had engaged in last year.
What's really impressive to me is the profit rate 14.5% in the fourth quarter.
That's really strong for the fourth quarter for this type of business.
And as you will probably recall the margin rates have been pretty strong in CDIY all year.
And we think that -- as we enter 2013 with strong organic growth momentum that we have a new watermark for operating margin rate that represents a sustainable -- we think sustainable level with perhaps room for even further improvement.
In the home market that's firming up as we sit here today and a solid new product pipeline so we're pretty bullish on this segment for the future.
And then moving to Security and Industrial.
The story is -- it was articulated as basically weakness in Europe in both these businesses negatively impacted the growth and profitability in the segments.
Security had negative 3% organic growth and positive growth if -- albeit 1% but still a sea change in terms of performance in CSS North America and we're happy to see that.
Minus 5% in Europe.
And the Mechanical Access business which is primarily U.S.
was up 3%.
The operating margin rate in Security was 15.5% essentially flat down 20 basis points versus the prior year; and 17.3% excluding the Niscayah dilution that -- or rate dilution that occurs because of the lower rate.
Although the Niscayah integration is continuing to progress smoothly and they've essentially doubled their operating margin rate since the inception of that integration activity.
CSS overall was down 3% organically: North America up 1% and minus 5% in Europe.
And as I mentioned the Commercial Hardware organic sales were up in total 3%; and in North America 4%.
We have a very interesting business model shift going on in Mechanical Access in the U.S.
and that is that we're converting our direct business to be served by independent distributors which is freeing up our sales force for -- from the transactional activity to become much more hunters hunter-type activity.
And also this change enables us to really pursue more aggressively the commercial construction market which is heating up as we speak.
So that's the story for Security.
Industrial 16% operating margin rate down 40 basis points versus the prior year.
The operating leverage in Engineered Fastening continuing great performance there offset by the declines in IAR Europe.
And John talked about the numbers with IAR down 5% organically Engineered Fastening up 6% and infrastructure down 2% for a total of negative 1% organic growth.
Engineered Fastening at 6% positive was a good really good story when you put it in the context of the light vehicle production globally which contracted 1.5%.
And they also had a terrific performance in Europe being up 3% despite the issues on that continent.
And they also -- the team at Emhart also made terrific progress planning for the Infastech integration which we expect to -- the deal to close here over the next several weeks.
So all that very encouraging.
The infrastructure business.
The declines moderated so trend is getting better there.
And actually oil and gas that -- the larger part of the segment there -- or the subsegment was slightly positive organically reflecting what we think is a bottom in the U.S.
onshore market which is very encouraging.
In fact we see activity beginning to become -- pipeline activity beginning to generate very significant activity in the -- North America.
And then offshore remained strong.
The issue in -- that made the subsegment negative was the hydraulics business was down about 10% relying heavily on -- end market relying heavily on scrap steel which was a tough story in the latter half of the year.
So that's the segment information for this quarter.
Now I'd like to spend some time on the initiative that we as a team have been aggressively pursuing for about 6 months now.
And we think the #1 catalyst for positive reevaluation of the company in the stock market will be the demonstrated capacity of this team to achieve 4% to 6% organic growth which has been a long-standing objective of ours ever since John's arrival.
And if you average out the organic growth over the long term we've been running around 3% if you exclude 2009 which was a kind of an outlier of a year.
It will be about 1% if you included '09.
So we haven't really hit that objective.
And if you look at the last 5 years there's lots of external factors that have been attributable to that.
However we cannot accept the fact that the external environment a has been weak; and we cannot accept the lower performance just because the external environment has been weak.
And we don't really expect the external environment to be much better over the next 5 years with continued issues in Europe slow growth in the U.S.
and maybe somewhat slower but still robust growth in the emerging markets.
So as a team we've decided that we would take matters into our own hands and we would rev up our organic growth engine.
And a lot of the acquisition activity that we've pursued over the last few years has put us in a position where we're actually able to do that leveraging some of the value propositions that we've acquired and capabilities that we've acquired over the years.
So we have an initiative I've talked about it before which adds up internally to slightly over $1 billion of revenue over a 3-year period.
We're going to commit to $850 million which would give us the ability to tack on a couple of points of organic growth on top of the 1 to 2 to 3 that we kind of expect attributable to all our other activities and our core activities in these relatively slow markets.
So that's how we're going to get to 4% to 6%.
We're going to have these incremental activities that require some significant funding and a lot of execution.
So about $100 million of operating expense investment over the 3-year period with about $65 million of it this year and about $50 million of onetime CapEx is the price for implementing these programs.
I'm going to talk about emerging markets which is the single largest element of the $850 million at $350 million.
But first let me just quickly cover some of the other ones that add up to the other part of this major initiative.
Very exciting is the smart tools and storage element.
It's about $100 million; includes MRO vending tool-locating systems electronic can bonds [ph].
It leverages our CribMaster and AeroScout acquisitions.
And we've -- we're in the process now of adding about 40 sales executives primarily in the U.S.
but also in some other areas around the world.
That's under way and looking very very positive.
$150 million will come from health care and security verticals.
The acquisition of Niscayah and AeroScout enable us to take a whole new approach to health care where we can bring safety security efficiency and compliance to hospitals at a time when they sorely need it and in many cases are desperate for improvements in these areas.
It's just for health of their enterprises.
And we have the value proposition which is very very powerful and we've really developed it at this point in time.
And now it's incumbent upon us to take it to the market and start selling it.
And so we are adding about 75 account executives in health care and education which is also obviously in the security vertical a very very relevant place to be right now.
And these -- the hiring of these folks is well under way.
The value propositions are intact and I'm very confident that we'll get to the $150 million.
Then on the U.S.
government.
You might ask why go into the U.S.
government right now when the spending looks like it's going to go down about somewhere in the neighborhood of 5% to 10%? But the reality is as the -- as we look back in our market share with the U.S.
government over time we're kind of underweight in this area and we haven't attacked it in a very efficient manner over the years.
And so what we're finding is that we need to have feet on the street at the locations where things are actually purchased by the government and not necessarily just in Washington.
So we are putting about 20 people on the street to cover U.S.
government in the regional areas with focus on California the South and Virginia.
And we expect the U.S.
government sales to increase by about $100 million over a 3-year period.
And that will cover several of our different businesses including CDIY IAR the security business and health care.
And then we have offshore.
Offshore today has already been a great story somewhat masked by the weakness in onshore which as I mentioned is now subsiding.
And offshore is going to continue to grow.
It's about $100 million today.
It was about $20 million when we bought CRC.
And the latest chapter in that exciting story will have to do with 2 things and primary things.
One is building portable spool bases which is a -- kind of a revolutionary idea that our CRC folks came up with which helps the pipeline company save enormous amounts of money by moving the spool bases to where the oil is as opposed to just the fixed spool bases that exist today.
And then the other area is a major push into Malaysia where the offshore activity has increased dramatically over the last few years.
And we're in discussions now with the major producers pipeline companies in that area to implement a major growth program there.
And then the final part of this is just finishing up the Black &amp; Decker revenue synergies.
As John mentioned we're closing the book on the merger today so we won't be talking about that much more.
But we didn't want to lose sight of the last $50 million that -- of revenue synergies that we have planned for that and so we'll just track it and manage it using the process that we're using here to drive this organic growth engine.
And that process is basically taking the integration approach that we used so successfully over the years for our various acquisitions.
And using that kind of program management resource allocation tracking monitoring pulsing-type of an approach to ensure that we manage this organic growth initiative as tightly as we did those various acquisition integrations.
And that is under way and so far so good.
We feel real confident that we know what the status of each one of these initiatives is and that if we do run into issues that we'll know quickly and be able to respond quickly.
So all of these initiatives are up and running.
We will generate a minimum of $100 million of organic growth as a result of them in 2012 and then another $350 million to $400 million a year for the following 2 years after that.
And the thought is that once we get through this that we will have made enormous progress just like we did with the Stanley Fulfillment System in making this organic growth part of the fabric of the company and therefore changing the inherent structural organic growth rate of the company up into that 4% to 6% range which we think will have enormous value creation potential for the equity.
So let's move on to a little bit more color on what we're doing in the emerging markets.
And this is really a major step function change in the way that we're approaching emerging markets.
Historically we've managed the various regions of the world as very -- tight P&amp;L's with incremental investments generally made at the local level monitored by the businesses with input from the businesses but because of the tight P&amp;L management and most of these initiatives when you make the investments the payback is greater than 1 year so any time that there were external market issues or that type of thing there was frequently kind of pulling back on the incremental investment.
And we still -- despite the fact that we only made incremental investment we still have terrific growth from the emerging markets.
And today they represent about 15% of the company.
They typically have grown over the last 5 years about 20%.
Last year was slightly lower than that as they have slowed down a little but they continue to be major growth drivers.
They continue to have above-line-average operating margins.
So roughly in the neighborhood of 20%.
It will be -- operating margin will go down slightly as we make some major funding commitments but it will still be well above company line average.
So we have funded a major push.
As I mentioned the totals that we're spending this year will be about $65 million.
And a good half of that -- slightly more than half of that will be spent on the emerging markets where we're going to add about 1 000 commercial resources over the next 3 years.
And that as I said is well under way.
We're also moving the management of these various markets from a business-led center of gravity with generally speaking U.S.
headquarters to a regional-led center of gravity led by one individual who was appointed in the fourth quarter Jaime Ramirez who ran our Latin American business for -- first with Black &amp; Decker and then with Stanley Black &amp; Decker and grew it from $200 million to about $900 million over an 8-year period.
He is a proven veteran who has aggressive growth track record and also strong profitability management and people management.
So he's the right guy he's on board.
He's about 4 months into  or excuse me 3 months into his planning process.
He's got his organization assembled and we're off and running.
We're also moving from high-price-point Western-designed products which only cover about 10% to 20% of the market to mid-price-point products which will be designed locally which address about 70% of the market.
Now the high-price-point products will continue to sell because over time we'd like to move our MPP customers up into the high-price-point products.
But that -- the heartland of the market right now in the emerging markets is the MPP.
And these products need to be designed locally by local engineers who are in touch with local market customs and local market needs.
So we have formed 3 renew SBUs with global emerging markets responsibility because one thing we have found is that although there are nuances from region to region many of the products across all these markets are very very similar.
And so at late-point identification we can have a relatively streamlined product structure.
And those 3 SBUs are in power tools hand tools and Commercial Hardware.
And then the other thing that we're going to do is we're going to go from a limited MPP line which we talked about but we're -- much of which is sourced and we're going to go to a much more of an in-house manufactured line in the emerging markets and for the emerging markets with local plants that are dedicated to local markets.
We can't have high-cost plants that serve the West even though they're located in the emerging markets serve the local markets because we can't get to the right cost structure.
So we will have several new plants.
We started that with the opening of an Indian plant last year.
And we'll have plants in China and Turkey.
We'll expand our plant in Brazil.
And we'll continue to build plants as necessary as the volume begins to build up.
This will not require enormous capital expenditures.
There will be a combination of small acquisitions and relatively small capital expenditures for these plants.
We're also moving from an under-resourced commercial organization in the emerging markets to a very significant troop movement with feet on the street sized to the market opportunity and over 1 000 commercial resources to be added.
And you might say "Well that -- what does that mean in the context of what you have now?" And it will be more than doubling the resources that we have in those markets today.
So just to give you some context.
And then finally we're going from separate CDIY and IAR efforts in Tools and Storage to one unified effort focused on growth.
Now as a company we are the only one with power tools and hand tools.
We're also the only tool company with strength in both the CDIY and the IAR channels.
And it's very interesting when you get into these markets the channels become very blurred between CDIY and IAR.
So instead of spending a lot of time trying to figure out how to take our structure and account for it and manage it in a way that isn't a natural fit with the markets we're going to leverage the advantages that we have the power tools the hand tools the CDIY the IAR.
And we've constructed an internal JV which will take the best elements of CDIY's aspects and IAR's and it will be managed by the leader of the region.
And there'll be no time wasted on internal things like trying to sort out who gets credit for what it will simply be focused on growing in the marketplace which will help us drive these powerful results.
So this is a pivotal moment in our company's evolution in my view.
I think in the past we've demonstrated prowess in cost control acquisition integration deal execution working capital management so on.
But as I mentioned earlier our organic growth has been okay but not superior not an outperformance let's say for what it could be.
And that's despite the fact that we've more than quadrupled the size of the company over the last 10 years and now we're going to add organic growth to the fabric of our culture.
And I think it'll be a very very positive thing for our employees and our stockholders.
I'll turn it over to Don now for the rest of the financial presentation.
Thank you Jim.
So I'd like to start with a review of free cash flow on Page 13.
As you can see our free cash flow performance was very strong in 2012.
One thing I would like to highlight though is this financial statement is a little different than what you've seen in the P&amp;L which excludes HHI.
The cash flow statement actually has the impact of HHI in it for the majority of the year.
However it does not reflect the full year cash flow performance for HHI because we did close the transaction in the early to mid-December.
And as a result there's roughly $30 million of loss in cash flow associated with HHI.
So when you adjust for that our performance was about $1.1 billion $1.1 billion and compared to the $1.60 billion (sic) [$1.06 billion] that you see here on the page.
One thing I would like to point out as well is that our working capital performance as John mentioned was very very strong up to 7.5 from 7.2 in the prior year which generated in the fourth quarter almost $350 million of free cash flow.
It was slightly short of our expectation.
We expected it to be slightly above $400 million of free cash flow in the fourth quarter as I mentioned back in October.
And naturally the gap that you see the $1.1 billion versus our guidance of $1.2 billion.
That all set aside is fantastic performance in free cash flow overall 2 years in a row in excess of $1 billion and it continues to be a strong part of the story for our company.
Couple of items to note as well here on this page.
There's a large gain associated with HHI that's included here and we're actually backing that out.
So it's included in that income and then it's backed out so it doesn't affect the operating cash flow.
A very tax-efficient transaction selling HHI which I think most of you are aware of.
The growth -- the pretax gain was almost $390 million and the tax effect -- or effective tax rate was $25 million.
So a very nice story there with less than 10% tax paid on the gain associated with that transaction.
And then the last item to mention would be our CapEx.
CapEx was relatively in-line about 2.5% of our revenue for the year.
And we would expect that going into 2013 we'd see a similar trend in the percentage of revenue as well.
So the last takeaway on free cash flow is that we feel this is definitely a differentiator for our company.
We'll continue to focus on working capital improvement going forward.
As you know we have a road to get to 10 working capital turns and we still feel there's many areas of improvement that are available in our businesses.
So with that I'd like to move to 2013 outlook.
For EPS we expect to be between $5.40 and $5.65 for the year which would be a 16% to 21% EPS growth versus 2012.
Let me walk you through some of the assumptions associated with that.
First organic growth.
Organic growth we expect to be up 2% to 3% which would be an accretive impact in EPS of anywhere from $0.00 to $0.15.
Breaking that down into a little more detail: The core businesses we would expect to grow somewhere between 1% to 2% so relatively consistent with the performance that we saw in 2012 which adds accretion of $0.15 to $0.30 EPS.
As Jim touched on briefly the organic growth initiatives will yield about 1 point of revenue in 2013.
However they will be slightly dilutive to EPS $0.15 specifically as we make investments to ensure that we can achieve $850 million of revenue in 3 years and $200 million of operating margin in that same time frame.
It's more of a timing issue and it's something just to be cognizant as we make these investments and ensure that we're successful over the next 3 years with this growth initiative.
The next area would be cost synergies associated with 2 -- our 2 larger acquisitions BDK and Niscayah.
As we close the book on BDK we do still have some revenue synergies that Jim touched on to execute on in 2013 as well.
It's $50 million of cost synergies.
That will have a cumulative effect of $500 million of BDK cost synergies and really close the book on that transaction.
$35 million of Niscayah synergies which is year 2.
And we continue to progress forward with really trying to achieve an OM rate above line average for Niscayah within our Security segment.
$0.20 EPS accretion associated with Infastech.
So it's slightly better than the $0.15 that we provided 3 months ago.
We -- the transaction has not closed at this point.
We do expect that it likely will close hopefully before February 1.
But if for some reason that doesn't happen due to the regulatory approval process in China specifically then we'll provide an update accordingly as needed.
Carryover effect of our cost actions from 2012 we expect to be $0.15 which is slightly lower than our October view as we've allowed some customer-facing headcount and TD adds to come back into the system to make sure that we drive organic growth.
The next area is associated with the share repurchase.
So as you know a large part of the funds of -- with the HHI divestiture were going to utilized to repurchase shares.
We entered into an accelerated share repurchase program in early December that was executed on post the closing of HHI.
As a result approximately 80% of the $850 million share repurchase which is up from the $700 million we originally communicated was executed on in late December.
Then as a result 9.3 million shares were retired associated with that at a cost that's in the low 70s from a stock price perspective.
The remainder of the 20% of the $850 million will be executed on in the second quarter with the total EPS impact will be a positive $0.37 for 2013 resulting in an average shares outstanding as you can see of 155.9 million.
Then we have several other areas that net to a neutral impact that we touched on before such as FX prices inflation -- pricing inflation the negative mix carryover effect that we experienced in 2012 and then some positive impacts from some smaller acquisitions such as Powers AeroScout et cetera.
All that will be net neutral to 2013.
The next area is tax and I'd like to clarify a few things in tax especially related to 2012 before I walk through the guidance.
Our tax rate in 2012 for the year was 19.8%.
That's on a continuing operations basis.
If you include HHI in our results for the year the tax rate would've been 22% which is right in line with our guidance of 22% to 23% that we provided in January and reinforced throughout the year as well as in October.
The Q4 associated rate with that 22% was 17% again in line with our expectations.
So I just want to make sure I clarify that because there were a few questions earlier this morning related to the tax rate in 2012 which was in line with our guidance expectations.
So what does that mean going into 2013? Well we do expect our tax rate to increase in 2013 to 23% to 24% which does create a headwind in EPS as you can see of $0.20 to $0.30.
Why is that? Well in the last 2 years we've had some significant tax audit settlements in 2011.
Those settlements were over $100 million $105 million specifically.
And in 2012 they were approximately $42 million.
When you adjust the effect of those onetime items the tax rate is between 23% and 24% for those years which is really the new base for us going forward.
We've settled a lot of the old years associated with tax audits and we are current now.
And we don't expect to have large settlements as we move forward.
And it's a good base rate for our company as you model it into the future.
And then the last item which is more mechanical in nature.
We do have a headwind associated with higher interest and a little bit in Other.
The interest is associated primarily with increased debt related to Infastech that we'll experience throughout the year.
Although we will bring that down as the year closes but we will -- it will spike throughout the year which will drive some additional interest expense in 2013.
So the last thing to mention is free cash flow.
We expect free cash flow to be approximately $1 billion in 2013 which is slightly down from the number I just reviewed for 2012 but let me walk you through that math.
In 2012 our free cash flow was $1.60 billion (sic) [$1.06 billion] and within that approximately was $150 million of HHI free cash flow.
So we backed that out as that won't exist but then we have free cash flow coming in from Infastech which will be approximately $90 million.
That gets you right on that $1 billion number for 2013.
And there is a modest working capital turn improvement in it as well.
So let's move to the next page and a little more clarity in some of the seasonality and geographical aspects of our guidance.
First of all seasonality.
As all of you know our first quarter tends to be one of our lower-performance quarters from a volume perspective and it is slightly higher from a tax rate perspective.
We expect the first quarter will represent about 17.5% of our full year EPS which is slightly below our historical number of 18% to 19% which goes back in looking at the combined company for the last 6 years.
And it really is driven as I mentioned primarily by volume.
We tend to see anywhere from $150 million to $250 million less revenue in Q1 versus the average revenue we experienced through Q2 Q3 and Q4.
The other factor is that we are making the investments in these corporate growth initiatives that are very important to achieving our 4% to 6% long-term growth objective.
They are front-end loaded and so we will experience a little bit of a dilutive impact in Q1 and Q2 in particular that will cause a little more pressure to this historical percentage that I just provided.
And as a result we think the 17.5% is a reasonable estimate.
Shifting over to geographic view.
North America we expect this to continue to see low-single-digit organic growth.
We do think that we will continue to see the benefit of early-stage recovery in the U.S.
residential construction market.
We saw a little bit of that in our CDIY business in 2012 with a 5% organic growth in North America.
And we would expect those types of trends to continue as we go into 2013.
They will be slightly muted by a slower recovery in our security and industrial markets.
However overall we do expect low-single-digit growth in North America.
Europe slightly better performance than we experienced in 2012 but not dramatically.
We still think we'll see low-single-digit organic revenue declines primarily in our Industrial and Security businesses while our CDIY or our construction markets will remain relatively flat.
And in emerging markets low-teens organic revenue growth so somewhat consistent with what we experienced in 2012.
But we'll actually start to see that improve more as the year goes on and as those organic growth initiatives that Jim reviewed really start to impact the top line.
And then the last thing on the page is just reinforcing what we mentioned related to the organic growth initiatives impact.
As you know there was a negative impact in 2012 with $15 million as we started the investment process.
It's $65 million in 2013 with a negative drag of about $30 million in 2013 or that $0.15 EPS I mentioned.
The end result 3 years now is we still expect $850 million of revenue associated with this program incremental with $200 million of incremental OM which is approximately a 25% OM rate significantly above our line average.
Jim touched on the associated operating expenses and CapEx investments that we'll make over that time frame as well.
So on Page 16 a little more clarity around the segments.
First of all CDIY we do believe we'll see mid-single-digit organic revenue growth so somewhat consistent with what we experienced in 2012.
The new products that we continue to introduce really allow us to increase the momentum in North America and grow in emerging markets and outpace any sluggishness that we really experience in Europe which we expect to be relatively flat performance in Europe.
The OM rate will increase slightly year-over-year due to cost synergies but there will be a bit of a drag on the OM rate temporarily due to some of these investments in growth initiatives that we've touched on.
In Security we do expect a shift from a declining situation to flat to low-single-digit growth in the Security segment in 2013 as modest growth continues to improve in North America.
And we'll be able to offset the continued low-digit growth that we would expect to see in Europe in a difficult market over there.
The operating margin rate will increase year-over-year due to cost synergies as well as carryover of some of the cost-containment actions that I touched on earlier.
And in Industrial flat to low-single-digit organic revenue growth is expected in our Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair tool business.
We would say relatively flat as we see growth in North America that is offsetting a continued weakness expected in Europe.
In Engineered Fastening we would expect low-single-digit growth as global light-vehicle production continues to slow modestly and we would expect our business to be modestly impacted as well but continuing to show growth.
And then operating margin rate will actually decrease slightly for Industrial due to 2 things: one the addition of Infastech which is slightly below line average to start but we would expect that it would get above line average as we get deeper into the integration process; and then some of the investments I mentioned on the growth initiatives as well.
So growth in CDIY will likely outpace Security and Industrial and then we'll see some nice operating rate expansion in both CDIY and Security.
So in summary to summarize the presentation portion of the call this morning we do think 2013 will be another solid step towards achieving our mid-decade vision with 2% to 3% organic growth beginning to make investments associated with the growth initiatives and 16% to 20% EPS expansion associated with that.
Looking back at 2012 it was a transformational year for our company.
We divested a business HHI.
That was very successful but we had concerns about the long-term strategic aspects of it.
We announced the acquisition of a wonderful company Infastech that we believe will be a great addition to our portfolio and ultimately drive a significant amount of organic growth and operating margin rate accretion over the long term.
We increased our dividend 20%.
And we were able to repurchase $200 million of stock over and above the HHI repurchases we commenced in late December of 2012.
The organic growth initiative programs have commenced in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We do believe $850 million of incremental revenue and $200 million of incremental OM will be achieved by 2015 and will allow us to reach that 4% to 6% long-term organic growth goal.
Without relying on macro and economic environment that could be difficult over the next 2 to 3 years.
In addition we have made a tactical pause in significant M&amp;A in 2013 outside of some bolt-ons that we'll do in emerging markets to help us accelerate our organic growth over the long term.
But the long-term capital allocation strategy remains the same: Still 2/3 of our free cash flow will be dedicated to acquisitions and 1/3 going back to the shareholders through dividends or opportunistic buybacks as appropriate.
It also allows us to enable a more laser focus on the organic growth and to facilitate our ability to continue to improve our CFROI and allow it to move into the middle of that target range we look for 12% to 15% in 2013.
The Stanley Fulfillment System really allows us to drive a lot of the things that we're doing.
We saw the benefits again in working capital in 2012.
Jim touched on how we think it will begin to allow us to drive more organic growth in the company.
And we feel good that 2013 will be another solid step towards our mid-decade vision.
Lorraine we're ready for the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Dan Oppenheim with Credit -- from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You talked a lot about the -- sort of the organic growth but I was wondering about the CDIY.
You talked about the operating margin to increase slightly with the cost synergies.
You're doing a great job in terms of looking at sort of pricing incentives there to help margins slightly.
Is there further opportunity that you have there in '13 and beyond as we think about margins in that? Yes I -- this is Don.
I think the -- 2013 for CDIY will continue to be a nice year of mid-single-digit organic growth us focused on more margin accretion related to the cost synergies.
But it's also important to recognize that we do want to make sure that these growth investments are in place and begin to get a impact in the back half of 2013.
So that will mute clearly the operating margin rate expansion to some extent.
But going forward as far as looking at this business and operating margin rate we do see -- still see opportunity for further expansion.
And I think one of the bigger areas will be our ability to focus on these organic growth programs in emerging markets.
If you look at the incremental operating margin rate it's 25 associated with these growth initiatives.
A large part of that is impacting CDIY.
And so even if we do see price pressure in certain areas overall I do believe that we'll be able to continue to expand operating margin rate.
And our next question is from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You spent a lot of time talking about the emerging markets opportunity and your approach to it but I did have one additional question.
You -- we talked about opening up a few different plants.
I gather these are probably going to be relatively small mostly assembly oriented but I wanted to confirm that.
And when you talk about opening up an Indian plant and expanding Brazil and maybe China and Turkey as well I was wondering if you could be a little more specific about which countries you were thinking about prioritizing particularly as it relates to opening up plants this year.
Sure Steve.
First of all you're right about the plants being relatively small.
There's no need to build monuments at this point in time.
And the key for these plants is to keep the overhead down because the competitors don't have high overhead and some of our plants in the emerging markets that serve the Western markets have a lot more overhead than the local plants of competitors serving the local markets.
So there is a very important element of that which is keeping the overhead down.
It's really a different approach.
We have to have the -- kind of the Western-company mentality in terms of compliance with regulations and all those sorts of things and environmental and so on but we cannot have the Western mentality as it relates to the overhead in the plants.
So relatively small and typical investment for something -- for a plant of this nature would be in the neighborhood of around $10 million.
And then the other question that's in terms of prioritization: Interestingly when we look at the emerging markets and -- 70% we think of the growth in the tool and hardware industry over the next 20 years is going to come from the emerging markets in our view.
And when we look at where the growth is going to come from we can start with the BRICs.
That'll be about 1/3.
And then there's the Next 11 headlined by Turkey and Indonesia.
That'll be another 1/3 the Next 11.
And then all the other countries after that will be the last 1/3.
So a strategy to go in and just serve the BRICs or China and India or even -- or something like that really won't get the kind of fast-mover advantage that we think we can have here and it certainly won't capitalize on the opportunities.
So unlike many initiatives where you say "Okay let's just focus on the 80% rule " here you have to have a layered strategy.
And we've got terrific infrastructure already in Latin America.
So when you look at the BRICs for us it's really Russia India and China.
In China clearly we will have a plant serving the local market plant or plants.
We have one in India already.
We may have another one at some point in time.
And then Russia Russia you don't need a plant.
Russia can basically import from China very cost effectively.
There's no competitor that has a plant in Russia that -- of any material size.
So that kind of covers the BRICs.
Then you start getting into Indonesia and Turkey.
Presumably at some point we'll have a plant in Turkey.
Not -- it's not a top priority but it's something that we're obviously looking at and working on.
And maybe in Indonesia.
The rest of the Next 11 can be served from the plant infrastructure that I just talked about.
And then certainly the last 1/3 the strategy to go into those countries will be quite different than it will be for the BRICs and the Next 11.
It will be a far less-intensive approach and more -- it'll be much more of a kind of an import model into those countries until they develop over time.
So for instance Africa is going to be incredibly important in the future but it probably will be 10 years before we can justify a major thrust into Africa with plants and the whole nine yards of infrastructure.
And our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question about your outlook for Security in 2013 specifically in North America.
I believe you're looking for modest growth to be offset mostly or completely by Europe.
I was wondering if you could go into the growth drivers in North America for Security.
And I think over time Security in general has been looked at as a higher-growth opportunity as you've pieced it together over the last 10 years through different acquisitions.
And I -- maybe first talk about 2013 drivers what's working for you what's maybe still an opportunity and additionally how the growth in Security in North America has played out over the last few years relative to your expectations.
Yes I'll take that Mike.
There's some level of granularity we're not going to provide on this call.
But I think we've been fairly public.
Remember our -- you know well our Security business in general and North American business in particular is overwhelmingly commercial.
About 20% to 25% of that business is driven by non-residential or commercial construction.
That's the biggest driver.
About another 15% is retail construction.
And as Jim pointed out while commercial construction is improving from a very low base we still don't anticipate for that to be a robust market.
So what's slowed down the growth of that business the last 2 or 3 years is quite frankly the complete lack of any commercial construction activity or certainly the reduction in commercial construction activity.
And we do need new commercial construction to get the new accounts to prime the pump to generate the recurring revenue that is so important to that business.
The opportunities though are in areas such as -- where we're less developed such as health care which as you know is an important small but emerging high-growth business for us that we report within our Security business.
And with the acquisition of Niscayah particularly in North America the Niscayah team is -- was very well positioned.
It has tremendous vertical market expertise in the financial and banking sectors.
That's 2 areas where up until now we had very very little business.
And we think that we have the opportunity to grow in those areas irrespective of market conditions.
So you got a commercial construction market that is anything but robust but we think it'll be a little better than -- it'll be no worse than prior years with the upside opportunities in health care financial institutions all other things a very little change from prior years.
Yes and I'll take a stab at kind of adding something to that which is we've done as a company I think 70 acquisitions over a 10-year period.
And of those the vast majority have been in Security.
And they have been all-consuming into -- for the management team.
When we bought into what we thought was a high-growth market and in normal -- under normal circumstances historically it has been both from a secular point of view given the importance of Security growing and so forth and also just from the standpoint of being a technologically driven market that has a lot of innovation and value-creating change going on within the industry.
So it is a high-growth market.
It has been depressed by commercial construction over the years.
But the key to growing in -- and outperforming vis--vis the market regardless of what size the market is at any point in time or growth rate it has is to have differentiated value propositions.
And what I would say we did over the course of building the Security business was we assembled all the pieces that are required to provide differentiated value propositions to various industry verticals so for instance health care education financial services government the global customer that wants to be served in a global fashion like an industrial or that type of organization.
So we have all these pieces.
And one of the thoughts behind the hiatus that we went on in July was that we're not getting above-market growth in Security.
And in order to do so we have to spend the time and focus the same people that have are -- have been focused on doing over approximately 50 acquisitions and focus them on organic growth and taking with we have and maximizing it.
And I just got back from a sales meeting from North America Security where they had every commercial person in the organization gathered in one location and they have gotten to the point now where they've been able to take these value propositions that I've discussed here and now commercializing them -- in the process of commercializing them.
I've never seen in the Security business a more charged-up sales force than we have right now because they finally have what they need to grow and they're going to go out and do it.
So I would suggest that we are totally on the right track in terms of growth in the Security business.
We have -- if you look back you can certainly argue that it hasn't been what we'd hoped for but I'm very confident that it will be on a prospective basis.
And our next question comes from Rich Kwas from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Had a question on the Security longer term on the margin.
So you're around 15% 16% right now.
What's the progression to get to that -- back to that high-teens rate? I think John you referenced you're going to need some macro strength on the commercial construction market retail construction market.
But other than that is there anything that would prevent you from getting there over a 2- to 3-year period? The answer is -- Don's going to give you a little more granularity Rich.
But remember Niscayah is a big piece of that now.
It's way below line average margin.
That being said we've increased the Niscayah operating margin between 500 and 800 basis points.
So part of it is simply math as the Niscayah represents almost 40% of our Security segment now and the margins continue to increase.
But I'll ask Don to give you just a little more granularity than that.
Yes Rich if you look at -- obviously Jim reviewed the Q4 performance where you had that segment it was 15.5% but without Niscayah it was closer to 17.3%.
So clearly the underlying business is still kind of in that 17% to 19% range that we're striving for in this business.
And in the third quarter it was closer to the 19% number when you excluded Niscayah.
So it really comes down to our continued execution on the cost synergies in Niscayah and a combination of making sure that some of these growth initiatives -- although Jim didn't go through as much detail and the ones in Security but there are certainly some significant growth initiatives in the world of Security as well in that $850 million that will allow us to stimulate more volume growth which ultimately will help us leverage the cost base and ultimately drive those percentages in that range of 17% to 19% with an average of probably about 18%.
I mean I really believe that this business based on its current makeup is in that category and it's more of a timing issue over the next few years.
Rich and I'll remind you of one more thing.
I know you're aware of this but remind you and I think it's important for everyone else on the call this business overall more on the mechanical than the convergent side does have a little bit of seasonality.
And historically if you go back in time you're looking at a couple hundred basis points lower margins in the first and fourth calendar quarters a lot of reasons.
We've discussed them and more -- better margins in the second and third quarter.
It's purely due to seasonality.
And so as you're looking at that long-term margins take a 12-month look and project forward.
And be careful projecting off a quarter because I would argue that second and third quarter flatters our margins a little bit and first and fourth quarter depresses them somewhat artificially due to seasonality.
And our next question comes from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James.
This is Josh filling in for Sam.
A quick clarification before my main question.
You said Niscayah was 40% of Security segment sales in 2012? It's -- well remember you take out HHI and add Niscayah it's almost 50% of what's now remaining.
50% of the remaining.
And then shifting gears to the Infastech acquisition.
Could you give us some color if possible on what's going on to delay the timing in there and why there might be risk to the close before February? There's -- simply said it's factors really beyond our control.
China has a very methodical antitrust believe it or not approval process.
We've done everything we can do.
We are in the queue and simply said any acquisition is very very thoroughly reviewed and that we see little or no risk.
As I'm sure you're aware Chinese New Year which starts in mid-February things do slow down a lot so I believe there is an incentive on the authority side to get that behind them prior to Chinese New Year.
And obviously there's an incentive for us to get it done.
But what our advisers tell us is we've done everything we can do.
It's in good hands.
It's going through a very normal and expected albeit a slow approval process.
But we don't see any -- there's -- there are no numerical activities or issues it's just a question of time.
Yes exactly.
There's no reason...
So 100 -- 99.9% probability of closing.
The question is purely on timing if that helps.
And our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Two questions kind of related to the longer-term targets that are intertwined.
The first is on the ROCE target of 15% can you just tell us what that is today or what that was in '12 and how you guys calculate that? And then relative to the 4% to 6% organic growth target for the whole company how would North America look in -- within that target range? Yes I would say the ROCE at the end of 2012 was about 10.5%.
And Kate can send you the details of the calculation because it's not exactly clear cut.
But it's relatively consistent with what you would expect with an ROI calculation with some adjustments for after-tax interest and amortization in some cases.
So when we look at that and we say "How are we going to get that to 15%?" We clearly think that we'll get a significant improvement in 2013 just from the fact that we won't be doing any significant acquisitions.
And we'll continue to show significant earnings improvement with almost 20% EPS growth in that time frame.
And so we would expect probably almost a 2-point improvement in 2013 from that level.
The associated CFROI or cash flow return on investment at the end of 2012 was about 12%.
And so there's about a 2-point -- 1.5- to 2-point gap between ROCE and CFROI and that's probably due to the intangible amortization that we experienced through a lot of these noncash expenses through the acquisitions that we've done over the last 8 years.
And we would expect a similar result in there where that would improve probably 1.5 to 2 points as well in 2013.
And so we feel like we're on track to really move that forward and both those ratios getting them in that 12% to 15% band even ROCE probably in 2013.
In North America it's likely going to be a little bit higher than the line average for the whole company but we don't have -- we don't exactly do a precise calculation...
North America was not on revenue.
It was on organic growth not on ROCE up to 4% to 6% organic growth.
Yes I mean the 4% to 6% organic growth in North America I would say that that's probably -- when you look at that over the long term I would say that you're probably still looking at a couple of points of growth frankly in North America.
And so the bulk of the growth is going to come I would imagine in emerging markets over the long term.
Yes if we can get the core growth rate in North America to 2% to 3% the 4% to 6% is very achievable.
And just -- because it is 50% of our volume yes.
And just one other thought on the ROCE and the cash flow return on investment.
The ROCE for us over the years has become disconnected from the cash flow return on investment because of our acquisitive activity and the amortization that's associated with it.
It's really -- I mean for those of -- that are familiar and have studied it it's really more of a book income concept than it is a cash income concept.
And we're evaluating -- as a management team right now we're evaluating moving to more of a cash flow return investment view because it actually is more relevant to our business today because our cash earnings are substantially higher than our book earnings.
And we are going to discuss that at the -- at our next analyst meeting which will occur sometime in the middle of the year date to be announced.
So we'll have more on that but I think cash flow return on investment is increasingly more relevant to measuring the return on investment of this company.
And our next question comes from Ken Zener from KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
The 17% -- or just to begin to address this the 17% EPS in 1Q compares to 22% EBIT mix last year so if there's any outlying driver if you could address that briefly.
But with Niscayah because it's such a large piece of the business could you update us where we are in the transition? If I think about HSM the reverse integration that you did you were sloughing off low-margin install business as you transition to a more a recurring revenue mix.
Can you highlight the challenges and successes you've faced in that relative to the economic stress that we've had? Yes I will address the Niscayah while Don racks his brain and tries to figure out the answer to your other question.
Research Division</strong> It's seems -- the EBIT mix is lower.
Well we've owned Niscayah something like 16 months now.
And when we bought it it was one of those -- it was a contested situation.
So we didn't have the normal opportunity to go in and vet the management team thoroughly like we would with a uncontested transaction.
And so the hope was that we were going to get some good people at the headquarters and that we were going to be able to take our basic business processes that we have in North America and implement them in Europe in fairly short order.
And what we found was that we had strong country managers in -- for the most part in Niscayah which was good but we also found that the centralized management team was quite weak in Europe.
We...
[indiscernible] country managers in the U.S.
as well.
Yes yes yes.
So in any event yes I -- well everything I've said thus far relates to Europe.
And we'll talk about North America separately.
So we put a Stanley leader in charge of the business.
He replaced the entire management team within about 4 months after ownership and they have gotten great traction.
And they have outperformed their cost synergies.
And now they're really focused on growing the business in a tough environment.
One of the challenges with Niscayah was that from a growth perspective in addition to the environment was the fact that a fairly significant percentage of their revenue came from referrals from Securitas because they were -- at one time Securitas and Niscayah were part of the same company and then they were spun Niscayah was spun from the parent.
And they still had a symbiotic relationship because Niscayah was the electronic business and Securitas was the guarding business.
And so when a customer needed electronics they were referred over to Niscayah.
So we've had to kind of fill that -- the gap there in the revenue that no longer comes from Securitas because they were the ones that we contested the acquisition with so they're not the -- they're not our friendliest allies out there in the marketplace.
So I think the management team has done a fabulous job when you think about the revenue being down about 5% on the average this last year organically of filling the gap for the lost business from Securitas as well as dealing with a difficult market in Europe.
And they're -- it's very stable.
They're going to perform at or above the cost synergy targets.
And the acquisition is going to drive every bit of return that we thought it would.
And in addition to that it has really enabled us to be a global security franchise.
We're really one -- we're really the only commercial security company in the world that can coordinate globally now which is a big advantage.
So all that is a good story.
It's a tough environment.
We bought it right before the European market issues were manifested.
However we expected that we anticipated that.
And so I think in the end this is going to be a terrific acquisition.
It's -- the operating margins are about double what they were when we bought it now and moving on up again this year as well.
So it's all in pretty good place.
The North American piece I think was for the most part a pleasant surprise in the sense that -- I talked earlier about these value propositions and the verticals and so forth.
They brought in North America great strength in these verticals.
So they had a vertical market approach in North America.
They were relatively subscale but they managed to do quite well with their business despite that because they have such strong vertical value propositions.
We've taken those and we've now integrated them with the commercial force in North America which has given us an advantage we think in the marketplace especially as we pursue these organic growth initiatives.
So I think on balance we're very happy with Niscayah.
It would have been better if the public relations aspect of this buying a European company hadn't occurred 2 months before the Europe went into a deep freeze but nonetheless we anticipated that.
We have it all built into our pro formas and it's going to be a great acquisition.
It already is.
Yes just one final point Ken on Niscayah and Jim touched on it -- 2 points I think just to close the loop because the last thing we'd want to leave is any impression that the integration thus far has been anything but a terrific success that we're completely satisfied more than satisfied with the acquisitions and what it does for us.
But the first point Jim made and an important one: We normally hit the ground with our feet running 90 days before closing.
And simply said the integration process started on closing because it was a contested public acquisition of a public company.
We're on schedule.
We just started 3 to 6 months later than we normally are allowed to start.
Second Jim referenced North America and subscale great franchises.
Only 15% of the business is in North America but upwards of 30% of the synergies came from North America because we were able to consolidate as Jim suggested and address that subscale issue.
Don you've got a -- you got a view on the calendarization of EBIT? Yes.
So the answer to the question Ken is as I mentioned 17.5% of our total EPS will happen in Q1 which is slightly below when you look at the historical trends.
There's a couple of factors.
When you look at Q1 last year our operating margin for Q1 represented about 22% of the total year operating margin which is close to the EBIT number or EBITDA number you were mentioning.
In this year we would expect that operating margin number to actually be closer to 20% of the total for the year in Q1.
Why is there a difference? Well the real -- the main difference frankly is these investments we're making in growth.
As I touched on we do have a dilutive impact for the year.
The bigger part of that dilutive impact happens in Q1 and it begins to moderate as we get into Q2 and starts to flatten out in Q3.
So that's the driver associated with that.
And then the other area would be in the area of interest and tax.
So we will -- our interest will spike as I mentioned due to the Infastech transaction temporarily throughout the year.
We will see that happen initially in Q1 and then begin to work its way down as the year goes on.
And then in addition to that the tax rate we did have a modest tax benefit in Q1 of last year that's also affecting that that we don't expect to repeat.
And our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
Could you elaborate on the roadmap or experience you've had in the past with the mid-price-point product that gives you visibility that you can gain share and achieve a 35% gross profit margin without bringing in more price competition from the people that you're taking the share from? Yes I think it's as simple as -- and I think Jim described it pretty well.
We are familiar enough with the end markets that we understand the features that people will pay for and they won't.
And our history with a product that was successful at lower margins was quite frankly we were up.
I'll use the not-so-elegant term of dummying down products produced for the West by taking cost out to get to a price point where it would sell.
The new approach and it's a pervasive effort across our company of designing to value what will -- what product teardowns? What will an end user pay for? What does he value and what does he not value? So simply it's reengineering these products from a clean sheet of paper as opposed to trying to just take cost out of a higher-cost product produced with more features and benefits for a market that it wasn't designed for.
And as Jim said to do that we need basically a 0-base or clean-sheet engineering approach which we've invested in and that's part of the investment that Jim alluded to.
And secondly we need to produce it locally in plants.
They're going to be -- they're certainly going to be capable -- not capable they will adhere to Western EH&amp;S standards.
Some of them are already our plants but with a lot less overhead a lot less infrastructure than some of the plants designed to produce premium-priced products in low-cost countries but to export to Western markets.
So the combination of designed for local market needs and produced in local markets will give us a tremendous edge and this is something we've got a lot of experience with.
We know what the price points are in the market.
So we're beyond cautiously optimistic.
We're confident that this approach is going to yield the kind of results we're looking for.
And in addition to all that we have looked at a number of companies that do this and in terms of business development activity.
And I can tell you that their income statements and their cash flow statements and so forth when you consider what -- the things that we know and the synergies that we can bring to that sort of business model we -- there is an existence theorem.
And I think it's really important because what John described was now 80% to 90% the theory of the case but we have examples in the emerging markets of business development targets that we've looked at that can get there and so we know it can be done.
And our next question comes from Jason Feldman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Thank you for the detail on the strategic growth initiatives.
It was very helpful.
But when we think about those organic growth initiatives as you kind of stretch to get to the 4% to 6% long-term organic growth range do we need to start thinking about incremental margins differently as kind of an ongoing structural basis? Or do you view these kind of upfront initial investments as more kind of onetime-ish in nature and then ultimately will kind of get back to the incremental margins that you've targeted historically? Yes the organic growth has the ability to drive operating leverage in the company.
So while there will be some investments the investments for the most part are simply the operating expense that kind of goes with the gross margin in order to get a certain contribution margin.
In some cases if we're building a plant and so forth there will be some additional fixed costs.
But I would say that we fully expect the emerging market element of this to be overall rate accretive to the company even with all of those investments very quickly.
So it'll be a net positive for operating margins over the long term for the company from the emerging markets.
And then most of the other thing that we're doing are very much relying on existing plant existing facilities.
We're adding salespeople for the most part commercialization people.
That is going to be more incremental at the contribution margin line based on what we do today.
And in most of these initiatives we're -- as you walk through them in many cases you'll see that every one of them has a specific value proposition associated with it.
And we're big believers in that the stronger the value proposition the more you can get paid for something.
And we're very much interested in value-pricing these as we go forward.
And our next question comes from Eric Bosshard from Cleveland Research.
The -- you -- I think hand tools you commented were flat in the quarter which related to you walking away from some of the lower-margin business.
I'm curious as you look at '12 and '13 how you look at the market share performance of hand tools and what you see going on inside of that business.
Yes I would say that John articulated us walking away from business which I -- this was a very intelligent decision by our CDIY team.
As you know we look at different pieces of our business and make sure that we're achieving certain levels of profitability and pricing associated with that but ultimately we also are very aggressive around new product innovation and technologies that help us drive growth as much as possible.
And when I look at the hand tools business: It will be a business that will continue to grow.
When I think about CDIY in 2013 growing mid single digits I don't see why hand tools wouldn't be very close to that type of growth in 2013.
Which would imply modest share gain.
Which would imply modest share gain.
And it also would imply that we continue to drive activities in emerging markets that will help that global growth number as well.
And our next question comes from Peter Lisnic from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> The -- can you give us a little feel for the implications for the change away from the direct model in U.S.
Mechanical Access? Just kind of discuss the strategic implications there and what that might mean for what I thought used to be at least or might still be one of the highest-return profiles business-wise in your portfolio.
Sure Pete.
That's a -- it's a great question.
And I think Jim gave a great start to answering it in his prepared remarks so I'm going to kick it to him.
But importantly it is a conversation that we've spent a lot of time internally having as a corporate management team and with Brett's team.
But Jim why don't you just elaborate a little bit on this year? Yes.
I think now is a great time to do it number one.
It historically has served Best quite well because if you go back when I -- if you go back to the -- I think it was the '30s when Best kind of came into existence they had a patented product that was the interchangeable core that played extremely well in certain segments of the market like health care education government and so on.
And they -- and as the market evolved over the years they had the direct model and the 2 largest competitors had a distribution-oriented model.
And as the economy slowed down and construction slowed down over the last 5 years or so the distributors with their profit margins under pressure began to look more and more at other ways to grow their business and to grow their profits and they started becoming more aggressive in some of the markets that were traditional home territory of Best.
And today we're not dealing with a proprietary interchangeable core anymore.
The patents have all expired and so forth.
So our sales force is largely accustomed to being sort of -- had a farming mentality if you will in serving these customers and did a lot of transactional support for the customers and so forth things that distributors do very well.
But they weren't out there with the size and scope of go-to-market resources that the distributors were.
And though -- and we did have the advantage that we could cover multi-geographic locations more effectively with a direct model but it also is more expensive.
And so when we've looked at this change we think that this is a moment in time when we have enough value to add to the distributors in the sense that we have an installed base very valuable and we have extremely robust new product development for the first time during our ownership of Best Access especially in the mid-price-point product which has become extremely important in the -- with the economic issues that are going on today.
So for us to get to the construction market we felt we needed to make this change.
And we felt that it's always somewhat risky in an entrenched distribution model but we believe that this is a time -- a moment in time when we have enough value to add to these distributors that we can partner up with them and put away the competitive aspect that we've had that's always made it difficult to work to coexist with the distributors with the kind of a hybrid model that we had.
And we've taken a lot of cost out of the field in order to account for the somewhat-lower gross margins that'll be associated with this.
And so we think it's income neutral from the standpoint of making the change because of the cost takeouts.
And we think that this will enable us to really charge up the organic growth in the MAS model.
So we still believe that it will be a great return business on a go-forward basis but we think it'll be a higher-growth business.
And our last question comes from Liam Burke from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You've had a great deal of success on the working capital management side.
It's been a focus and obviously the cash flow is reflected in that.
With a lot of effort in the growth of emerging markets how does that affect your working capital management forecast? Yes I would say that I wouldn't see them having a significant impact on working capital.
We still feel very passionate that achieving 10 working capital turns by the middle of this decade is achievable.
And all the initiatives that we're looking at in emerging markets we don't expect to impact that objective.
Now that being said we probably will end up carrying a little more inventory in that part of the world to make sure that we meet the needs of customers but when you assess the impact as a percentage of the whole company it's not going to be more than a tenth or two of an impact across the whole company.
And it doesn't really impact our objective of getting to 10 working capital turns.
Thank you.
Do you have any final remarks at this time? No.
I just want to thank everybody for logging in today and participating.
Please let me know if you need anything in the way of follow-ups.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lorraine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor and Government Relations Kate Vanek.
Ms.
Vanek you may begin.
Thanks so much Lorraine.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you all for joining us this morning for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself is: John Lundgren Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO; and Jeff Ansell Senior Vice President and Group Executive CDIY.
Our earnings release which was issued this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR portion of our website as well as our newly revamped iPhone and iPad app and mobile website.
The replay of the call will begin today at 2:00 p.m.
Replay number and access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim Don and Jeff will review Stanley's first quarter 2013 results and various other matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] As always please feel free to contact me with any sort of follow-up questions that don't get covered during the Q&amp;A portion.
And as I normally have to do we are going to be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act.
With that I will now turn our call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Kate.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us this morning for our first quarter earnings call.
Just as a top line summary despite a slow start to the year from a volume perspective we exited the first quarter '13 with a lot of momentum that you'll hear later from Don gave us confidence that we will achieve our fiscal year previous guidance and targets from an income perspective.
Revenues increased 3%.
And that was largely due to the inclusion of Infastech which closed in February.
That acquisition actually took several months longer to close than normal as we waited for various Asian government approvals so we didn't get as much benefit in the first quarter as we expected.
But the extra time really allowed us to hit the ground running.
And that integration is progressing very smoothly and on or ahead of schedule now that we've started.
The organic growth initiatives that we've talked about in past quarters they gained traction at an encouraging rate.
But our core business organic growth did decline.
Volume was down 1%.
It was due primarily to a slow start to the North American outdoor product season combined with temporary soft markets in Latin America and modest continued contractions in Europe.
A bright spot was CDIY operating margin.
It expanded 160 basis points despite flat organic growth.
And we do remain on track for mid-single-digit organic growth for the fiscal year.
And as Kate said we have Jeff Ansell our Senior Vice President and Group Executive responsible for that business to give you a little more insight on that a little later on in the call.
Organic growth in Mechanical Security did -- was offset by some declines in Convergent Security in Europe.
And as a consequence our Security segment profitability was temporarily pressured by installation mix and volume declines primarily focused in the Nordic region historically a very strong region for the legacy Niscayah business.
And moving on to Niscayah.
The 2013 synergy estimate has been increased by $15 million.
The total program estimate we're now taking a second look at it to think that we may even be able to get more not this year but next year in 2014 as we combine that business with the former Stanley Black &amp; Decker Convergent Security business in Europe.
1Q diluted earnings per share of $1.03 was up 5% versus prior year.
On a GAAP basis EPS was $0.52.
And as I suggested and Don will give you more insight we are reiterating fiscal year organic growth EPS and free cash flow guidance.
Let's take a quick look at our organic growth initiatives which suggest that they're on track to contribute about 1 point 100 basis points of organic growth for this year.
During the first quarter we invested an incremental $16 million in spending.
And a lot of that was in feet on the street 370 new associates hired with about 2/3 of them 225 in the emerging markets where we believe our greatest opportunity for growth is growth and volume leverage rests.
All of the initiatives are tracking to their 3-year goals.
And as previously stated that's $850 million in incremental revenue and $200 million in incremental profit.
But let's take a look at some of the markets drilling down into some of the geographies.
We're going to spend less time on geographies in general than we do historically.
That is in your appendix or will be in the appendix.
But if you see all the emerging markets with the exception of one a large one showed very very strong increases: Russia plus 19%; China 13%; Northeast Asia 13%; Turkey 12%; Southeast Asia 7%.
Latin America experienced I'll say what we believe is a confluence of temporary issues and they're different in each country: Brazil Argentina Venezuela and Colombia.
But as a consequence our largest emerging market group Latin America where we have very strong market positions is actually down 2% which we think is temporary.
So that gave us a combined total of plus 2% in our total emerging market group which is below where it has been historically and below where we believe it will be as the year progresses and certainly on an ongoing basis.
Let me turn it over to Jeff Ansell who as I said is the man in charge of our CDIY business.
And he's got some fairly exciting opportunities in his business that he's going to give you some more detail on.
Thank you John.
Looking at the CDIY results for 1Q.
Total revenues plus 2% driven predominantly by the Powers acquisition.
Organic revenues flat.
As you can see in the upper left our PPT or our DeWalt business positive.
It was however pressured in the quarter due to intentional promotional timing change moving promotions that occurred in Q1 2012 to Q2 and 3 2013 to match the building seasons in North America and Europe intentionally done as well.
Our cordless products performed very well in the quarter pervasively.
From a CPG or a Black &amp; Decker perspective positive.
From a power tool perspective the outdoor season began late and thus pressured the results.
But overall positive results in the Black &amp; Decker business with growth primarily attributed to new products including Matrix Gyro et cetera.
In our HT&amp;S business or our Hand Tool business exceptional growth in our DeWalt Hand Tool range was really offset by weakness in Europe Brazil and Colombia during the quarter.
If you look at the center of the page you could see the track record over the previous 4 quarters of on average mid-single-digit growth with this quarter being flat.
The 2 reasons are outlined in this portion of the chart.
Outdoor given a 4-week late start due entirely to weather put 2 points of pressure into the quarter.
The Latin American business as John referenced earlier added 1 point of pressure.
So sans those 2 things we would've had consistent growth with previous quarters.
We do feel good about the correction in the outdoor season which I'll come on to in a few minutes.
And the Latin American business was trending quite positive during the course of the quarter.
It essentially just took a little longer to sell through inventories from 2012 than expected about 6 weeks longer.
So you can see the depiction where January was down 15%; February down 6%; March rebounded very nicely to plus 15%.
So really the first half of the quarter was pressured.
The second half of the quarter was much more consistent with our previous results in Latin America.
And finally in the upper right portion of the chart you can see that profit rates expanded by 160 basis points driven by mix cost synergies and promotional timing to a record 14.5% for the first quarter.
Turning to the following page.
I want to reiterate as strongly as I can our commitment and confidence to mid-single-digit growth for the year even with a flat first quarter.
Why do we have such confidence? Well they're depicted here; 5 reasons primarily.
First is around emerging markets.
We believe we'll have continued strength in Asia and other emerging markets which were up mid-double-digits in the quarter along with the Latin American recovery that I just outlined that's already begun.
Additionally we added 185 sales and product headcounts during the quarter.
That investment combined with investment in programming from emerging markets will certainly improve our business sequentially as these resources and programs gain traction over the course of the remainder of the year.
Number two reason for confidence is new product development.
We have very robust power tool hand tool and home product new product plans.
The launch cycle for our new products really begins in March through October.
So very little impact in the first quarter but much greater impact over the coming portions of the year.
A couple of examples to highlight.
In March we launched the world's first cordless brushless framing nailer.
That product competes extraordinarily favorably with anything that exists in the marketplace.
It is the first framer to use cordless battery technology.
It does not require disposable fuel cells which is a negative to the user.
And it works in any climate any temperature which is also unique.
Based on the initial response to that product we have doubled and are working to triple our capacity for that product for the remainder of this year.
Additionally we have really strong momentum in our DeWalt Hand Tool range up about 30% as the trend line goes.
And then our new steam products which have led us to the #1 position in Europe continue to drive growth.
So things like that really give us great confidence.
And in general our cordless business outperforming the market while being #1 is another reason for confidence in the terms of new product development.
The third area to outline is promotional planning.
Programming for 2013 essentially starts in Q2 and Q3 versus Q1 of last year.
We intentionally moved the timing of these promotions to coincide with the building season in Western Europe and North America because those investments in Q2 and 3 versus Q1 will provide greater ROI for our customers and for ourselves.
So we feel very good about that and that will add volume strength for the coming quarters.
Fourth the outdoor season.
The analytics have told us recently that April would be the kickoff to this season.
We've seen that to be true.
Last year the outdoor season began in week 10.
This year the outdoor season began in week 14.
So essentially we lost a month in the outdoor business which occurred in Q1.
The point would be though the duration of the outdoor season is the same length regardless of when it starts.
It will run 5 months the starting point varies.
So we will now run from April to August versus last year March to July.
It's very consistent year-over-year.
And we have very strong cordless and corded listings across our enterprise so we feel very good about the uptick once the season does begin.
And on average temperatures globally were minus 11 degrees from where they were this time last year.
So a lot of reasons why this season is starting late.
And then fifth and final but not least is we have really strong revenue synergy plans continuing through the year.
We will unveil for you one of these major or mega programs at our meeting in June.
Subsequently we have another mega launch in the third quarter.
Both have confirmation with customers and channels in the market already.
We just don't talk about those things till they're in the market.
And we'll show you again 2 major programs 1 in Q2 1 in Q3 with a lot of activity there with really good traction.
So in closing strong profit improvement in the quarter plus 2% total growth flat organic sales.
But with a track record of organic growth in the mid-single-digits as depicted on Q1 we believe we have really strong prospects in front of us.
Organic growth headwinds in the quarter were clearly timing and clearly temporary.
We remain committed to the growth elements in emerging markets with lag already recovering; with new product development really starting in March running through October; promotional activity as a tailwind in Q2 and Q3 versus a headwind in Q1; the outdoor season starting as we speak albeit later than last year; and really compelling revenue synergy plans that are built and ready to execute.
So we reiterate our confidence in mid-single-digit growth through the remainder of 2013.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you Jeff.
Exciting story there and all the more exciting because we really didn't even talk about a recovering U.S.
housing market which as we speak is indisputably taking place.
So no reliance on that but certainly that's going on as well.
Let's turn over to Security now.
Overall revenues were $599 million versus $592 million a year ago.
Organic growth was minus 1%.
And despite an OM rate of 10.3% even lower than normal for first quarter there was some very positive developments in Security during the quarter.
Let's start with organic growth which was very solid in several U.S.-centric businesses including Electronic Security which was up 3%; mechanical which was up 5%; and access doors which was up 4% organically.
Europe while not surprisingly under some volume pressure will outperform its 2013 synergy commitment by $15 million as John mentioned thus protecting full year operating margin and ensuring that the Niscayah acquisition produces a solid return on investment.
Now some of the CSS or Electronic Security volume growth has come at the expense of OM rate in the first quarter.
And I believe we're at an inflection point where the exciting new vertical solutions in K-12 education health care financial services and retail are ready to be deployed.
And with a differentiated value to be sold we are training and reinforcing a value pricing mindset with the field which will address this issue in addition to some other margin improvement actions that the team is taking.
So we expect to see flat deposit of organic growth for the year with overall operating margin slightly positive year-over-year and growing growth momentum heading into the second half and 2014.
And moving to Industrial.
Industrial is also pressured by Europe especially in Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair.
Total revenues were $695 million versus $662 million a year ago.
Organic growth was minus 1%.
The profit rate was 14.1%.
It was pressured by lower volume on the higher-margin European business cost absorption issues and investment in the organic growth initiatives.
Now as we take them business-by-business.
Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair organic revenues were down 4%.
The U.S.
was flat.
Europe was down 9%.
The good news here is the comps for both Europe and the total business ease as we get into second quarter and beyond second half of the year as well.
In the U.S.
a strong Mac Tools performance was offset by weak government business and Industrial MRO business for the Proto business.
I'd like to highlight one of our organic growth initiatives the smart tools and storage or otherwise known as Advanced Industrial Solutions was up 5% organically with CribMaster up double-digits on vending success in MRO.
In Engineered Fastening they were flat organically.
The automotive business grew 6% outpacing a 4% decline in global light vehicle production.
The North America auto business was up 7%.
Europe was up 2% as auto-related market share gains offset declines in Industrial and a $5 million shipment timing issue which was customer-driven and pushed $5 million of revenue into the second quarter at the expense of first quarter revenue.
Japan with its difficult situation in the auto industry was down 8% on a 16% light vehicle production decline.
And as John mentioned the Infastech acquisition closed on February 27 and the integration is progressing well.
This exciting new addition to the portfolio will add significant growth potential through emerging market and electronics content.
And then Infrastructure really was a bright light in the quarter as the offshore pipeline business drove 9% organic growth in CRC a very positive sign as the U.S.
onshore business is gaining cyclical traction and the offshore business continues to grow.
So stay tuned for a very strong 2013 for CRC-Evans.
Now I'll turn it over to Don Allan who will take you through the financial aspects of the quarter.
Thank you Jim.
I'd like to start on Page 10 and talk about our free cash flow performance for the first quarter.
There's really 3 things that I'd like to point out.
You can see that the performance was a negative cash flow of $132 million slightly worse than our anticipated result.
And let me walk through some of the details associated with that.
The first of which is working capital.
As most of you know in the first quarter we tend to see a sequential decline in our working capital turns which we did see from the fourth quarter to the first quarter from 7.5 turns in the fourth quarter to 6 turns here in the first quarter.
That was about 0.5 turn lower than our expectation.
And it's really being driven by a couple things.
First of all the lower overall volumes in the first quarter as well as the timing of the revenue within the quarter.
As you've heard in various pieces of the call this morning January and February were very slow in certain parts of the company and then March began to accelerate and we saw improvement.
That timing dynamic certainly caused pressure to the working capital number.
The good news is that's a temporary phenomena.
We don't see that as any major concern for the year.
And we still believe for the year we will have modest working capital turns improvement year-over-year.
The second item of note is other.
Other is an area that always in the first quarter we see a large negative outflow.
That's where annual rebates bonuses et cetera get paid and that impact is reflected there.
And then CapEx slightly higher versus the prior year as we expected due to certain growth initiative investments we're making as well as other key investments around the overall strategy.
We still expect CapEx as a percentage of revenue to be about 2.5% to 3% of annualized revenue this year.
So the first quarter performance although a little bit worse than we anticipated we are not concerned.
We believe that these are temporary issues that will subside and correct themselves in 2Q.
And we'll still be able to achieve $1 billion of free cash flow for the full year.
So with that I'd like to move to Page 11 and talk about our guidance reiteration for 2013.
We believe that we will still be within the range of $5.40 and $5.65 EPS for the full year.
That'll be 16% to 21% EPS growth versus 2012.
The factors on the left side of the slide indicate the items that we are reiterating associated with these certain assumptions within this range.
The first is organic growth.
We still believe we will grow 2% to 3% versus 2012.
And the dynamics within that are consistent with what we said in January where the core business will grow 1% to 2% and our organic growth initiatives will yield 1 point but they will be dilutive by $0.15 to EPS.
The cost synergies associated with BDK of $0.23 and carryover cost reduction actions of $0.15 are consistent with January.
And then Jim touched on as well as John the Infastech acquisition.
We still believe the accretion will be $0.20 for the full year and even with the 1 month delay in the timing of the closing.
Our share repurchase has gone successfully with $0.37 benefit.
That will be completed in the coming weeks and be behind us.
And that's really associated with a large portion of the proceeds received from the HHI divestiture.
Moving over to the right side of the page.
There's a few items that are changing but do have a neutral impact.
The first of which we have mentioned a couple times this morning that we believe the Niscayah cost synergies will be $15 million higher in 2013 now $50 million for the year.
That is offsetting some of the volume and rate pressures that we're seeing in the CSS business.
So a net neutral impact.
And then there's 3 additional items that are neutral as well.
A small change in our other net assumption which is causing a positive of $0.05 versus our January guidance.
Tax rate is still within the range of 23% to 24% but is trending towards the low end of the range so that will be a slight positive as well.
And then we have a little bit of pressure in our shares outstanding.
So our outstanding share number is expected to be slightly higher.
Moving to Page 12.
A few more assumptions associated with our guidance.
On the segment side you've heard from both Jeff and Jim some of the assumptions associated with the full year.
For CDIY very consistent with what we said in January still believe that our organic revenues will be mid-single-digit.
We expect the OM rate to expand year-over-year as we see continued benefit of synergies as well as incremental profit associated with volume and a slight offset associated with some of the investments related to our growth initiative.
Security similar story to January as well a flat to low single-digit organic growth although we have a mix in the geographies where we'll see growth in North America with offsetting pressure in the European markets.
We do expect our OM rate to expand slightly year-over-year as we will execute more cost synergies related to Niscayah as well as carry over some of the cost actions from last year.
And then on the Industrial side flat to low single-digit organic growth as well similar dynamic in the geographies where we see growth in North America.
However a retracting environment in Europe that's partially offsetting that.
And then the OM rate will actually slightly decrease year-over-year in this segment as we see a temporary impact from Infastech margins being below line average as well as the investments in growth initiatives.
The one last item I'd like to mention associated with guidance is looking at the first half and the second half associated with EPS.
Due to the growth investments that we have engaged and made and started in the end of 2012 and the timing associated with the dilutive impact of that $0.15 the vast majority of that $0.15 dilutive EPS impact will happen in the first half of 2013 and will have a neutral impact from the growth initiatives in the back half of the year as they begin to turn accretive and we expect them to be significantly accretive in 2014.
That creates a dynamic when you look at the first half versus the second half where we expect the second half to represent 60% of the full year EPS i.e.
the first half will be 40%.
That's slightly off historical trends where if you look at the last 3 years of our company the second half tended to be between 56% and 58%.
The main difference between that and our expectation this year is these investments in the growth initiatives and the timing associated with that.
So overall we believe that we'll continue to see -- we will see solid growth in CDIY in mid-single-digits that will outpace Security and Industrial as we begin to see growth in the residential end markets that's outpacing the commercial and industrial markets.
So with that to summarize the call I'll pass it back to John Lundgren.
Thanks Don.
So just to wrap it up hopefully it's clear that we remain focused on driving our organic growth initiatives and efficiencies across the company maximizing the synergies across our lines of business and certainly allocating capital in ways that provide excellent returns for our shareholders.
We are reiterating full year organic growth EPS and free cash flow guidance.
The organic growth initiatives are gaining traction and are on track to achieve our 3-year targets of approximately $850 million in organic revenue and $200 million in incremental operating profit.
CDIY as Jeff I think walked you through very clearly will grow mid-single-digits organically for the year fueled by new products market share gains and a return to growth in our emerging markets.
In Security which has historically been among our higher-margin businesses we expect profitability will improve throughout the year as the Niscayah integration synergies and the benefits of a modified field sales model in North America begin to hit the bottom line.
And as a consequence we expect modest year-over-year improvement.
So 2013 will be another solid step towards the achievement of our mid-decade vision with 2% to 3% organic growth and 16% to 21% earnings per share expansion.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Kate and Lorraine and we'll start our Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thanks John.
Lorraine let's open up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
John I wonder if you could just talk about market share trends within the Security business particularly the Convergent Security business.
Sure.
Within Convergent Security we clearly lost a slight bit of share both in Europe and North America some of which was programmed.
If I start with the U.S.
we've got some good installs and as Jim suggested in his segment overview some of those larger jobs came at the expense of margin.
But even with that we arguably have I would say very very very modest share decline in North America as we attempt to upgrade our mix and integrate the Niscayah business.
And we remain highly focused on new vertical markets such as financial services government education.
If you'll recall our largest single market right now or vertical market is retail.
And of course that's not a very very robust market.
So globally we arguably saw some modest share loss which we believe is temporary.
Europe as I suggested our business remains very strong.
We remain a market leader.
We did suffer some share loss particularly in the Nordic markets in Sweden a legacy Niscayah stronghold.
The rest of the business remains very strong.
We remain strong in France.
We've lost business in Spain but we've gained share because we've lost business at a far slower rate than the market.
And Jim you might want to -- if you want to add anything on to that please feel free to do so.
I think when you look at the competitors and their various reports there's no indication that anything but share loss and share gain at the margin is going on.
There is no sweeping trend here.
You have the largest competitor in electronic industry shedding some less profitable business.
So their numbers are not terribly strong.
You have nothing really meaningful going on underneath the 2 of us the largest and us being the second-largest and no real meaningful trends with the other electronic players although there's some noise coming out of a few of them.
But thus far nothing to get too excited or concerned about.
In mechanical I would say that I think we're gaining share in the U.S.
and that's a terrific turn of events there.
Very recent turn of events but that's a new business model that we've taken on certainly seems to be paying some dividends in the early stages.
So that's really positive.
And then as John mentioned the European situation we do have a strong strong business there and we're very pleased with it.
We have been shedding some business intentionally there and the market is not terribly strong either.
And I think John covered that very thoroughly.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I guess it's kind of a related question.
But I was hoping within the CDIY business if you could maybe break out expectations domestically versus internationally if you think about it for the year.
And then as it relates to the promotional discussion that you talked about in the first quarter any help that you can provide on what that impact was on the margin side that will be shifted towards 2Q 3Q? Yes.
Dennis this is John.
Jeff's going to take all but the very end of your question.
We are not going to drill into margins forward-looking by segment or by business.
I think we can talk to it arguably directionally.
But Jeff why don't you take those? As we look at the full year our expectation is that we'll have -- the North American marketplace will perform essentially at the range we provided which is mid-single-digit growth with a plus or minus of 1 point either way but around mid-single-digit growth there.
Some pressure in Europe volumes are holding up pretty well as they did last year.
But that business continues to be somewhat pressured offset by strength in the Latin -- or the emerging markets which will grow double-digits.
So if you combine those 3 things you have strength in emerging markets above our mid-single-digit total range.
You have some pressure in Europe as expected.
And North America will perform about at the range of the total business.
And Dennis just retrospectively to touch on your margin question as I say we're just never going to do this prospectively.
But we did report strong margins on flat volume.
And the math would suggest that was due in part to the delayed promotional activity that Jeff talked about but in equal greater proportion to the strong product mix.
Outdoor is a terrific business but it's not among our highest mix businesses.
So less outdoor less promotion really strong Professional Power Tool performance certainly helped deliver the very solid margins in the first quarter.
Hopefully that'll help you.
Prospectively we're just not going to go there on this call.
And our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie Capital.
Would you be able to talk about the rate pressures that you saw on CSS what regions they were in? And also along those lines how Niscayah is tracking versus your expectation from a sales perspective.
Yes.
We'll have Don take it.
Mike we've touched on that but we'll try to elaborate.
Yes Mike.
As Jim articulated and I touched a little bit on guidance CSS is definitely seeing a combination of volume and rate pressure.
There's certainly volume pressure in Europe some of which we anticipated some of which is a little bit above expectations.
But the rate pressure is also in Europe because where we're seeing that volume pressure is in the Nordic region which is the highest profitable business we have in the European CSS business.
We believe it's temporary in nature but it does require us to accelerate some of the cost synergies that we touched on through the call and we believe that can quickly get us back to a level of profitability that we're comfortable with.
In North America we have a little bit of rate pressure as we saw some mix shift from larger installed jobs.
But that's really us just continuing to focus on the vertical strategy in that business and ensuring that we're achieving the right levels of profitability.
And we believe that's a temporary phenomenon and a lot of that was actually planned for in Q1.
And our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's actually John filling in for Steve today.
So in the release once again you laid out the $15 billion sales target by mid-decade.
Clearly I would think that acquisitions are a big part of that or reaching that.
And there are a few potential targets that are being shopped in the market.
So I was wondering if you could talk a bit about how you're evaluating M&amp;A and to what extent future tax planning plays in that analysis.
Yes I'll take that.
I guess 3 points.
One is we've said the temporary -- the very publicly announced temporary hiatus in our acquisition program allows us to digest several of the recent acquisitions particularly Niscayah and Infastech and focus our efforts both in terms of organizational capacity and to a lesser extent spending on our organic growth initiatives.
That's number one.
Number two we hadn't -- we didn't have -- about 3 years ago we didn't have Black &amp; Decker on our M&amp;A or BD target but the opportunity to combine 2 phenomenal businesses with even greater synergies presented itself.
And as an opportunistic proactive management team we seized that opportunity.
So that's a long way of saying were that to present itself again it's not saying we won't do it.
Tax planning is a tertiary thought as we look at our M&amp;A and business development plan.
Specifically those who have followed us we have a very careful screening.
Strategically is it 1 of our 4 identified growth platforms? And then financially does it achieve our hurdles? Last but not least do we have the organizational capacity to absorb it? All 3 of those things go into our thinking and our planning.
And it will continue as this year progresses.
We haven't in the past nor will we ever talk about specific targets.
But this company -- acquisition valuation and integration is or is rapidly becoming a recognized core competency in this company.
And we've been given a lot of credit for that.
We haven't forgotten how to do it.
Long term it will remain part of our strategy.
But temporarily it's on the back burner.
And if I could just elaborate as well.
We come at M&amp;A more from a strategic point of view than we do trying to fill in some goal that we have for the mid-decade.
So we're not out there just willy-nilly shopping around so we can get to $15 billion.
What we do believe is that with the capital allocation approach that we have and with the revenue growth objectives that we have which would be low double-digits total growth and then 4% to 6% organic long-term objectives that we can get to something along the lines of $15 billion by the middle of the decade using our very publicly stated acquisition strategy which is to continue to consolidate the tool industry number one which means strengthening our CDIY and IAR businesses through investments and particular -- in this particular market the accessories is the area that we really are underrepresented in.
It's the most profitable area in the power tool business.
And it's one where we're constantly looking for opportunities.
These would tend to be bolt-ons in this particular space but we will continue to pursue those.
And then the other area that we're focused on is in emerging markets for the tool business because there's plenty of opportunity to continue to complement our organic growth strategy in tools with an acquisitive growth strategy.
So protect the core through M&amp;A protect the tool business.
And then we move to the growth platforms.
And we have 4 growth platforms.
We have Security Engineered Fastening Infrastructure and Healthcare.
We'll start with Healthcare because we're only $170 million in Healthcare today and we're not going to go out and buy a multi-hundred million dollar healthcare business that trades at 4 5x revenue.
That's just not what we're going to do.
Healthcare we may do some small technology bolt-ons that could help improve our value proposition where we bring efficiency and safety and security to hospitals.
But the other 3 areas are the ones that you'll likely to see M&amp;A activity in the future.
Engineered Fastening we just completed one so I wouldn't expect anything too soon there.
And then you have Security and you have Infrastructure.
Well as you know the Security businesses those folks are busy digesting Niscayah and also getting their organic growth on track.
So they probably won't be doing anything significant in the near term.
However as we look further out I would expect to see some activity in the emerging markets and perhaps some activity targeted at industry verticals such as retail financial services government et cetera.
And then finally Infrastructure.
And we will continue to see plenty of opportunities in Infrastructure where we can find niche positions that are in secular growing areas that can be defended that have high margins and high growth associated with them.
So we would probably see some activity in that area on a prospective basis.
But as we said last July 12 to 18 months hiatus.
Well we're coming up on July we've made some good progress but we will not continue acquisition strategy above and beyond emerging markets until we get to the point where we can say definitively that the organic growth initiatives are working.
And our next question comes from Eric Bosshard from Cleveland Research.
I see the investment in the discussion on organic growth across the business.
I'm curious how you're balancing this thinking in the Security business trying to grow Security improve organic growth share there while at the same time you're taking cost out.
So if you could just talk a little bit about how you're balancing the spending there and especially thinking about Niscayah with the market share and the growth objectives.
Yes.
I think it's fairly simple.
I think when you look at the model Eric the North American business we are investing for growth right now.
And the European business we are rightsizing the cost structure to reflect the revenue reality.
So that's where you see the cost out the synergy increases is all in Europe.
And in North America we're investing significantly in vertical markets in particular the vertical market growth strategy.
But it's as simple as that.
It's a bifurcated approach.
And if I could just follow up the assumption for the year sounds like you expect to make up the margin shortfall in that business through the rest of the year.
What changes in 2Q to 4Q relative to 1Q especially in light of the investments you're making? Yes I think I'll take it.
Jim can elaborate if he'd like.
I touched on that in my comments and I'll try to clarify.
Two things.
Obviously Niscayah increased synergies in and of themselves will make up mathematically for some of the volume shortfall and some of the margin shortfall.
Again the Niscayah synergies get -- they get greater every quarter the run rate not smaller.
Second Jim alluded to it in his segment discussion.
We've modified our if you will go-to-market approach via distribution in North America on the mechanical side of the business.
And early signs are it's been tremendously successful.
And we think that's going to continue.
A lot of other moving parts.
And as Don talked about the total company within Security Brett would talk about a lot of puts and calls that are neutral.
But strong Mechanical Security business as well as Access business getting stronger and continuing to put a lot of points on the board from Niscayah's cost synergies we do believe will get us back to where we've been.
And Eric you've followed this business a long time it historically has been a very very profitable business.
And the math with Niscayah was low -- very low single-digit operating margin when we acquired it.
It is double-digit operating margin and it's going to get to fleet average within a year or so and that's just a really big piece of it.
Yes.
And I know that when we talk about investments in verticals it sounds kind of generic and it doesn't really have a lot of life to it.
But when you start talking about the individual verticals and what we can bring to the -- what we can and are bringing to the market right now it's very obvious that we have solutions that are differentiated in a number of these verticals.
Just take K-12 for example where we have the full array of mechanical electromechanical and electronic solutions to bring to a K-12 scenario.
And every school board in the United States is evaluating their security right now.
We have deployed an army of people around that opportunity.
That will come to fruition at some point in time.
We are the best positioned security company in America to deal with that opportunity.
In financial services we have the best iris identification technology in the world exclusive rights to the best iris identification technology.
We're in discussions with major financial institutions about how we help them create branches that are keyless branches using iris identification technology.
At some point that will likely come to fruition.
And I could go on and on.
In retail what we're doing in retail what we're doing with government what we're doing with the RTLS technology that we acquired from AeroScout.
But if you start to really delve into these solutions our opportunity at this point is to commercialize them.
And that's what the Security people are focused on and that's why we're investing in North American Security.
And oh by the way once we get these solutions nailed down in North America the next wave after that is going to be to take them to Europe.
So right now we're getting Europe rightsized so it's profitable and robust and we have strong management team in place which we're well on our way to doing.
And then a year or 2 from now there will be a wave of solutions these same solutions coming into Europe.
And then finally we're investing in the emerging markets in Security.
Our business this year will be about $100 million in Security in the emerging markets.
The Tong Lung acquisition which was quietly done and the GMP [ph] acquisition which was done several years ago have really provided us with outstanding manufacturing and design capability.
And we recently completed a series of EN products which are the European-type standard products that play much more successfully into the emerging markets.
Now we have Chinese manufacturing capability.
We have Taiwan design capability.
And all of that is being assembled for our frontal attack on several of the major emerging markets.
So growth in Security is coming and investments are being made.
And it's an exciting time I think for the Security business.
But we're at the threshold of it at this point.
And our next question comes from Jeremie Capron from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Hand Tools business.
You talked about strong performance of the new DeWalt line.
So I wonder what is it that is actually holding it back over the past couple of quarters and if you had any comments on market share around this.
Yes certainly.
Jeremie as indicated the power tool brand usage in our Hand Tool business has really been positive while the core Stanley business remains very strong globally.
The challenge -- and from a share perspective we believe our share has increased in Hand Tools over the past 3 years.
So from a share perspective quite positive.
Introduction of power tool brands our power tool brands at Hand Tools have been predominantly incremental.
The pressure that business has faced in the past quarter and probably past couple of quarters is high exposures -- relatively high exposure to Europe which is a strong hand tool market for us that really has been pressured in that business like every other.
So that really has offset some of the growth we've had from a power tool brand perspective in our Hand Tool business.
But we continue to make progress from a share perspective.
And we expect too that business will grow consistent with the rest of the business as guided already for the remainder of 2013.
And our next question comes from Liam Burke from Janney.
Research Division</strong> You highlighted margin synergies.
And with a few exceptions you seem to be on track both from a revenue and margin side.
CapEx is roughly in line in the 2% to 3%.
Are you comfortable that you're making the progress you need to meet your ROCE target of 15% or objective of 15%? Yes this is Don.
I would say yes we are comfortable.
I think we had mentioned I believe back in January that one of the if you want to call it a benefit of us taking this temporary tactical pause around M&amp;A is that it allows us to focus on enhancing our return on capital employed.
Because what you've seen over the last 5 years in particular or even before that as we did acquisitions that before they get integrated into our existing core businesses they have a lower return and they get to the range of 12% to 15% return on capital employed by somewhere between year 3 through 5 post acquisition.
That's been a bit of a if you want to call it drag on that overall return of the company.
But still the return of the company has been around 10% in that time frame which is certainly significantly above our cost of capital.
But we wanted to be closer to 15% as you mentioned by the middle of this decade.
This pause allows us to make a lot of progress.
We think we can make about 100 to 150 basis point improvement this year.
The other great benefit of the organic growth initiatives over the next 3 years is minimal investment to make that happen.
And a return of $200 million of operating margin by year 3 really does gives us a dramatic boost on those returns as well.
And our next question comes from Peter Lisnic from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just on the positive trends you noted on the business model shift at Mechanical Access.
Can you give us a little flavor as to how that translates into maybe a margin progression this year but more importantly what that means longer-term for the business from a return perspective? And potentially does it enhance the growth aspects of the platform as well? Yes.
Peter I'll say for the third time this morning we're not going to project margins by subsegment of business going forward.
It does us no good and we don't -- we're not sure it helps you that much.
I understand the desire from a modeling perspective.
What we can say and I think Jim articulated this quite well we were slow to shift our model because we had something that was working.
But it absolutely will be a catalyst for more organic growth in the North American Mechanical Security market.
We were missing a lot of opportunity in terms of both specification and with mid-price point products with our purely direct model which served the high end extremely well and the restocking captive customers extremely well.
But it left us a little void in a lot of areas where we felt it was absolutely essential we have greater penetration to grow the market.
So at the end of the day a better mid-price -- a mid-price point product offering broader distribution will absolutely be a stimulus for organic growth.
And we would not do it if we didn't think it was going to be incremental or positive vis--vis margins.
But we're certainly not going to forecast that for one small segment of one segment of our business.
Yes it's an interesting time when you look at what's going on in distribution in Mechanical Security because these distributors as they went through tough times they sort of doubled down on growth and driving organic growth themselves and really started pushing the envelope up into the electromechanical and even into electronic in some cases.
So our business model plays very very nicely into that trend.
And the second thing I would say is while we were farming our installed base very effectively the armies of distributors that are out there that are hunting in the commercial construction area are absolutely winning that war.
And so therefore if you don't play in that arena with them you don't get the opportunity to participate in the commercial construction growth that's ahead of us.
And so there's several other reasons for doing what we did but those are 2 good ones.
And our next question comes from Jeffrey Kessler from Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> And speaking of Mechanical Security at the ISC show you demonstrated what may not be your first but it was certainly the first that I saw it demonstrated integrated a [indiscernible] a networked mechanical door that would be networked with CSS.
Can you speak a little bit about the if you want to call it the convergence of getting your mechanical and your electronic businesses together particularly at the door? Yes.
I mean that's definitely a thrust of ours.
You saw the product that is going to be the first of...
LLC Research Division</strong> I think it was like the ESA [ph] to the ELA [ph] or something like that.
Yes.
It's called the EL.
The EL lock which will be introduced en masse in May to the marketplace was kind of spotlighted at the show.
And it'll be at a price point that no one else can even get near.
And that's with sourced manufacturing to begin with that can be brought in-house if we so desire at some point.
But yes that's a key part of our strategy.
It certainly plays to many of the verticals that we're looking at.
It also gives us quite an edge with respect to what I was just talking about with the independent distributors and the fact that they are moving into the electromechanical and electronic realm.
And that comes in both a networked and a non-networked version.
And we're expecting pretty good big things.
I didn't really talk about that as part of the equation for Mechanical Security growth as we go forward but that's certainly out there as something that can help drive it.
Great.
Well I think that wraps us up Lorraine correct? That is correct.
I am showing no further questions.
Well thank you all so much for dialing in today.
If you have any questions please just send me an e-mail or give me a call and I'll talk to you all soon.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q2 2013 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor and Government Relations Greg Waybright.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself John Lundgren Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued earlier this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR portion of our website as well as on our iPhone and iPad apps.
A replay of this morning's call will also be available beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
This replay number and the access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review Stanley's 2013 second quarter results and various other matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And obviously please feel free to call me with any follow-up questions after today's call.
And finally as we normally do we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It's therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act filing.
With that I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Greg and good morning everybody.
Second quarter highlights certainly included 12% revenue growth due to a combination of 5% organic growth with which we were very pleased and the other 7% the addition of Infastech.
Diluted EPS of $1.21 a share were up 7% and diluted GAAP EPS was actually $1.23.
And the press release if you've had a chance to look at it explains I would say the counterintuitive nuance of GAAP earnings being higher than -- higher due to the reversal of an accrual.
And if anyone needs more information Don can get you that offline or during the Q&amp;A.
The organic growth initiatives which we've talked about on the last 3 calls are accelerating particularly in the emerging markets.
Our CDIY business and Industrial businesses both had compelling top line results as well as margin growth.
CDIY organic growth of 6% and an operating margin x charges of above 15%.
And Engineered Fastening grew 9%.
That's well ahead of its core market -- core automotive market around the globe.
And in the discussion of the segments Jim will talk a little bit about the penetration -- increased penetration and resulting share gains that we're experiencing in that business.
Security globally organic revenue was down 1% due primarily to the Convergent Security Solutions volume declines in Europe and that was partially offset by organic growth in both our Commercial Hardware and Access Technologies our automatic doors business.
The bright spot is orders increased significantly in both North America and Europe as the quarter wound down.
In volume Niscayah synergies and platform growth investments are expected to lead to margin recovery for Security in the second half.
More about that at the end of our brief presentation from Don when he discusses the outlook.
But as a consequence we are maintaining full year guidance as our increased organic growth expectations we expect to offset the significant headwinds that we are facing from foreign exchange in selected markets.
Looking briefly at the sources of growth.
Sequentially volume as mentioned was up 6%; price was down 1% leading to on a global basis 5% organic growth.
Acquisitions primarily Infastech added 7%.
In the quarter the impact of FX was flat leading to our up 12% revenue growth versus up 3% in the same period a year ago.
In the regions we were quite encouraged.
U.S.
in total up 6%; Europe 2%; emerging markets 12%; and the rest of the world the details of which are in the appendix was primarily Canada and Japan were down low-single digits while Australia New Zealand were flat.
The rest of the world was about down 2% as a combined group of countries for the total of 5% in terms of organic growth.
So the momentum from our growth initiatives continues to build.
But let me talk about those for just a second before we get into the segments.
We have hired 450 people feet on the street primarily sales folks primarily in emerging markets to drive the growth that we've talked to you about on our last 2 or 3 calls.
We've also completed the acquisition of GQ the #3 Chinese power tool company and a significant move for us in that it allows us to expand our mid price point footprint in the Asian market in particular emerging markets in general.
And we remain on track to our 3-year commitment from our project leapfrog [ph] our organic growth initiative for $850 million of incremental revenue and $200 million of incremental operating margin.
Again as we've highlighted this is something that we track rigorously regularly with the same I'll say intensity and metrics that we would track a large acquisition integration.
So we feel at this stage quite comfortable with those numbers.
Looking at the emerging market and the impact that -- the emerging markets and the impact the growth initiative has had really really strong quarter: Russia up 31%; China 24%; Southeast Asia 13%; Middle East Africa 15%; Latin America up 15%.
Very very strong performance.
And as a consequence per the press release we're now expecting those initiatives to contribute 2 percentage points or 200 basis points of incremental growth for the year versus the 100 basis points which was our previous forecast as these programs begin to gain traction and really put some points on the board.
Let me turn it over to Jim who's going to quickly walk you through some of the highlights from our 3 segments.
Okay.
Thank you John.
Once again CDIY had a terrific quarter.
Strong execution across the globe coupled with improving U.S.
residential Construction &amp; DIY markets produced excellent results: revenues of $1.446 billion up $115 million or 9%; segment profit was $219 million up $11 million or 5%; and organic growth was 6% in total with Professional Power Tools up 13%; the Consumer Products Group up 3%; and Hand Tools and Storage up 5%.
The operating margin rate was 15.1% down slightly 50 basis points from a year ago reflecting strong impact of the growth initiatives as well as strong promotional activity in the U.S.
Professional Power Tools benefited from a growth perspective from those promotions as well as new product introductions and emerging market gains.
The consumer group benefited from outdoor growth which was a turnaround from the first quarter when we had some weather issues a global steam product introduction and strength in the emerging markets.
And Hand Tools and Storage gain -- experienced gains from the Black &amp; Decker revenue synergies specifically associated with DeWalt and the continued rollout of last year's program at Stafta [ph] as well as a major U.S.
home center.
In addition this quarter we began a rollout of DeWalt mechanics tools at a major U.S.
retailer.
They accounted for most of the growth in the Hand Tools and Storage.
And in total as we look at CDIY we conclude this business is really in great shape as its U.S.
market is shoring up nicely while Europe has stabilized and the growth initiatives continue to drive emerging market gains despite somewhat slower markets there.
Turning to Industrial.
They also had a solid quarter all around with surging organic growth the new story.
Revenues were up 28% or $178 million aided by Infastech which added 21 points and 8% organic growth in total.
Segment profit was $117 million up $22 million or 25%.
And organic growth was a great story across the businesses with IAR up 4%; Engineered Fastening up 9%; and Infrastructure up 22%.
The operating margin rate was down slightly 50 basis points reflecting the growth investments and a slight mix down from Infastech.
In Engineered Fastening the automotive segment of Engineered Fastening was up 15% and that outpaced a plus 1% global light vehicle production.
And the Infastech integration is on track and in fact their pro forma organic growth was 9% as well.
Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair North America was up 2% with Mac Tools' strength offsetting a very weak government business and the growth initiatives gaining traction particularly in the emerging markets and MRO vending.
And then the Infrastructure business which was up 22% was really really powered by the oil and gas business or CRC-Evans which was up over 40% organically and that was somewhat offset by weakness in the scrap steel market which affected our hydraulics tools business negatively.
The story at oil and gas was the recovery of the North American onshore market which as you know for a year or 2 has been going in the opposite direction for us and it really really turned around.
And we had seen that coming.
In addition to that we had strong offshore growth in connection with our organic growth initiative.
So surging growth in this segment driven by the growth initiatives and Engineered Fastening performance all in all a great story which we expect to continue into the second half.
Now moving to Security.
It was a mixed picture with organic growth in mechanical offset by continued Europe weakness resulting in minus 1% organic growth overall and some margin compression.
Revenues were $611 million up $10 million or 2%.
Segment profit was down $18 million or 23% to $61 million.
And the organic growth story in North America for CSS was modestly positive at plus 1% Europe was down 5% for CSS and mechanical was up 4%.
I think the bright spot as John said and it's very encouraging for CSS was that the second quarter order rates grew in North America and Europe by 7% and 11% respectively as its double-digit order growth in the second quarter in Europe and the backlog in both cases grew significantly.
And that's a direct result of the organic growth initiatives and the Niscayah integration success that is taking place.
In mechanical organic revenue was up 4% on commercial lock direct to distributor model successes and increased automatic door installation activity at selected retailers.
And I will say there's a wave of new product introduction coming in the second half for the mechanical business which when coupled with the distribution change and the move to independent distribution should result in some very very strong earnings and revenue growth.
So overall the 300-basis-point margin decline in Security was driven by a number of factors: the growth investments some field cost inefficiency in preparation for increased growth in the second half the European volume headwinds and the impact of -- the temporary impact of the distributor model shift in the mechanical business.
And that basically results from still having the same or similar costs to serve that we had when we had a direct model but taking a slightly lower gross margin in order to run through the distributor channel.
And in the second half you'll see the cost to serve come down as the costs get taken out of the cost structure and then MAS will restore its profitability to more historical levels.
So all the headwinds I just discussed are temporary in nature and we expect the margin rates to bounce back nicely in the second half.
You'll have significant benefits relating to the organic growth investments in both vertical market initiatives and the emerging markets.
We will convert the growing order backlog which will drive field efficiency as well as revenue growth.
We'll complete the mechanical model -- go-to-market model transition.
The volume will pick up.
Some redundant costs will come out related to the cost to serve that I mentioned and -- as we have now fully shifted to the new indirect distribution model.
And then there will be an increased level of Niscayah synergies as they get executed and you'll recall that last quarter we upgraded our estimate from $35 million to $50 million for Niscayah synergies for the year.
Most of that impact will be felt in the second half.
So these actions will drive operating margin to the mid-teens levels in the second half '13.
The growth is coming and we feel very bullish about the second half for Security as you can see.
And at that point all 3 of our segments will be driving organic growth earnings growth and margin expansion.
With that I'll turn it over to Don Allan.
Thank you Jim.
I'd like to spend a little bit of time and talk about working capital on Page 10.
Our working capital turns improved from the prior year by approximately 0.3 turn and sequentially from the first quarter by over 1 turn which allowed us to drive a significant cash flow benefit in the second quarter which I'll touch on in a few minutes.
We're very focused on how the Stanley Fulfillment System continues to evolve and get implemented throughout our company.
We continue to see modest improvements in both accounts receivable and accounts payable as we focus on the back-office operations and have more efficiencies with our vendors and our customers to drive working capital benefits.
But the more significant improvement continues to be the focus on inventory as our inventory days went from 78 days in the second quarter of 2012 down to 72 days here in the second quarter of 2013.
In that scenario that we've been focused on significantly for the last year or 2 and we'll continue to be focused on it as we believe there's more efficiency to be gained in inventory throughout our entire manufacturing and supply chain.
The impacts of the Stanley Fulfillment System continue to be seen across our company and our working capital continues to become more efficient.
The expectation for year-end 2013 is that we believe we can achieve 8 working capital turns as we continue on our path towards 10 working capital turns by 2016 or 2017.
So let's move to free cash flow on the next page.
Free cash flow as I mentioned was very strong in the second quarter as we achieved a 117% conversion rate i.e.
free cash flow as a percentage of net income.
This is obviously before special charges but the result is really seen by strong earnings performance as well as the strong working capital performance that allows us to drive that type of conversion rate in our company.
A couple of items to mention on the free cash flow statement.
The first of which is that if you look at the line called other/restructuring we had some timing issues in the second quarter which caused a bit of a negative drag.
And that has to do with such things as pension payments which occurred in the second quarter of this year and occurred in different quarters in the prior year simply a timing issue that we believe neutralizes itself by the end of the year.
The other area to notice on the free cash flow statement is the cash outflow associated with our working capital through the first 6 months.
You can see it's quite significant.
However it is in line with historical trends.
And as many of you know who follow our company we tend to see a very positive inflow of cash from working capital as the year progresses and in particular as we get into the fourth quarter given the seasonality of many of our significant businesses.
And as we achieve our 8 working capital turns by the end of the year we will see that number turn to a significant positive inflow.
As a result although our year-to-date free cash flow trails prior year at this point in time we believe $1 billion of free cash flow is achievable due to the expected strong second half earnings which I'll touch on in a few minutes combined with working capital turns improving to 8 turns and then some of these timing issues beginning to neutralize themselves by the end of the year.
So with that I'd like to spend a few minutes and talk about our guidance.
We are reiterating our 2013 outlook today.
We expect our EPS to be in the range of $5.40 to $5.65.
This will be 16% to 21% EPS growth versus 2012.
The vast majority of our guidance items have remained unchanged since April but there's 2 items of significance that we want to point out that has changed.
The first of which is that we're raising our organic revenue guidance from 2% to 3% in our prior guidance up to 4% to 5% growth versus 2012.
This is going to drive approximately $0.20 accretion of EPS versus the prior guidance that was provided.
Let me give you a little more information and detail on that particular category.
If you break it down into core organic growth versus the growth initiatives we expect the core growth to now be 2% to 3% which will contribute $0.30 to $0.45 of EPS.
That's up from our prior expectation of 1% to 2% organic growth.
Additionally as John mentioned we believe organic growth initiatives will now yield 2 points of growth versus the previously communicated 1%.
However it still will be slightly dilutive for the year.
It will be about 10% dilution versus our prior guidance of $0.15 as we continue to leverage to the effects of the investments during the year and by the end of the year begin to see some accretion occur related to these growth investments.
The second offsetting item that is offsetting this positive impact is we are seeing headwinds related to foreign currency and we expect that to be approximately $0.20 of EPS to the negative in the second half of the year.
Several countries have moved negatively versus the U.S.
dollar where we have a significant presence such as Brazil Argentina Canada Australia Mexico and India.
We continue to monitor that and are focused on what types of actions we can take to offset that impact such as areas as customer pricing actions et cetera.
But it clearly appears to be a headwind of significance in the back half of the year.
The net effect of this is obviously neutral and allows us to reiterate our guidance range as previously communicated.
One other factor I'd like to mention is really the timing of the third quarter versus the fourth quarter associated with EPS.
We anticipate the third quarter to approximate 42% of our second half EPS.
This is slightly lower than the 46% to 47% historical norm that you see looking out the last 4 or 5 years.
It's really being driven by 2 things: it's the expected sequential second half Security profitability improvements that Jim touched on as we see continued sequential improvement from Q2 to Q3 and then more sequential improvement from Q3 to Q4 related to profitability as well as that particular segment turning to a revenue growth organically versus a slight revenue decline in the first half.
The second area is similar to what we discussed in April is that we continue to see the acceleration and the benefits of our organic growth initiatives throughout the year and the investments weighing that down in the first half beginning to turn neutral in the third quarter and slightly accretive in the fourth quarter.
Those timing factors are resulting in this dynamic that I've just described.
The last thing I'd like to touch on on guidance is just a little bit of view on these segments.
On the CDIY side our expectation is that we will see mid-single-digit organic revenue growth for the entire year with continued strength similar to what we saw in the second quarter.
The operating margin rate will increase year-over-year as we see the benefits of cost synergies.
We do expect a slightly negative effect of the growth investments impacting the operating margin rate and offsetting some of the incremental profit or leverage that we see from the volume.
In the Security segment low-single-digit organic growth is expected as Jim touched on.
We believe based on the order trends and the backlog that's been created here in the first half of the year that the North American business will begin to show more significant growth beyond current levels.
However that will be slightly offset by a continued low-single-digit decline in Europe as that European environment continues to be a difficult environment in particular for our Security business.
The operating margin rate will decrease year-over-year primarily due to the factors that impacted us here in the first half but by the end of the year the business will be back to historical levels in the second half in the mid-teens as Jim discussed.
The Industrial business will see mid-single-digit organic revenue growth for 2013 and the operating margin will decrease slightly due really primarily to the effects of the lower-than-line-average Infastech margins as they're in the early stages of integration as well as the impact of the growth investments.
This allows us to reiterate our guidance of $5.40 to $5.65 as well as our free cash flow guidance of approximately $1 billion.
So to summarize the presentation portion of the call this morning we believe we've made excellent progress with the growth initiatives.
We're seeing sequential improvement; it is being realized which allows us to raise our guidance estimate in this particular area.
The CDIY business as Jim touched on is really performing very well driving significant organic growth through new product introduction market share gains and solid returns in the emerging markets primarily from our growth initiatives.
Industrial delivering strong organic growth as well and the Infastech integration continues to progress on track.
We're focused on our Security business continuing to improve and showing more significant returns in the back half of the year as we drive that backlog that we touched on the benefits from the growth initiatives continue the integration of Niscayah to really ensure that our second half performance gets closer to historical levels for this particular segment.
The company remains focused on driving organic growth and really trying to maximize the synergies across all our businesses that are being impacted by integration today as well as we're focused on allocating capital that really provides excellent returns for our shareholders in the midterm as well as the long term.
That concludes the presentation portion of the call.
We'll turn it over to Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thanks Don.
Christine we can now open the call to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Jason Feldman of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So nice to see obviously that the organic growth initiatives are gaining momentum more quickly I guess than expected.
How do you think about that in relation to kind of the 3-year targets that you'd laid out the $850 million contribution.
Is this kind of a pull forward and then maybe the incremental pick up in the other years won't be quite as high we're just getting it sooner? Or is it that the opportunity is really larger than you originally thought? Jason it's John.
Per my comments early in the presentation at this stage it is the former of your 2 hypotheses specifically a pull forward.
It's very early days and as we quantify the entire basket of synergies we're encouraged we're ahead as opposed to behind schedule.
That being said we just don't have enough information to suggest that that's a larger pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.
Do -- rest assured a year from now we think that's the case as we did with Black &amp; Decker synergies.
When we realized it was more than just a pull forward on the cost synergies.
We raised our estimate raised the guidance.
Far far too early to do that because we've got nothing to tell if the totality of these programs is any greater than what we initially thought about.
And this is Jim.
I would just add to that that when we set forth this initiative the idea was to change the culture of the company so it could be capable of generating 4% to 6% organic growth annually.
And it was a 3-year commitment that we made and it was a finite commitment.
However we also indicated that we were hopeful that we would be able to direct the company in a way that would yield a 4% to 6% minimum growth rate on an ongoing basis regardless of the economic environment and this is where I think this progress that we've made is very encouraging because it seems like while -- even if this is just an acceleration when we get to 3 years from now there'll be more acceleration.
So the point is that it's a very very encouraging indication that this company is capable of driving growth while remaining financially disciplined and driving margins as well.
So we're excited about the progress.
Obviously not going to commit anything more on a 3-year basis at this point but it is a very very positive start.
Our next question is from Rich Kwas of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question on Security with the European order growth in the quarter.
That was a very strong number and just wanted to get some additional color on what you saw in the quarter.
I imagine the construction markets over there are not great so how much of this was just growth with existing customers new products market share gains? Any color along those lines would be helpful.
Yes all of the above.
Jim will give you as much detail as we're comfortable giving you Rich at this stage.
It's early days in Niscayah and when we tackled this acquisition we learned that Niscayah really didn't have a very robust sales-generation capability.
And in fact it was sort of a symbiotic relationship between Securitas and Niscayah in the sense that Securitas being primarily more focused on guarding often would have customers that it would then hand off to Niscayah as sort of a freebie or maybe for a commission or that type of thing.
Well as Securitas and we have gone our separate ways post the acquisition we found out that we really needed to build -- not rebuild but build sales-generation capability.
And I would say that's the single most important factor going on here is that we've been hiring a lot of sales reps and they've begun to produce orders which is now hopefully going to be translated into sales at some point and that's encouraging.
But it's really that dynamic that is going on.
And so while for the first year 1.5 years or so we were experiencing negative growth that I would attribute largely to the economy it was also due to the fact that we no longer had the sales handoffs from Securitas and now we have begun to rebuild our own sales force.
I'd say that's the single biggest item there.
Our next question is from Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mike Sang in for Nigel.
I was hoping to dig more into pricing.
I was wondering if you could comment briefly on the price environment overall.
And then specifically on -- in the U.S.
in CDIY where -- I guess just in CDIY where you I guess lost 2 points from pricing this quarter.
And then separately on Security side whether the increase in orders was due to -- based on given pricing.
Mike it's Don.
I'll give you a little bit more color on that topic in particular.
On CDIY in the second quarter we did have a fair amount of promotional activity which was planned and expected and so that's driving a little bit of that price impact.
It's probably unusually high compared to previous quarters and future quarters because of that factor.
The other thing to keep in mind and we all know this over the long term is that that pricing number is more of an accounting number.
It doesn't necessarily capture the true effect of pricing impacts across the board.
As we roll out new products at different price points that price increase versus a previous product that it's replacing does not get captured in that line.
So we know that in that particular business it's not exactly a full encompassing view.
So those 2 factors together really are driving that impact.
So I don't view it as a significant trend or change in the business.
I think it's more related to certain promotional activities that we did in the second quarter that were expected and planned.
In the Security side of our company Security is an area that pricing -- it is a price-sensitive business but you really drive value through the differentiation of service as well as the differentiation of bundling the different products that you have and trying to install and enhance the solution to our customers.
And that's how you really drive positive price value.
I think over the long term it's a business that you can drive positive price and we have demonstrated this in this particular business over the past several years that it is a business that allows that type of pricing situation.
The current market in Security is there's nothing unusual happening around pricing specifically.
I think it's pretty much in line with typical trends and nothing has shifted or no dynamic that's happening that's unusual at this stage.
Well in fact a couple of quarters ago we indicated that we thought that maybe we've been getting a little more aggressive on pricing taking some business that we perhaps in retrospect would not have wanted to take in the CSS North America business.
And so Don and I have both spent a fair amount of time with the Security team going through their pricing their price discipline going through their backlog and looking at the profitability of the backlog.
And I can tell you that it is improving and the new business largely being driven by the vertical market initiative and from the organic growth initiative the vertical market initiative is where we have put together the bundles and the value propositions that Don is referring to.
And in fact what we're finding out in a lot of these orders in the order book in general from the vertical market initiative is that the gross margins are coming in at somewhat above line average.
And that is where we want it to be because we think the value that we generate in these verticals is very high and therefore we should get paid for it.
Our next question is from Sam Darkatsh of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim the oil and gas strength I understand it's off of a relatively small base.
I know -- I think you have also had some organizational changes within your CRC business but it just -- the growth seems to be a real outlier particularly based on what I guess broad trends would be in the line pipe industry in the U.S.
How sustainable are those growth rates? And how should we be looking at that going forward? Yes I mean we've had some tough experience in onshore North America over the last few years which have made the comps relatively easy.
So I do think we have a couple of easy comps in front of us.
However I wouldn't be looking for plus 40% every quarter.
That said the pipeline construction activity in North America is really almost back at the level it was about 4 years ago when it peaked and we can see that.
We've been talking for a couple of quarters about the strengthening market.
But it takes -- it took a couple of quarters for us to actually go from doing the proposals and so forth to actually doing the work which is when we are able to recognize the revenue.
So we see -- this is a long-cycle business.
We have good visibility forward in North America onshore and we see a continued strong market not greater than 40% growth but certainly very robust.
And as far as the offshore business goes which is the other half of the puzzle that is extremely strong worldwide and we expect that to continue as well.
So this should be a good growth driver for us for several quarters if not years to come.
Sam let me just add to that because the format won't allow a follow-up.
You'll recall when we bought this business about 3 years ago it's new in terms of the business model relatively new to Stanley Black &amp; Decker.
And to Jim's point these are generally very large orders.
They're very lumpy and it's a huge difference on a $300 million revenue base if something comes in in the second quarter versus the third quarter.
So even at the beginning of our ownership of this company it's a very lumpy business.
It may be the best way to describe it.
And I think for your purposes and objectives and ours as well looking at rolling 12 months or rolling 8 quarters looking at things that way as opposed to just the much more classic EP-wise [ph] just because of seasonality and things of that nature is a better way to look at this business.
And that's how Don's team looks at it as we try to get a better grip on it and how best to forecast.
At the end of the day though it's going to be lumpy.
If you do $320 million in a year it's not going to be $80 million a quarter.
It's going to be $60 million 1 quarter and $100 million the next and that's just something we've learned to live with with this business.
And your question is very fair but just recognize that's the dynamic I would say unique to the oil and gas business.
Our next question is from Mike Wood of Macquarie.
Impressive growth with your growth initiatives.
I'm curious at the early stages what you're seeing in terms of the competitor responses from the market share gains that you're getting in these countries.
Well we're not seeing much yet.
Power tools in the emerging markets are very hotly contested by our biggest competitors anyway.
So in some ways I would argue that we're a little bit later to the game than some of them.
However we haven't really seen any major competitive response.
I think it's really too early for that and there were a lot people betting against whether these initiatives would even be successful and I suspect that competitive reaction will come once the success has been institutionalized.
Yes Mike.
It would be nave for us to think -- for we Stanley Black &amp; Decker to think that as the share gains start to register -- remember we're seeing them first in our shipments and in the POS.
Competitors will see them 3 to 6 months later as they evaluate our performance versus theirs and others.
It would be -- it would simply be nave and irresponsible of us not to expect reaction because no one relinquishes share willingly.
Hey this is the power tools business.
It's -- the tools business in general and the power tools business in particular.
We've been in it for 100 years and that would be our expectation.
Our next question is from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's actually John filling in for Steve today.
Just wanted to get a bit more granularity on the FX headwind outlook.
It seems like the currencies you cited are pretty contained for like 25% of sales.
So I thought it was a little big 2% -- $0.20 just in the back half of the year.
So what is your outlook for the back half in those currencies? Yes well we basically have taken the rates that -- of about a week 1.5 weeks ago or so and are using them as really our forecast for the back half of the year.
We don't tend to try to forecast trending whether they're going to go up or down.
As far as the magnitude of the number you have to remember that in particular Brazil and Canada and Australia are pretty sizable businesses for us and make up a significant amount of revenue.
The other thing to factor in is it's not just translational FX it's transactional FX which means we're shipping products into those countries in many cases from the United States or European markets and so the cross-currency exchange has a negative impact as a result.
Well I think it's about 50-50.
It ends up being about 50-50 exactly John.
So those are really the main drivers.
But the transactional piece is why it ends up being bigger than anticipated.
Now part of that is hedge but we don't hedge 100% of those types of activities because of the cost associated with hedging.
And the Latin American moves were very very sudden and sharp.
They're big moves.
Yes John you referenced 25%.
That's roughly the percentage of our business in Western Europe.
And obviously the pound sterling and euro is all that matters to us there.
50% of our business is outside the U.S.
and there are very few currencies in the back half of the year strengthening relative to the dollar.
So I think Don gave you some pretty good granularity there.
And hopefully that will help understand and validate the magnitude of the headwind.
Our next question is from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Will Wong on for Mike.
Can you talk about the trends in Latin America especially in Brazil as it relates to the consumer? There were some challenges in 1Q.
So just wondering what type of impact you would expect to your organic sales growth initiatives if consumer trends and sort of the political environments in some of these countries deteriorate from current levels.
Rank has its privileges so I'm going to delegate that to Jim because if he can predict what's going to happen in Brazil quarter-to-quarter he's a better man than I.
But we did have -- your point is very well taken in that we really were stunned by the difficulty in Brazil in the first quarter.
It was a lot more friendly market in the second quarter but Jim's been close to that.
Give it a whack Jim.
Brazil consumer market definitely a little slower than it has been.
However all these markets in Latin America are just exceptionally volatile and they bounce around from the markets themselves and the demand bounces around from quarter-to-quarter and then the currencies bounce around from quarter-to-quarter so your pricing positioning in the market changes dramatically over time.
And in addition to that there are some countries that have major political structural processes that drive further inefficiencies in the demand profile and supply and demand.
So it's hard to predict anything in Latin America other than just go there and execute as hard and as fast as you can.
And that's where we're adding salespeople bringing new products that are more appropriately designed for the mid price point segment and so forth to enable us to achieve growth rates that are definitely above market growth rates.
And that's what we're -- what we've been doing in Latin America for a long time because that's where we've -- really this formula that we're now applying to all the emerging markets has been applied for the last 10 years by the management team that is now running the overall emerging markets initiative.
And that's -- they're finding actually that some of these other markets around the world are more stable than Latin America and therefore sometimes easier to penetrate than perhaps Latin America.
Just to follow up Jim made a very important point.
And I just -- and it's probably not news to most people but unlike several North American-based or U.S.
multinationals operating in foreign markets particularly Latin America I think it's really important to point out our entire emerging markets group in general and the Latin American group in particular is staffed by foreign nationals who have grown up in lived in those markets that are well-tenured executives within our company.
And this isn't about me.
I spent half of my business career living and working abroad.
And the value added by people who understand our company and our company's culture values codes of conduct everything else at the same time understand the markets the people the culture quite frankly are quite accustomed to dealing with day-to-day week-to-week month-to-month volatility and frustrations that Jim I think very very adequately described is a huge advantage.
So that's just a point that I thought worth making on our emerging markets team it's -- they are tenured professionals with local experience that we're leveraging across the world.
And I actually -- I truly believe it's a competitive advantage and I just wanted to make that point.
Our next question is from Peter Lisnic of Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Josh Chan filling in for Pete.
You talked about how the order growth accelerated in CSS Europe but North America also accelerated quite a bit.
So could you talk a little bit about what you saw there? Yes.
I was referring earlier to these vertical market initiatives and they're part of the corporate organic growth initiative that we funded especially and announced a while ago last July.
And we've been working on these growth initiatives in Security in the vertical markets for about a year now.
And what they involve is taking certain markets such as financial services education K-12 and secondary education separately health care retail and so forth and putting together solutions for the customers using some of the proprietary technology that we have acquired over time such as our RTLS technology real-time locating and sensing technology that would be the AeroScout -- or excuse me the iLock technology which is iris identification and putting together solutions that are specifically designed for applications within these vertical markets.
So for example in the K-12 environment having the ability to lock down the school using this type of technology or to identify potential intruders to integrate the mechanical locking systems with electromechanical locking systems and electronic systems all these types of things are relevant to the end customers.
And I could -- we have a demonstration center in Indianapolis where we have all these different solutions kind of identified and we bring customers in and so on.
And the sales force has now been organized so that we have a segment of the sales force that's specialized to each one of these verticals and that's what's gaining momentum right now.
And in addition to I'd say just decent execution in the rest of the market that's what's providing the extra oomph for the growth.
And we expect -- we've seen on a monthly basis that order rate is increasing on a sequential basis and really beginning to grow like a wave of new business.
And some of it is medium-cycle long-cycle business so it takes a while.
But we will see that come to fruition in the second half in North America.
And in Europe we think to some extent not as much because the vertical market solutions that I'm talking about are primarily I'd say almost exclusively focused on the North American markets right now.
We're still in the process of integrating Niscayah.
When we get to the point that the Niscayah organization is ready in Europe these solutions are exportable to Europe and we will do that at that time.
So they will provide future growth in Europe.
None of that's really baked in to any of the long-term guidance that we've given.
However that's sort of the reason that you start to see North America order rates pick up in Security.
Our next question is from Eric Bosshard of Cleveland Research.
Question for you on CDIY nice acceleration of growth in 2Q versus 1Q.
Just wondering if you can dig in a little bit more to the 2Q growth.
You talked about promotions and some new products and I'm assuming some of the outdoor move from 1Q to 2Q.
So wonder if you can break up the 6% and some of the components of that and then how you think about the core and the benefit from some of the efforts in the second half for the 5% or better growth you're talking about in the second half.
Sure Eric.
Everything you said Eric is correct in terms of outdoor moves promotions.
You'll recall Jim mentioned some major mechanics tools and hand tools moves but Don can give you even a little more granularity to the extent we're comfortable.
Sure.
As Jim touched on in the second quarter the growth was significant really in almost all the areas of the business both geographically and across what we call the SBUs.
And there was a promotional aspect in the second quarter where in the prior year that occurred in the first quarter so that was a factor.
We did have the shift of the outdoor season into q -- from Q1 to Q2 and that'll continue to shift into Q3 as the season ends in a month -- roughly in a month or so.
So those are all factors.
But the reality is what you see within this business is that the new product introductions that they keep rolling out continue to drive organic growth and gain share.
The emerging market growth through the organic growth initiatives are accelerating to a mid-teens growth or 15% in emerging markets in the second quarter that we expect to continue into the back half.
And then we don't talk a lot about Europe but frankly the European performance was very strong for them where they had a relatively flat performance in a very difficult market.
And that's allowing us to demonstrate all the other growth that we're seeing and have it flow through across the entire global business of CDIY.
And that European flat performance is really because of share gain as well as some new product introductions that help facilitate that primarily in the U.K.
and in the Nordic regions.
So all those factors together are the result of what happened in the second quarter as Jim articulated.
But the reality is as we see those trends continuing in the back half and the growth that they experienced of roughly 6% is expected to continue in the back half of the year because of all the factors I just mentioned.
Our next question is from Liam Burke of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You had a very very strong quarter on industrial in particular IAR.
Could you give us a little color on where in emerging markets you're gaining traction? That seems to be in addition to the strength of the Mac business an area that's done pretty well.
Sure.
We had 4% growth in IAR and we had double-digit growth in the emerging markets.
So that was a good -- one of the big forces behind the growth as you point out.
I think well first of all the answer to your question is very simply that the emerging market growth initiative is what's driving that double-digit growth in the emerging markets.
But more specifically we're very fortunate because we are the only tool company that has both Construction &amp; DIY strength in the emerging markets as well as Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair access to those markets channel access.
So the way we're going about this is as opposed to coming at it from one perspective or the other we're coming at it -- we've joined forces internally between our Construction &amp; DIY business and our IAR business.
And that has actually given us much better access to I think the emerging of the IAR channels than we otherwise would have because what happens in the -- many of these emerging markets is that the channels are very blurred in between Construction &amp; DIY and Industrial.
You don't have -- in many many of these markets you don't have the highly developed channels that distinguish between construction and then large retail -- I mean construction 2-step large retail industrial channel automotive repair channel.
You don't have that in the emerging markets.
You have much more chaotic channels much less well-developed channels.
And our ability to come at it from a joint perspective and cooperate internally between our Construction &amp; DIY business and our IAR business I think gives us the ability to drive that growth the way I just described.
Our next question is from Dennis McGill of Zelman and Associates.
LLC</strong> I think this question maybe is for Jim.
But is there a way to take the backlog both across electronic and mechanical and just think about Security backlog overall and have one number as far as what you're entering third quarter with as far as the growth year-over-year? And then kind of within that Jim is there a way to separate out what you're seeing market-wise on the Security -- or nonresidential side from what your internal initiatives are? Are there signs in your opinion that you're starting to see the market actually pick up and get into a cyclical recovery? Yes Dennis this is John.
Jim will take it.
But just one point and we've made this many times but I think it's important to make it again on backlog.
Whether it's one number or 2 what's more important is when it's executable or convertible.
As we've increased our sophistication with architectural specifiers and things of that nature we could have an order in the system that can't be executed until 12 to 15 months from now because if you think about new construction we're at the very end of the process.
I mean as the building is being finished it's when wires are being laid or our systems are being put in.
So whether you have one number or 2 it's not possible for us and as a consequence I guarantee it's not possible for you to take that and have it be of much value to you in terms of the next quarter or quarter after that.
But I just think it's important to make that point but Jim can give you just a little more detail.
I mean I would only make 2 points and that is definitely one of them which is that the mechanical part of the business and frankly the electronic are both at the tail end of the process.
The second one is that without question there is an increase in the level of non-resi construction activity and increasing backlog related to that in the Security business.
I mean that is a piece of the puzzle.
It's a much bigger piece of the puzzle in the mechanical business than it is in the electronic business.
But it is in fact true that the non-resi construction market is picking up steam and therefore affecting both these businesses.
Our next question is from Dan Oppenheim of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering John I guess you talked in the past a lot about the goals of getting to 20% in terms of emerging market exposure.
Now you're getting awfully close to that.
Given the different growth rates in some of the markets so this may be -- it's always a moving target.
As you think about this where do you now think of it in terms of what your goal would be for emerging market exposure? I don't know if you -- it doesn't matter if you directed it to me or Don.
Our goals are unchanged.
And as we would have a tendency to do when and if it looks like we're going to achieve it and it's adding value to our shareholders we'll raise that bar.
But your point is correct.
The combination of divestiture of HHI acquisition of Infastech and good growth we've gone from 10% or 11% up to 16% or 17% depending on the quarter on an annual basis.
We closed the year at about 16%.
So we're getting there quickly.
As we start to approach it that 20% could well become 25% if those markets remain as profitable as they are now.
It's incredibly important not just to grow but to grow profitably.
And as Don and Jim have pointed out in various conversations these markets are at or above line average in many cases which is not the case for a lot of businesses.
So 20% could well become 25% but let's get 20% in the bank before we change that goal.
So what we talked to you and the investment community about in May those goals are all unchanged.
Our next question is from David MacGregor of Longbow Research.
Just on the Security business encouraging to see the order book building.
But wonder if you could just help us by elaborating on that 310-basis-point margin decline.
And you'd parsed out 4 different drivers in your presentation Jim and I was just wondering if I could get you to elaborate on that and maybe quantify the contribution to that 310 basis points.
I mean there's not much more I can elaborate other than to say that if you take those 4 items they really do account for the vast majority of the 300 basis points.
And they're all significant so I could say they're roughly 25% a piece or whatever.
That's directionally accurate but...
They're all within 20% to 30%.
Yes they're all within 20% to 30%.
Or each one is within 10% to 30% I should say.
Christine I believe that's all the time we have for questions and we'd like to thank everyone again for calling in this morning.
I know certain of you weren't able to ask a question.
Please give me a call after the call and we'll be able to handle and accommodate any questions you have.
And thank you all for your attendance and participation this morning.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q3 2013 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Dawn and I will be the operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Greg Waybright Vice President of Investor and Government Relations.
Mr.
Waybright you may begin.
Thank you Dawn.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren our Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; and Don Allan our Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued earlier this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR portion of our website as well as on our iPhone and iPad apps.
A replay of this morning's call will also be available beginning at 2:00 p.m.
today.
This replay number and the access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review Stanley's 2013 third quarter results and various other matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And please feel free to call me with any follow-up questions after today's call.
Finally we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It's therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
And we direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act filing.
With that I'll now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Greg and good morning everybody.
Just to touch on some of the highlights of the third quarter.
Revenues did increase 10% of which 4% was organic growth.
The rest was the addition of Infastech and it was partially offset by currency.
Diluted EPS of $1.39 up 14% versus 3Q '12.
Diluted GAAP EPS including charges were $1.07.
Our growth initiatives that we've talked about the last couple of quarters really continue to deliver some strong results.
They contributed about 200 basis points or 2 percentage points of the growth.
Both CDIY and our Industrial segments achieved some compelling top lines.
Specifically CDIY achieved organic growth of 5% at a 15% OM rate.
And within our Industrial segment Oil &amp; Gas delivered another really strong quarter of organic growth of 32%.
In Security growth both the growth rate and the margin improved sequentially.
Globally organic growth was 1% versus prior year driven primarily by our growth investments in the North American verticals and emerging markets and the OM rate within Security improved 170 basis points sequentially to 12.2% so good progress.
And as a consequence we see no changes to our expectations for the long-term financial prospects for Security and we believe the strategy and the programs that are in place to deliver our long-term financial objectives will get where they need to be.
But we are revising our full year 2013 guidance -- EPS guidance to a range of $4.90 to $5 as a result -- primarily as a result of the slower margin recovery within Security weakening in emerging markets and the impact of the U.S.
government shutdown on near-term organic growth.
So full year EPS $4.90 to $5 and resulting free cash flow at approximately $800 million.
And a lot more detail on those 2 projections and pieces of guidance from Don later on this morning.
Let's look briefly at our sources of growth because organic growth remains strong and the momentum is good.
In the third quarter volume was up 5% bringing it to 3% on a year-to-date basis.
Price was down 1%.
So organic growth as previously stated at 4%.
Acquisitions added 7%.
Currency detracted by 1% so a total revenue growth of 10%.
Looking at the organic growth year-to-date of 3%.
Just it's -- where -- third quarter was not too different from year-to-date.
We have a slow first quarter as you'll recall very robust second quarter and a healthy third quarter which was right above the midpoint or slightly above the midpoint of our year-to-date performance.
So a little bit bumpy but good organic growth on a year-to-date basis with third quarter falling between first and second quarter.
First quarter as you'll recall we had very little traction from our organic growth investments but they're really starting to produce the kinds of result that we have expected.
Looking at the regions.
And there is more detail in the appendix but I think it's important to point out the U.S.
our largest market was up 3% and is up 3% year-to-date.
It's still strong but it's not accelerating.
Europe was down 1% in total and was down 1% on a year-to-date basis.
As I think all of you know the macro environment is more stable than it has been but there's still certainly no tailwind and arguably a headwind.
And within Europe within our businesses Security was down as further detailed in our press release as a combination of organizational changes and moves we're making and the macro environment.
CDIY it continues to gain share and John Wyatt and the CDIY European team are doing a terrific job driving new distribution and share gains with product innovation and tremendous commercial efforts.
Industrial within Europe was down slightly as well in -- pretty much in line with the market.
Emerging markets remain a bright spot up 14% in the third quarter up 8% on a year-to-date basis.
Industrial and CDIY posting strong results.
And Security was up nicely in emerging markets but it's from quite a small base but we're making good progress there on our Security business in emerging markets.
And the rest of the world was flat.
So again 4% organic growth on the third quarter 3% on a year-to-date basis.
Just a quick snapshot and I'll say some anecdotes on the specific initiatives that we've talked about for the last couple of calls.
These initiatives are demonstrating results and within the third quarter the emerging market expansion continues.
We've hired about 300 people including key country leaders and sales positions.
Our distributor expansion is progressing nicely both in the traditional and industrial channels or with that base as well as in the modern channels in northeast Asia where those channels are more established.
That all helps us prepare for the mid-price-point product launches which will come later this year.
And the ability to launch those essential mid-priced products in emerging markets has been accelerated by 3 to 6 months through the GQ acquisition that Jim spoke to you about on the last call.
Finally the Security verticals are gaining traction.
We have order momentum building and we've had some recent success in our K-12 and Healthcare programs on a global basis specifically new access card control systems in 73 schools across the country in the third quarter alone and orders in excess of $1 million at 3 hospitals.
Obviously we don't want to name them without their permission but just as a demonstration of some meaningful points on the board with some of these initiatives.
So as a consequence we remain on track for our 3-year commitments with the organic growth program.
And finally just a quick look inside emerging markets with some real highlights in our tools businesses: Russia up 32%; China 27%; Middle East and Africa 9%; Latin America 8%; Southeast Asia 7% so total emerging market growth -- tools business growth of 13%.
And previously as I said Security's growing nicely in emerging markets as well but from a very small base.
Let me turn it over to Jim who's going to take a deeper dive into some of the segments.
Okay.
Thank you John.
Starting with CDIY another respectable quarter for CDIY with 5% organic growth and near 15% operating margin.
Revenues were $1.388 billion up 5%.
The operating profit was $207 million versus $204 million last year or up 2%.
Profit rate was 14.9% versus 15.5% last year a 60-basis-point decrease which was largely attributable to the cost of the organic growth investments totaling 40 basis points of impact.
Organic growth was solid across virtually every region and every business unit within CDIY.
PPT or Professional Power Tools was up 10% as NPI emerging market growth promotions and the recovering U.S.
construction market all contributed to the performance.
In particular the brushless XR and the cordless framing nailer new products registered significant gains.
CPG or consumer products was up 5% as outdoor continued its strength while the innovative Matrix power tools gained share in the developed markets and new products in steam and hand vacs performed well in Europe.
Emerging markets also contributed significantly to CPG's growth.
Hand Tools and Storage was up 3% organically led by continued growth in DeWalt Hand Tools in the U.S.
and positive growth in Europe.
As far as the regions Europe was up 3% an especially encouraging performance and their best since the euro crisis began with share gains in a stabilizing economy and an especially strong performance in the U.K.
Emerging markets at plus 10% was strong but about 5 points of growth short of our expectation as slowing markets credit issues currency volatility and in-channel congestion all took their toll.
North America was up 4% but could easily have been up an additional 2 points or so if inventory cautiousness at certain retailers and independents as a whole had not dampened shipments in September.
All in all inventories of the larger retailers are in good shape with some dispersion across that universe.
And POS in the aggregate at the large customers remained healthy so it appears that the consumer demand and construction-related activity have yet to be adversely affected by the U.S.
government shutdown.
So all in all CDIY fared reasonably well in the quarter with somewhat less growth than expected due to the emerging market slowdown and late quarter caution in the U.S.
CDIY channels.
And now moving to Industrial.
Industrial too had a respectable quarter with 4% organic growth despite several headwinds and challenges.
Operating margin at 14.5% was solid down 90 basis points versus 3Q '12 driven primarily by organic growth investments and a slight mix down resulting from the addition of Infastech which remains on track.
Revenues were $771 million up 25% and operating profit was $112 million up 18%.
Infrastructure once again was the star of the quarter with 23% organic growth fueled by a 32% increase as John mentioned in Oil &amp; Gas.
Organic revenues and a high-margin onshore automatic welding activity drove the revenue growth in both the U.S.
and the rest of the world.
Industrial &amp; Auto Repair delivered 2% growth in the face of several headwinds including a virtual no-show for a normal 3Q U.S.
government spending as well as Europe being down in the mid-single digits as SAP was implemented there and their major industry trade show will occur in the fourth quarter this year versus the third quarter of last year.
Without these 2 discontinuities IAR Europe would have been modestly positive.
Mac Tools grew in the high-single digits providing some offset.
However IAR's positive growth can be traced to the organic growth initiatives with emerging markets up 13% and smart tools and storage collectively contributing about 3 points of growth.
Engineered Fastening had what appeared to be an uncharacteristically weak organic growth performance being flat.
However underlying that story was a very difficult equipment sales comp from last year's third quarter which resulted in equipment sales down 23% and that was offset by fasteners up a more normal 6% organically about 2x global light vehicle production.
So the story for Industrial this quarter was a solid performance in the face of several material but mostly temporary headwinds.
And now I will focus on Security for a few minutes.
Security is one of the drivers behind the recalibration of our outlook with a general theme of progress but not at the pace that was expected.
However there is a definite distinction between the North America/emerging markets piece and Security Europe with the former showing good growth and OM rates nearing but not at normalized levels and the latter taking more time to achieve desired growth and thus profitability levels.
I will delve into each one of these stories but first a quick overview of the segment.
Revenues were $600 million up 3%.
Organic sales were up 1%.
Operating profit was $73 million down 22% and the OM rate was 12.2% versus 16% a year ago but importantly up sequentially from 10.5% in 2Q.
And this represents 170-basis-point improvement which is moving in the right direction but just not at a fast-enough pace.
Now when we turn to the 2 pieces starting with North America you begin to see a reasonably positive story with the business returning to a healthier state.
And there you can see 4% organic growth in North America/emerging markets and sequential rate improvement of 180 basis points from 13.3% to 15.1%.
And without the investment in the growth initiatives or adjusting for that the operating margin rate would have been in the mid-16s.
So the organic growth pretty positive story there really resulting from several factors some of which John touched on: the vertical market initiative definitely gaining traction particularly in health care education also in financial services.
The automatic doors business was robust with mid-single-digit growth.
We had strong product introductions across the businesses had a really outstanding ASIS show which is the industry show in Chicago in September where we showcased new products across the businesses.
They were very well received by our customers as well as our vertical solutions.
And as we mentioned earlier the emerging markets are also contributing.
So the sequential OM rate improvement on top of the growth is promising.
Several key drivers for that: the vertical market mix as these systems are at above line average profitability; some improvements in field efficiency not as much as we were looking for but definite improvements in efficiency in North America; and then the commercial lock transition in the Mechanical Access business now 9 months into the transition entering a phase where the OM rates are now improving.
So North America and emerging markets about 60% of the segment is returning to a healthier state and will continue to make progress in 4Q and beyond.
And then when we focus on Europe turning the page the other 40% of the segment we see a situation where organic growth is still elusive and negative which in turn is slowing the sequential rate improvement and slowing our ability to get the operating margin rates back up into that zone that we're looking for.
And the reality here is that the shortfalls in organic growth have gone beyond the 2-year shortfalls that we were expecting when we closed Niscayah and they're now cutting into the margin rates.
And we haven't had much help from the macro environment although frankly we didn't expect much and it is stabilizing.
So we are dealing with several structural issues the first being historical overdependence on referrals from the mother company Securitas that really referred a lot of business to Niscayah back in the days when they were affiliated.
So we had to rebuild the sales force almost from scratch over the last 2 years.
And then we had in various countries weak legacy management that we had to undertake significant management replacements and changes.
And then finally we had a legacy systems integration model mindset and business model at Niscayah versus a recurring revenue model which is what we're familiar with in North America.
And then there is just the pace of change in Europe in general which is a challenge.
And so these are all significant challenges some of which we expected some of which were deeper than expected.
But we have a strong and capable management team in place in our Brussels headquarters for Security Europe and although the progress is slower than desired real progress has been made.
As I mentioned the sales force rebuild is well underway and the France and U.K.
and even southern Europe elements of this business are now performing quite well.
In Nordics and Germany Nordics being the largest region which fortunately for us both decent economic environments over there are really more self-inflicted works in progress and we just made a significant management change leadership change in the Nordics.
And so most of the management upgrades are complete at this point in time.
And we're gradually moving the model now towards a recurring revenue base model.
So we should continue to see progress here in Europe but we are not going to overcommit the pace of change at this point.
I'll now turn it over to Don Allan who will cover the financial aspects of the quarter.
Thank you Jim.
So I'd like to start with a walk through working capital and then move into cash flow.
So our working capital performance was flat versus the prior year at 5.9 working capital turns which was slightly off expectation.
We expected to improve our working capital turns by about 0.4 turn in the third quarter of this year.
Let me walk through a couple of the specific reasons for that variation.
The first of which is that when you look at our receivables or DSO the expectation was is that we'd be closer to a flat performance versus the prior year but given the timing of how the revenue occurred within the third quarter it actually drove an increase in our DSO of about 5%.
We view that as a temporary situation and don't see that as a major hurdle for our objectives related to working capital and cash flow for 2013.
Second area is inventory DSI which was flat.
We did expect our DSI actually to improve in the third quarter but due to the lower organic revenue performance in certain businesses in this third quarter versus our expectation it caused some inventory pressure in our supply chain.
And then the fourth area is the payables or DPO which improved by 9% and this is an area that we continue to demonstrate improvement over the last several years.
This is really where the impact of the Stanley Fulfillment System and the hard work of our supply chain teams continues to demonstrate the benefits that the Stanley Fulfillment System can have on working capital as we continue to accelerate our progress there.
The end result was 5.9 working capital turn as I mentioned which was about 0.4 below our expectation.
The vast majority of that was the combination of inventory and receivables.
Our expectation for the end of the year is that we will be closer to a flat performance versus 2012 at 7.5 working capital turns versus our original expectation which was a modest improvement over 2012.
And I'll walk through that in a little more detail on the next page.
But our expectation is that we still believe with all these things that we're doing through the Stanley Fulfillment System that we can continue to work our way towards our goal of 10 working capital turns.
So moving to free cash flow.
You can see the significant impact of working capital in the third quarter which was a cash outflow of $244 million and year-to-date cash outflow of $372 million.
The good news is the expectation is given the way that our fourth quarter works and the seasonality of several of our businesses specifically the CDIY business where a large portion of the revenue occurs in October and November we believe given that that we can reverse the vast majority of this negative by the end of the year.
However instead of it being a slight modest positive versus our original expectation we expect it to be flat or even a slight small negative at the end of the year.
The reasons I walked through on the previous page.
The Other area -- Other category made some modest improvement.
If you remember back in July I talked about some negatives that occurred in other that were more timing issues.
We saw some of that reverse itself in the third quarter and that trend will continue in the fourth quarter as that becomes more in line with our expectations by the end of the year.
So the question some of you might be asking is "What's the roadmap from where we are to $800 million in free cash flow?" Well if we start with our original expectation of $1 billion back in July there's really 2 drivers that reduced it to $800 million.
The first is our working capital expectation has dropped by about $100 million and you'll hear on the guidance section and right after this that our earnings expectation is $100 million lower as well.
Those are the 2 main drivers versus prior guidance.
But where we are today at $150 million roughly of free cash flow what is the path that gets us to $800 million? Well our fourth quarter would have approximately net income and D&amp;A of about $310 million based on current outlook.
The working capital reversal of roughly $372 million as you see up above and then Other continuing to improve by about $50 million and then CapEx of about $80 million to $90 million would get you to roughly $800 million of free cash flow for the year.
And that would be the roadmap to that expectation.
So with that I'd like to turn to our revised outlook for 2013.
Our current view of organic growth for the year is that we expect it to approximate 3%.
We're year-to-date through 9 months at right around 3% which means the fourth quarter is expected to be a similar number versus our prior expectation of 4% to 5%.
And I'll walk through some of the details of that in a few minutes.
What that means to our EPS is that combined with Security's slower recovery we believe that EPS can be $4.90 to $5 this year versus our previous expectation.
So let's walk through some of the details of that.
About half of the EPS reduction relates to a slower-than-expected pace of Security margin improvement versus our expectation in July.
Jim did a great job walking through the detail of that a few minutes ago so I'm sure you can understand the aspects of that in more detail.
The second portion of it is related to a reduced view of organic growth that I previously mentioned a few minutes ago of now 3% for the year.
And there's really a couple of drivers to that.
We believe that with the pressure that we're seeing in emerging markets it's -- which is a slight temporary deceleration we believe associated with some of the macroeconomic environment pressures we're seeing in those geographies around the world will contribute to this.
And then two we really believe the U.S.
government sequestration and shutdown has had a modest impact in Q3 on us and will have a slightly more significant impact in us in Q4.
The good news is we believe these issues are temporary that they're not issues that will carry over into 2014.
But we cannot guarantee that at this point so our view is to be prudent about where we are today and focus on what we can achieve through our growth initiatives and other organic initiatives across the company.
The last thing I'd say is that partially offsetting this pressure is an improved tax rate.
As you saw in the third quarter we did have some accelerated tax credits as well as a shift in the distribution of our earnings across the world that allowed a lower tax rate.
We expect that to carry through for the year.
And now our tax rate will be 20% versus the 23% expectation in July.
The last thing I'd say associated with guidance is that when you think through where we were in July we were at a situation where we felt we were beginning to accelerate organic growth.
As we close Q2 we saw accelerating organic growth in many areas emerging markets the U.S.
and even Europe continuing to slightly improve.
Our second quarter organic growth was 5%.
Our second half view was organic growth slightly above 6%.
Now we see some deceleration in the -- with the second half being closer to 3% to 4% organic growth versus that 6% number.
The second area which is a change is really our slower recovery in Security.
We believe we're doing all the right things in Security to get this business back to historical levels.
But in the case of Europe it's going to take a little longer than our original expectation but we're hitting all the right areas to make sure we achieve that in 2014 and beyond.
There's a little bit of segment detail associated with our guidance to the right.
I'll touch on a few things very briefly and then you can have follow-up questions as you see appropriate.
CDIY will still be a mid-single-digit organic revenue performance for 2013 although slightly lower than original expectations due to the emerging market growth expectation being slightly muted.
The modest OM rate increase is still expected to occur for the segment versus 2012.
Security's organic revenue is expected to be a modest decline versus 2012.
And we'll continue to see modest growth in North America which will be offset by the continued mid-single-digit decline that we've been seeing in Europe.
The operating margin rate will decrease year-over-year based on the information that Jim provided a few minutes ago.
And then Industrial will continue to be a low- to mid-single-digit organic revenue growth expectation for 2013 slightly lower than our expectation in July due to the emerging market situation as well as the uncertain government situation here in the United States.
And then the OM rate is expected to decrease slightly mainly due to the initial Infastech margins being slightly below line average as well as the impact of some of the growth investments.
The last thing I'd say on this page is that our view for 2014 is still being developed.
But we still believe that many of the things that we're seeing here are temporary around the pressures in organic growth and that our long-term objective of 4% to 6% organic growth is achievable in 2014.
Along with that we believe that we can grow our EPS year-over-year 7% to 9% associated with that.
Obviously those numbers are excluding charges.
So to summarize the presentation portion of the call this morning we believe 2013 is continuing to demonstrate traction in organic growth even though we are seeing some pressures in certain areas that I just touched on.
We continue to focus on the organic growth initiatives.
They drove half of our 4% organic growth in the third quarter and we're definitely seeing the benefit of them.
CDIY and Industrial had a solid performance in the third quarter and we continue to see positive momentum in those businesses.
We've recalibrated our Security margin performance.
The expectation is below -- or is below expectations but it's progressing.
And we really believe that we will regain position in this business as being a revenue and earnings grower and a driver for our performance in 2014 and beyond.
The emerging market macro environment is difficult and the U.S.
government situation is creating some uncertainty for us but we're still demonstrating solid organic growth even with that.
Our 2013 outlook has been revised for the items that I mentioned and we remain focused on driving organic growth in our company the efficiencies across the company trying to maximize synergies and then allocating our capital in a way that provides excellent returns for our shareholders.
So that concludes the presentation portion of the call and we'll move to Q&amp;A.
Yes great.
Thanks Don.
Dawn we can now open the call to Q&amp;A please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jason Feldman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Last couple of years I know have certainly been challenging from a macro perspective in currency and a lot of acquisitions and divestitures.
But when I look at your revised guidance for this year it's actually very similar to the initial guidance you gave for 2011 2 years ago.
When you look back kind of over the last 3 years what do you think over that period kind of drove the shortfall versus your expectations? Do you see any kind of structural issue with the 3 segments that you have? Was it execution? Was it M&amp;A? Or was it really just end markets and macro? Jason it's Don.
When I look back at the last 3 years there's things that have happened in that time frame and obviously we've had shifts in the portfolio.
We've sold businesses such as HHI.
We've had acquisitions that have kind of shape-shift the structure of the company in that time frame.
In 2011 the performance in my view was pretty solid and achieved our objectives for that year.
In 2012 we had some dynamics in Europe that were difficult that hit every company not just ours in the second quarter and the third quarter of that year and we think we responded accordingly with appropriate actions.
And then the acquisition of Niscayah certainly had an impact on us here in 2013 and Jim walked through that in a lot of detail and we're responding accordingly to it.
We feel like we've taken the actions to get the business back on track here in '13 so it can be -- get itself closer to historical levels as we enter '14 and move further into 2014.
But my view is there's not something structurally wrong with the portfolio of the company or structurally wrong with other aspects of the company.
I think it's more due to the continued portfolio transformation of our company and driving performance and trying to maximize shareholder value along the way.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just 1 question.
So you're guiding for 2 3 points of sequential margin improvements at Security in 3Q and you've got within that range.
And it sounds like your implied guidance suggests there's no further improvement in 4Q.
So can you just maybe just confirm that and just give us some color in terms of what's changed in the last 3 months? Yes.
Nigel it's John.
I'll confirm there is no implied guidance despite your calculations for the fourth quarter.
That being said nothing has changed other than I think Jim did as detailed a job as could possibly be done on this call that we're pleased with the direction of Security.
We are not pleased with the pace.
I think the other very important point is the situations in the U.S.
and Europe are dramatically different.
Europe we are in the midst of meaningful organizational changes and those take time.
That does take time to I'll say put points on the board and have you realize the results.
And as I think Jim pointed out pretty clearly we've got a lot of things going on in the U.S.
on the Mechanical side.
We've talked about our business model change which -- to a distribution versus direct which is going to help with volume but short term have an impact on margins.
I think that's quite clear.
And on the Convergent side -- access is making great progress.
And on the Convergent side we've also -- we've talked about the need to focus or refocus on more recurring revenue and less systems integration and installation which was I don't want to say a trap but which was a tack we found ourselves going down that's not consistent with our long-term strategy.
So a lot of things going on but there was no implied guidance for the fourth quarter as it relates to margins.
My expectation is we'll continue to improve globally the question is at what pace.
Yes.
The only thing I would do to clarify what Nigel said is that we certainly gave an indication of the sequential improvement back in July with the expectation in Q3 being a much higher number than what you said Nigel which was we expected it to improve about 300 to 350 basis points and it improved 170 so about halfway there and then by the fourth quarter get to historic -- closer to historical level.
So if there was a "implied guidance" that was really what it was.
Our next question comes from Rich Kwas from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question -- I know 2014 is in flux a bit but when you look at that 7% to 9% EPS growth and you're saying 4% to 6% organic revenue growth it seems like you should be able to get much better leverage on that organic revenue growth than what you're implying in that EPS growth for '14.
What are kind of the drivers of the deleveraging or the reduced leverage on the volume growth that could potentially occur next year? I'm just trying to square that.
Yes.
I would say that -- this is Jim.
I would say that the single biggest aspect of that is a hedge because the government is shut down business confidence is shaky right now in the U.S.
We don't know what the consumer is going to do.
So we're putting 4% to 6% out there because the assumption is if the economy kind of stays at the current level then we should be able to generate 4% to 6%.
If that 4% to 6% does not materialize we still think that we're in a situation where we'll be able to generate some meaningful earnings growth in the range that Don mentioned.
However it will require some more cost cutting and perhaps some deferral of investments and that type of thing.
And we're just at an early stage here and we can't really determine what the external environment is going to bring with it.
So hold on for a couple of months and come January we'll be talking about that in more detail.
Hopefully the U.S.
government will be back in business and business confidence and consumer confidence will be moving in the right direction again.
Yes.
And I would add that we're really just looking to give folks an indication that we saw the potential for growth next year both top line and EPS growth.
So it wasn't necessarily to say that this is a locked-in number and the view of exactly what it's going to be but I think the way that Jim articulated is an excellent summary.
Our next question comes from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I've covered Stanley for a long time and historically at least there's been a clear pattern of anytime there's been weakening business conditions and/or executional issues you've also announced further restructuring actions in order to rightsize the organizational cost structure and offset the earnings shortfall in short order.
And notably I'm not seeing that sort of new restructuring announcement today which seems really curious given the scale of the current shortfall.
So how should we read that as it really -- it seems like it's a significant departure from historical management actions at Stanley not to announce a restructuring at the same time when there's a material miss? Sam it's Don.
The way I would respond to that is I certainly understand that perspective and I think we are very -- as you know very active in managing our company and responding quickly to situations.
The current situation though our view is that it is temporary and to some extent we believe unorganic growth.
Now we do have some situations related to Security that it's taking a little longer for us to recover but frankly we're taking all the restructuring actions we can take in our Security business to make sure that that gets back on track.
And it would be difficult to do a lot more beyond what we've already done especially given that we're talking about a European business where it takes time to do these types of restructurings and they can't be done overnight.
But going back to the organic growth point of view is that we believe that we're seeing a bit of a deceleration as I mentioned here and it's not the right time to react by a dramatic cost takeout.
But to what Jim was saying earlier if we get into 2014 and we start to see this trend continue because it's more issues related to the U.S.
government or there's some other type of economic impact either associated with that or independent of that then we will have to take those types of actions.
And I am convinced that we'll do that because this leadership team knows how to respond to those types of difficult situations.
And if you look at where we are in the cycle to kind of reiterate Don's point about this we think this is temporary.
If you look at where we are in the cycle you have a construction market in resi which is pretty hot here in the U.S.
You have a non-resi market that looks like it's going to be pretty hot in '14.
You have Europe which is stabilizing not out of the woods but certainly not a big negative like it has been for -- from an economic point of view.
And you have the emerging markets which are slower but still 2 to 3x times the growth of the developed markets.
So when you look at the macro backdrop you say "Well this is not a permanent problem." It's a bit of a deceleration right now and in particular our emerging market activities performing in the low teens pretty impressive I think performance under the circumstances.
Our issue is that to sustain a mid- to high-teens performance in markets that are decelerating would only put us in a position where we'd be getting into a trap or the channels would get too full.
So we're throttling back temporarily.
And next year we have a significant MPP mid-priced-point growth program that John referenced.
That's going to help us in the emerging markets.
So we look around and we say "The environment is not terribly negative right now.
In fact there's more positives than negatives." Therefore we're cautiously optimistic that '14 will be a good growth year.
There's no point in going and taking a business that has great organic growth momentum in general and going to take a hatchet out and take a big chunk of costs out because we're trying to make up for a couple of -- $0.50 of EPS this year.
So that is the backdrop.
And as I said we'll have another look in early '14 and we'll share with you our view.
And we haven't lost our ability or our inclination to cut costs when the revenue isn't going to be there.
But we think based on everything we see at this point that the environment could be relatively favorable in '14.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
It looks like in terms of the Security margins without knowing how much you're spending in terms of the growth investments and the restructuring that you're doing with Niscayah it's hard for us to model that out.
But in a similar fashion in terms of getting to your growth investment targets of the 35% gross margins and somewhat robust operating profits by 2015 can you provide us some more clarity in terms of what gets the gross margins up from where they are currently and what sort of leads to that margin ramp over the next 2 years? Yes Mike.
I would say -- well first of all the gross margins are not a major drag related to these initiatives here in 2013 and they won't be in 2014.
The drag tends to be more at the operating margin rate level which is where we're making the SG&amp;A investments and the feet on the street in streets in the emerging markets.
Some of the enhanced resources and investments we've made around vertical solutions in the Security business here in North America those are all SG&amp;A-related costs so the drag is more at the operating margin rate level.
Now as we get into 2014 we'll be embarking on our mid-price-point product launch in the emerging markets which our expectation is that will be reasonably close to line average gross margin and should not be a drag in that area in 2014.
So our view is that we continue to make these SG&amp;A investments.
It's more about a volume leverage getting the volume up to the right level.
So the SG&amp;A is giving -- the investments we're making is giving us a return that's in excess of 15% OM.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Jim you talked about throttling back a little bit on the emerging markets business.
You're at low teens now.
Can you just talk about the profitability as it stands today on the emerging markets business? You've talked in the past of it being 20% or better margins.
I'm just wondering how it should go in the quarter and your thoughts for the next couple of quarters.
Well there hasn't been any significant change in the profitability levels of emerging markets with the exception of the fact that the SG&amp;A investments are a bit higher.
So that's probably costing us 200 basis points of operating margin or something in that order.
So instead of 20% we're probably closer to 17% 18% but it's still above line average profitability.
We have Stephen Kim from Barclays on the line.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you a question I guess about the Security business in particular any lessons you think that are applicable as you sort of look into future opportunities.
You cited the fact that there were some sales relationships and then maybe a sales force there that wasn't exactly up to your expectations relationships with the parent company that were I guess losing some of the reported results beyond your expectations.
As you look in the rearview mirror and you're trying to assess the lessons you learned from this and you apply that forward what would you think you might do differently as you assess future M&amp;A opportunities? Steve great great great question.
And maybe there's a spot for you on our Board of Directors because we've had the same conversation with them and I mean that very very seriously.
I'll give you the short answer and then I'll add some color because I think it's a really really important thing to understand.
The answer is nothing.
And the different -- I would argue that Stanley Black &amp; Decker has a core competency rapidly developing if not already recognized for acquiring integrating improving the performance of the business.
And even in the past when it's been suggested we've acquired at a very high price relative to our trading multiples within a year or 2 it looked brilliant.
In the case of Niscayah there was one really really important distinction.
It was a contested publicly-traded company where the former parent tried to buy it.
We had the opportunity to intervene as a white knight for lack of better terminology.
It was a business we knew strategically was a very important fit.
We had tried to buy that business when it was part of Securitas.
That being said Jim myself the Security team did a lot of due diligence to the extent we could 3 or 4 years prior.
We had the opportunity -- we did not have the opportunity to do the kind of due diligence that we do so we hit the ground running Day 1 where we know what the organization looks like we know what the projections are we're really comfortable with the synergies.
We used our best estimates.
That being said what did we get right and what did we miss? And I think you asked that.
We knew that the senior management was not there for the long haul because it was a newly upgraded -- newly created public company.
They had no desire to carry on and weren't a good fit with our organization and they left.
We underestimated the degree to which the field sales organization and the field tech organization in both countries needed to be upgraded.
That took some time.
I think it's well in process.
But as we've suggested earlier we depleted some of our existing Security business' bench and we've put some very capable resources including Massimo Grassi one of our most tested and proven European leaders added him to our Security business team in an effort to drive the changes that needed to be made.
And I think the other thing Jim mentioned that we missed and I don't think without proper full due diligence in hindsight -- with the guide of 20/20 hindsight it's easy.
But we underestimated the degree to which the Niscayah business allowed on referrals from Securitas to maintain their installed base and as a consequence turn that into recurring revenue.
So all those things that Jim touched on are real.
We've sat back and asked ourselves the hard question.
Would we -- could we have anticipated that ahead of time? And the honest answer is we think no.
To answer the last part of your question were it to be a publicly-traded company and we were having -- we had the opportunity to intervene because we've never made a hostile acquisition in our career.
It's not our style and that tends to not work out very well.
We might try to ask more questions do more research.
But understand we had 2 weeks to mobilize to do this deal or not.
I think 2 years from now because we're asking ourselves the question now "Would we have made the acquisition if we had to do it over again?" The answer is absolutely yes.
Are we enduring some short-term pain for long-term gain? The answer is yes.
And it's a long answer to a simple question but it's appropriate that -- we've had this question internally and we've had the discussion with our board.
And I think that's exactly where we come out.
Yes.
And I'll just add to it that when we did this deal we knew there were a lot of unknowns and we knew the environment in Europe was uncertain although we were not in the midst of a euro crisis.
And so we've put pretty significant hedges in the plan.
There was a $100 million revenue hedge as an example.
We assumed we would lose $100 million of revenue.
That would have been sufficient to cover the Securitas issues and some of the other things John was talking about but it wasn't sufficient to cover the euro crisis and that at the same time so not a big enough hedge a very large hedge.
We outperformed the cost synergies and we continue to outperform the cost synergies on this deal as well.
And we knew that was a conservative estimate of the cost synergies that we undertook when we announced the deal.
And the hedges just weren't big enough based on a combined euro crisis and some of the internal structural issues at the same time.
And last point Steve it kind of relates to Sam Darkatsh's question on restructuring which I think Don answered quite well.
We haven't forgotten how to do it.
We do it when we need to.
We've made over 50 acquisitions in the last 10 years.
We haven't gotten them all perfect on Day 1.
There are very few that after we've owned them for a reasonable period of time we haven't fixed them or figured out what's wrong with them and dramatically restructured them or changed them.
And I personally am confident that we'll get there with Niscayah.
It's going to take longer for all the reasons you've identified.
They're all completely accurate.
There all with the benefit of 20/20 hindsight and that's where we stand on it.
And then I'm hoping within -- a year or so from now we'll be able to say we told you so.
You asked the right questions and we had the right programs in place but spot on for now.
Our next question comes from Peter Lisnic from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Josh Chan filling in for Pete.
Just on the idea of possible deceleration I know Jim you've talked a little bit about some slowing in September in CDIY.
I was just wondering if September was just a slow month in general across your different kind of businesses.
I was wondering if you have any color on that.
Well September was a slow month in Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair for sure with the government basically shut down.
And there's usually a surge in September related to the government spending and so forth that just didn't occur so that was clear.
We think that there were some inventory corrections as I mentioned at retail which was definitely a factor in CDIY.
And then we also had the systems implementation in IAR as well as the Kip [ph] Auto Show which is the trade show which would occur in the fourth quarter and not September as in previous -- as in the previous years.
So these factors all contributed to a slow September.
It was a very slow September in relation to what we expected and what we've been experiencing on a run rate basis.
And that's why a fair amount of the deceleration is attributable to both the emerging market slowdown and the U.S.
government issues that we have right now with respect to the budget funding levels.
Our next question is from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just wanted to focus on North America also for a bit.
If you could go into more detail with regards to I guess what you would call some of the areas that you are happy with and that you still expect some additional improvement in particularly in Security.
You had mentioned on the -- where you felt room to go is on the field efficiency side for example.
And also in the CDIY where you'd mentioned the inventory reductions if it's possible can you give any additional clarity there if you think that will continue into the fourth quarter for example? Yes.
I can't give too much more clarity on the inventory reductions other than to say that what we're -- I said there was some disparity across the population or the universe of these customers and we would never call out any one in -- specifically.
But what I will say is that there is a pattern where the retailers that are performing well are not necessarily adjusting inventories.
Their inventories are in pretty good shape.
And the retailers that are struggling a bit are in a different place so their inventories are getting a little bit out of line.
On the average the inventories are in good shape.
So -- but you do have a little bit of a dispersion across the universe.
And on Security their -- the fourth -- the third quarter performance in terms of margin probably fell about 200 basis points or so short of where we had hoped it would be and a good half of that is related to the field efficiency.
So we did make improvements but there definitely are some areas in the area of efficiency that are improving even as we speak on a month-to-month basis but just not improving on a fast-enough rate.
And we have good visibility into that and we should see some improvements continue into the fourth quarter on that front.
And then in general what I'm very happy about in North America is the organic growth.
We really haven't -- we've made a lot -- talked a lot about it but I defy anybody to go back and find out when the last time CSS organic growth was at that level in North America.
So we've been talking for a long long time about Security ultimately becoming a growth engine -- organic growth engine for the company.
The vertical market solutions is the way to do that.
It's a terrific terrific business because it has a defensible value proposition.
It has above line average margins and you can grow it.
It's not like the basic monitoring business which is the more you install the lower your margins go until you get the recurring revenue built up.
It doesn't have that dynamic so it helps us deal with that.
Very excited about the growth in North America Security.
Our next question comes from Liam Burke from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You'd had -- Engineered Fastening you had a tough comp in terms of the systems orders year-over-year.
It did affect your operating margins for the quarter.
Looking at current order rates how do you see that business trending for the balance of the year and into '14 both on the systems side and on the margins? Well this is Don.
The portion of the business that we're referring to is the legacy Engineered Fastening business which is tied more to light vehicle production globally.
And as Jim mentioned the fastener piece of the business outperformed light vehicle production growth in the third quarter and has done that over ...
2:1.
2:1 and has done that for quite some time.
But we did in the third quarter of last year have a significant equipment -- set of equipment sales that occurred in our European business.
That was a difficult comp for them in the third quarter.
But our view going forward is that we believe that that performance versus light vehicle production will continue to be strong and healthy.
And they have been very focused on gaining market share over -- well that's certainly part of their differentiation model over the long term.
But in the last 2 years they've really been able to demonstrate that in the financials and we believe they will be able to continue to do that at a significant pace.
And when you look at the Infastech business which is more significantly tied to the electronics industry we believe that we're doing similar things there around differentiation that allow this business to continue to demonstrate mid-single-digit growth going forward over the long term.
We have Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Just quickly Jim on the '14 numbers and the puts and takes.
I can appreciate risks from the government side and kind of the uncertainty but I would think that would flow through the revenue outlook as well.
But for a given 4% to 6% increase and realizing you'll be anniversary-ing some of the brand investment or the strategic growth investments you'll have lapped a lot of the problems in Security it would seem like the incremental growth should be a lot stronger for that given level of 4% to 6%.
So is there something else within the margin structure that would be offsets to that? There's nothing structural at all.
I mean I think Don as he said earlier put that numbers -- those numbers out there because he wanted people to understand that we expect positive growth in 2014 no matter what the environment looks like based on the government shutdown et cetera.
The -- so for you to conclude that if anything beyond that would be wrong -- and the 4% to 6% growth is a number that as I said earlier I think we can make if the economy is kind of more the same that we've had this year for the most part and the organic growth initiatives will buttress that number up against kind of a normalized economy that we're having this -- that we have in the first half this year and hopefully we'll have in '14.
So it's just as I said earlier there is a pretty substantial hedge in that number and if the volume doesn't come through we still expect to be able to deliver growth of that magnitude at the earnings line.
Dennis it's John.
Let me just add a little perspective that I think will help you but I think Jim and Don described it perfectly accurately.
This is -- it's available on the public domain.
It's in our proxy.
And a lot of it reflects on how we compensate in an effort to motivate our organization and the overwhelming majority of the organization is compensated based on 3 metrics: organic growth earnings and cash flow and/or working capital turns if you're in a business.
And we want the organic growth number to be more of a stretch than the earnings number for all the reasons Jim and Don talked about.
But all 3 of those metrics are important.
That's how we measure our people that's how we measure ourselves that's how we pay our people.
But I think it's important to note that earnings per share or operating margin depend on where you sit in the company.
Cash flow and working capital turns are weighted slightly higher than the organic growth.
We've had a lot of conversations about that internally with our comp committee with our folks and we think it's the right weighting.
So yes don't jump to any conclusions based on that.
But I've -- hopefully what I just walked you through will help you understand it.
We have Andy Noorigian from Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> And just really quick I think on the CDIY you've mentioned emerging market channel congestion.
I was just wondering if you could elaborate on what exactly that was.
And as you look to '14 with the medium price point rollout are the channels all in place for that as you look out? Or is there more investments to be made there? The channel congestion that I referred to simply relates to the fact that almost all business in the emerging markets is done through distribution independent distribution.
We have done a lot of developing distribution this year and in doing so we have sold a lot of tools to these distributors who are now in the process of marketing these tools to end users.
And we are in the process of creating end-user poll and end-user demand and it's a natural process that you go through when you develop distributors.
When you look at the markets just to be clear these markets are not growing at the pace that we're growing in the emerging markets.
So our growth is coming from the development of distribution as well as share gains that are with the existing distributors.
And so part of the deceleration is driving a slower growth outlook because we certainly are not going to fill the channels to the point where it becomes an issue for the end distributors from a liquidity perspective or just it doesn't make business sense.
So we're being prudent in not pushing too hard until the pool is sufficient at the end-user level so the channels are operating smoothly.
That was our last question.
I will now turn the call back to Greg Waybright for closing comments.
Dawn thanks.
And we'd like to thank everyone again for calling in this morning.
Please contact me if you have any further questions.
And again thanks for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lorraine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor and Government Relations Greg Waybright.
Mr.
Waybright you may begin.
Thank you Lorraine.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued earlier this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR portion of our website as well as on our iPhone and iPad apps.
A replay of this morning's call will also be available beginning at 2:00 p.m.
today.
The replay number and the access code are in our press release.
This morning John and Don will review Stanley's fourth quarter and full year 2013 results and various other matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
As we normally do we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It's therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act filing.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Greg and good morning everybody.
Normally for -- those of you who follow us know normally I would kick this off and turn it over to Jim to deep-dive into some of the segments.
And Jim's with us this morning but he also -- he's recovering from a bad case of the flu and a modest case of laryngitis so Don and I are going to share the formal part of the presentation.
Jim is here and we're going to try to save his voice for Q&amp;A and get him back on the field in full force by Monday.
Don? Thanks John.
I'd like to start with the summary of our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
The fourth quarter revenues increased 9% which were driven by a 4% organic growth performance and the majority of the difference between the 4% and the 9% was the addition of Infastech as we continued to see a good performance in that business in the first year of acquisition.
The fourth quarter diluted EPS was $1.32 before M&amp;A and other restructuring charges so within our implied guidance range of $1.24 to $1.34 the higher end of the range.
And then the GAAP EPS was $0.41 as we recorded several additional restructuring charges that we communicated in December related to some cost actions across all our businesses to improve our operating leverage.
CDIY and Industrial posted very compelling top and bottom line growth performances with CDIY achieving a solid robust organic growth of 6% at a 14.6% operating margin rate.
Industrial posted over 16% a 16.1% operating margin rate and an 8% organic growth story as they continued to see gains across all of their businesses.
Our Security recovery is underway and we delivered margins that were consistent with our expectations which were relatively consistent with the third quarter at 12.2%.
The full year results for 2013 were solid from a revenue performance with revenues being up 8% 3% organic growth which was driven by primarily our CDIY and Industrial businesses which saw 4% and 5% organic growth respectively.
Diluted EPS prior to M&amp;A charges for the year were $4.98 again at the higher end of our guidance range which was $4.90 to $5 that we provided back in October and a GAAP EPS of $3.26.
Another positive that we saw in the fourth quarter was a very strong free cash flow performance.
Our free cash flow for the year before M&amp;A payments was $854 million and we achieved 8 working capital turns associated with that.
That was slightly ahead of our expectation that we communicated in October of $800 million and most of that out-performance was driven by a stronger working capital turn performance.
We also will be reiterating our guidance for 2014 today with a full year range of $5.30 to $5.50 before approximately $25 million of restructuring which will be a dramatically lower level of restructuring in 2014 versus 2013.
Free cash flow is expected to be $675 million which is inclusive of about $250 million of onetime payments.
I'll provide a little more detail on that later on in the presentation.
So overall a very solid top and bottom line performance in our CDIY and Industrial segments and we feel our Security recovery is underway.
So let's spend a few more minutes talking about our revenue performance and then I'll hand it over to John to talk about the growth initiatives in the 3 segments.
So looking at sources of growth.
In the fourth quarter I mentioned organic growth of 4% which is a trend that's positive that's continued now for 3 quarters where we saw the second quarter organic growth performance of 5%; third quarter 4%; and then as I mentioned fourth quarter again at 4% for a full year equal to 3% performance.
Acquisitions primarily Infastech contributing the 6% and then a modest negative of currency primarily being driven in countries of Canada Brazil and Argentina.
To the right side of the page looking at the regional revenue performance.
You can see that we continue to see a positive trend in our United States revenue performance up 4% organically in the fourth quarter 3% for the full year.
European performance was flat for the year up slightly up 1% in the fourth quarter.
And there's various stories within the European performances as you'll hear about from John later on.
But some very healthy performances in CDIY and our Industrial segments as we saw mid-single-digit organic growth in those particular segments in the fourth quarter.
Emerging markets as we expected was a little slower in the fourth quarter up 5% organically with a solid 8% organic growth performance for the full year.
Resulting in the total performance as I mentioned of 4% organic growth for the fourth quarter and 3% for the full year.
So we definitely feel like that our organic growth initiatives are getting traction and we are focused on making sure that we turn our European Security business into a positive organic growth story as well.
So with that I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Don.
The organic growth initiatives that Don talked about were a real focal point for us in 2013.
And this chart captures some of the key highlights of those initiatives which are taking hold and in fact driving approximately 2 percentage points or 200 basis points of growth in 2013.
From a geographical perspective our global emerging markets business is growing at 2.5x the rate of the combined market average.
That's the market weighted by our 2013 revenues which reflects our higher-than-normal Latin American concentration.
We hired 300 new people.
That included key country leaders and key sales positions primarily feet on the street but with the focus again on customers and driving growth.
We dedicated SBUs and business teams versus the specific markets and we launched approximately 300 new SKUs.
Our Tier 2 distributor expansion is progressing.
We added about 1 500 new distributors.
And last but absolutely certainly not least we're preparing for a mid-product -- mid-priced product launch and that will be significantly accelerated through the completed acquisition of GQ that Jim talked to you about several quarters ago.
It will really allow us to make an in-market specifically designed product for that fast-growing and highly important mid-price-point product in the emerging markets.
Our M&amp;A revenue synergies continued.
The focus there was in CDIY where we continued to leverage some Black &amp; Decker synergies as well as the synergies from the Powers acquisition.
Together they outperformed what we proposed as an original plan by almost twofold in 2013.
And as Don suggested our Security verticals are certainly gaining traction with about $40 million of 2013 revenue attributable specifically to this activity.
The order momentum is building.
We've got about $100 million of annualized orders as a result of these initiatives with the greatest success so far with our global customers in our health care and education verticals.
And with these verticals one of the drivers is to differentiate ourselves and we're doing that versus competition with these unique offerings.
And as a consequence we're able to command in most cases a premium due to the meaningful value proposition.
So the most important point to note is these initiatives are margin accretive as a consequence.
Let's look now at some of the segments in a little bit more detail starting with CDIY where organic growth was up 6% with all regions delivering solid growth 6% for the quarter 4% for the year.
North America up 5%; emerging markets 8%; and Europe 7% consistent with total company.
This represents about half our revenue as you know.
Organic growth is posted essentially everywhere all SBUs reflecting market share gains driven by both product innovation introduction and great channel retail partnerships.
And as Don mentioned for the total company it's important to note in the CDIY trend 4% for the year CDIY was flat to marginally down in the first quarter followed sequentially by second third and fourth quarter organic growth of 6% 5% and 6% respectively leading to 4.3% for the year.
So it's on a very solid path very very strong trend and exits the year and enters 2014 in a very very good place.
Looking at segment profit.
It's up 7% and margins up about 10 basis points with the improvement reflecting both volume and productivity and those impacts offsetting some serious foreign exchange headwinds as well as the expense of our growth initiative investments.
And looking at organic growth in the fourth quarter by our various SBUs a lot of positivity.
Our Professional Power Tools business is up 5% driven by new product introductions as well as great performance in the emerging markets.
The Consumer Products Group is up 6%.
Great success in Europe with steam and hand vacs good sell-through on North American holiday promotions and again good performance in the emerging markets.
Hand Tools and Storage up 8%.
DeWalt Hand Tools being a strong driver.
Emerging markets and very good quarter in the U.K.
with -- where our business is doing well in an economy that seems to be turning the corner which hopefully is a good positive indicator for the rest of Europe.
And last but certainly not least in fastening and accessories Bostitch's expansion and Powers revenues led to 8% organic growth in the quarter.
So strong both top and bottom line growth in the face of currency headwinds and a good solid quarter for CDIY in the fourth quarter.
Moving on to Industrial.
Solid quarter again delivering 27% revenue growth of which 8% came from volume.
Pricing was flat.
Acquisitions primarily Infastech contributed 20%.
And currency was a 1% negative.
The OM rate of 16.1% was strong as volume leverage was offset by the expense from the growth investments as well as foreign exchange.
Looking with inside -- within the segment IAR had strong European growth.
We had the EQUIP AUTO fair a very important event in Europe.
We had strength in MRO and vending as well as Mac Tools.
And those positives were partially offset by weak government sales which are normally strong in the fourth quarter particularly in October.
Greg and Dennis have fielded a lot of questions on just what is the magnitude.
And for clarity it's about $6 million we felt of lost revenue which is about 2% globally but 4% for our North American IAR business.
And the EQUIP AUTO to which I referred is a very important event that takes place in France but it's a European automotive and industrial tool event contributed about 3% -- $3 million excuse me which is about 1% globally and 4% in Europe to our IAR business.
So even without EQUIP AUTO European IAR would have shown positive growth and again another really good sign for the performance of that business in that market.
Good strong quarter for Engineered Fastening.
Automotive share gains leading to organic growth again for the third or fourth consecutive quarter in excess of light vehicle production.
Light vehicle production grew about 4%.
We grew 5-plus organically.
The Infastech integration is on schedule.
It's tracking well versus expectations.
And a great turnaround story in our infrastructure business.
Oil &amp; Gas up over 35% organically driven by a combination of the North American onshore growth as well as offshore activity in the Gulf of Mexico and in Brazil.
So a good solid quarter in Industrial.
Margin rates are strong despite the investments and some foreign currency headwinds that we'll continue to deal with through 2014 and Don will talk a little bit more about that in the outlook.
Moving on to Security.
The improvement is underway.
Margins were consistent with the third quarter.
But I think ultimately it's helpful to separate North America and Europe because they're on very different improvement trajectories.
Going across the top of the chart.
Globally revenues were down 2% 3% organically.
And segment profit is down 27% or 400 basis points.
Looking sequentially segment operating profit of 12.2% was flat versus the third quarter making second half margin rate up 160 basis points versus the first half.
But I think importantly let's look inside the 2 different businesses.
On the left our North American and emerging market businesses were flat in terms of growth with a strong 17.4% operating margin.
The emerging markets and automatic doors growth which was strong was offset by a comparison versus our fourth quarter '12 commercial lock distributor loading.
Jim has discussed in a lot of detail the change in our operating model.
I'll touch on it a little bit more in a minute.
But for perspective for all of -- the fourth quarter was down in SMS about 5% which meant they were plus 1% for the year.
If you adjusted for that load-in it would be about plus 14% for the fourth quarter and about plus 11% for the year.
We got the benefit a year ago call it pipeline so it shows up in the comps this year.
But we think it was an absolutely critical change to make and the business seems to be in the right place.
The sequential operating margin rate improvement also continues in North America.
Measurable improvements in field efficiency led to stronger install margins.
Our backlog conversion was up 2 to 3 points.
And as I mentioned earlier the vertical solutions have been accretive to margin.
We've shown a lot of price discipline.
If we've lost any business it's been due to price.
But we feel that we're commanding a premium for our value proposition and we're getting it.
And it's demonstrated in a 265-basis-point increase to 16.1% if you look at the entire second half of the year when those programs started to gain traction.
And as I discussed a second ago the commercial lock transition it is complete.
The distributors have replaced the direct sales model which was a significant change for us in the last 12 months but we think a very important one relative to our long-term growth objectives.
Turning to Europe.
Volume down 8% organically -- or sales down 8% organically and 4.3% operating margin.
Lower backlog conversion and RMR attrition continued to be the issues.
That being said we had a double-digit order rate improvement in the fourth quarter and RMR attrition has slowed to the mid-teens.
It's down about 200 basis points from the level of the first half of the year and continues we think on the right track albeit at a pace slower than we'd like to see it.
And as I'll say in a minute our objective long -- intermediate to long term is RMR attrition at about a 10% rate.
We've announced cost reductions to resize the business.
We've applied a lot stronger centralized daily management model which is perfectly applicable to Europe some of the best practices from our U.S.
business.
Again improve backlog conversion efficiency and managing RMR down to 10% from the mid-teens level where it is today.
Importantly not mentioned on the chart our health care business is included in our external reporting for Security.
We've not spent much time on it.
It's a relatively small business but had a very solid fourth quarter in terms of its performance against -- advancement against its strategic objectives.
Revenue performance an 11.7% operating margins.
So continuing its upward trend in a business that we think could -- we continue to think could have great prospects for growth margin and shareholder value creation in the future.
Let me turn it back to Don to talk about the fourth quarter cash flow with which we were quite pleased.
And then we'll get back to an outlook and open it up to Q&amp;A.
Thanks John.
So let's spend a little bit of time on the fourth quarter free cash flow as well as the full year.
You can see that our free cash flow did exceed our revised expectations.
In October we provided guidance of free cash flow for the full year of $800 million as I mentioned earlier.
Also embedded in that expectation was that working capital turns would probably achieve about 7.7 to 7.8 turns for the full year.
As you see our turn performance is actually 8 working capital turns which was a solid performance year-over-year up about 0.5 turn versus 2012.
So where we expected in October a slight negative from working capital for the full year we actually saw a slight positive of $13 million.
That drove the vast majority of the improvement as many of our business teams were focused on enhancing the working capital performance through making permanent long-term changes to their business in line with the Stanley Fulfillment System and staying focused on those objectives along with achieving the right level of earnings and organic growth performance.
Overall when you look at the GAAP performance of free cash flow was $500 million for 2013 versus $580 million for 2012 and we expect that number to be $675 million for 2014.
To make it comparable excluding the M&amp;A payments in 2014 it will be $925 million versus the $854 million.
So as we -- we would expect continued modest improvement in working capital and obviously earnings accretion as well associated with our EPS projections.
We believe that the free cash flow of this company continues to be an area that we can differentiate ourselves versus other companies.
And as we move away from many of the large M&amp;A and other restructuring charges over the next 2 years we will begin to approach that $1 billion objective on a GAAP basis.
So with that I'd like to spend a few minutes reiterating the 2014 outlook.
As I mentioned earlier we expect the EPS to be $5.30 up to $5.50 of EPS on an -- before the M&amp;A charges.
On a GAAP basis we expect it to be $5.18 to $5.38 so approximately $25 million of restructuring charges down dramatically from the approximately $400 million we saw in 2013.
I mentioned the free cash flow projections for next year so I won't touch on that again.
Some of the assumptions within the guidance have remained consistent with what I mentioned in December.
So 4% organic growth is expected approximately for next year which is relatively consistent with what we've seen over the last 3 quarters in our company.
150-basis-point improvement in Security margin so all those things that John touched on that we're seeing come to life in the North American business and the expectation of what will occur in our European business as the year goes on will drive that improvement.
We also discussed in December some surgical cost reductions we did across our other businesses in CDIY the Industrial segment and then some corporate actions that will drive about $0.20 of EPS improvement year-over-year.
And then of course in year 2 of our integration of Infastech we expect some synergies and accretion in that business that will drive about $0.10 of EPS improvement.
On the headwind side as we mentioned in December we have -- we do expect carryover pressure of foreign currency.
And so where we saw about $60 million of negative currency effects in 2013 in the -- primarily in the back half of the year we would expect a very similar number to occur in the first half of 2014 which would equate to about a $0.30 negative in EPS.
Tax rate will be slightly higher versus our 19 -- roughly 19.5% tax rate we saw in 2013 we're somewhere between 21% and 22%.
There's a few onetime items that occurred in '13 we don't expect to repeat.
And then a little bit higher interest and a few other costs will drive a slight negative of $0.10 to $0.15 as well.
One other item of note I want to just have people focus on is just the timing of the quarters for 2014.
As usual we do have a seasonality impact in the first quarter but it is slightly lower than normal history based on 2 factors: one the foreign exchange impact that I mentioned carrying over from the back half of 2013; and then two we do have a slightly higher tax rate in the first quarter this year versus the first quarter last year as we did record approximately a $10 million benefit onetime benefit in the first quarter of 2013.
So as a result we expect the first quarter to be roughly between $0.95 and $0.98 EPS.
A little bit of segment outlook to the right side of the page.
We expect mid-single-digit organic growth in both our CDIY and Industrial businesses for 2014 again very consistent with what we've seen especially in the last 2 or 3 quarters in these businesses.
The Security business from a revenue perspective will be flat to maybe a modest increase as we expect North America and emerging markets to continue to demonstrate some solid organic growth especially as we see the organic growth initiatives become even stronger in North America.
And then the European business will probably be down slightly versus prior year as we expect to see a little bit pressure especially in RMR attrition in the first half of the year as we begin to see that flatten out in the back half and achieve the 10% RMR attrition rate that we'd like to see in that business going forward.
Operating margin.
We expect increases year-over-year in the operating margin rate for both CDIY and Industrial as we see the leverage effect of the organic volume.
Of course that's partially offset by the FX that I discussed.
And we also see a benefit of some of the cost actions that we've taken that are surgical in nature.
And then the operating margin rate for Security I touched on with 150-basis-point improvement year-over-year.
The last thing I would say is as I mentioned earlier the M&amp;A charges go down dramatically in 2014 from a level of $400 million approximately in 2013 to $25 million in 2014 dramatically closing the difference between U.S.
GAAP and EPS on adjusted basis which is one of our primary objectives for 2014.
I'd like to spend a little bit of time on the next page going through emerging markets and foreign exchange.
As many of you are aware we had significant impacts in 2013 and as I discussed expect some more significant impacts in the first half of 2014 related to this.
In the page we show the currency trend versus the U.S.
dollar for really the 4 major currencies that tend to have a significant impact on us.
The first 3 have historically had a large impact on us since the merger: the European euro the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real.
The Argentinian peso has become more challenging over the last few years as that country continues to see governmental challenges and economic issues.
If you look at the euro it's been relatively flat over the last 12 months actually a slight improvement about 3% versus the U.S.
dollar.
However the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real has seen 11% and 15% respectively devaluations versus the U.S.
dollar with a lot of that happening since June of 2013.
The Argentinian peso approximately 40% in that same time horizon.
To give you some context in the size of the businesses in these countries so you have a sense of that.
Our European business is just under $3 billion about $2.9 billion in revenue.
The Canadian business is approximately $0.5 billion in revenue.
Our Brazilian business is $230 million in revenue and our Argentinian business is $115 million in revenue.
That gives you some context of the size of the businesses that you start to look at some of the magnitude of these changes.
Now when we look at where does this impact our businesses it impacts primarily our CDIY business.
About 80% of these impacts go into CDIY with the other 20% hitting our Industrial businesses which is mostly Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair and Engineered Fastening.
It's driven by the global supply chain that we've created where we do have a lot of business that is imported into in particular Latin America and Canada.
So it's manufactured in other countries and imported into those regions and as a result it's U.S.
dollar-based and can drive a significant currency impact when that -- when we have a shift in currency either way.
What do we do from a mitigation perspective related to that? Obviously there's many things that we do.
In Latin America and Canada we're always looking at potential for price increases with our customers as the currency moves.
If we use Latin America as an example over the last 2 years as we've seen the effects of shift we've had numerous price increases in many of the countries over that time horizon to offset the impact.
Obviously the timing is a little different than the shift that you see related to currency but overall we try to do our best to pass on as much as we can to the end user and our customers.
We're also focused on cost controls in those particular areas.
We do look at localizing production where we have enough mass in certain countries.
In the case of Brazil we do have certain levels of production down there and we continue to evaluate moving more production into that country but we have to make sure we balance that against ensuring that we have the lowest cost possible when you factor in the currency as well.
And then last but certainly not least in some countries we are focused on what hedging activities we can do against the currencies.
In the case of Brazil and Argentina it's very difficult to do that.
It's either very cost ineffective or in the case of Argentina it's almost impossible to do it due to certain regulation.
The last thing I'd like to touch on is just the estimated financial impact of some of the movements of these currencies.
So over the last few years I've provided you some detail on this and I just like to reiterate that.
I already discussed what the dollar impact is for 2013 and 2014 of these movements.
But if you look at the 4 different currencies you can see here that a 1% movement of the Canadian dollar has about a $3 million to $4 million annual impact in our P&amp;L; the euro is about $1.5 million to $2.5 million per 1% move; and then the Brazilian real is a $1.5 million to $2 million movement on an annual basis; and then you see the Argentinian peso as well which is a much smaller number.
This is really more for you to be aware and educated based on how these movements can impact us both in the history but also on a go-forward basis.
And our guidance is predicated really on where rates are today and we'll continue to be focused on what actions we can take as I mentioned and the mitigating factors as we see shift beyond where these rates are today and how we can respond to them to ensure that we achieve our guidance for 2014.
So with that I'd like to summarize the presentation portion of the call this morning.
The company remains committed to driving both long-term and near-term shareholder value.
We discussed that in great deal -- detail in our December call.
The fourth quarter was the first step forward in really delivering on those operational commitments we laid out in that time horizon.
CDIY and Industrial posted very strong revenue and growth which we were pleased with.
And we're also very pleased with our Security recovery.
It really is underway and we saw notable improvements in our North American business that John discussed.
And all the actions are in place to drive the European business in a similar fashion over the next 12 to 18 months.
For 2014 we're very focused on improving our near-term returns and enhancing our operating leverage.
And as a result our organic growth initiative is still a very significant part of our priorities.
But we're really trying to leverage the investments that we've already made.
We're not looking to make new investments in 2014 beyond those investments.
The Security margin improvement 150 basis points is a key priority as well.
We've taken surgical cost actions across our other businesses to ensure that operating leverage that I mentioned in the CDIY and Industrial segments.
And then we'll never forget about the importance of staying focused on working capital and ensuring that we continue to show improvement year-over-year.
We are again focused on making sure that our capital allocation is a bit rebalanced for the next 2 years as we will continue our acquisition moratorium be focused on deleveraging our balance sheet and repurchasing our shares of up to $1 billion over the next few years.
This really positions our company we believe to deliver on our long-term financial objectives.
Great.
Don thanks.
Lorraine we can now open the call to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Rich Kwas from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
On the Europe -- on the Security margin improvement Don can you give us a framework within the full year guidance of what you expect European margin to be? So it's 4% in the fourth quarter.
At the low end of the range how should -- what do you need to get to the low end of the range in Europe? And then what do you need to get to the high end? And then for '14 are you -- how much of a recovery in nonresidential construction in the U.S.
are you assuming in what's embedded in the guidance? Yes.
So Rich it's -- European Security as I mentioned I think the first half will continue to see some challenges although we expect some modest improvement in the operating margin rate in the first half of the year.
But many of the cost actions first of all will not be implemented till June and July time frame given the process of the European Union and the work councils that we discussed back in December.
However we are very much focused on the revenue attrition side RMR attrition making sure we slow that down in a significant way.
So we expect to see improvement in that in the first half which will help the operating margins.
So I would say we see a modest improvement in the first portion of the year and then the back half of the year is where we see a more significant component of improvement in that particular business.
Don that might be just -- because Rich will get cut off.
We're not going to forecast margins by business by quarter Rich.
You know that.
But it's a very fair question given the focus we've put on it.
To help you in your modeling and your thinking at least for the year we've said we're modeling and planning 150-basis-point increase in our Security business.
In total.
And the U.S.
is operating -- it always can improve but it's operating at or near historical margins.
And Europe is 40% of the business so -- of our Security business.
So you are more than capable of doing the math.
And as Don said it will be more backloaded than front loaded because things take time in Europe.
I hope that will help you without us getting into dicing and slicing the businesses that we have no intention of doing.
Yes.
And then on your second question Rich about non-resi and what we've kind of put in our outlook for 2014.
We really haven't factored a dramatic improvement in the non-resi industry within our guidance.
Most of our guidance is focused on general market performance today as well as in the case of Security in North America it's very much focused on the vertical organic initiatives that John touched on.
We're really trying to continue to enhance those push those forward and make more progress than we saw in 2013.
The progress we saw in '13 was very encouraging but our expectation is that it's going to continue to really leverage the organic growth story within the North American business.
And our next question comes from Peter Lisnic from Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Josh Chan filling in for Pete.
I was wondering about your North American margin performance this quarter.
Do you consider that to be sort of a long-term run rate? Or do you see a further improvement in that level ahead? And if so what will be the driver for further development even from this level? Don will take it.
North America consists of 3 different businesses so we're going to -- we'll have to take it piece by piece.
You're talking about North American Security specifically? I would...
Research Division</strong> Security margins yes.
Yes so that helps clarify.
So I think as John mentioned we are closing -- approaching kind of historical levels for that.
So although we do expect it to get better slightly beyond what we saw in the fourth quarter in 2014 we did take some cost actions as I mentioned in this business that will help that performance.
We are going to continue to move forward on the vertical organic growth initiatives which are margin -- gross margin accretive to that business and enhance the margin performance.
So all those things that we're doing and of course the SMS transition as we continue to work through that and leverage up that business as the volume improves would also improve margins.
So we would expect it to improve.
But you also have to recognize that it's at a high level but it's probably at the low end of the range of historical level.
Let me just supplement that to remind you.
Don -- when Don talked about first quarter guidance in fourth quarter remember first quarter for our company has some seasonality.
In CDIY as everyone knows January is a very soft month because that's when our large retail customers end their fiscal year and have a close eye on -- for very good reason have a close eye on their inventory.
So in CDIY it's about a 2.5 month quarter as opposed to a 3-month quarter.
But more importantly Security historically and this continues in North America is a business with some seasonality.
And historically -- if you look our second and third quarters from a margin perspective historically all things being equal are better than first and fourth.
There's 2 reasons for that.
Most of it's in the mechanical area.
But in the fourth and first quarters particularly our Stanley Access Technologies business; to a lesser extent our mechanical locking business we get into weather issues on install.
We're scheduled to do a job there's a snowstorm the foundation is in port we can't put in the door or we can't upgrade the door.
Those are real issues that can have some headwind in the fourth and first quarter.
Secondly our education vertical for obvious reasons performs much stronger in the second and third quarter.
We do a lot more work in the education vertical in the months of -- a little bit of June but particularly July and August when there are fewer students on campus and we're allowed to do that work.
So as you're looking at quarters and years keep that -- and doing your modeling and we're happy to talk about because it's -- we've got a lot of history just do keep those 2 things in mind.
And our next question comes from Jason Feldman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So on Security I'm just curious what kind of visibility you have to kind of flat or better Security sales next year given the headwinds that you've faced.
And then if you can also put this double-digit order growth in European Security kind of into context for us.
With mid-teens attrition is kind of mid-double-digit order growth what you need to keep the business flat? Or is there some different way that we should be thinking about that? Jim wants everybody to know he's alive and well.
And we hope you can hear him Jason.
I picked him up.
So this is my 58th consecutive quarterly conference call and I didn't want to miss it.
So bear with me and I apologize for the voice.
But taking them separately North America and Europe the total will be flat to slightly up.
Europe will be slightly down for the year.
With 10% attrition we need 5% order growth to be flat basically because the RMR part of the portfolio is about 50% of the portfolio.
So we expect to go from where we are today which is mid-teens attrition down to about 10% attrition by the middle of the year.
So we will have about 12% attrition for the year which means we would need an order rate in excess of 6% to be positive.
We won't -- we're not expecting to be positive in Europe on an organic basis in 2014 but we do expect that attrition to come down.
And over time we'll convert that order backlog that we have into sales and we're working very diligently on making sure that we have all the routines in place to make sure that we do that effectively.
We have a good momentum going in the verticals as has been mentioned previously in North America so that gives us a lot of confidence that we will have positive organic growth in North America.
We see a positive trend in Access Technologies a positive trend in CSS.
The big question mark is SMS.
We have positive unit volumes for the first time in many many years in mechanical.
We think we're going to have a favorable market ahead of us.
We've got a lot of work being done in specifying on construction jobs.
And so all signs are positive but they're still a work in progress in the mechanical business in North America.
And our next question comes from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
I'll ask them quickly so -- in case I get cut off.
The first one last year you mentioned John that the first quarter represents about 18% to 19% historically of annual earnings.
And your guidance here of $0.95 to $0.98 versus your annual guidance is still in that 18% to 19% range.
But I would think it would be lower than that this year because of the Security gains as the -- I mean margin as the year progresses some of the restructuring savings as it progresses.
So why wouldn't the first quarter this year be lower as a percentage of the overall expected earnings? That will question 1.
And the second question would be based on the FX challenges in the emerging markets are you contemplating paring back some of your discretionary spending in 2014 based on the macro and current currency headwinds there? Sam it's Don.
So I'll take those questions.
The first one the 18% to 19% was actually a 10-year historical kind of range that we experienced.
That was more before the merger.
So when you look at the post-merger company and we saw it again in 2013 the first quarter represents more of a 20% to 21% of the full year.
And so that's really in my view the new starting base of this company when you look at first quarter to total year.
And that's why I think the 18% actually is down slightly from that range because of the items I mentioned of FX and tax that are driving that.
And the items that Sam mentioned.
And the items you mentioned as well.
And then as far as your other question around discretionary costs yes we are very much focused as a company on dramatically controlling our discretionary costs.
We obviously took a very significant restructuring program across the company in the fourth quarter and have executed many of those actions.
We still have many that we have to do especially in Europe.
But just as importantly the costs -- or the non-people costs we are very much focused on reducing travel where we have certain consulting activities.
We've cut way back on those levels of activities.
The other costs related to -- any one that's connected to a person the phone calls et cetera we are very much focused on how we can reduce that.
Some of it's contractual in nature so we negotiate with our vendors and others it's just more of a policy change or a volume level of activity.
That's something that will be 1 of our top 5 priorities for the year until we see more stabilization especially in emerging markets.
And Sam I'll just add because you won't get a follow-up.
SG&amp;A is something we talk about in great detail at the highest level of this company even with our -- and with our board and all SG&amp;A or discretionary costs if you want to use that term as we've said many times it isn't bad.
Our investment in brand our investment in people in feet on the street our investment in product development building SBUs is the last place where we're going to pare back.
What we may do is slow the pace of acceleration.
I mean there was a huge incremental lift in that in 2013.
But we truly do as I think most companies do in good conscience divide all discretionary costs into 2 buckets.
Those that are creating revenue through generating new products creating revenue and building brand franchises versus those that are just required to run our business.
And it's the latter that's under closer scrutiny than ever and looking at significant cuts.
The former will not increase at the rate they increased in 2013 nor were they ever planned to.
They'll be closer to flat in 2014.
And our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
On the update call you hosted last month you talked about 12% attrition.
My understanding that may have been for November.
But it seems like for the quarter it was back up in mid-teens in your presentation.
Can you just talk about how that is versus your expectations? And to the extent the attrition is driven by any kind of irrational price competition would you be chasing that business? Or would you just cede that share? Yes.
Mike I'll give you a top line.
This is John.
And then you can follow-up with Greg because he can give you as much detail as you want that we feel we're willing to publicly disclose.
What you said is correct.
We were improving at a faster rate quite frankly than we expected in November and it digressed or reverted in December.
So the quarter ended up being flat sequentially in terms of attrition.
That being said I don't manage this business nor does Massimo Grassi who runs it day-to-day or even quarter-to-quarter.
Obviously we look at the trends.
Second half versus first half we were down 200 basis points.
If we repeat that again in the first half it will be -- we'll be down 200 or 300 basis points.
And as Jim said our target by the end of the year is 10%.
We're tracking to get there or slightly shorter but that remains our objective.
But your statement is absolutely correct.
December was poor relative to October November and we've not reduced the focus on it one bit.
Yes.
The only thing I would add to that is that as we -- we really highlighted that in December as an encouraging sign.
But in October when we provided guidance our expectation was the attrition was going to be flat in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter which is really what we saw.
So we really highlighted that in December more that we were seeing potential for encouragement there.
And we still see that but this business will see those types of fluctuations month-to-month.
And our next question comes from Michael Dahl from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about Security also but on the North American side.
Could you talk about what trends you're seeing on the RMR in North America what type of conversion you're getting from some of the stronger install and also maybe talk about which verticals you're seeing the most momentum in? Yes.
I'll talk about which verticals we're seeing the most momentum in which I already did in the presentation with our global customers with health care and in education.
We're not going to talk about the beginning of your question.
It's nothing we do in the public domain and we think it would provide more I'll say competitive damage than it would be helpful information to our investor base.
The only thing I would...
Jim may want to add something.
Yes.
The only thing -- the way I would answer that question is that our RMR base without any acquisitions grew in 2013.
So it is moving in the right direction.
We're not going to talk about specific RMR attachment rates.
And the verticals did you want to mention...
I did.
I do.
Okay.
All right.
And our next question comes from Kenneth Zener from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> With 1Q guidance coming in below consensus I just want you to be as clear as possible.
So at the $60 million FX is that going to be split kind of equally 1 and 2Q since it's front loaded a? And b is your 1Q tax rate higher than your 21% to 22% guidance for the year? First question.
Well the $60 million of FX is pretty much divided in half Q1 Q2.
So it's not perfect that way but that's a good way to think about it.
And the tax rate for Q1 this year will be relatively in line with our expectation for the full year.
So -- but remember that in the first quarter of last year the tax rate was around 16%.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
And then I guess if you could give us the lessons learned on -- as well as educate us on emerging market.
How the -- since the distrib -- you're accessing more selling points there.
Part of the decelerated expectation in growth I think was related to probably lower demand a but it was also some excess load-in that you guys might have perceived as demand.
So how do you guys manage those channels of distribution given that they're less technical? You have less weekly runs of data in terms of sell-through and sell-in.
So what did you learn in '13? And how is that -- those -- how are those channels different than the big box we're used to domestically? If you're talking about load-in issues we did mention last quarter that there was some issues in particular in China with respect to the distribution channels becoming congested as we grew our T2 distribution channel in China.
What we're really finding in China as we sit here today is there is a deceleration going on in the market and there is a credit crunch going on.
And we're starting to really see a very tight credit situation with the channel.
So it's not as much that -- it's not as much of a load-in issue as it's inability of the distributors to finance purchases to meet what could be growing end-user demand.
But with the issue in the channel it's almost impossible for the distributors to buy the product that they need.
And it's a really interesting phenomenon going on in China right now.
And if you've been following the news over the last couple of days there's been some indication from the Central Bank in China that they are beginning to realize that there's a credit crunch with the small to mid-sized businesses and we're seeing that.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Hoping you can go back and just talk a little more about the attrition rates and some of the market dynamics around those attrition rates.
And specifically I guess is this a dissatisfaction with historical Niscayah execution or is the reaction to increased effort by your competitors? It's some of each David.
As we've discussed on previous calls we've had a lot more price discipline.
The Niscayah European model and Jim has gone into great detail on this in previous calls and Greg can -- Greg I know will be happy to provide or reinforce that offline.
In the interest of time I'll try to do it quickly.
We're trying to turn this organization from farmers to hunters.
Historically Niscayah relied on referrals from its parent company Securitas and those have gone away.
They -- it was much more of an install model with less attachment than the model that Stanley Convergent Security Solutions both in U.S.
and Europe have operated.
So there was essentially a model change or the way business was done change as a result of our acquisition of Niscayah.
And quite frankly we -- or they the Niscayah folks relied more on those referrals than we realized thus attrition was higher.
Second has been pricing discipline on our part.
If in fact we're going to do an installation we've gotten much better at costing.
We want to be sure those are at least -- at worst breakeven if it has some RMR attached to it; otherwise that it's at a reasonable margin.
That also has contributed to the growing attrition.
And thirdly is we've changed a lot of people.
The folks that were relying on the referrals and it's not even meant to be derogatory but were much more farmers than hunters weren't going to make it in the system and business that we're trying to operate.
And we believe we have very capable leaders.
But in our -- 3 of our -- or 4 of our largest markets we have new general managers in those markets in place within the last 6 months.
They've come either from the industry or related industries from blue-chip companies all of whom Jim Don myself have met and Brett and Massimo have interviewed intensively.
So we think we've got a new team on the field that's going to help as well.
So you got a lot of factors contributing to it.
You touched on a couple.
And hopefully I added a little more light.
But please follow up with Greg and Dennis and they'll ...
And I would just add.
There's one other competitive dynamic which is relevant here which is that the -- electronics are gradually and maybe now at an accelerating rate replacing guards in commercial buildings and establishments.
And this places tremendous pressure on the guarding companies and that's one reason I suspect that Securitas probably tried to acquire Niscayah because of its electronic capabilities.
So without an electronic company -- you have several major European security companies which are guard-focused and fairly large.
Their typical operating margin appetite is about a 4% to 6% operating margin and that's quite satisfactory to them.
So that competition for what I'll call the commodity-type services is pretty intense right now in Europe and probably more intense than it has been in years.
So for us the answer is moving to the vertical solutions that we're implementing in North America.
But in order to do that first we have to get the sales force in place which we've done and we're working on maturing that sales force now.
We're working on getting the attrition down to stabilize the revenue base mature the organization enough so it can handle the vertical market solutions and that's about 6 to 12 months out.
Once we start getting the vertical market solutions from North America imported into Europe that competitive pressure that we're feeling will be muted to some extent and the higher-margin business that we'll bring in will really help turn the Niscayah situation around.
And our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of questions here.
I just don't want to get cut off.
Looking at for a change of pace here construction and industrial.
If I calculated right kind of stripping out the negative impact of FX if you're saying that roughly 80% of the $60 million headwind was in CDIY it looks like 2013 CDIY was about 15.7% margin and it translates to a 33% incremental margin.
Are those numbers right? And as you think about that business going forward do you look at like a 30% 35% incremental as a sustainable basis given that that business I would say best case is kind of a mid-teens to high-teens type margin business? Or how to think about that longer term? Well I think if you -- the way that you did the math around the currency to get to kind of what's the operating margin rate without the currency is reasonably accurate so I would agree with that.
But you also have to remember that you're not seeing as much leverage in '13 because we've made some growth investments too in SG&amp;A especially in emerging markets within CDIY.
So I do think when the business stabilizes and we're not making those types of investments which will be in the latter half of '14 assuming no other changes in currency that the leverage drop-through rate is more of a 35% to 38% number in that business versus what you're seeing now because of the -- both the FX and the growth investments.
And our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a sort of follow-up on that one.
If you could explain what you think the incremental margins are in the other businesses given the changes that have occurred.
And I guess more broadly also if you could talk about -- in CDIY and Industrial you had some pretty good organic growth generally.
And I was curious how much of that you think is attributable to the initiatives that you've been doing in those businesses implementing versus let's say the overall market improvement.
So as far as incremental margins I mentioned CDIY already.
Industrial has very similar depending on the business.
So there's 4 different businesses in there.
It can range anywhere from 30% to 35% incremental margins.
Security is a different animal because it depends on the region the type of business.
And it can have a different level of leverage or operating leverage depending on which piece of it and it can range anywhere from a 20% number to a 35% number.
So that's difficult to really say to have a perfect one for that.
I think the more important thing about Security right now is it's continuing its recovery getting it to the levels of profitability that we want to see at the same time seeing the right levels of organic growth that are consistent with our long-term financial objectives.
And then at that point when that is stabilized we can start to talk about what's the right level of leverage we're going to see in that business going forward.
You want to take the second part Don? How much of it was our initiatives? We've said 200 basis points.
But if you want to provide some more color if you want to provide more color on...
Security specifically? Research Division</strong> No for the...
Whole portfolio.
I think Steve was asking about the whole portfolio.
He won't get back on.
But Steve what we've said is roughly 200 basis points of our top line growth we felt was attributable to the growth initiatives.
To the extent we can maintain that growth rate at lower initiatives obviously that will have a positive impact on incremental margin if I got the gist of your question.
And our next question comes from Liam Burke from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> John you had another pretty decent contribution on the IAR side from Mac Tools.
Is that market share gains or just firming end markets? And in Europe you had promotional activity driving positive growth on the IAR side.
Is that sustainable as the promotional activities ease off? Well the promotional growth was more CDIY than IAR Liam.
But it is -- no worries it is sustainable.
We had terrific performance in IAR in Europe and CDIY in Europe.
But I may have misspoken or you misunderstood that there was much promotion in -- I shouldn't say that.
It's a busy promotional quarter for CDIY in Europe in the fourth quarter because of the strength of the Black &amp; Decker consumer products franchise in Europe in general and the U.K.
in particular.
That being said I did talk about EQUIP AUTO which normally happens -- often happens in September.
This year it just happened to happen in October.
From a U.S.
perspective think Mac Tools Fair.
It's a huge pan-European exhibition that does contribute positively to revenue and it was very well received.
So I might have sent you mixed signal there.
In terms of Mac it's going from -- you've followed us a long time and Jim has been reporting on this longer I'm just going to help him save his voice.
It's gone from bad to good and it's going from good to better.
And it's a combination of several things.
We really really worked hard on net distributor adds.
We've worked really hard on having the right distributors and their productivity mentoring training retaining.
But it's also what they have on their truck.
We've also -- we have an improved financing program for them which is far more competitive than what we've sent them to battle with in the past and our Treasury Department deserves a lot of credit for that.
So those are the -- in the back that's kind of the underlying points.
But in fact what they've got in the truck's are a lot better than what they've had before.
It was overwhelmingly 100% sourced business with no proprietary technology.
Now a significant percentage of what they're selling are produced in our facilities ever since we combined Mac Proto and Vidmar under one leadership team made it part of North American IAR.
Those cross-SBU synergies are really really really gaining traction.
We also have the capability since the merger to have DeWalt tools on a Mac tool truck.
That's a big draw.
So we've got a lot of things in terms of basic blocking and tackling that we've improved with Mac.
But I think most importantly we've got a dramatically better line of products on the truck in terms of both what we're offering innovation margin for the distributor and it's all working to make this -- it's always been a good franchise.
Now it's a good business and it's going to do nothing but become a better business under the leadership of the current management team.
And in the fourth quarter they celebrated their 16th consecutive quarter of organic growth which for those of you that have been following the company a long time would find that almost miraculous.
And our next question comes from Jeremie Capron from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on the price cost dynamics in your tools business particularly CDIY where you think you've been gaining share? So the question was price cost dynamic sure.
Yes.
I would say that I've said it before about our CDIY business it's a situation that is a fine balance of going after volume and controlling your pricing decisions in this business.
I think there's many pieces of it that have significant levels of competition especially on the power tools side that you have to be smart about when you do promotional activities how you do promotional activities.
And also ultimately a driver of many of those decisions is all the new product introductions that we've put into the marketplace.
And ultimately those things drive the market share gains that we've experienced especially the last couple of years.
We made great progress especially with our cordless power tool products over that time horizon.
And as a result we've been able to really continue to combat some of the price pressures you see in that particular space.
But we all know that's a challenging aspect of this business.
But as long as you have that DNA around new product introductions and driving technology and innovation into that marketplace that the user wants versus giving them something that they don't want you ultimately can really continue to combat that.
And I think you saw that in the performance where there's a modest price negative in the business in 2013.
We're never satisfied with that.
As we go into 2014 we want to continue to focus on how we minimize that impact and maybe eventually turn that into a price positive.
But ultimately that's the dynamic of the business today.
And then we're not satisfied with it but we think we have all the right as I mentioned DNA in the business that allows us to be very competitive continue to have a premium to many of our competitors as well.
Yes.
And Jeremie let me just add on to that.
We've said this before on calls.
It's our largest business.
It's -- we think it's well managed and it has the benefit of being a market leader #1 and #2 in virtually every category where it competes so it's not only our right it's our obligation to behave like price leaders.
That being said there's tremendous competition in the market particularly in power tools which is relatively new to the Stanley management team post Black &amp; Decker merger.
Having said all that operating margins were up 10 basis points all in.
And the reason we've been able to do that and maintain it is real prices -- in this category real prices have declined 1% to 2% a year for the last 10 years.
We haven't mentioned productivity operational excellence whatever you'd like to call it on this call but we work very hard at it.
And our global operations team and our CDIY ops team every year has an absolute table stakes commitment of 3% cost reduction.
They usually have a funnel that adds to more than that.
But if real prices go down 1% to 2% and margins are 35% and you get a 3% cost reduction that leads to margin maintenance and that's how we manage this business so quarter-to-quarter we'll have a little more promotional activity that might drive a little more volume at a little lower margin.
And that will be a little bit of give and take.
But over time that's how we think about this business.
We want to keep it right in that mid-teens level and continue to gain share.
And so far I think the CDIY team in every function has done a commendable job of doing that and it is a model for the rest of our company in terms of a level we're trying to get to.
And our last question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Don I was hoping you could just walk through a little bit on the math of how you think about the cash flows over the next couple of years.
I think what you guided to is sort of roughly $1 billion of share repos and then $700 million of debt reduction and that would seem to pretty much match the free cash flow that you'll generate.
But then you have dividends of $600 million or $700 million and then you've got some limitation on the international cash and how you use that.
So I just wondered if you can maybe bridge all of that.
Yes.
Well the -- we went into the year with a debt level of about $300 million that we can actually pay down in commercial paper.
And so that's about as much deleveraging as we can do going forward over the next couple of years.
So that's kind of the number for debt deleveraging.
And then there's obviously the dividend numbers you mentioned and then share repurchase as well and that pretty much uses up the vast majority of our cash well over the next 2 years.
LLC</strong> Is that inclusive of calling back international cash? There'll be a little bit of that as well absolutely.
And I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Greg Waybright for closing remarks.
Lorraine thank you.
We'd like to thank everyone again for calling in this morning and for your participation.
And please contact me if you have any further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q2 2014 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Incorporated earnings conference call.
My name is Paulette and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor &amp; Government Relations Greg Waybright.
Mr.
Waybright you may begin.
Thank you Paulette.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's second quarter 2014 conference call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued earlier this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR portion of our website as well as on our iPhone and iPad app.
A replay of this morning's call will also be available beginning at 2:00 PM today.
The replay number and the access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review Stanley's second quarter 2014 results and various other matters followed by a Q&amp;A section.
Because of the size of the queue we are going to be sticking with just one question per caller.
And as we normally do we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate.
And as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release in our in most recent 34 Act filing.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Greg and thank you Paulette.
Thanks to those of you listening in this morning for our second quarter call.
During the second quarter our organic growth of 1% was negatively impacted by the shortened North American outdoor product season as well as some volatility and slower growth in emerging markets.
Each of those two factors was worth about $25 million in revenue or 100 basis points for a total of about 2 percentage points of growth of the combination of those factors.
This being said our sharp cost focus on price realization delivered some healthy growth as well as operating margin expansion despite some significant currency pressure.
Currency was about a $20 million headwind in the second quarter and that was in line with our expectations.
And as you'll recall it's slightly below the $25 million headwinds that we experienced during the first quarter.
So about $45 million during the first half of the year thus far.
Gross margin expanded 100 basis points versus prior year to 36.5%.
And operating margin expanded 110 basis points to 13.7%.
Diluted EPS was up 17% versus prior year to $1.43.
And as the spread between reported and GAAP earnings narrows that's $1.37 on a GAAP basis.
You're going to hear a lot more about segments in just a few minutes but just a couple of highlights on the segments.
CDIY operating margin expanded to a post-Stanley Black &amp; Decker merger record of 15.7%.
Price productivity cost action more than offset currency and the previously mentioned outdoor product headwinds.
Our Industrial segment delivered 3% organic growth and a very strong 17% operating margin which was up 260 basis points versus second quarter '13.
Security North America and emerging markets organic growth was 2% and their 16.5% operating margin was up 310 basis points versus prior year approaching the historical levels of profitability that that business has demonstrated its ability to achieve.
And Security Europe turnaround took a very positive step as operating margin was 240 basis points sequentially.
So based on the segment results the net performance and the programs that we have in place in the second half of '14 some of which you'll hear a little bit more about today we're going to increase our 2014 EPS guidance range and we are reiterating our cash flow guidance.
Specifically the EPS range of $5.50 to $5.60 ex-charges with at least $675 million of free cash flow and that's inclusive of $250 million of one-time payments.
Turning to our sources of growth on our first quarter call we communicated that we expected organic growth and total growth to decelerate modestly in the second quarter based in part on prior-year organic growth comps of 6% and 9% in CDIY and Industrial respectively.
And the addition of adverse impacts of the outdoor product softness and the emerging market volatility resulted in total organic growth of 1%.
And there was no incremental growth via acquisitions in the quarter all of which is depicted in the chart that's projected on the left.
In terms of the regions the US remains healthy as POS exceeded shipments excluding outdoor across the board.
CDIY share gains in Europe as well as solid performance in Industrial was partially offset by Security Europe volume softness.
And it was a rocky and volatile road in emerging markets with geopolitical issues in Venezuela Russia currency in Brazil all having impacts.
But this being said we remain quite optimistic based on the strength and efficacy of our mid product price range.
Early indications are very good.
Jim will talk a little bit more about that in just a minute or so.
And in the gray area you see a shaded portion called emerging market organization.
The reason we differentiated that and we've shown the plus-3% in the second quarter versus the 1% is our emerging market organization this is the area of the group of products and people and markets where we have focused our organic growth initiatives.
And specifically it excludes Engineered Fastening and our hydraulics and CRC infrastructure businesses.
So I think it's just worthy of note that where we have focused and targeted the incremental investments to drive organic growth despite the market headwinds we did achieve 3% in the second quarter.
Let me turn it over to Jim who is going to do a deeper dive into some of the segments.
Don is going to follow that with some guidance and a look at the cash flow.
Thank you John.
Starting with the CDIY it was an impressive quarter for margin expansion with the post-merger record of 15.7%.
Achieved in the phase of flat organic revenue growth an outcome which was about 4 points lower than expected organically for CDIY due to the weak outdoor product season and unusually volatile emerging market conditions that John referenced that we were able to absorb these two transitory growth issues in CDIY during the quarter while handily beating consensus and upgrading our total year estimate is a testament to the underlying earnings power of the company.
Even more encouraging the outlook for CDIY organic growth in second half is strong with the resumption of mid single-digit growth and the operating leverage that goes with it.
I will now address the two second quarter CDIY growth governors in a bit more detail.
First outdoor products.
Some of you will recall that last year the outdoor season selling was delayed in 1Q mostly notably in March due to cold weather causing us a CDIY growth issue in the first quarter of 2013.
The second quarter 2013 proceeded normally but the season got off to a late start and in total was relatively soft based on historical norms.
Given the easy comp this year the big four retailers in the aggregate were relatively optimistic in first quarter about the overall season despite the unwelcomed cold weather conditions at the time.
Plus orders and selling were both good in 1Q '14 against an easy comp for us.
So no issue.
However as the cold weather persisted into second quarter retailer sentiment regarding the season quickly were pessimistic and replenishments virtually ceased as they attempted to liquidate their high inventories of outdoor product.
So instead of an outdoor quarter which was expected to be up in the high single-digits right around 10% we ended up with one that was down about 15% which caused us 2 points of year-over-year growth in CDIY.
That is now behind us.
The other growth challenge in the quarter emerging markets was simply one of unusually high volatility in the face of gradually slowing markets.
It was a quarter in which Latin America about half of our emerging markets tool business grew only 2% with Brazil slightly negative as the World Cup became a huge market distraction and with zero sales in Venezuela once again.
The other half of the emerging markets portfolio was impacted by Russia and Turkey which were down 16% and 30% respectively.
China was also quite slow.
Normal indications are that the second half will be stronger for both tools emerging markets with our major NPI foray into mid price point power tools and hand tools hitting the market across the geographies as we speak the Venezuela sales drag anniversarying in September and the outlook for Brazil and China looking modestly better.
Now moving to a very bright spot in the second quarter organic performance Europe.
We couldn't be happier with the progress that the CDIY team is making there with organic growth up 7% representing a five-quarter streak with growth averaging 6% in one of the more tepid economic regions among the developed markets.
This represents clear market share gains stemming from both new listings at retailers and distributors as well as a deluge of NPI including great success with the XR brushless cordless product as well as multi-tools and steam products.
Our four major product categories professional power tools consumer products hand tools and storage and fastening and assembly each averaged 500 new distribution outlets on a year-over-year basis.
So as we step back from the CDIY picture we see a very healthy franchise with world-leading brands broad and deep global distribution delivering record margins during a quarter in which organic growth was suppressed by a few unusual items.
And as we look forward we have tremendous NTI momentum in both developed and developing markets and the cost structure that is poised for operating leverage.
Turning to Industrial.
Industrial this quarter once again hit on all cylinders and demonstrated the kind of operating leverage that is achievable with a few points of organic growth.
In this case 3 points of organic growth and 1 point from acquisition yielded 22% growth in operating margin.
The margin rate came in at 17.0% up 260 basis points versus a year ago as price productivity SG&amp;A control and volume all contributed to the performance.
Both Industrial and Automotive Repair or IAR and Engineered Fastening developed strong OM growth up 22% and 18% respectively.
For IAR organic growth of 2% was a mixed bag across geographies.
North America was solid 6% with strong performances from Mac Tools industrial distribution engineered storage and Advanced Industrial Solutions.
Europe was off 3 points primarily as a result of timing related to an ERP project.
And emerging markets were up 1 point the latter impacted by the same type of market issues as CDIY.
Engineered Fastening was also up 2% organically with automotive up 9% significantly outpacing global light vehicle production which was up 2%.
The industrial portion of Engineered Fastening was down 2% with timing of sales to electronics OEMs weighing down a strong performance in industrial distribution.
Infrastructure was up 5% organically with oil and gas up 4% and hydraulics up 9%.
In total it was an excellent quarter for the Industrial portfolio and we can expect continued momentum to carry into the second half.
Moving to Security this was a quarter in which the financials began to reflect the underlying progress which has been made in both North America and Europe over the last nine months or so.
Revenues were flat with organic growth down 1 point operating margin up 8% year-over-year recovering to 11.3% and up 80 basis points.
North America and emerging markets was up 2% organically with Europe down 6%.
North America and emerging markets OM was up 310 basis points versus a year ago approaching very healthy historical norms at 16.5% of sales benefiting from volume better pricing field efficiency and a tight SG&amp;A framework.
In North America vertical market penetration continued to grow with a series of large exciting wins in retail financial services and higher education.
Europe was characterized by improved stability and predictability as many of the operational and organization fixes discussed over the last few quarters began to produce results.
In that regard Europe performed in accordance with expectations with OM still in the low single-digits but improving sequentially by 240 basis points and setting the stage for continued improvement in the second half.
Over the 14 country P&amp;Ls in Europe 12 are now considered stable or improving and only two Spain and Italy representing 10% of the European portfolio are still facing significant structural and operational headwinds.
On a very positive note Europe attrition is tracking to a targeted range of 10% to 12% with that 700 basis points favorable to last year.
Our focus in Europe continues to be on tight operational management and cost reduction to drive margin expansion and ultimately organic growth.
So while Security is still a work-in-progress especially in Europe we are quite confident that we are on the right track and the results will continue to improve as we go forward.
With that I will turn it over to Don Allan for some commentary on the financials.
Thank you Jim.
I'd like to spend a little time talking about our cash flow performance this morning.
We're very pleased with our second quarter free cash flow of $376 million as the earnings growth and lower one-time payments resulted in this excellent performance.
And you can see as you look at the second quarter versus the prior year in the line other there's a significant benefit and that's being driven by these lower one-time payments in a significant way.
As we've begun to wind down these activities as discussed back in the late part of 2013 and begun to execute that throughout the early stages of 2014 and are very pleased with that result.
Moving to the right side of the page looking at our year-to-date performance you can see that we still have a very significant working capital negative outflow.
That was planned and expected.
Our working capital turns are at 6.7 times right in line with our expectations.
We still have plans in place to achieve a goal of somewhere between 8.5 and 9 turns by the end of the year.
And we feel very good about those plans and the ability to execute on them in the next six months.
Another item of note is our CapEx.
As you know we have been very focused on controlling the level of CapEx getting ourselves within a band of 2% to 2.5% of our revenue.
And through the first six months of the year we're at 2.15% of revenues.
So very pleased with that as well.
Looking at free cash flow in total through the first six months a $166 million.
If you look at the history of our company post-merger of Stanley and Black &amp; Decker the historical trend would say that roughly 24% to 25% of our free cash flow happened in the first half of the year.
And just extrapolating that will give an indication that our goal of $675 million is very much achievable.
The other thing to factor in those we are very much focused on controlling CapEx controlling the one-time payments and we feel very comfortable with our plans related to working capital which gives us the confidence that we have the ability to at least achieve $675 million cash flow for this year.
Moving to guidance on the next page I obviously touched on cash flow over the last few years but let's spend a little bit more time on EPS.
As John mentioned we increased our guidance range for 2014 for EPS to $5.50 up to $5.60 from the previous range of $5.35 to $5.50.
On a GAAP basis the range is up the same amount of factor to $5.38 to $5.48.
So the difference between GAAP and adjusted is roughly $0.12 which approximates to $25 million charges that we have anticipated since the beginning of the year.
So no change there.
What is driving this change in guidance? It's really three factors.
The first is that we do expect our organic growth to be a bit lower as emerging markets are experiencing some volatility that Jim walked through in a fair amount of detail.
Although things are looking better in the back half of the year we do expect the full year to be slightly lower versus previous expectations.
The outdoor season has been short and obviously that has an impact on the full year as well.
So as a result we believe our organic growth where we originally thought of approximately 4% will be somewhere between 3% and 4%.
So a modest decline in organic growth versus prior expectations.
More than offsetting this impact however is a much stronger performance in our Industrial business and a very strong performance across the entire company related to lower indirect cost as well as pricing benefits.
As we continue to focus on really programming the company to be prepared for certain volatility in the topline which is most likely will occur.
And then the last factor that's changing is we will be lowering our tax rate to the bottom part of the range where we gave initial range earlier in the year of 21% to 22%.
We expect that to be closer to 21%.
However we do expect a little bit of share creep in those two items will neutralize themselves.
Two other factors to note really to guidance I mentioned this factor back in April that if you look at the company most-merger for the last three or four years our earnings have been split from first half and second half approximately 45% and 55%.
When you do the math you'll see that the new guidance range indicates that that is consistent with these trends.
And so we feel comfortable with that expectation as well.
And then looking at the second half earning split versus the third quarter and the fourth quarter we would expect 47% and 53% respectively as we do some timing issues related to tax which shows some positive benefits in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
And then as we continue to accelerate these indirect cost benefits and pricing benefits that will have a more positive impact in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
And lastly a little bit of flavor on the segments over to the right you can see that our CDIY and Industrial segments continue to be consistent.
We expect mid single-digit organic growth in both segments.
Our margin rate year-over-year improvement as the operating margin rate continues to increase due to some volume leverage cost actions.
And those items are more than offsetting the negative FX that John walked through in a little detail earlier on.
In Security we expect a flat to modest decrease in organic revenue consistent with prior expectations and the margin rate to be relatively flat.
So no major change with the outlook associated with Security.
We feel like we've programmed the company to be prepared for a little bit of volatility associated with some of the economic and market conditions around the world by really focusing on indirect cost and certain pricing actions.
And it positions us well to achieve our new guidance range.
So to summarize the call this morning 2014 continues to be focused on executing operating and capital allocation actions.
We've delivered a very strong second quarter performance despite some significant weather issues foreign currency pressures and emerging market volatility.
We were able to demonstrate margin expansion across all our segments.
We have very tight cost focus across the entire enterprise which enabled significant operating leverage.
We remain optimistic about Security European recovery and we feel like the second quarter was a very positive step forward.
We remain focused on our 2014 near-term items which is really to make sure that we're focused on the returns and relative performance of the company.
And we're focused on organic growth initiatives the continued Security margin improvement surgical cost actions across the entire company to ensure we continue to achieve operating leverage not losing sight of our working capital focus and achieving 8.5 to 9 working capital turns by the end of the year and then of course making sure that we continue to stay on track with our capital allocation rebalance for 2014 and '15 with an acquisition moratorium and then the share repurchase and deleverage as we continue this year and into 2015.
All these items we believe position us very well to make sure that we deliver our long-term financial objectives.
With that we'll move to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Paulette we can now open the call to Q&amp;A please.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
With respect to the margins really impressive job on CDIY this quarter hitting a new record.
Was wondering you highlighted a bunch of things but given that the mix of geographies and products shifted a bit.
Could you quantify how much that also may have helped and how you think about margins longer term in this segment given how far you've come? I think one of the great misperceptions about CDIY business or any of our businesses is that as you go across the globe we have radically different profitability structures.
And while the gross margins and the SG&amp;A can be somewhat different as you go from geography to geography typically the operating margins are very consistent.
So the mix of for instance the lower emerging markets did not have a dramatic positive impact on the operating margin.
The extra-good performance in Europe vis--vis say the US with its outdoor issues did not have a significant impact on operating margins from a mix perspective.
So really the geographic mix in general is not a big deal in terms of driving the margin rate.
What really drove it was a series of things that Don and actually all three of us talked about which is a really really tight focus on margin management starting with gross margins productivity in the factories through the Stanley fulfillment system pricing and new product introduction driving competency in the organization in terms of price management.
And then on the cost side in SG&amp;A as you know we took several actions in last year that are now carrying over into this year as planned.
But on top of that we have a very sharp focus on indirect cost reduction across the company.
We spend over $1 billion a year of cost in this indirect area which would be the non-people related expenses.
And every dollar that today is under a microscope as to whether it's really driving revenue driving value and whether it can be reduced without hurting anything really to the company's overall growth and profitability.
So that's what drove the margin improvement and not some kind of a mix impact.
Let me add one point and it'll just even further amplify what Jim said because you asked basically about geographic mix and I think Jim described in quite accurate detail.
They're consistent.
He didn't talk specifically about product mix.
Historically hand tools and storage have been slightly higher profitability than power tools.
This being said the team has made great progress on power tool margins with some of its design and engineering efforts.
And in this particular quarter you'll note from Jim's deep dive on this segment power tools was up 2% while hand tools and storage was flat.
So if anything it's a negative product mix in the quarter more than offset by the initiatives that Jim just talked about.
So there're lot of good things going on within the four walls of our CDIY business.
And I think Jim described them quite accurately.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
I guess I wanted to follow up here on CDIY.
I think you're looking for mid single-digit organic growth as we go forward.
Obviously the broader context in things housing related has gotten softer of late it sounds both on the remodeling as well as on the new construction side.
You called out outdoor which makes a lot of sense due to the weather.
But I was curious if you could provide a little bit more granularity around what your expectations are for things getting stronger.
You just mentioned I think that hand tools and storage was flat in the quarter.
Was kind of wondering whether you think any of that maybe reflects some of the softness I was referring to in the broader housing context and what international or emerging markets expectations you've got embedded in that mid single-digit CDIY outlook.
The North American POS was 6% in the quarter.
It was up sequentially versus the first quarter.
So we didn't see any softening in our POS in North America.
And we as we forecast POS on a go-forward basis continue to see a strong performance in whatever market conditions we happen to be in right now which don't appear to be slowing from our perspective.
And that's partially because as you know we're not directly tied to the housing market.
We're indirectly tied to the housing market.
In Europe we continue to see strong performance based on the product introductions that I referenced and the outlets that were increased.
So we expect continued mid single-digits there.
And in the emerging markets we were 5% in the first half and we expect to be up at least that much in the back half and potentially more based on a tremendous as I said in my comments new product introduction in the mid price point product.
That's not to be underestimated and that is a significant initiative that's been in the works for about a year-and-a-half now almost two years and the products are literally being sold as we speak.
Whatever geopolitical situation that we have as we sit here today that will drive our performance under those circumstances.
So we're quite confident about the mid single-digits in CDIY in the back half.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
In terms of the European Security business is any of the resizing of the business there incremental based on the organic growth weakness in Southern Europe? And at this new resized level can you talk about much longer-term where the structural margin range is for that European conversion Security business? Obviously we talked to the European Security business in the sense of how much sequential improvement it made quarter-over-quarter very pleased with that.
We're not seeing incremental improvement yet versus the prior year.
And our expectation is as we go through the remainder of the year and we get closer to the fourth quarter that at that point we could see some year-over-year improvement in the business performance.
Now that's really going to be dependent on a couple of factors.
One we are seeing some difficult performances Jim mentioned in Spain and Italy.
When you exclude those two countries you'll most likely see a healthy performance year-over-year in this business excluding those two countries.
But those two countries right now are weighing down the business a little bit.
Our expectation at this point is that we would expect some incremental improvement even with them by the end of the year but that could be modest challenge for us.
We've factored that into our guidance.
So we're not overly concerned about this.
But when we look at that business specifically we do see that as a bit of a challenge.
As far as long-term we still continue to believe that it is a business that can be double-digit profitability over the next few years.
And then eventually it can get to mid-teens levels along with the rest of our Security business.
And the factor that's really going to drive that second stage evolution is going to be what we've been doing in North America over the last 18 months or so which has been rolling out the vertical market solutions to key verticals such as retail financial services healthcare et cetera and bringing those to Europe because we haven't done that at this stage because we're kind of in a turnaround recovery mode of that business getting all the basics in place the operating rhythms the field organization structure the right way et cetera et cetera.
And by the end of the year or early next year we would begin to bring this vertical approach to the European marketplace.
And as a result that will help us move the profitability of the business closer to the mid-teens level over the long-term.
Don reference Spain and Italy without too much cause and effect but I think you're all quite familiar with what's going on particularly in the Spanish market which is a large market for us.
Just three things to touch on first of all a very intense competitive environment which makes it a difficult market in the first place.
Second not news to anyone commercial construction is nom-existent in Spain and has been for the last year-and-a-half.
And thirdly with the Niscaya acquisition we were largely influenced by the financial services verticals specifically banks.
And it's probably not news to anyone that our bank branches in Spain are closing at a very very very rapid rate.
So we are fishing in a much much smaller pond in an intense competitive environment two years ago and that's creating some headwinds for that business that Don referenced to.
But it's probably appropriate to give you just a little bit of the whys.
Yeah but there's really no cause for major concern because it's really less than 10% of our European portfolio and less than 5% of our total Security portfolio.
But we're being very right in saying that we don't think we've solved the issue in Spain and Italy yet.
And we factored it into our guidance.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
It's actually Mike Sang in for Nigel.
Wanted to jump back on the MPP initiative.
It sounds like it's going well and you alluded to it earlier but against the backdrop of weaker emerging markets.
I was wondering if that changed your view at all on how much you need to invest to build that business and how the calculus impacts the topline and margin contributions? So just to refresh everybody who may or may not have heard this in the past.
But the MPP markets in tools across the emerging markets are about 60% to 70% of the total markets.
And they are where the growth is the fastest and they are where the local competitors are the most skilled at driving growth.
So if you're going to play in tools on a serious global emerging market platform you have to play in the MPP market and you have to do it with products that are at the price point and at the performance point that you are meeting or exceeding the local competition.
So our strategy has been very much focused on exactly that.
And it actually plays quite well into slowing markets because slowing markets tend to have some economic distress.
And when distress occurs people move from higher-priced products to lower-priced products.
So we expect the growth in the mid price point and we call it MPP+ which is mid price point plus or MPP or MPP-.
And we have a next step with MPP to see a little degradation from MPP+ to MPP kind of a water fall down in terms of where the market goes.
And I think we're extremely well positioned in that regard and we made our investments.
It's not like we have to make a lot of new investments.
We put 300 feet in the street.
We've designed the products.
We bought GQ the Chinese power tool company.
We've upgraded the products very nicely with local Chinese leader in that market.
And they also export beautifully into all our markets around the world.
So we're in a pretty good place there.
And I think in addition to that if the markets were accelerating I suspect that the desire to invest amongst all the competitors would be even stronger.
I think the likelihood of investments by competitors is still there.
But perhaps the magnitude and speed at which they invest will be regularly sum up by the market expectations.
So in kind of a perverse way I think we're in a very good spot.
Our next question comes from Rich Kwas from Wells Fargo.
What's the organic growth rate that's assumed in the 3% to 4% for the year in terms of the contribution from organic growth initiatives? And then second one John you talked about Spain and Italy being a pressure point within European Security.
At one point you start to look at that and say do we really need to be there and is that structurally important to our overall Security business and it may make sense for us to just move away from those markets longer term.
2% organically in the first half if we're going to be up 3% in the second half for the year the math would say we have to be 4%.
It's just math.
2% plus 4% divided by 2 is 3%.
So it's 4% to 5% in the second half if that's your question versus 2%.
And this is globally of course for the entire corporation all in.
And obviously that's going to vary by segment.
And the answer to your second question that's a great question we ask ourselves that question all the time.
We look at all the alternatives and will continue to.
I think what's important to note is before we abandoned something we give it our best effort to fix it.
And we've made some tremendous improvements there.
We will continue to do that.
But you are right on we're not in a position on this call to talk about paths forward.
But I think let's get realistic.
Jim gave you a very important number.
It's 10% of our European Security business which means it's 5% of our global Security business which means it's 1.25% of our company.
We are looking at it.
We're focusing on the alternatives.
We're not going to move a lot of needles irrespective of what we do.
But to the extent it continues to be a drag you've followed us a long time we have a history of if we can't fix something in 18 to 24 months we used to do something else with it.
And we don't follow more than anything that is in earnings cost to capital.
The growth initiative impact for the year and it's going to be about 1.5 point.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
It's actually (inaudible) for Mike.
Part of the increase in the operating EPS guidance was due to better Industrial performance expectations.
Within Industrial was there a specific area that's driving this outlook or is it kind of evenly spread across each of the individual groups? Within our Industrial segment the largest businesses are Industrial and Automotive Repair business which are very large businesses in the US and Europe our Engineered Fastening business which is performing extremely well and then our smaller businesses within the Industrial segment as we report are oil and gas and hydraulics.
Each and every one is up beautifully year-to-date and we expect more good things.
Jim talked about how well Engineered Fastening was performing.
It's still 50% to 60% of that business is OEM auto and it's performing at a level four times the rate of the market.
So we're obviously gaining share well managed business diversifying into other verticals.
IAR is strong and we think will continue to be.
IAR has a large percentage of its business in Europe but it's performing quite well in Europe despite a relatively stagnant market.
And oil and gas and hydraulics being much more volatile had really nice second quarter and we see those trends continuing.
That's a very long way of saying there's strength across each and every business within our Industrial segment.
And at the current point there are no fixed uppers.
There is just leverage the great positive momentum that those business leaders have taken into the second half of the year.
Our next question comes from Jeremie Capron from CLSA.
Good progress on margins and I wanted to follow up on liquidities question on the Industrial segment where we've seen over 200 bps of margin expansion there.
I'm wondering if you could give us more color on what's driving this margin expansion and what we should expect going forward as manufacturing activity seems to be expanding.
Should we expect operating leverage to continue to play a large role there and to see margins trending up further? We clearly see that across the portfolio within Industrial for components of it if you want to look at that which is really three ones that we talk about externally infrastructure IAR and Engineered Fastening are contributing in a positive way for organic growth and continuing in a very positive way for operating leverage.
And the reason they're contributing in such a significant way for operating leverage is all the things that all three of us have articulated in a fair amount of detail this morning which is the focus on surgical pricing actions in our businesses.
We're focused on indirect cost controls.
We've also taken other SG&amp;A cut actions that we embarked upon in the fourth quarter of last year.
And we've been very focused on how we improve our operating leverage across our company.
And I think you're seeing the most significant impact within our Industrial segment.
But then again when you look at the rest of the company across at CDIY and even in Security so it's just really representing the impact of all the things that we're trying to do to manage the business manage the organic growth manage the margin mix manage the price manage the cost and really enhance the operating performance of the business.
And ultimately the true cash flow of the business in the company starts to come through.
And you saw that in the second quarter with a very strong cash flow performance.
Our next question comes from Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
John I wonder if you could do the math for me.
On US Security margin split between CSS and mechanical and expand on you guys' comment on how the domestic field efficiencies are lifting the CSS business because I know there have historically been some real spread there.
Do you think that part is picking up as well as mechanical coming down? I won't do the specific math because we don't necessarily want margin by sub-segment within a segment in the public domain.
You know this business really well but I think I can help you directionally.
Ken historically mechanical access security and access of that higher margin has been convergent that is converging as electronic margins increase and we maintain or increase it at a faster rate than either access or MAS.
Our MAS business is still a little soft so it's representing a lower percentage of the total due to no other factor than what Jim has talked about on several of the calls specifically the switch from a direct to a distribution model and the resulting margin impact of that which over time we're highly confident will be offset by increased volume by increased share by operating leverage.
But as we speak consistently high margins there's no huge spread across the three sub-segments within North American Security.
And as Jim referenced to a previous call the Asia-Pacific or emerging market piece that's baked into that same number there's no dramatic difference there either.
By healthcare business and emerging markets business margins are a little lower than North America.
And that's really all the detail on sub-segments that we care to get into.
Ken you've been with us a while.
You remember I'm sure when the Security business in North America started having some issues about a little over a year ago we discussed at the time one of the reasons for that was that we had made an organizational change where we had taken the structure that we had been running the CSS business on historically which was a centralized structure in terms of metrics management and field deployment and we had pushed that centralized structure out into that AD P&amp;Ls in the various geographical regions of the United States and had placed accountability at that level for managing P&amp;Ls and then rolled it all up into a total.
And it turned out that that particular move was not a very smart one.
And so when we started going backwards in the field about a year or so ago in terms of efficiency we determined that one of the reasons was that we did not have the people in running these P&amp;Ls that were really capable of managing the efficiencies and the labor loading and all the complexities that go with managing a field like that.
So about nine months ago we reversed that decision and we went back to the centralized model.
And now what you're seeing is the benefits of a very very metric-based daily intense management model which is the way that you make money and manage your field effectively in electronic security business.
And having made that mistake once we will not make it again.
I can promise you.
Our next question comes from Winnie Clark from UBS.
You talked about the headwind you saw in CDIY in North America in the second quarter as retail inventory replenishment came to a halt.
Have you started to see that come back and is there a potential for the tail of the outdoor season to be a bit longer and strong due to the slower start that you saw? And then could you see some benefits from restocking in the second half? The outdoor season it's so very specific to the first quarter and the second quarter that there's very little replenishment that goes on in the third quarter.
And really what you've got now is retailers are just trying to make sure that they don't get stuck holding it back with a bunch of inventory.
So there's really no chance for I'd say either really any significant upside or downside relative to outdoor.
I think that's very well said.
I mean to oversimplify what Jeff Ansell's team would say you get to the middle of June that season is over.
They're already looking forward to fall products.
So we're optimistic what's there.
We'll sell through.
But due to the late start to Jim's point it was the reorders that didn't take place.
In their minds the season is over.
That volume there's probably no reason to think that volume in terms of shipments will come back.
And we'll move it on from there.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Can you break out the second half assumptions kind of embedded in that 4% to 5% organic across the major regions I guess just compared to the volume that you saw in the first half growth? We don't really give it that way.
But the reality is when you look at the trends that we've seen in our company in some of the commentary that Jim mentioned this morning we've seen a very strong performance in certain pieces of our European business.
Other pieces such as Security Europe have been a little weaker.
Emerging markets had a solid performance in Q1 and then had some volatility in Q2 and we expect that to improve in the back half for all the reasons that Jim walked through around MPP.
So I'm not going to give you specific numbers by regions.
But what I can tell you is that from a trend perspective things will move.
I think Europe will be relatively consistent with a little bit of it tailing down as we start to comps and difficult comps in CDIY Europe.
Emerging markets will ramp back up from what we saw in Q2 and get stronger.
And then the US will be a little stronger than what we thought because we were definitely impacted by outdoor in a negative way and we don't expect that to repeat.
So we would expect a modest improvement in that particular performance.
To help you with your modeling it's too much detail to get into on the call.
We do included in the appendix in tremendous detail at least in terms of Europe performance and history.
But just thinking at a high level 50% of our global business is in the US or 53% is in North America 25% in Europe and 25% in the rest of the world.
Rest of the world is clearly going to grow faster than North America and Europe.
And weighted average gets you to the 4% to 5% in the second half and 3% to 4% for the year.
Our next question comes from Saliq Khan from Imperial Capital.
Security has been talked about previously as well but if you're looking at much of the drag on the overall revenue growth it's previously been the result of Security business particularly as we're looking at Europe.
Now Stanley has been criticized by the investment community for a lot of its challenges within that division which has traditionally been a very high margin business.
There have even been talks about the divestiture of the Security business from the rest of Stanley I know someone mentioned that previously as well.
Now we've been writing a lot about Security turnaround strategy for several months now and it's really nice to see that Security is finally seeing an uptick.
<br><br>With that being said within the vertical market penetration specifically in North America which segments are you seeing the most traction in and what is working within those segments that you can use to penetrate in other segments and also try to emulate that strategy in the European market as you look into the back half of 2014 and go into 2015 I know that a large number of the sales force within Security sector has previously been replaced by those people that are not just looking for new business but also farming for existing businesses as well? Those two issues which verticals are gaining traction in the US and is there learning that applies to other verticals and then second that's I think will help the audience the most.
Well our order rates are running close to $100 million annualized on the verticals.
And within that $100 million I think the number one vertical would be retail.
And we've been doing some work in integrating EAS systems with Security systems that seems to be very appealing to large retailers.
And we've had one very large win and then a couple of smaller ones.
And we see a couple on the horizon in retail which is kind of a very unique value proposition that nobody else is providing at this point in time which does a lot of data analytics for the headquarters and the regions of the retailers.
So that's one exciting area.
Another one is healthcare.
And our healthcare activities are really divided into two pieces.
The one is the traditional security business that covers acute care facilities and senior living facilities and just medical facilities in general.
And that's your basic security systems.
But we also have this other part of our business which we call it healthcare but it's centered in patient security but now it's evolved to an asset tracking a patient safety a compliance productivity generating business that really ties together a lot of software solutions with hardware components and peripherals and brings the ability to kind of manage the hospital better or the senior living facility better to the hospital.
And we're kind of combining that now in a go-to-market basis in selected areas with our core security business.
And what we're finding is that the value proposition that we can bring to the C level type people in hospitals for example is very very compelling.
So we've had some wins already that are pretty significant there and we have some wins on the horizon that I think will eye-opening in size.
And then another one is higher education.
We've had several significant universities wins in the last six months or so.
And these tend to vary from providing kind of campus control solutions to more traditional or more basic security solutions.
But we have several technologies today that we are kind of weaving together as we go to these various verticals.
And one of them is the RTLS technology that we gained through the AeroScout acquisition.
And another is the EyeLock technology that we have exclusive rights to in these markets.
And then we have done a really nice job I think also integrating with the PSIM systems the basic security systems so that we can kind of go to a customer and take what might be a hodge-podge of various security systems that they might have installed across their enterprise and sort of tie them together in a better way.
So these are kind of all at the root of the success of the vertical initiative.
And I think just to focus on becoming a subject matter expert in each one of these verticals and providing solutions to the customer.
The ability to transfer this to Europe I think we're getting very close to the point where we can begin to do that.
That will not be an overnight sensation.
It will take at least one to two years for it to really settle in and start driving the growth there.
But it is very powerful.
These solutions are transferrable.
And there's not a whole lot of extra work that needs to be done to take them to Europe in terms of the product modifications.
It's really more of preparing the European sales force to sell these and commercialize these.
And that is something that we want to do but we also want to make sure that the environment is stable and that the talent is there to be able to do that in Europe.
And we're nearing the time when we can kind of make that happen but it's going to be a quarter or two before we actually make that happen.
Our next question comes from Liam Burke from Janney Capital.
IAR had a good quarter with Mac Tools up so the automotive vertical looked pretty strong for the quarter.
Are there any other verticals that contributed or have shown unusual strength either in this quarter or as you see it going forward? Liam I don't know if you jumped on the call late.
I talked a little bit to a previous question on the Industrial segment.
As you know IAR and Engineered Fastening are the big businesses.
And Engineered Fastening is about 50% OEM auto the other 50% spread across aerospace consumer electronics and other verticals.
Then the rest of that segment as you know well is infrastructure or hydraulics and oil and gas businesses.
All performed extremely well in the quarter.
So we really had broad-based organic growth and operating leverage across the entire Industrial platform.
It was a very encouraging quarter.
And no one specific vertical or end-market to single out has been an extraordinary driver.
Our next question comes from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James.
The inventories on a year-on-year basis are up pretty sharply.
Now I don't think I should be too worried about it.
You did mention Don that you are expecting working capital to improve by year-end and you did raise guidance.
But where are those inventories on a year-on-year basis and was there any benefit to fixed cost absorption during the quarter? As I mentioned back in the April call I actually indicated that we would be mostly like building some inventory in the CDIY business in the second quarter to prepare for the remainder of the year to prepare for the MPP rollout in emerging markets.
And as I indicated a few minutes ago the working capital turns pretty much came in line with our expectations by the end of the quarter.
So you're exactly right the inventory levels are a little bit higher than maybe what we originally anticipated six months ago or so.
But they're right in line with what we're anticipating as we began the second quarter.
We feel good about how we're positioned for the remainder of the year.
We have very robust plans like we do every year in place to address the inventory payables and receivable levels over the next six months and feel that the working capital numbers that I provided are very achievable.
As far as absorption yeah obviously the impact was part of our guidance part of what we planned.
It was not very significant but clearly it does an impact on the higher levels of inventory versus the prior period or the prior quarter but didn't drive anything significant beyond our expectations.
It was right in line with what we expected.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
I guess the question from here is which is kind of the other side of the equation is how do we grow the business and what might be achievable in terms of just growing the RMR portfolio from here and if you could just talk about what sort of the most impactful levers are to you at this point.
You're right on.
I mean the first quarter of business was to keep what we have.
And then in the process while we were doing that we were also and have been now for almost two years building a sales force and a commercial engine for that business because when we acquired it we didn't have one.
We had an organization that was reliant on its cousin which was the Securitas Corporation.
So I'd say that sales force rebuilding process has gone reasonably well in most geographies.
And if set aside Spain and Italy which if you look at the organic growth being down 6% in the second quarter I think it was down 7% in the first quarter what you have there is two things going on.
One if the spill-over effect of the prior attrition from prior quarters having an impact.
But equally as important the installation business is down.
And it derives from Spain and Italy being about a third of the issue.
And then beyond that we have a very very focused initiative to make sure that we're not taking on business that is low-margin business and low value-added business.
So that has an impact.
And then finally it's just a matter of making sure that we have the requisite number of salespeople or feet on the street on the payroll.
We need to deal with the Spain and Italy issues as was talked about earlier.
So that's part of it.
And then I think the feet on the street issue earlier in the year we were down probably about 30 to 40 people versus what we needed to have or wanted to have in sales in Europe.
And I think today we're right around down 10.
So we're making a lot of progress on that front getting to where we need to be.
And the order rates in the back half of the year need to kind of come up.
They're negative right now consistent with the organic growth numbers and they need to come up.
And so that is the focus right now.
It's making sure that the feet on the street are performing.
And all this is very tactical.
But as you've seen when we address these tactical issues in sequence here we've been relatively successful.
So we're confident that we can get that done.
And then of course the medium to longer-term solution to this is to have this vertical market of products and the vertical market sales organization that was discussed a few minutes ago transferred over to Europe.
So this is a staged execution project just like everything else we've been doing here.
And right now we're in the stage of making sure that the origination capability of the organization is not only there but performing at a level that is acceptable.
And then of course the next step from there will be bringing in the vertical market solutions.
I will now turn the call over to Greg Waybright for closing comments.
Paulette thank you.
We'd like to thank everyone again for calling in this morning and for your participation.
And obviously please contact me if you have any further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John.
I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn the call over to Vice President of Investor and Government Relations Greg Waybright.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself are John Lundgren our Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued earlier this morning and a supplemental presentation which we refer to during the call are available on the IR section of our website as well as on our iPhone and iPad app.
A replay of this morning's call will also be available beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
The replay number and access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review our third quarter 2014 results and various other matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Because of the size of the queue we're going to be sticking with just one question per caller.
And as we normally do we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act filing.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Greg.
Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us.
I am really pleased with the performance of our team in the third quarter given what's going on in the geopolitical front and many others.
Let's get right into it.
Organic growth of 6% was led by CDIY and our Industrial business and the combination of the 6% growth sharp cost focus and price realization delivered strong operating leverage.
Our OM rate expanded to a post-merger record of 14.1% that's x charges of course and 120-basis-points increase versus 2013.
Diluted EPS up 12% versus 2013 to $1.55 $1.50 on a GAAP basis.
And please note the convergence of GAAP and reported EPS as the large acquisitions accompanied by outsized restructuring charges are more fully integrated and the overwhelming majority of that is now behind us.
CDIY revenue grew 10% organically another post-merger record of 16.5% operating margin rate as volume leverage productivity price and cost actions offset the continued foreign exchange and emerging market headwinds that you'll hear more about later in today's call.
Industrial delivered 5% organic growth 15.9% operating margin and that's up 170 basis points.
And the turnaround in Security Europe continues.
At the same time we're taking some further actions to strengthen the global Security business as well as sharpen our focus on our vertical market solutions activities.
And Jim Loree is going to give you a lot more detail on Security in general and vertical markets in particular when he gets into the segments.
Free cash flow is $189 million in the third quarter and remains strong.
Year-to-date it's up $464 million versus 2013.
And as a consequence of the earnings performance in the third quarter cash flow we're raising our fiscal year free cash flow guidance and reiterating the earnings midpoint while tightening the 2014 EPS range.
We're looking at approximately $800 million of free cash flow for the year and EPS of $5.52 to $5.58.
Let's turn to the sources of growth during the quarter.
The developed markets showed great strength and they led the way this quarter as both CDIY and Industrial performed well in the U.S.
as well as Europe.
And remember those 2 geographies account for 74% of our total revenue.
Pricing in the emerging markets as well as surgical pricing actions elsewhere in -- primarily in our developed markets led to a 1% overall increase.
And pricing offset the negative foreign exchange impact of the strengthening U.S.
dollar against virtually every currency.
More to come on that in the fourth quarter as we think this is going to continue and Don will get into that in far greater detail in his piece of the presentation.
Within the regions U.S.
demand remains healthy in both retail and industrial channels.
Overall demand in Europe is flat with the exception of the U.K.
and several smaller countries.
So the 4% growth that you see in Europe is clearly the result of share gains.
Emerging markets remained under pressure most notably Venezuela Russia and Brazil but we're really encouraged that the recent mid-priced products that we launched earlier this year are gaining a tremendous amount of traction.
More on our recent product launches as well as the current initiatives in those markets as Jim dives into the segments.
So in the interest of time let me turn it over to him.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Let's start with CDIY.
It was a blockbuster quarter for organic growth in the developed markets with double-digit performances in both North America and Europe overwhelming a second consecutive slow growth quarter in this case 2% in the emerging markets for a total performance of 10% globally.
CDIY operating margin grew 19% achieving another post-merger record rate of 16.5% and margin gains resulting from volume leverage modestly positive price operations productivity and tight SG&amp;A cost management overcame currency pressures.
Last quarter in my remarks I said and I quote "So as we step back from the CDIY picture we see a very healthy franchise with world-leading brands broad and deep global distribution delivering record margins.
As we look forward we have tremendous NPI momentum in both developed and developing markets and a cost structure that is poised for operating leverage." That is in fact exactly what our CDIY team delivered in bigger proportions in North America and Europe than even we expected.
Across the global product lines strength was broad-based with growth in Professional Power Tools Consumer products Hand Tools &amp; Storage and Fastening &amp; Accessories each in a range from 8% to 11%.
As the cover page indicated CDIY new product development momentum is driving both revenue and profit growth.
DeWalt DC brushless an important and growing segment of cordless is off to a very strong start.
A host of other examples around the globe ranging from highly innovative products such as the first-in-world cordless electric pneumatic nailer and the Autosense drill as well as practical products such as the new designed in the market for the market emerging market power and hand tool lines all contributed.
Putting the company's leading array of brands to work across categories also continues to produce strong results with examples such as DeWalt storage adhesives and hand tools Stanley FatMax power tools and Porter Cable hand tools all registering gains.
Although difficult to quantify exact incremental revenue from these types of activities we're confident that contributions from our NPD effort yielded 3 to 5 points of global growth benefit in the quarter.
In the U.S.
our Built In The USA program which promotes tools assembled in our U.S.-based production facilities including our recent plant addition in the Carolinas has been highly successful.
The U.S.
business also enjoyed a kicker from an unexpected 3Q appearance of the outdoor season initially thought to be lost to weather back in the second quarter.
On top of these benefits underlying U.S.
tool demand remains solid as DIY fundamentals are strong even as new construction markets are choppy but positive.
So to sum up North America exceptional growth execution and a good underlying market led to great 12% organic growth.
And now moving to Europe where the market fundamentals are weak but the performance is equally as impressive.
As I said last quarter we couldn't be happier with the progress that the CDIY European team is making with organic growth up 11% representing a 6-quarter streak with growth averaging 7% in one of the more consistently stagnant economic regions within the developed markets.
This sustained performance is indicative of clear market share gains stemming from intensive NPD new listings at retailers and distributors and a high-performance commercial team which refuses to succumb to a victim mentality in a weak market.
The other growth challenge in the quarter emerging markets up 2% organically was one of continuing high volatility in the face of generally slower markets.
It was a quarter in which Latin America about half of our emerging markets' tools business once again grew only 2% with Brazil flattish while issues in Venezuela and the western mining-dependent countries essentially offset stronger performances in Argentina Mexico Colombia and Central America.
The other half of the emerging markets portfolio was also up only marginally as modest rebounds in Russia Turkey and India were offset by weakness in China and Southeast Asia to a lesser extent.
Our major NPI foray into mid-price point power tools and hand tools across these markets is hitting the sweet spot for end users at a time when they tend to be more cost-conscious with their purchases.
The program is thus tracking to plan but generally cutting into distributor's share of wallet as tougher markets create constraints on distributor willingness and ability to finance incremental inventory levels.
As we look ahead for CDIY in total we see the continued benefit of forward momentum with the winning combination of global scale robust NPD great brands a growth culture and a tight rein on margins and cost more than compensating for lackluster markets in Europe and some of the emerging regions as well as a strengthening dollar environment.
In that vein we expect what is already an excellent CDIY growth story to continue.
Now turning to Industrial.
Industrial this quarter once again performed well and delivered respectable 3x operating leverage off of 5 points of organic growth with 17% growth in operating margin.
The rate came in at 15.9% up 170 basis points versus a year ago as price productivity SG&amp;A control and volume all contributed to the performance.
Both Industrial &amp; Automotive Repair and Engineered Fastening delivered strong OM growth up 29% and 19% respectively.
For IAR organic growth of 7% benefited from strong demand in developed countries.
North America was solid at 9%.
Europe was up 11 points and still up an impressive 7% when adjusting for a prior year SAP conversion which resulted in a 4-point easier comp.
IAR Europe enjoyed strength in virtually all regions driven by strong NPD and commercialization activities.
Emerging markets were only modestly positive the latter impacted by the same type of market issues as CDIY.
Engineered Fastening was also up 5% organically with automotive up 16% significantly outpacing global light vehicle production which was up 5%.
The Industrial portion of Engineered Fastening was flattish with sales to electronics OEMs weighing down a positive performance in industrial distribution.
Infrastructure was down 1% organically with oil and gas down 4% and hydraulics up 7%.
In total it was another overall strong quarter for Industrial with a similar story shaping up for fourth quarter.
Moving to Security.
Revenues were down 3% with organic growth down 2 points and operating margin at 11.0% down 12% and 120 basis points year-over-year.
North America emerging markets was up 1% organically with Europe down 7%.
North America emerging markets organic growth was modestly positive in both Convergent and Access Technologies partially offset by a decline in Mechanical Access.
Operating margin was essentially flat with last year.
The OM rate was also consistent with the year ago solidly in the mid-teens and just slightly shy of historical norms.
Installation of a large vertical market retail win in North America which has substantial future recurring revenue content coupled with lower sales in the higher-margin Mechanical Access business produced a less than desirable operating margin result in the quarter.
Vertical market order progress continued to be a bright spot.
In the spirit of allocating management resources where they are positioned to optimize their contribution to business success several recent management adjustments have been made in North America in emerging market Security.
Jim Cannon a proven Stanley Black &amp; Decker management veteran who has previously led both Oil &amp; Gas and IAR including responsibility for the Mac turnaround has been named president of the unit.
Brett Bontrager who is succeeded by Jim has been named to lead Global Vertical Markets where he will continue to leverage his strength in developing these markets and winning customer accounts in North America while coordinating the transfer of Vertical Solutions to Europe as well.
And then finally Joe McCormack another seasoned Stanley Black &amp; Decker leader with extensive experience leading distribution commercial teams has assumed leadership of Mechanical Access.
We expect these changes to enable the continued forward progress of the Security North America and emerging markets team in both revving up organic growth and tightening operational execution.
Moving to Security Europe this quarter.
Performance was stable and consistent with commitments extending its recent track record of predictability.
OM is now in the mid-single digits once again improving sequentially this time by approximately a point.
3Q attrition came in within the target range of 10% to 12% and order rates were up in the high single digits.
This is an important calculus and that we will be looking for an easing of negative organic growth in the first half of '15 and then a flattish second half of '15 in order to continue to drive forward OM rate growth and a business turnaround.
Finally as mentioned last quarter of the 14 country P&amp;Ls in Europe 12 are now considered stable or improving and only 2 Spain and Italy representing 10% of the European portfolio are still facing both significant structural and operational headwinds.
We are committed to completing our strategic review of these countries in Q4 and you could expect a decisive solution dealing with the issue in the near future.
So while Security still has a ways to go especially in Europe we are confident that we are in the right track and our recent actions will continue to improve the probability of success.
And with that I will turn it over to Don Allan for some commentary on the financials including the total year outlook and some preliminary thoughts on 2015.
Don? Thank you Jim.
We are very pleased with our third quarter 2014 cash flow performance which resulted in $189 million of free cash flow.
On a year-to-date basis our free cash flow performance was $355 million as we continue to benefit from increased operational earnings lower restructuring payments and reduced capital expenditures.
These 3 factors are responsible for the vast majority of our year-over-year improvement through the first 9 months.
Additionally we are also pleased with our third quarter working capital turns performance at 6.4x which is up a half a turn versus the prior year.
We believe this bodes well for us achieving our year-end goal of 8.5 to 9 working capital turns as we're looking for a half turn or better improvement versus the 2013 year-end.
Many of you are aware that every year we experience a significant positive working capital benefit in the fourth quarter due to certain seasonality aspects of our CDIY business.
As a result we tend to generate close to 60% of our annual free cash flow in the fourth quarter.
If you extrapolate our year-to-date performance through the third quarter which is $355 million and consider the fact that it indicates our free cash flow for the full year of 2014 will approximate $800 million.
Considering all these factors I just mentioned we are increasing our annual guidance for free cash flow to approximately $800 million from the previously communicated at least $675 million.
This improved performance will ensure we will achieve our debt deleveraging goals for 2014 and then allow us to begin the previously communicated share repurchase program at some point in the fourth quarter.
Now let's review our 2014 EPS outlook on Page 10.
As indicated by John earlier we are reiterating the midpoint of $5.55 while tightening our range which is now expected to be $5.52 to $5.58.
There are factors changing within our annual guidance which have an overall neutral impact on full year earnings.
As a result of the strengthening U.S.
dollar versus other key currencies we now expect $75 million of currency pressure versus the previously communicated $60 million for the full year of 2014.
However offsetting virtually all of this new $15 million of Q4 currency pressure will be continued strong operational performance of several key businesses within CDIY and Industrial.
This operational performance is being driven by solid organic growth in developed markets strong cost controls over indirect costs and focused customer pricing initiatives all the things that you heard from Jim a few minutes ago.
An additional factor potentially impacting our annual guidance would be a modest benefit to earnings from the potential or possible reclassification of our Security Southern European business to discontinued operations.
We will finalize this strategic decision in the later stages of Q4 and communicate it in the appropriate time frame.
Let's turn to segments.
We continue to expect mid-single-digit organic revenue growth and solid operating margin rate expansion year-over-year in both the CDIY and Industrial segments primarily due to volume leverage solid price actions and cost controls which are more than offsetting currency.
Our Security segment will have a modest organic revenue decline of for the full year and the margin rate will decline modestly as well versus the prior year.
The organic growth in North America and emerging markets will be more than offset by the declines we are experiencing in Europe as Jim has discussed based for the Q3 performance.
Although headwinds have been somewhat unrelenting in 2014 due to currency pressures combined with economic or political issues in emerging markets which have caused volume challenges we believe we are taking all of the correct actions to combat these headwinds through cost-control actions and customer pricing initiatives.
This approach will allow us to achieve strong operating leverage on solid organic growth specifically earnings will expand 13% on organic growth of 3% to 4% in 2014.
We'd like to give you some thoughts on 2015.
We see these currency and emerging market volume headwinds continuing and currently estimate it to be $50 million to $75 million against our 2015 operating profit growth expectation.
Most of you know we have a track record of responding to these types of headwinds with focused cost-reduction actions or other profit-enhancing initiatives.
And I think 2014 is a great example of this.
We are currently considering several cost-reduction initiatives which would largely if not completely offset these headwinds that we see for 2015 at this point in time.
We're evaluating 3 areas for potential cost reductions: the first is combination of a few existing Stanley Black &amp; Decker businesses to maximize the commercial go-to-market opportunities and of course leverage the back-office functions.
In my mind this would be a continued evolution of the Stanley and Black &amp; Decker merger: number two further cost rationalization of the Security businesses to improve profitability while enhancing our SG&amp;A investments to stimulate growth within the verticals; and then three other surgical actions and certain functions as well as corporate overhead.
If we proceed with these actions which I believe are highly likely it will require additional restructuring charges of $10 million to $25 million in excess of our current 2014 estimate of $25 million.
However do not misinterpret our 2015 comments.
We do expect solid growth in profit during 2015 and we are simply discussing one headwind we need to offset.
Moving to the next slide I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing 2015 foreign currency impacts.
As we are all aware the U.S.
dollar strengthened during late September against the 4 major currencies which impact us: the Canadian dollar the European euro Brazilian real and Argentinian peso.
As a reminder these transactional exposures primarily exist in our CDIY and Industrial businesses with 80% of it within CDIY.
This is due to the extensive global supply chains that are in place as well as the importing of finished goods and components into Latin America and Canada in U.S.
dollar-based transactions.
We have finalized most of our initial key currency-hedging activities for 2015 at this stage.
And based on yesterday's spot rates we estimate the 2015 negative currency impact to approximate $45 million to $50 million versus 2014 which includes the impact of these recently executed currency hedges.
To give you an example of the sensitivity of these 4 major currencies shown on the chart a 1% movement of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S.
dollar will result in approximately a $2.5 million to $3.5 million annual currency impact and you can see examples of the other 3 currencies on the page.
As I mentioned previously we are focused on managing these types of headwinds with mitigating actions and are currently in the process of evaluating what these potential offsets could be.
I believe this slide provides good transparency to the impact of currency in 2015 on our company.
So I'd like to summarize the presentation portion of our call today.
We are very pleased with the strong Q3 2014 EPS and cash flow performance.
The strong organic growth of 6% mentioned by John has been supported by solid innovation and the 2013 growth investments continuing to blossom.
The tight cost control and surgical price actions across the entire company enabled excellent operating leverage and our operating margin expanded to a post-merger record.
Security Europe continues to perform better and made another positive step forward in Q3.
Our focus in 2014 continues to be on improving the near-term returns and relative performance of Stanley Black &amp; Decker through organic growth initiatives Security margin improvement cost actions pricing ongoing working capital focus and of course the rebalance of our capital allocation through the end of 2015.
Finally we are preparing for new currency and emerging market volume headwinds with offsetting mitigating actions in 2015.
So we continue to drive operating leverage as we grow revenue organically.
We believe this approach in 2014 '15 and beyond positions our company to deliver on the long-term financial objectives we have established.
That concludes the presentation portion of the call.
Now let's move to Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thank you Don.
John if you would we can now open the call to Q&amp;A please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Winnie Clark from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a bit about -- a little bit more about the emerging market expectation continuing to be sluggish and now somewhat weaker in 2015? You quantify the dollar change in your expectation but what does that translate to from an organic growth expectation? Does that impact your ability to drive 3% organic growth via your initiatives next year? Yes.
No a very fair question.
Let me start at a higher level.
Emerging markets depending on exchange rates accounts for 17% to 19% of our total revenue.
So first and foremost put that in perspective.
Within the emerging markets we didn't touch on specific geographies.
But historically as a group these are growing in double digits low teens and now they're growing at 2% and 3%.
Specifically certain markets in our case Venezuela where we've had essentially no business for the last 12 months that will anniversary which is nice in terms of our ability to grow.
Argentina is difficult but continuing up.
We've seen some bright spots in the last quarter.
Brazil it's much about currency and the economy and of course China a very very good -- switching to Asia.
China a big piece.
We saw 7.3% GDP growth in the third quarter.
That's encouraging.
It's below where they have been but better than of late.
And of course the geopolitical situations in Russia Turkey the Ukraine is impacting all of it.
So at the end of the day it's 17% of our volume.
And if the markets are growing at 10% and we're gaining share -- maintaining share excuse me that's 170 basis points of organic growth.
If they're flat it's 0.
So simply said we have the products to go into those markets.
We are certainly tempering our expectations for those markets in total but that's what's baked into the kind of guidance that we've been able to provide thus far.
And if you just think about it from a macro point of view there clearly is a rotation of economic growth away from the -- in the short term away from the emerging markets and more into North America in particular and Europe kind of sort of -- expected to continue to sort of stay the same maybe get slightly better.
So we would expect to see the organic growth profile of the company mirror that economic growth rotation.
So I would expect to see developed markets kind of -- and emerging markets converge for a period of time in sort of similar growth rates and then over the long term emerging markets to kind of ramp up again.
We have taken considerable action in terms of product innovation and product development brand development channel.
We've made significant investments in the emerging markets.
So we do think that we will be able to outperform the market or the economic performance of various countries.
However the volatility does remain high in the short term and are probably well for the medium to long term as well but one has to be in these markets because these markets are the future.
The 2/3 of the world's economic output and -- within 20 years will be from the emerging markets and we will be there.
So this is a -- this is not a period where one should get shy or cautious about being in these markets or second guess their strategy.
This is a time to hunker down and gain as much share as possible.
Yes and thanks Jim.
And just to follow up because you only get the one question.
I think 2 things.
Jim's referring specifically to our feet-on-the-street advertising promotion efforts in those markets but a greater importance made in the market for the market to hit the right price points to get the products to the -- particularly to the distributors who are short on cash and thinking very hard about their purchase.
So at the end of the day think about the math.
And in the appendix if you're not familiar with it we don't go through it in each presentation but it'll just help you with the math that will give you every region of the country and the percent of Stanley Black &amp; Decker revenue that that region accounts for.
So if you're modeling it'll just help you with kind of a weighted average and you can apply your own assumptions to the market.
And to Jim's point we will mirror that.
And our next question is from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Don I just wanted to dig into your comment about currency with the hedges about $45 million $50 million headwind for '15 and you're mentioning the possibility of further actions this year to offset that.
And so what I'm going to try to figure out is do the incremental actions you're considering offset the $45 million to $50 million? Or do we think about that as the total actions you've taken this year offsetting that headwind potentially? The actions that we're -- that we are evaluating would offset the currency impact as well as the emerging market volume impact.
So I -- we described a $50 million to $75 million headwind for 2015.
Within that there's a $45 million to $50 million currency pressure and then the other component is the volume concerns that we were just talking about related to emerging markets.
We're looking to take actions that would offset all of that.
Our next question is from Rich Kwas from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just quickly on -- 2 questions.
Don I think you said buyback in Q1 because of higher cash flow.
Just wondering why you wouldn't be aggressive here in Q4 given this is seasonally the strongest cash flow quarter.
And then the second question CDIY margin 16.5% very strong number.
How should we think about this from a sustainable standpoint? I know there's some seasonality within the business but just trying to understand as we think about '15 given the strong margin here this quarter.
So the first question is I said the fourth quarter maybe there was a Freudian flip and the word first came out but I did say fourth quarter.
So we expect to start the repurchase in the fourth quarter.
So our objective has always been since the beginning of the year would be that we would focus on deleveraging.
We had about $300 million roughly of deleveraging we wanted to do.
We believe with this outperformance of cash flow we will be able to adequately achieve that and then we'll be able to move forward with our repurchase program at some point in the fourth quarter.
As far as the cash flow and the seasonality comment yes.
I mean when we look at the history of our CDIY business it is -- it was a little muddy last year I think because of some other dynamics.
But every other year post-merger about 60% to 70% in some cases of the free cash flow or working capital benefit occurs in the fourth quarter.
And it's because of the timing of the different promotions and other activities related to the holiday season and the vast majority of those shipments occur in October early November.
And then the good news is we're able to collect a lot of those receivables.
And then we ramp down our production in our plants so our inventory levels are actually able to decline because we do -- the -- our major customers tend to have a weak first quarter because it is the winter months.
And our next question is from Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> On the Security it seem to be very specific in the U.S.
on Mechanical if I interpreted your comments correctly.
So would you expand on that if it was related to -- going to the distribution model if it was aggressive behavior by a competitor? Or was it simply more misexecution? Well the Mechanical issue is kind of the issue for North America and emerging markets Security in the quarter without a doubt.
The other issue which is the CSS kind of efficiency and operating margin rate is simply a one quarter blip where we have a big installation of a huge vertical market customer project.
So you do have that correct.
And I'd say what we believe about the Mechanical business today is that we have selected the correct strategy and we have attempted to implement it effectively for about 2 years now and at some point the -- once patients dwindles with execution.
And we've made some mistakes along the way and we expect that new leadership will tackle the project and get it right.
So that's the impetus behind the management change and we're looking forward to Joe's experience coming into this job and getting this right very quickly.
We've studied the strategic elements and aspects of this in depth and we see that as the right strategy.
We've got the specifiers in place.
We haven't seen any untoward competitive activity.
The market is going to be good at some point in time.
It's not bad right now.
We're just not performing at that level.
So we get to those situations and it's time to make a change.
Just to add to what Jim said the one thing you didn't mention is coming out of that is -- which as you know is the largest annual Security trade show.
It's not a product issue as well.
The product is very very well received.
We're encouraged by that.
So just to reinforce everything Jim said plus we're -- not only do we feel the strategy is right we're -- we feel we're in better shape than we've been in the past in terms of product offering.
So it's up to us to execute.
Our next question is from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just a question around Europe Security.
I was wondering if you could provide us a little bit of granularity maybe it's collectively not by country.
But in the -- what's going on in the 12 P&amp;Ls you view as at least satisfactory versus the other 2? And what would actually be the gating decision to drop Spain and Italy into disc ops? I mean the -- obviously if you decide to exit that might be one thing.
But if you're looking at a sale I wonder if you would consider dropping it into disc ops before you have an agreement on the exit.
I'll take it and Don can correct me on the accounting.
Let me take the second part of your question first.
We've said all we could say about whether or not -- what we said is we're evaluating it.
We will have a decision in the fourth quarter and we will communicate it.
That is all we're going to say.
It's all we're in a position to say for all the reasons that I know you understand.
I respect the question.
Please respect the fact that we're not able to provide any more insight on it other than we want you to be aware we're not letting that issue fester.
What I think is important to understand we timed that and allow us to go through '14 P&amp;L.
We do report them.
And the ones the big ones that matter U.K.
France and Sweden all performing pretty well and very near line average and historical margins.
The math is really important and it's interesting.
We talked about Spain and Italy which together from a revenue perspective represent 10% of European Security; if you just cascade that with the math which represents 4% of Stanley Security and 1% of Stanley Black &amp; Decker revenue.
Yet that region is accounting for 70 to 100 basis points of headwind or negativity to our Security margins.
And quite frankly that's just math.
And it's 2 things going on those are very competitive markets.
They're difficult markets as you can imagine.
But secondly particularly Spain which is 80% of that 10% or 70% of that 10% the financial services industry as you know is in turmoil.
Retail bank branches closing left and right.
I'd be off -- I shouldn't speculate at least 30% to 40% down.
And that was our strength in Europe.
So when you got -- very competitive in Spain -- so when you have a very competitive market that's 30% to 40% smaller than it was 1 year 1.5 year ago that's just tough sledding.
So we're evaluating all the options in the best interest of our shareholders and of our employees in the company recognizing the pros and cons of the 2 or 3 different alternative that you outlined.
And when we're ready to -- when we're in a position to take a firm stance you'll be among the first to know.
Let me also just mention that another way to look at this situation Security Europe is -- and at the P&amp;L is that once you excise the Southern Italy part that we're talking about the gross margin rate is north of 40% and the operating margin would be a couple -- kind of in the mid to slightly above mid-single-digit range.
So what that says is that the SG&amp;A is quite high and it's in the 35-plus-percent range which is just too high for a Security business no matter where it's located in the world.
So it's very important that part of what Don mentioned in terms of this cost exercise that we'll be going through in the fourth quarter to yield profitability improvements in 2015 there will be a significant -- as he mentioned a significant portion of it targeted at the Security Europe cost structure and particularly as it relates to the SG&amp;A.
And we will find a way to make some significant improvements in that structure that cost structure so that we get the operating margin lift that comes with that.
So I think is very encouraging from my perspective that the gross margin is north of 40% once you get that Southern Europe portfolio excised.
And our next question is from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit on the CDIY.
I think you talked about the outdoor previously as I think hindering you by about 2 points of growth.
I think you mentioned that in either 2Q or 1Q.
And I'm triangulating on that to be about $30 million impact.
I was curious if you could give us some sense.
Is that kind of in the ballpark of what you benefited from this quarter? Can you get it all back? Or just some color around that.
And then what you think the incrementals on that look like? Is there a reason to think the incrementals there sort of higher or lower than the segment average typically? We -- just so -- just for clarity we only got about 1/3 of that back.
So it didn't even contribute -- it might round to a point point of growth for CDIY but it wasn't a significant an issue as -- or a benefit as it was a hurt in the second quarter.
And incrementals are going to be pretty much consistent with the rest of the portfolio.
Yes.
Steve outdoor -- just to quantify what Jim said outdoor was up 2% VPY in the quarter which was nice but it's still down 3% year-to-date emphasizing what Jim -- that helps to quantify what Jim just said.
So despite a pleasant surprise in the third quarter it didn't begin to fill the hole in the second quarter.
It's just added a bit in the third.
Our next question is from Robert Barry from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I wanted to just ask about the vertical market solutions revenue in Security and how much revenue you're expecting that to contribute in North America in 2014.
And wanted to also clarify the margins there I know there was some mention of project mix headwinds in the quarter and some mention of -- perhaps that was related to a big vertical market install? I wanted to clarify that because I thought the margins on the VMS was higher.
And then just finally the latest thinking on bringing the vertical market solutions to Europe.
Yes.
I'll take that one.
I think that was 4 questions in one and I'll have to break that down.
So when we look at 2014 for the vertical market solutions we've said throughout the year that our expectation is that we'd probably get pretty close to $100 million of revenue from these solutions during the year and we're tracking relatively well to that at this stage of the year.
So we feel pleased about how that's progressing.
As far the gross margins we've also said that they most likely will be accretive to the overall business.
But you have to look at this across the entire contract.
And what I mean by that is when you have large jobs like this you have an installation component.
And in the case of the third quarter as Jim was describing the impact of a large job we were doing the install and we'll be close to finishing that here in October.
But that does have a negative mix impact but the profitability is lower on the installation.
And then the recurring revenue stream starts later this year and continues into next year.
And then when you look at the overall profitability of the entire job it achieves the type of profitability we were describing before.
And that's the way you have to evaluate it.
I think it's important to remember that as we continue to focus on the vertical selling solutions that we're occasionally going to have a quarter where we have a little bit of a mix challenge we have to work through when we have a large installation.
But over the long term these will be profit-enhancing activities.
Simply said you need to do the installations to keep the pump primed to generate the future recurring revenue.
It's always a challenge to balance the -- balance the mix and balance the timing.
But it's the nature of the business.
And the larger the install the more of a short-term challenge it is with the -- yet at the same time the greater the long-term reward.
And our next question is from Tim Wojs from Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just on European CDIY really strong growth there again.
I guess what type of growth should we expect going forward there? I know you said new products and retail expansion has been a driver I guess.
But can you give us some color on what might be in the pipeline there? And especially if comps get more difficult in the 2015 what we should expect for growth? I'll take that one.
So yes we -- obviously we talked about how pleased we are with the performance in CDIY Europe.
Jim went through that in a great deal of detail.
There's been a lot of activities around new product introductions new customer listings some new brands put on products that didn't exist before in the European marketplace such as the Stanley FatMax brand on power tools so some great examples of that.
And I do think there's momentum to continue that into 2015 in the sense of having new product introductions expansion of some of the things that we did in certain countries into other countries within Europe that we haven't penetrated yet.
I wouldn't expect to see high single-digit revenue performance but I do expect them to outperform the market as a result and continue to have share gains.
Our next question is from Michael Wood from Macquarie Capital.
I wanted to focus in on the CDIY business.
The CDIY sales in North America for Stanley took a while to reflect the housing recovery given there was a considerable lag.
Now we're starting to see building product companies reflect more tepid growth in end markets that are slower compared to last year.
What are you able to do -- or what are you planning to do proactively in the North American CDIY business to get out in front of the curve from a cost or share gain perspective? Well I think what we're doing is exactly what we did in the quarter which is we're basically driving new product innovation as hard as we ever have.
As I said in my remarks that new product innovation resulted in 3 to 5 points at a minimum of contribution to revenue growth.
So 1/3 to 1/2 of the growth.
Yes which also drives profit growth because you mix into higher-margin new products.
And so it's a growth -- it's an innovation machine right now which is clearly -- I mean I can guarantee you that there are significant share gains going on in the U.S.
and in Europe and frankly globally.
I mean this business has grown its market share significantly over the last 4 years and it will continue to do so.
Now we don't see any near-term abatement in the CDIY business U.S.
market.
It is largely DIY-driven much more so than new construction driven.
New construction when it hits and the lag occurs and so forth that will be an added bonus.
But we did not ride that curve up in the last couple of quarters like some of the building products companies did and we certainly aren't going to ride it down having not ridden it up.
So I wouldn't correlate us quite as closely to the building product companies as your remarks seem to imply as well.
Yes.
Just to help you Mike I think you're aware of this perhaps not.
For the 10 11 years I've been here and I think for the 100 years before that we have been 3 to 9 months so take the midpoint 6 months behind any significant change in North American residential construction.
That's just the nature of our business the wallboard folks and the timber folks and those who are involved in foundations et cetera are obviously at the beginning of that program and we're closer to the end.
So the lag to use your words not -- and Jim I think described it well.
He just didn't put a number on it.
That's been going on for 100 years and we don't anticipate that it's going to change.
Our last question is from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Will Wong on for Mike.
Don thanks for providing the additional color regarding the cost cuts.
The company has initiated cost-cutting actions over the last 2 or 3 years to offset weakness in end markets as well as FX and we're just wondering how long this can continue without cutting into the core capabilities for growth and operations but your license fees appear to be unplanned and reactive rather than proactive? Well I think we -- for those -- as I mentioned for those of you who have followed us over the years we are very proactive about looking at certain headwinds we see and how we're going to react to it.
And so you can describe that as reactive or you can describe it proactive.
I look at it as proactive.
At the same time I look at our company and I see every year significant productivity programs that occur in the supply chain productivity programs that incur in our SG&amp;A costs that we never talk about.
We just do those every year and those are the more proactive things that you're describing.
They need to happen to continue to enhance our profitability to allow us to deal with occasional periods of time when we have commodity price pressures et cetera.
We don't like to sit back and just let things come at us and then not do anything about it.
Our response is to do something about it.
And what we're basically saying is that we are going to take a proactive approach to a headwind that with -- become a reality in the last 30 days.
And we're going to do it in a way that is surgical in nature.
It's going to be a combination of continued evolution of the Stanley and Black &amp; Decker merger.
It's going to be the continued improvement of the Security profitability Europe and -- specifically as Jim and I both talked about it and it's also going to be the continued enhancement of the efficiency and effectiveness of our functions and our corporate overhead.
These are all things that we need to do every year and sometimes we accelerate some of these things to deal with headwinds that come at us quickly.
Yes.
And just again to quantify we've said this before in a lot of calls but what Don's talking about the proactive or ongoing nature of our business particularly to CDIY and IAR for that matter the tools business.
It's as simple as -- and real prices have declined 1% to 2% a year let's say 1% for the last 15 years real prices.
We get price by mixing up by being -- by mixing into higher-margin items and a good price discipline.
But with gross margins round numbers of 35% real prices declining 1% a year if you don't get net 3% productivity every year your margins would decline.
Look at the math our CDI margins are not declining.
So if you exclude all the new headwinds to which Don's referring to particularly foreign currency emerging market growth just to stay in the game you need 3% productivity every year to offset 1% real price declines and we've been doing that for a long time.
I think Don can account for 15 years of it.
Yes.
And that's just part of our DNA.
That's part of SFS that we don't talk about too much.
But I just kind of want to steer you away from anything we're doing is we see something going wrong and the knee-jerk reaction is to fix it.
That's a necessity too.
We wouldn't be where we were this year if we hadn't done a whole lot of those programs.
As Don described the level of unanticipated and uncontrollable macroeconomic headwinds we faced yet we're plodding along with a pretty successful year relative to expectations.
Our next question is from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Don can you just talk a little bit about some of the cash flow items that are dropping below the free cash flow line? I think one seems to be on the head settlements and then there's a lot of grouped in the other line about $200 million so far this year and I think last year is about $30 million.
Can you just maybe explain what those are? And then let us know if there's anything that you'd expect along those lines in fourth quarter or next year.
Yes.
The other line in operating cash flow is where you see the impact of all the reduced restructuring payments.
LLC</strong> And was it down on the -- in the financing investing side? Well that would simply just be the activity around commercial paper and financing.
And as we go through the year we see fluctuations in there.
We tend to increase our commercial lines paper lines as the year begins because we have cash outflows in the operating levels.
And then as the year goes on and we have our strong fourth quarter as I described that slowly and gradually goes away and you'll see that this year.
You do have some other type of currency and hedging activities that do happen below there but we could certainly walk you through that in a little more detail off-line.
And our next question is from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
The question is -- the questions I have are really on the mid-price point.
You mentioned that the launches are pacing to expectations.
I guess the question is are your distribution build-outs where they need to be? And Jim I think you made some passing reference to some pressures that are being felt by some of those distributors.
Can you just talk about what you might be doing to support those distributors such that the fourth quarter and beyond isn't at risk in terms of the growth? Well I mean we're doing everything we can obviously.
We're not going to overextend our sales from a credit point of view with distributors in markets that are relatively volatile and weak.
So there's only so much you can do in terms of financial support and we're certainly not giving significant extended terms or anything like that.
You'd certainly see that in the working capital if we were doing that.
So what it really boils down to is distributor training and end user kind of support so through advertising through having feet-on-the-street working with the end users to try to stimulate demand and construction projects those types of things creating awareness for the products in the market.
But this is just going to take its course.
We're not going to jam these products into channels.
We're going to allow them to gradually kind of take root and let the products speak for themselves.
And I'd say we've done a pretty good job about 1.5 years ago of sort of sprinkling the resources into the various markets.
And what we're also doing right now is we've done a study of our sales force effectiveness in managing this distribution channel across all the different countries.
And we're looking at the emerging markets right now as sort of a portfolio of countries and we're saying "Okay we had -- we added about 300 feet-on-the-street 200 salespeople 100 marketing people during that time frame." And now we're kind of looking at that resource allocation and saying "Okay number one where are the folks effective? And are there certain folks who are more effective than others?" Of course there are so some rank ordering some performance evaluation some changing out some of the folks who are nonperformers.
And then the other piece of the activity is to look at some reallocation of resources based on the economic outlook for various countries.
So for instance we wouldn't want to have a -- an army of people in Venezuela trying to sell products when there's no market.
So those type of resources could be reallocated to countries such as Colombia which are -- which is very very robust right now so that kind of process looking at the whole picture of doing the resource reallocation.
So no incremental costs of any significance however more effectiveness.
That's really what we're looking for.
But this is not going to be a -- given the market status that we are in right now this is not going to be a huge sensation.
Don't look for 20% growth because of the new products or 10% growth.
This is going to be -- will keep us in the game drive market share quietly market share increases steadily methodically.
And then when the markets come back there'll be a lot more share for us and lot more growth.
Yes.
Importantly Doug the key is as Jim said in his presentation made in the market for the market.
In our history if you go way back and you followed us a long time we would make western-specification products then we try to take 10% of the costs out and sell it for 20% less.
And it was a strain on margin -- it's not quite that simple but it was a strain on margin nor were the products at a price point that appealed to the distributors in some of these emerging markets where wage rates are so much lower and things of that nature.
So the acquisition of GQ which we've talked about leveraging that capability across a broader portfolio our Design To Value program where we're truly starting with a blank piece of paper building these tools from scratch with no extra cost or no extra feature that the end user isn't willing or able to pay for.
That's what's driving this.
And as I say it's early days but we're encouraged thus far.
Our next question is from Liam Burke from Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> IAR was very strong particularly in Europe and the U.S.
Was there any particular vertical that showed inordinate strength? Or did you just see strength across-the-board? I mean there was -- I wouldn't say across-the-board.
I mean mining is still weak.
But generally speaking pretty strong.
General manufacturing very strong.
But lot of strength in various verticals.
And our next question is from Jeremie Capron from CLSA.
In Rich Kwas' I'll say multi-faceted question but it was an important one and as Don was processing he didn't get to it on the sustainability of CDIY margins.
It's probably worth a word from Don before we close.
Yes.
So Rich was asking about the 16.5% margin we saw in Q3 what's the sustainability? What does it mean going into 2015? What I will tell you is that for this year as I mentioned in the guidance we'll probably see 60 70 basis point improvement in the CDIY margins year-over-year and it's due to a lot of the great things that Jim walked through and that we've discussed through the first 9 months of this year.
We expect continued improvement in the margins going into '15.
As we all know quarters change and fluctuate.
But on a full year basis we would expect that we would continue to see improvement.
I think the next step and hurdle is we want to try to move them towards 16%.
We will see a little bit of pressure against them next year because of the FX that we talked about and maybe all the cost actions don't get allocated directly to CDIY.
But even given that I do expect to see some year-over-year improvement.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Q4 and Fiscal Year 2014 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John.
Ill be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
Ill now turn the call over to Vice President of Investor and Government Relations Greg Waybright.
You may begin.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for joining us for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued earlier this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR section of our Web site as well as on our iPhone and iPad app.
A replay of this morning's call will also be available beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
The replay number and access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review our fourth quarter results and various other matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Consistent with prior calls were going to be sticking with just one question per caller.
And as we normally do we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act filing.
Ill now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Greg and good morning everybody.
Weve got a great deal to talk about this morning.
So Im going to run very quickly through the highlights.
So Jim Loree and Don Allan can get into more detail and then we can jump right into the Q&amp;A.
Looking at fourth quarter highlights revenue expanded 7% organically led by CDIY was up 11% and strong performance in industrial up 5%.
But it's also noticeable that Security expanded in the quarter with mid single-digit organic growth in North American emerging markets and flat performance in Europe.
Operating margin for the quarter was 13.7% which was up 50 basis points versus the prior year.
Volume sharp cost focus and pricing benefits were partially offset by the currency headwinds.
The currency issues that youve heard a lot about intensified in the fourth quarter as we absorbed a headwind of approximately $30 million in the fourth quarter which was $10 million worse than we expected.
And that brought the total for the year to approximately $85 million of foreign exchange headwinds a combination of translational and transactional.
The Security turnaround continues and we were encouraged that the European operating margin rate improved sequentially and versus prior year by approximately 110 basis points.
Our fourth quarter capped an encouraging year.
So I'll just take a minute and look at the results for the total year revenues up 5% organically with CDIY delivering 7% Industrial 5% and Security flat.
Earnings per share grew 14% on an adjusted basis and now have converged with our GAAP earnings per share.
Free cash flow was a record almost $1 billion as the team delivered over one full working capital turn improvement up to the level of 9.2 working capital turns for the total Company.
And our cash flow return on investment improved 390 basis points to 13% as our record cash flow coupled with our decapitalization plan improved this metric.
Its probably important to note Don can cover it more detail if need be 340 of the 390 basis points of that improvement was operational where about 50 basis points of the improvement was due to the FX devaluation impact on equity.
So arguably one small benefit of the foreign exchange headwind that weve been facing.
And finally were initiating GAAP EPS guidance of $5.65 to $5.85 per share 5% to 9% growth absorbing foreign exchange headwinds currently estimated at $140 million for 2015 versus the $85 million I discussed in 2014.
But it also includes free cash flow estimate of at least $1 billion and Don is going to cover that in more detail when we get to the outlook.
So moving on let's take a look at where the growth came from in the fourth quarter and for the year.
We achieved strong volume growth across developed and emerging markets.
Europe remains strong particularly strong across CDIY and Industrial performed well.
Pricing actions within emerging markets and surgical pricing actions across the remainder of our businesses are contributing to organic growth.
But with this being said currency headwinds intensified as we move through the quarter and as a consequence dampened our organic growth performance by about four percentage points as the dollar strengthened against most currencies.
And again Don has got some more granularity on that so Ill not delve on it at this point in our presentation.
From a regional perspective demand in the U.S was healthy in both retail and industrial.
Importantly in retail we had strong sell-in as well as strong sell-through in our retail channels.
Jim will discuss that and where we stand in terms of inventories as we kick off 2015.
Europe showed some exceptional share gains.
Most noticeably in CDIY but also in industrial both within IAR and the automotive end markets as those markets are likely tracking flat to slightly up at best.
And Jim is going to talk more about the drivers of that performance.
Emerging markets were heavily influenced by strong shipments in our Engineered Fastening Electronics business in Asia but also experienced good solid growth in our tools business in Latin America.
So when we put it all together for the full-year our volume -- organic volume growth and performance outpaced GDP in each and every region where we do business.
And that's a testament to the organic growth initiatives that weve discussed on previous calls.
Let me turn it over to Jim Loree to get into some more detail on the segments and some of the programs that are driving those results.
Okay.
Thank you John.
Along those lines weve made a very determined effort over the past two years to ramp up organic growth and importantly translated into operating leverage.
So it's fulfilling to close out 2014 with a record 7% organic growth quarter our highest full year OM rates since the Stanley Black &amp; Decker merger and record full-year EPS and cash flow.
We also as John mentioned achieved 9.2 working capital turns a first for us which contributed to a 130% cash conversion ratio for the year.
And it's especially encouraging that all this was accomplished in the face of $85 million or about little more than $0.40 a share of unplanned currency headwinds amidst a slowing global growth environment outside the U.S.
It's clear that our operating management team is executing at a high level and its charged up and more than prepared to continue to drive results in a challenging environment.
For the business level commentary Ill start with CDIY which served up another outstanding quarter.
Organic growth was 11% against the 6% comp in 4Q 13.
All major geographies contributed with North America up 14% Europe once again overcoming challenging end markets up 7% organically and emerging markets up 7%.
Total revenue was also up 7% and operating margin grew 18% demonstrating impressive operating leverage.
Gains resulted from cost leveraged modestly positive price operations productivity and tight SG&amp;A cost management which more than offset severe currency headwinds.
Across the global CDIY product lines organic strength was once again broad-based with professional power tools up an exceptional 20% and Tools and Storage up 10% Fastening &amp; Accessories 7% and Consumer products up 2%.
CDIY new product development momentum in concert with a business wide commitment to commercial excellence and continued exploitation of the revenue synergies from the merger are driving both revenue and profit growth.
The DeWalt DC brushless line powered by electronically commutated motors is off to a very strong start.
This fast growing category in which we enjoy a substantial lead already represents 20% of the cordless market.
And putting the Companys leading array of brands to work across categories also continues to further enhance our strong customer partnerships as well as produce favorable POS results.
Examples abound such as DeWalt storage adhesives and hand tools Stanley FatMax power tools and Bostitch hand and power tools which are all producing meaningful gains.
CDIYs robust supply chain capabilities developed through many years of continuous improvement via the Stanley fulfillment system have continued to support its commercial successes and also enabled CDIY to achieve 10 working capital turns for the first time.
While global growth has been decelerating in most areas outside the U.S.
underlying U.S tool demand remains solid as DIY fundamentals are strong and new construction markets are moving in the right direction albeit with some choppiness.
So North America once again enjoyed the benefits of combining excellent commercial execution in a market with solid fundamentals the result being 14% organic growth at a positive share trend.
Now shifting over to Europe where the markets remain weak but the performance continues to be impressive.
Here our team acknowledges the reality -- market realities and understands that strong growth is only possible with their commercial engine hitting on all cylinders.
We call it commercial excellence.
That is what theyve accomplished over the past seven quarters accumulating a 7% organic growth track record during that time.
And their success has derived from robust new product commercialization brand leverage growing customer partnerships and excellent sales in channel execution.
The other CDIY growth story for the quarter was emerging markets up 7% organically.
Notable in the face of high volatility and continued downward revision to GDP estimates most recently in Argentina Brazil and Russia.
Nonetheless Latin America was up 9% organically and the Middle East Africa region was also very strong a combination more than offsetting weakness in Russia Turkey and China.
Our major NPD initiative into mid price point tools across all these developing markets is coming at a time when end-user said to be more cost conscious with their purchases.
The program is less tracking to plan and is expected to contribute greater than $50 million of incremental revenue in 2015 as it continues to gain momentum.
And as we look ahead for CDIY we anticipate continued strong performance.
The winning formula of organizational agility global scale robust NPD great brands and tight control of costs should more than compensate for lackluster markets in Europe and some of the emerging regions as well as a strengthening dollar environment.
In this regard with our CDIY and IAR businesses both operating from positions of strength after an expensive evaluation we recently took the action to combine these two businesses into one global tools and storage unit with revenues totaling about $7 billion.
While there are meaningful cost savings associated with this consolidation the overwhelming rationale for this move is to harness the extraordinary go to market potential of our total tools franchise.
This unified approach will enable us to capture the benefits and competitive advantages of being the world's largest branded tool company.
We are the only player with major positions in each of power tools hand tools accessories and storage as well as significant global channel presence in all four major end markets construction DIY industrial and auto repair.
In addition we intend to leverage the unique organizational strengths of both CDIY and IAR including technology product development and global footprint across a larger base.
This exciting next step in our evolution should be viewed as a growth enhancer and a logical extension of the Stanley Black &amp; Decker integration that has produced stellar results over the last five years or so.
Now turning to Industrial.
Industrial this quarter once again logged a solid organic growth quarter up 5% and maintained its margin in the mid 15% zone.
However FX pressures weighed down total revenue and operating margin growth which were up 1% and flat respectively.
For IAR organic growth of 5% benefited from good performances in both developed and developing countries.
North America was up 8% Europe was up 3% organically in the quarter capping off a plus 7% performance for the year and IAR emerging markets came in up 5% with dynamics very similar to those experienced in CDIY.
Engineered Fastening grew an impressive 10% organically in 4Q with automotive up 11% demonstrating market penetration gains in view of light vehicle production levels which were up 1%.
The industrial portion of Engineered Fastening was also a good organic story with growth up at similar levels as we supported a major customers very strong new product launches.
We continue to love this Engineered Fastening business which grew to $1.5 billion in revenues produced full-year operating margin growth of 20% and achieved a record 18% operating margin rate.
Infrastructure was down 10% organically as lower oil prices and deferral of pipeline projects begin to take their toll on our oil and gas business which represents 3% of total company revenues.
All in all it was a solid quarter for Industrial in view of the currency issues and downward pressure on GDP outside of the U.S.
Moving to Security.
It was a very important and modestly successful quarter for Security which in addition to its third consecutive quarter of stable OM rates in the 12% zone achieved positive organic growth with a plus 3% performance.
Total Security revenues declined 1% as FX weighed down total growth and North America emerging markets was up 5% organically with strength from both the vertical market initiative and from Access Technologies.
Security Europe was flat organically for the first time since 2011 the year Niscayah was acquired that the organic rate was not negative.
While that is admittedly comparing against the low bar the trend is in line with our turnaround plan and thats encouraging.
Europe OM percent was up in the mid to high single-digit range up 110 basis points versus a year-ago and representing the third consecutive sequential quarterly improvement.
Order rates in both North America and Europe continued on their positive trend and attrition in Europe remained on target at 12%.
The organization has responded well to the leadership adjustments made in the fourth quarter and both North America and Europe are poised to deliver organic revenue growth and be accretive to operating margin in 2015.
While we expect the overall Security recovery to be slow and steady during the next several quarters we do expect it to continue to gain momentum as 2015 progresses.
The decision to divest Spain and Italy previously announced will remove structural obstacles from the European recovery.
In summary Security has achieved stability during the last several quarters and appears to have bottomed.
In this regard it should know longer be viewed as a major downside risk but rather as a modest earnings growth opportunity in the near-term.
The next step in the evolution is to demonstrate a sustained ability to generate organic growth while further improving cost efficiency.
This will play out over the coming quarters.
And depending on the success of that trajectory it is possible to envision OM rate expansion moving toward Company line average over time.
So while Security still have has a way to go especially in Europe the turnaround is on track and we expect it to become an earnings growth contributor in the very near future.
With that Ill turn it over to Don Allan for commentary on the financials including our 2015 outlook.
Thank you Jim.
We are very pleased with our 2014 cash flow performance which resulted in $991 million of free cash flow just shy of a $1 billion.
The free cash flow to net income conversion ratio was a healthy 130% as you just heard from Jim.
As we experienced during the majority of 2014 our free cash flow benefited from increased operational earnings lower restructuring payments and reduced capital expenditures.
The Q4 free cash flow was stronger than expected due to these factors combined with an outstanding working capital turn performance.
Due to certain seasonality aspects of our CDIY business we experienced a significant positive working capital benefit in the fourth quarter of every year.
As a result we tend to generate approximately 60% of our annual free cash flow in the fourth quarter.
However our businesses performed above and beyond this seasonality trend and drove working capital turns to 9.2 times which is up more than a full turn versus 2013.
We indicated in October that our objective was to push towards the year-end.
Our businesses did an excellent job exceeding this expectation through the continued use of the Stanley fulfillment system.
It is exciting to see our long-term objective of 10 working capital turns very close on the horizon hopefully within the next two years.
This strong cash flow performance allowed us to achieve our debt deleveraging goals for 2014 and we were able to commence the previously communicated share repurchase program in the fourth quarter through the use of some equity forward share repurchase derivatives.
Now let's review our 2015 EPS and cash flow outlook on Page 10.
As indicated by John earlier were establishing 2015 guidance at $5.65 to $5.85 of EPS and free cash flow of at least $1 billion.
As indicated throughout 2014 by myself John and Jim were changing to GAAP guidance in 2015 due to the lower levels of M&amp;A and expected one-time charges.
However we recognize all your current 2015 estimates are before these one-time charges.
Therefore to provide transparency in this conversion we had disclosed on this page that our EPS guidance range includes approximately $0.25 in restructuring charges.
On a comparable basis to our adjusted 2014 results just reported today our EPS guidance range excluding restructuring charges is $5.90 to $6.10 EPS.
Greg and Dennis will work with all of you over the next several days to ensure this conversion in guidance is clearly understood.
There are several factors within our annual guidance which we consider significant and I would like to explain in some detail.
Starting with some key tailwinds.
The first item is we expect organic growth to be up 3% to 4% which will be translating into EPS of $0.45 to $0.55 which is a similar leverage ratio weve seen over the past few years.
The organic growth is slightly lower than the 5% organic growth we just experienced in 2014 as markets outside the U.S are likely to be challenged in 2015.
Specifically we expect emerging markets to be volatile and organic growth in many emerging countries will be muted by the strength of the U.S dollar or political unrest.
Additionally we expect several European markets we serve to be challenged and the outside share gains weve achieved in CDIY over the past few years although have been fantastic we believe it will become more difficult to repeat those on an ongoing basis.
Also we do anticipate a slowdown in our oil and gas business from lower crude oil prices.
The next item related to tailwind is the execution of various cost and customer pricing actions during 2015 which will be a tailwind of approximately $0.50.
The SG&amp;A cost actions represent a further cost rationalization of certain areas in our Company.
Specifically in the Security business were reducing back-office costs and overhead costs to improve profitability while at the same time we want to enhance our SG&amp;A investments to stimulate growth within the verticals.
We also have taken surgical cost actions in a few functions in other businesses and at corporate headquarters.
Additionally as Jim mentioned weve decided to combine our CDIY and IAR businesses to better serve our various tools and storage customers and further accelerate growth.
This combination is generating from solid back-office cost savings as you'd expect.
All of these cost actions commenced over the past two months and will continue to be implemented in the first half of 2015 to ensure we achieve our profitability objectives.
The 2015 impact of these cost actions represents approximately 50% of the $0.50 EPS tailwind.
The remaining 50% of this tailwind relates more directly to actions we can take in response to FX pressures specifically key strategic pricing increases for products that we import into the Canadian Brazilian and European markets as well as pursuing commodity deflation opportunities with many of our suppliers.
The commodity deflation were currently focused on is in the areas of diesel fuel resin and copper.
However we continue to monitor this area for other future opportunities as the year evolves.
The final tailwind shown on page 10 is the continuation of the share repurchase program in 2015.
And we expect an EPS benefit to be approximately $0.09 to $0.12 during the year as the repurchase program will be staggered throughout 2015 and in line with our cash flow generation as it occurs during the year.
And many of you know a large part of our cash occurs in the back half of each year.
Now shifting to headwinds.
John mentioned the FX headwind weve experienced in the fourth quarter while we like many other U.S multinationals have a significant headwind for 2015 related to foreign currencies as they weakened versus the U.S dollar.
As a result we now expect approximately $140 million of currency pressure given the strengthening of the U.S dollar over the past 90 days.
This will generate $0.70 to $0.75 EPS headwind for 2015.
I'll provide more detail insights relating to FX impacting our Company on the next slide and more importantly how we hedge these risks and respond to operations.
A few other items of note related to annual EPS on the left side of the page you can see.
First is the tax rate will be relatively consistent for 2014 which means approximately 21%.
Also I want to remind everyone to recognize the seasonality of revenue and profitability in the first quarter as it is historically the lowest revenue and profit quarter for us.
We expect the normal operating profit seasonality again this year in 2015.
However additionally we'll expect higher levels of restructuring charges and higher levels of impacts of foreign currency in the first quarter of 15 versus the first quarter of 2014.
And specifically related to restructuring in Q1 2015 the charges will approximate 60% of the full-year $50 million restructuring estimate.
Therefore Q1 2015 EPS will approximate 16% of the full-year EPS.
Let's turn to the right side of the page and discuss a little bit of details around our segments for 2015.
We expect mid single-digit organic revenue growth and solid operating margin rate expansion year-over-year in both the CDIY and industrial segments due to volume leverage price actions and cost controls which will more than offset the significant currency impact.
Our Security segment will have a modest organic growth number for the full-year.
The organic growth in Security North America and emerging markets will complement an improving performance in Security Europe where we anticipate growth to begin to emerge in the second half of the year.
Profitability in Security will continue to improve from volume leverage and cost actions which will more than offset the foreign currency impact.
We expect solid year-over-year profit improvement as we continue to progress forward with our Security Europe multi-year recovery plan.
Although the currency challenges have been unrelenting and theyre causing a significant 2015 headwind we believe were taking all the correct actions to combat these headwinds through our cost control actions and customer pricing initiatives while at the same time ensuring we continue to strategically invest in organic growth.
This approach will allow us to achieve solid operating leverage and healthy organic growth but muted total revenue growth due to FX.
Specifically earnings will expand 5% to 9% on an overall revenue outlook of flat to a decline of 1% in 2015.
So moving to the next slide and a little bit of discussion on foreign currency.
As youre all aware U.S dollar strengthened during late September and October against the four major currencies which impact us Canadian dollar European euro Brazilian real and the Argentinean peso.
At the time this created a negative currency impact of approximately $45 million to $55 million for 2015.
However weve all seen the additional devaluations in most currencies versus the U.S dollar since mid November through the last several days.
This included other currencies which impact us such as the British pound Australian dollar Swedish krona and Japanese yen.
We have finalized our key currency hedging activities for 2015 over the past several months based on yesterday's spot rates.
We estimate that 2015 negative currency impact will approximate $140 million versus 2014 and this includes the impact of these currency hedges.
The expected 2015 impact is approximately 50% translational and 50% transactional.
The transactional impact is due to our extensive global supply chains and primarily related to the importing of finished goods and components into regions such as Latin America Europe and Canada.
In terms of hedging our key currencies are materially hedged and as such future volatility on our largest exposures; specifically the Canadian dollar and the European euro have been significantly reduced for the remainder of 2015.
As an example if the euro moved to parity with the U.S dollar gradually over the next five months wed only expect an additional $12 million to $15 million P&amp;L impact in 2015.
Now I'd like to discuss a few things outside of hedging activities related to currencies and how we respond operationally.
We are typically prepared to take additional mitigating actions to offset significant portion -- a significant portion of these currency impacts in the following order.
First as I just mentioned we pursue customer price increases where large transactional FX headwinds emerged due to us importing U.S dollar based products or components into these countries or regions.
The second area is we focus on improving our cost base to the pursuit of commodity deflation in this type of environment.
The third area is we look at pulling forward specific plan cost rationalization projects for various selected businesses and functions.
And then finally we cant lose sight of the fact that weve to continue to improve our localized production and component supply over the long-term.
These actions are all well represented in our 2015 guidance as significant tailwinds.
All these factors are how we manage a difficult currency environment with a proactive approach that ensures we generate solid earnings growth while balancing our requirement continuing to invest for future growth.
Now let's move to the summarize -- the summary page of our presentation.
We are very pleased with our strong 2014 EPS and cash flow performance despite significant FX pressure and emerging market volatility.
We achieved many of the objectives we established in early 2014 such as strong organic growth of 5% supported by innovation and the growth investments continue to blossom [ph].
Tight cost controls and surgical price actions across the entire Company enabled excellent operating leverage to emerge in our P&amp;L.
Security Europe continues to perform better and made solid progress on its multi-year transformation.
Debt leverage -- leveraging target -- deleveraging targets were met and we took a modest step towards our $1 billion share repurchase program in Q4.
And then we exceeded our cash flow return on investment goal and ended the year at the low-end of our long-term range of 12% to 15%.
Our focus in 2015 will continue to be on improving the near-term returns and relative performance through the organic growth initiatives security margin improvement cost and pricing actions ongoing working capital focus and the continued rebalance of our capital allocation.
We believe this approach will continue to be successful in 2015 and beyond as it positions our Company to deliver on the long-term financial objectives weve established.
This concludes the presentation portion of the call.
And lets move to Q&amp;A.
Great.
Don thank you.
John we can now open the call to Q&amp;A please.
Thank you.
We'll now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning and congratulations on your kind of growth this quarter.
Just wanted to focus on price here and -- in light of the raw material deflation have the discussions with your key customers change in any materially way? And on top of that given the currency move have you seen any change in behavior from your European and Japanese competitors? So this is Jim.
The deflation at this point is not material.
Its significant but not material and its spread over many many different businesses and product lines and so forth.
So for any given skew or any given product line its probably no more than a point or two of the total selling price.
And we dont -- we dont entertain price adjustments unless there is really material inflation thats when the customers will get more interested in doing that.
And likewise it works the same way on the other side when we have inflation.
We dont pursue inflation based price increases with our major customers until it becomes material.
So its a -- there is a healthy understanding that for these types of immaterial moves that we dont rock the boat if you will.
So thats the kind of approach there.
As long as it kind of continues at this pace were looking at maybe $40 million $50 million of deflation across a 12 -- almost a $12 billion revenue base.
And then the second part of the question ? Well it was on behavior from our European and Japanese customers [indiscernible] its important to note where their production is.
So go ahead James.
So if you look at Bosch and Makita everybody has global footprints with concentration in China.
And most folks are using either renminbi or dollar denominated currencies to basically set purchase prices so -- or the -- and the manufacturing costs are obviously established in those regions as well.
Now so then you take Makita well Makita has more Japanese manufacturing than say some of the others.
Bosch has more European manufacturing than the others.
So Id say its probably for them some opportunity to shift some production to these areas where the currency has gone down.
But recognize that in both Japan and in Europe that the labor rates are exceptionally high relative to the emerging markets.
So it really takes some pretty significant currency movements on a sustained basis to make it a practical reality for them to be able to shift a lot of manufacturing.
And we also have a fairly substantial ability to shift production into Europe with our manufacturing footprint there.
We really dont have much of a Japanese footprint at all.
So there is some movement thats possible.
I think its really at the margin and not really a significant impact.
Our next question is from Tim Wojs from Baird.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi guys.
I guess just to talk about the CDIY outperformance there.
I think in the press release you talked about share gains.
Im just curious where the share gain is coming from? Is it more shelf space at retail or is it better sell-through is it just better product? Maybe just a little bit more color there and then maybe what's in the pipeline around sustaining that growth rate as we get into 2015? Yes Tim this is John.
The answer is all of the above.
You saw the organic growth rate particularly in Europe where the market is flat at best.
And as Jim pointed out in his segment overview weve had six consecutive quarters of organic growth averaging 7%.
So when youre growing 7% in the market thats growing 0% to 2% on a very best case theres a significant share gain in Europe.
Were gaining share in U.S.
Again I think Jim gave some of the wide but to help weve recouped all of the lost share when legacy Black &amp; Decker was a little bit slow but for very good reason that weve talked about to convert from NiCad to Lithium-ion.
That share gain has been -- that share loss has been completely recaptured and weve got the offense on the field specifically with the brushless initiative that Jim talked about.
That represents about 20% of the market and weve about 40% of it.
So thats driving particularly our top professional power tool gains in North America.
I think the other bright spot specifically is is sell-through.
On occasion this time if youre our -- our customers its quite well-known.
Keep a very close eye on their inventories in the month of January because thats the end of their fiscal year.
January tends to be a slow shipment month and we make up for some of that in February and March.
The sell-through was outstanding in December and January.
So its sell-in and sell-through which translates to share gains.
Again when our organic growth is about 2x the rate of the market it has to be share gain as long as its selling through.
Lastly its been overwhelmingly driven by both ongoing and arguably breakthrough new product introduction.
Our vitality index is in the 30s which is quite high for a business of that nature.
Both in Europe and the U.S.
the sources has been a little bit different.
U.S.
has been professional power tools primarily.
Europe its been right across the board.
Hand tools power tools and even home products some tremendous innovation in a segment of the business or sub-segment thats more important in Europe than it is in the U.S.
But doing particularly well and the words in the press release said expanded customer relationships thats exactly what that means.
Weve gotten new distribution with customers particularly in Europe but elsewhere expanded shelf space and new distribution displacing both competitors and in some cases private label thats also helped that growth.
So simple answer all of the above but that gives us a lot more color on where its coming from.
And maybe just to follow on very briefly.
When you take last year $300 million of revenue from new product introductions in CDIY over a 1000 skews and then put those new products to work by leveraging them across our -- what I call in my comments our leading array of brands.
But the flexibility that weve with our brands with DeWalt with Black &amp; Decker with Bostitch with Stanley FatMax which is growing significantly Porter Cable and so on.
The ability to leverage those new products across those brands and then across the global geographies at the same time with a scale that weve managed to put together with both hand tools and power tools in the global footprint of the company thats how were doing it.
And then the other term I used was commercial excellence.
Weve committed to commercial excellence and that means all those cylinders in that commercial engine are hitting at the same time.
You put all that together and thats what weve created is this commercial machine which is out there gaining share in many many different places around the world.
Yes Jim thanks for that.
And just without being more specific than we need to be on this call just one anecdote or great example of what Jim talked about.
Stanley FatMax power tools certain North American customers and certain large retail customers elsewhere in the world its the fast -- one of the fastest growing power tool brands in the market and four years ago that didnt exist because Stanley didnt have the capability to make a power tool that would merit or justify putting the FatMax name on it.
And its as Jim suggested its a tremendous synergy from a merger thats now four years almost five in the rearview mirror but still continues to show some great results in terms of our top line opportunity and brand penetration.
Our next question is from Jeremie Capron from CLSA.
Hi good morning.
A question on the reorganization that you talked about in terms of combining the various tools businesses under a single umbrella.
Can you give us a little more detail in terms of the timeline here and what's the ultimate goal that were looking at a single business division for IAR and CDIY? And the second leg to this question relates to the charges that were booked in the fourth quarter.
It looks like you booked more charges than guided just three months ago is this related to that combination or anything else in there? Yes this is John.
Ill talk about the combination and Don can give you the specifics on the charges.
Youre directionally right but your logic is -- you dont have quite all the background but Don will touch on it.
Look the combination just makes tremendous sense.
It isnt the entire industrial segment importantly and CDIY.
Its our industrial tool business and our professional tool business specifically the IAR business and industrial storage combined with CDIY to take -- to make about a $7 billion business and clearly the largest tool business in the world with leading positions in all four vertical markets as Jim discussed in his comments.
I think very importantly there are modest cost savings associated with that which tail in comparison to the revenue synergies that was on in two areas.
The combination of best practices in new product development our product review board process and everything we do to reflect customer input and marketplace needs to more quickly develop commercialize and introduce and sell-through new products across both of those businesses will be a tremendous advantage secondly to apply technology thats applicable or formally utilized in one business to the other and lastly the commercial excellence that Jim talked about best people best practices in each and every channel.
So in this particular case were very good at taking cost up weve proven that.
There will be some backroom efficiencies as a result of this.
The driver here though is top line synergy organic growth by combining the best of the best not just similar and we think of it as the next step in the evolution of the merger of Stanley Black &amp; Decker.
And there was enough going on that this natural if you will internal combination; it would have been premature to try to do that before now.
Were going to do it now.
It will be reflected in our segment reporting going forward.
Let me have Don talk about that a little bit and then give you a little more granularity on the charges.
Yes.
So as John just touched on the segment reporting for the Company will change in the first quarter 10-Q because the completion of this combination of the two businesses will happen in the first quarter.
So well still have three segments.
Well have a tools and storage segment which will include CDIY and IAR.
Well have an industrial segment which will include Engineered Fastening in our infrastructure businesses and then well have Security in the current format so not a dramatic change just moving one business into another in that change.
Related to restructuring specifically we indicated in the October earnings call that we were evaluating additional restructuring of up to $10 million to $25 million beyond the initial guidance of $25 million.
We actually recorded about $54 million in the fourth quarter so it was at the high-end of that range.
So it was very close to our expectations.
A portion of that was related to the combination of these two businesses.
A lot of the charges that took place in the fourth quarter were more associated to the U.S.
activities and what's going to occur in 2015 are more related to European activity.
Our next question is from Rich Kwas from Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Just a question around guidance in terms of the CRC-Evans business what type of decline are you assuming within industrial given the lower oil prices and thats obviously a high margin business so there is some margin impact.
And then second are you assuming any benefit within CDIY or even industrial with regards to the lower oil prices meaning demand benefit or is that assumed to be potential optionality in terms of the organic growth guidance for the year? Hi Rich.
Its Don Ill take that.
As far CRC-Evans goes as John or Jim mentioned just first of all a reminder it is 3% of our total revenue just to give you a size -- sizing of it.
It is considered a small pressure to us year-over-year.
We do expect that business to probably see 10% or 20% of revenue decline 14 versus 15 and its really just due to what weve seen of this halting of all the activity around construction pipeline or constructions of the pipeline.
But frankly its not a very material impact to us but it does have a marginal impact.
Related to your question around gas prices and oil prices and how does that could that have a positive impact on buying activity in CDIY or industrial and whether we factored that? We have not specifically factored that into our guidance.
Its something that certainly will evaluate as time goes on over the next 12 months but right now thats not specifically factored into our guidance.
Our next question is from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Hi good morning.
This is Patrick Murray on for Mike.
So with respect to the FX headwinds if were to see any incremental U.S.
dollar appreciation over the course of the year how much more opportunity beyond what you have incorporated into 2015 guidance do you see is opportunities to offset any incremental U.S.
dollar strengthening? Yes I think we -- as I mentioned in my comments weve done a lot of hedging activities to try to minimize the future impact.
But if the dollar continued to strengthen versus all our major currencies like it has been over the last 30 days there would be an impact.
I gave an example of the euro where if the euro did move to parity over the next five months i.e.
but he middle of the year that would probably be about $12 million to $15 million additional headwind to us.
So certainly weve looked at those different sensitivities and scenarios and their possibility.
As far as how we offset them yes we have evaluated different options and -- if you remember that slide as I walk through what we do we first look at pricing with our customers in certain markets where were importing the products.
So if theres changes related to those currencies we have to evaluate whether we want to go back with additional price increases.
The second was commodities.
So if that environment generates more commodity deflation do we have additional opportunities that we could go after with our suppliers and then the third area was cost rationalization? I dont think there is a huge opportunity in that particular category but there are few things that we could do if we saw a continued pressure around foreign currencies.
So I think weve done enough sensitivity analysis to feel comfortable that we can deal with a reasonable level of continued strengthening over the next three to six months.
Yes.
And I think to kind of remove the focus from three to six months which is not what were hear to do necessarily although I know its an important part of trying to build your model.
Don I think was -- hopefully was very helpful in talking about an equal split translation versus transactional.
This year it was about 2014 the FX impact was about 60% transactional 40% translational.
Next year its about 50-50 meaning a little less of it is in our control.
On the transactional piece Don talked about everything we can do short-term.
Long-term we were on a global supply chain network that I think Jim described quite eloquently and the issue is moving sources of supply to the lower cost countries whether its commodities labor costs general cost to manufacture.
The issue with that in the short-term that I think its important to understand we make premium products in 70% of what we make in terms of tools or 67% are bought by people who do it for a living.
The quality standards are extraordinarily high and its very difficult to qualify material or component suppliers in places like Latin America and certain Asian markets quickly.
So despite the fact that opportunity exists you can rest assure that our supply chain folks are working diligently and vigorously to qualify new suppliers on a longer term basis to allow us more flexibility to shift production -- meaningful pieces of production to weaker currency markets.
But thats something that happens over one to two years not three to six months and its just an important distinction not to understand.
Our next question is from Wini Clark from UBS.
Good morning.
You noted your organic growth expectations are being muted in 15 versus 14 by headwinds outside the U.S.
Can you talk a bit about what youre expecting from emerging markets specifically because while volatility continues their comps are not particularly difficult and it seems like your MPP initiatives are gaining some momentum.
Yes its Jim.
We think that the emerging markets all else equal in terms of no major change from where we are today in terms of the environment.
It will be slightly higher than our overall line average growth outlook.
So probably mid-single digits pushing well maybe a little higher than that but right in that kind of a range.
And our next question is from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
We almost reached the milestone and no security questions on the call but Im sorry Ill flip one in.
Thank you.
Nobody was listening.
Yes its nice that you didnt have to spend that much time on it.
But could you give us a little bit more detail on how attrition is running? Where youre at on the commercial initiatives? And any color you can share just kind of on the sale process for Italy and Spain? Yes were in a good place on all of those.
Were not going to get ahead ourselves on Italy and Spain for obvious reasons NDAs and things of that nature.
I think Jim can give you a lot more granularity on attrition and a few of the other positive momentum.
I think as most people on the call that have been following us know that we made tremendous progress on attrition in Europe in the last 12 months and really have put in real process.
We have people measurement systems that are tracking it people that are accountable to manage it.
And the results reflect the improvements that weve made with respect to the process.
And so getting to that 12% which was something that we put out there when we were running 17% 18% we did that within a year.
Thats a huge huge achievement because it enables us to actually have the opportunity to grow now.
And what I mean by that is with -- Im taking Europe as an example.
With recurring revenue as 40% of total revenue if you are trading at close to 20% rate youre digging an 8% revenue hole every year before you even start originating new business.
And so when you get down to 10% to 12% which is more of the industry average you have a hole thats substantially smaller closer to 4% of total revenue and you need order growth in the kind of -- in that range to be able to be flat if you will and thats kind of where we are now where you saw the flat performance in Europe in 4Q.
Now what we have to do here is sustain the attrition at these levels which we think is very doable and from there we have to kind of rev up the origination machine but do it in a way where we are going after profitable business and not just cutting prices to get the business because the other little variable in this whole equation is making sure that the gross margins that youre taking on with a new business are high enough so that you dont kind of depress the overall gross margins of the business.
And I think the team fully understands that over in Europe.
We have new management in place as of the fourth quarter.
Its actually a guy that was the Chief Operating Officer for about a year over there so hes very familiar with the situation.
Weve got country -- weve got the country managers making a pretty good place.
Everybody knows what their plan is.
We have the one issue that was operationally impossible to manage because of the market trends and structural issues which was Spain is now as you know going to be divested.
And so I think the table is set for what I described in my comments as moving forward.
Were going to move forward I wouldnt expect substantial growth out of Europe in the next couple of quarters but I would expect to see it positive.
And as we continue to make progress then we will start to bring in some of these vertical solutions from the U.S.
and thats when you can really expect to see the growth start to really rev up in Europe and become more consistent with what wed have expected when we purchased Niscayah.
So thats sort of the lay on the land on that one.
You asked about process in Spain and Italy and let me just say two things because as I referenced before Jim spoke we are just not in a position to provide a lot of insight on it due to NDAs and things of that nature.
Were very comfortable saying weve got a great term in place and its a good combination of tested and proven senior Stanley security leaders with some good help from our corporate business development team to oversee that process.
The other thing weve broken this out recognized that Spain is 5 6 7 times the size of Italy relative to the size of the business and where the focus is.
And as you know Jim alluded to well our business was heavily focused on the financial institutions vertical and probably a third of the bank branches in Spain have closed in the last year and its a very difficult competitive environment.
So we know its the right decision for the company.
We do have a good team in place process is underway but thats all were going to -- in a position to say about it for reasons that I know youll understand and respect.
Our next question is from Mike Wood from Macquarie Capital.
Hi thank you.
If I exclude the rest of the buybacks that you called out the mid-point of your GAAP earnings is up about 5% from what you did in 2014.
Im curious with the free cash flow guidance you gave which is a starting point of 1% growth.
Is there anything dragging down on cash flow growth next year higher CapEx or any kind of working capital progress that you can discuss? Or should it more closely near the GAAP earnings growth? I think when you look at cash flow for 2015; we have to factor in a couple of things.
One yes there will be a little bit higher levels of CapEx but nothing really dramatic and material.
However the working capital component will be less of a positive and frankly is a modest negative next year because what happens as you continue to grow you have to basically get half a turn or a full turn improvement in your working capital turn just to get a positive impact in the cash flow statement.
And as we get closer and closer to 10 turns which is a great thing the amount of year-over-year benefit or improvement in turns is going to be smaller.
And so next year we might get three times five times of a turn improvement in our working capital turns.
But that actually will create -- could create a negative in cash flow depending on where revenue ends up.
I know thats really a big driver there.
We dont look at that as a major issue its just one of the benefits of the great success that weve seen in working capital turns.
And we still think cash flow is a great story and will continue to be going forward.
And our last question is from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Hi guys its John filling in for Steve today.
Just kind of the commentary that we got over the course much of 2014 relating to the R&amp;R [ph] market just that it was one of moderating year-over-year but your sales in CDIY really accelerated over the course of the year.
So can you talk about maybe some specific product categories that youve seen for CDIY and then was your commentary that sell through was strong in the fourth quarter meant to signal that these trends have persisted into the first quarter of 15? Thanks.
Well I assume youre talking about the U.S.
because the R&amp;R [ph] data I think typically that what you look at comes from the U.S.
I think all you have to do is look at the DIY performances from the major customers to understand that the R&amp;R [ph] market is alive and well yes the -- at least in the home centers.
And if you look at housing starts yes weve had some nice improvement there and we know that over time that we kind of benefit from that as well.
I mentioned that the U.S.
demand in DIY is strong and it is and our POS is even stronger than the underlying demand.
And so as a consequence as we finish out the year our inventory levels are down about a week in retail over where we would normally expect them to be which is just indicative of when you have sales of 14% positive organic growth in North America nobody is going to plan for that and I think thats what why you see that.
Now as far as specific categories its really -- if you go back to the professional power tools being up 20% and I think that could be a clue as to where the most significant growth has been and a lot of that has to do with the cordless market and in specifically the DC brushless market.
And so I think its really flying off the shelves and its a great -- and its a completely redesigned tool and its price value combination is very very competitive.
Its performance characteristics really are untouchable in the market right now with -- by the competitors and it does it at a price that is reasonable slightly above competition.
And thats a driver its not the only single -- its not the single driver but its an important one.
And really as John said we made tremendous progress in cordless in general over the last four years.
And gaining back all that share that was lost in kind of the 08 09 2010 period and so a combination of those things I think is just -- and growing improving exceptionally strong relationships with the large customers at this point of time very constructive relationships.
End of Q&amp;A And I would now turn the call over to Greg Waybright for closing comments.
John thank you.
We would like to thank everyone again for calling in this morning and for your participation.
And please contact me and/or Dennis if youve any further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q1 2015 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and Ill be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
Ill now turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor and Government Relations Greg Waybright.
You may begin.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for joining us for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's first quarter 2015 conference call.
On the call in addition to myself John Lundgren Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued earlier this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR section of our website as well as on our iPhone and iPad app.
A replay of this morning's call will also be available beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
The replay number and access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review our fourth quarter results and various other matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Consistent with prior calls were going to be sticking with just one question per caller.
And as we normally do we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act filing.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Greg and thanks everybody for joining us this morning.
Weve got a strong quarter and I think a lot of encouraging news that were very much looking forward to sharing with you and then taking your questions.
During the quarter revenue expanded 8% organically.
Total growth was 1% as the topline impact of foreign currency was negative 7% in the quarter.
Our Tools Storage and Engineered Fastening businesses all continued strong momentum.
They both grew in the double digits organically and Security built up the momentum from the fourth quarter and posted 2% organic growth as North America and emerging markets as well as Europe grew organically within the quarter.
I wont dwell on those numbers because Jim is going to dive into much more detail on the segments in just a minute.
Both gross and operating margin rates expanded in the first quarter 50 basis points in gross margin and 120 basis points in operating margins.
They increased due to higher volume along with sharp cost focus and price realization delivering operating leverage despite $50 million of foreign currency pressure just within the quarter.
Earnings per share were $1.07 the same number versus flat in the first quarter of 2014 as the strong business performance most notably in Tools and Storage offset higher plant restructuring and tax rate.
Due in part to our strong fourth quarter cash flow in conjunction with our previously communicated equity derivatives we executed repurchase actions that reduced the share count by approximately eight million shares in the first quarter.
This was a meaningful acceleration versus our prior plan.
We are also reiterating full year 2015 guidance for earnings in the range of $5.65 to $5.85 on a GAAP basis.
Thats inclusive of $0.25 a share in restructuring charges.
It represents a 5% to 9% year over year EPS growth despite $60 to $70 million of incremental foreign exchange pressure since our last report and its now expected to total between $200 million and $220 million in 2015.
We are also reiterating free cash flow outlook of at least $1 billion.
Don is going to walk you through the moving pieces and our assumptions around them with respect to the share repurchase currency impact and cash flow in just a few minutes.
Moving to the next slide and looking where the growth came from.
The momentum continues in the developed markets and thats been led by the US.
As they say another solid quarter of organic growth but with currency headwinds almost two times what we experienced during the fourth quarter of 2014.
The organic growth of 8% came on the heels of 7% organic growth in the fourth quarter.
Over the last eight quarters our organic growth has averaged 5% right in the midpoint of our targeted 4% to 6% range.
Strong volume growth particularly in the US but we also had solid growth in every other region of the country as you can see in the box on the right.
Pricing was again positive in the quarter as actions to combat currency primarily in the emerging markets but also surgical pricing actions across the remainder of our businesses are contributing to the organic growth.
Currency headwinds did intensify as we moved through the quarter.
They ramped up toward the end of the quarter and they did dampen the organic performance by 7% as I previously said as the dollar strengthened against almost every currency in countries where we do business.
Don is going to give you a very granular look at that in his portion of the presentation.
Just quickly on a regional basis demand in the US remains very healthy particularly in retail both strong sell-in and sell-through in the industrial channel as well as within our security business.
Europe has been a very pleasant surprise as we continue to show strong share gains most notably in Tools and Storage as well as our industrial business.
As you can see total organic growth is 6% with these markets tracking flat to slightly up maybe in low single digits.
Finally the Emerging markets were aided by strong shipments in our Engineered Fastening Automotive and Electronics businesses while certain markets most notably Russia remain under a lot of pressure.
Lets move it over to Jim and he can give you a lot of detail on the segments.
Thank you John.
I think this first quarter performance on the heels of a very strong showing in 2014 is indicative not only of how far we have come in pursuit of exceptional value creation but also how much potential there is ahead of us.
The title of our opening slide this morning is Accelerating Organic Growth and Margin Expansion.
That is a topic we are very excited about here as a company.
A record 8% organic growth is notable considering that the US is one of the only major world economies with legs.
European economic growth is still spotty at best and emerging markets in the aggregate are weak and getting slightly weaker.
120 basis point operating margin expansion speaks clearly to the underlying operational strength and volume leverage potential of the company especially reviewed in the context of overcoming well over 100 basis points of year-over-year currency headwinds.
Our ability to upgrade total year organic growth guidance to 5% and hold EPS guidance in the 5% to 9% growth range despite total FX headwinds of between $1 to $1.10 a share means that the underlying organic EPS growth of the company for 2015 is expected to be somewhere between 25% and 30%.
Our global tools franchise is on a tear gaining share and hitting on virtually all cylinders.
Our large highly profitable Engineered Fastening business has fully digested the successful Infastech acquisition and is growing at rates well above market.
Security is now generating positive albeit modest organic growth and is tracking to previously communicated improvement benchmarks and thus offers more in the way of future value creation upside than downside.
Overall we emerged from Q1 2015 with strong operating momentum and conviction that despite one of the tougher operating environments in recollections we can continue to perform well.
In a few minutes I will conclude my section with some commentary on how we plan to keep the growth and operating margin expansion momentum going but first I will provide some color on segment level performance starting with Tools and Storage which offered up another outstanding quarter.
Total Tools and Storage revenue was up 3% and operating margins grew 21% to 15.7% demonstrating impressive operating leverage.
Gains resulted from volume leverage modestly positive price operations productivity and tight SG&amp;A cost management which more than offset the severe currency headwinds.
Organic growth was again in double digit territory this time 10%.
North America was up 15% Europe once again delivered outsized growth in this case up 9% organically.
Emerging markets were flat as 9% growth in Latin America was wiped out by a steep greater than 50% decline in Russia and minus 8% in Asia as softness in China prevailed.
The mid-price point product rollout continues to proceed well and this important initiative provided support for the emerging market organic revenues and prevented them from contraction in the quarter.
Across Global Tools and Storage organic strength was broad-based once again with Professional Power Tools up 13% Consumer Power Tools up 10% Accessories up 13% and Hand Tools and Storage up 7%.
All categories benefited from strong new product introduction momentum and customer level execution.
POS and major box customers in the US was robust despite less than ideal weather conditions and aggregate weeks in hand decrease during the quarter.
We believe sell-through in the hardware lumber store and staff channels was also very strong as both resi and non-resi construction markets benefited from good growth in end user demand.
Industrial markets in the US were somewhat weaker than we saw in 2014 but still positive.
Our best guess is that the total US tool market was up about 5% including power tools which we believe was up a slightly higher rate maybe 7%.
The European market as measured in local currency continued to be soft perhaps up a point or two.
In the developed markets we believe we continued our share gain momentum during the quarter.
As Tools and Storage which was previously known as CDIY and IAR recently combined continues to rack up gains now in its combined form the question we often get is what exactly is management doing to drive the performance? The simple answer is we are taking a great asset feeding the new product innovation machine and coupling it with outstanding commercial and supply chain execution.
By combining Stanley and Black and Decker five years ago we created the worlds leading tool company with power tools hand tools storage and accessories as well as a broad array of leading brands global scale and the only tool company in the world with meaningful presence across all four major channels construction DIY industrial and automotive repair.
We executed the integration well extracting over $500 million of cost synergies and greatly exceeding our original targets for both cost and revenue synergies.
Most importantly we fused these companies together by creating a winning culture with both an innovation growth orientation and operational discipline enabled by the Stanley fulfillment system.
What we are experiencing today in terms of performance is the manifestation of all the above.
It was a great idea on paper.
In practice it is exceeding our expectations.
We look forward to delving more deeply into this story as well as offering insight into how we plan to keep the growth going with those of you who are interested at our upcoming Analyst Day on May 15.
Now moving to security it was a modestly successful in line quarter for security which registered 2% organic growth and 110 basis points of operating margin rate accretion while facing an overall 6% revenue decline as FX took its toll.
Nonetheless operating margin was up 4%.
North America and emerging markets revenue was up 2% organically and Europe was up 1% on the same basis.
Notably the European team delivered the first organic growth quarter for this unit since Niscayah was acquired in 2011.
This came on the heels of a flat organic growth performance in 4Q 2014.
During several 2014 investor conference calls we foreshadowed that the next marker in the European turn around would be shifting from negative organic growth to modestly positive growth something we expected to occur sometime in 2015.
Having first wrestled the European attrition to rates within our targets range of 10% to 12% during the first half of 2014 as of 1Q 2015 we have stabilized the value of our recurring revenue portfolio and are now in a position to achieve positive overall European security organic growth and a prospective basis.
The benefit of revenue stabilization was clear in the quarter as the team delivered its internal operating margin commitment a $4 million increase over prior year.
Late last week I visited with them in London and I can say that theyre fully grounded in what they have to do to continue the positive trend and they have both the substance and the strength of conviction to back it up.
I will look for continued progress on that front.
The other really positive turnaround news in security was the commercial lock business in North America with delivered 4% organic growth their first positive growth quarters since fully converting to the independent distribution model in early 2013.
And also on a positive note Automatic Doors continued along its strong growth trajectory.
In summary now two full quarters into the leadership adjustment in both Europe and North America the early returns are promising.
Both units are poised to deliver improving organic revenue and operating margin results while continuing their recent track record of predictability.
And as I mentioned last quarter we expect the overall security recovery to be slow and steady during the next several quarters but we do expect it to continue to gain momentum as 2015 progress.
Now turning to industrial.
Industrial had a mixed quarter with an outstanding performance from Engineered Fastening the largest part of it offset by market related issues in oil and gas.
The net result was a 2% decrease in revenue with 6% organic growth.
But oil and gas deleveraging and FX pressures decreased operating margins by $12 million or 14% bringing the rate down 210 basis points to a still respectable 15.3%.
Engineered Fastening achieved a very strong 12% organic growth including a plus 20% performance in the automotive sector aided by strong equipment and fastener growth.
This was in contrast to global light vehicle production which was up 1%.
With about two thirds of their business overseas FX wiped out 10 points of Engineered Fastening revenue growth.
So their total revenue was up only 2%.
Nonetheless they achieved both absolute margin growth and rate accretion.
Infrastructure which includes oil and gas and hydraulic was down 15%.
Oil and gas approximately 2% of total company revenues was down 23% organically as the market related contraction in pipeline activity depressed the topline.
All in all a solid operational performance by the Engineered Fastening team mitigated but could not completely offset the OM pressure from both the market related issues in oil and gas and currency.
There were a lot of moving parts to our total company first quarter story but the punch line is 8% organic growth with 120 basis points of OM expansion while overcoming well over 100 basis points of year over year currency headwinds.
Clearly this management team is executing in a high level despite numerous external obstacles with the biggest being the strong dollar.
We have confidence in our total year outlook that we will continue to overcome these obstacles and deliver.
However a natural question from the investment community is whats next? We plan to answer that question for both the total company and for its individual parts on May 15 during our Investor Day at our Tools and Storage headquarters in Towson Maryland.
An important part of the story will be a deep dive into the Stanley fulfillment system 2.0 otherwise known as SFS 2.0.
This is an initiative which we have been quietly working on for over a year.
It is the next chapter in the evolution of SFS which many of you know is a key element of our culture and has been for over eight years.
SFS has enabled us to achieve a high level of customer facing supply chain execution and working capital efficiency as well as generating well over a billion dollars of free cash flow since its inception.
SFS 2.0 is the next generation of that business system which focuses on fueling additional organics growth and margin expansion in the coming years.
It is an exciting set of initiatives which provides us with a clear path to differentiated out performance leveraging off the base that we have already created.
The initiatives are listed on this slide.
It starts with core SFS which is simply a continuation of what we have been doing for years supplemented by four new elements; Digital Excellent Breakthrough Innovation Commercial Excellence and Functional Transformation.
We will provide greater insight into these elements as well as business strategies portfolio strategy and acquisition criteria as well as capital allocation and financial objectives at the upcoming May Investor Day.
With that I'll turn it over to Don Allan our CFO for his comments.
Thank you Jim.
Im going to start by spending a little time on our first quarter free cash flow performance which was an outflow of $243 million.
This was relatively consistent with prior year and typical of normal seasonality that we see in our company where our inventory levels rise especially in the Tools and Storage business to ensure were adequately prepared for Q2 and Q3 demands of key customers in particular in a mature or developed market.
However the incremental investment we made in Tools and Storage inventory during the first quarter of this year was modestly higher than normal as we managed through the west coast port strike and we prepared for strong organics growth to re-occur in the second quarter of this year.
The core SFS principle Jim just mentioned require agility to respond when business conditions change such as strong organic growth such as we have experienced over the last three quarters.
SFS has enabled us to reach working capital and asset efficiency levels that are considered world class compared to other industrial and security peers.
SFS continues to assist us on our journey to 10 times working capital turns.
But we want to ensure that we are agile in changing market conditions just like we saw over the last few quarters.
Due to our confidence in our ability to generate at least $1 billion of free cash flow during 2015 as John mentioned we were able to accelerate our share repurchase activity relating to our repurchase program that we announced at the end of 2013.
By using a mixture of cash repurchases and equity derivatives we took actions to lower the share count by roughly 8 million shares within the first quarter and 9.6 million shares since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2014.
This brings our cumulative total share actions to the equivalent of approximately $900 million for the program that we announced in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Moving to page 11 as John touched on and as all of us are well aware another significant weakening of currencies versus the US dollar occurred during February and March of this year.
Given this shift I would like to spend a few minute updating you on our 2015 foreign current impact.
For us it resulted in significant incremental currency pressure most notably from movements in the Brazilian Real many other Latin American currencies and several other currencies that moved in concert with the Euro.
The result of these fluctuations has created a total negative annual impact of $200 million to $220 million versus 2014 which in an incremental headwind of $60 million to $70 million versus what we communicated during our earnings call in January.
As a remainder these amounts are net of our derivative hedging activities.
The incremental currency headwinds of $60 million to $70 million have been broad based and in fact out top exposures in the Brazilian Real the Euro the Canadian Dollar and the Argentinian Peso represent only approximately $30 million of this incremental impact with two thirds of that $30 million impact due specifically to the Brazilian Real.
This demonstrates the positive impact of our Euro and Canadian dollar hedging program in 2015.
As you may recall I spoke of increased hedges on the Euro and Canadian dollar in January and while those currencies moved negatively during the first quarter much of that impact was mitigated by these hedges.
The remaining portion of the $60 million to $70 million incremental headwind from currency is caused by exposures in approximately 20 countries around the world which clearly demonstrates the broad based nature of this currency movement.
As we have reviewed during past calls we attempt to mitigate these currency impacts in our P&amp;L beyond what we do in hedging activities through a multi-stepped approach.
The first is pursuing customer pricing increases where large transactional FX headwinds emerge due to importing of US dollar-based products or components specifically into countries such as Canada Brazil and even parts of Europe.
The second area of focus is we focus on improving our cost base thought he pursuit of likely commodity deflation in this environment which we have been seeing in the last three to six months as well as we evaluate pulling forward certain specific cost rationalization projects for selected businesses and function to ensure that we try to offset this impact.
And then the last area which we can never lose sight of is the long term pursuit of increasing our localized production and component supply in certain key emerging markets around the world to minimize this impact.
So in summary on this page we continue to activity manage a difficult currency environment with a proactive approach that has enabled us to manage near time volatility but at the same time balancing the requirement of continuing to invest for future growth.
Lets move to page 12 and talk about 2015 EPS outlook.
As indicated by John and Jims comments earlier we are reiterating 2015 guidance as $5.65 to $5.85 EPS and free cash flow of at least $1 billion as the strong organic growth performance in Tools and Storage combined with an acceleration of our share repurchase actions has allowed us to offset the incremental currency headwinds that I just described.
Lets walk through these assumptions which led to a neutral impact on our guidance in all more detail.
First we expect organic growth to be approximately 5% versus our prior expectation of 3% to 4%.
This change recognizes the strong organic growth momentum that emerged in the second half of 2014 with our Tools and Storage business which we expect to continue for the coming months.
Additionally as we saw in the first quarter our two other segments are generally on track to their planned organic growth rates and we expect this trend to continue for the reminder of the year.
This overall improved organic growth performance contributes an incremental $0.25 of EPS impact for the full year of 2015 which is over and above the $0.45 to $0.55 EPS benefit we described in our initial guidance back in January.
The second item is our ability to accelerate our share count action in the first quarter of 2015 given our confidence in cash flow outlook that I described earlier.
Specifically we executed cash repurchases and equity derivatives that reduced our share count by approximately 8 million shares.
Our prior assumption was that much of these actions were to occur during the second half of 2015.
We did increase our debt levels modestly to execute this plan and combined with normal first quarter seasonality of cash outflow this increase in debt will be a temporary phenomenon.
The results of these share count actions are a benefit of approximately $0.10 of EPS over and above the initial range we provided in January of $0.09 to $0.12 of EPS.
Then finally as I just covered in a fair amount of detail we expect to $200 million to $220 million of currency pressure given the strengthening of the US dollar over the past 90 days versus our prior expectation of $140 million to $150 million.
This will generate an incremental $0.30 to $0.35 of EPS headwind for 2015.
Also keep in mind that our other planning assumptions including tax rates and restructuring costs remain the same for the full year.
Theres three other items that are important to take note of related to guidance as you start to think about the different quarters and how they stage for the full year.
The first item though is related to revenue and the adverse currency impact is now expected to be approximately 7% versus our prior assumption of approximately 4% to 5% for the full year.
This will result in total revenues being down approximately 2% on the full year.
Second item is restructuring charges in the first half of 2015 will approximate 80% of our full year expected restructuring charges of $50 million.
Then finally I remind everyone to recognize the seasonality of revenues and profitability that happens in our company every year in the first half.
We expect that our operating margin as a percentage of the full year to be relatively consistent with 2014 when you evaluate first half versus second half.
However higher planned restructuring charges and the higher tax rate in the first half of 2015 will result in first half EPS approximating 43% of the full year EPS which is modestly lower than the 2014 first half as a percentage of the full year and clearly due to the dynamics of restructuring and tax.
Now lets turn to segments which are presented on the right side of the page and in our reporting structure.
We expect mid to single high digit organic growth in the Tools and Storage business as well as solid operating margin rate expansion year over year.
The operating margin expansion is expected to be due to volume leverage cost actions and price which more than offset the negative currency impact.
Organic growth within this segment is expected to remain strong in the first half and show lower levels of growth in the back half as we begin to experience more difficult comparables.
Our security segment will have a modest organic revenue growth for the full year with the margin rate increasing versus the prior year.
The organic growth in security in North America and emerging markets will compliment an improving performance in security Europe which started the year with good momentum as you heard from Jim earlier.
Profitability in security will continue to improve versus prior year from volume leverage and cost actions which again will allow us to more than offset the foreign currency impact.
We expect solid year over year profit improvement as we continue progressing forward with our security Europe multiyear recovery plan.
Then finally for industrial we expect solid mid-single digit organic growth as Engineered Fastening strengths will be able to offset the expected declines in our oil and gas business.
However due to the now increased importance of oil and gas as a percentage of this particular segment we do expect margins to be relatively flat versus the prior year as volume leverage generated by Engineered Fastening will be offset by the deleveraging impact of oil and gas due to the sluggish market conditions in that particular business.
This assumption change more about the impact of recasting our reporting segments than it is a change in business assumptions since January.
In summary the strength of our Tools and Storage organic growth combined with accelerated share count actions offsets the higher foreign currency impact I just described.
Therefore we still expect to achieve solid operating leverage and healthy organic growth even with the incremental currency headwinds which means we expect earnings will expand 5% to 9% on an overall revenue decline of 2% in 2015.
Additionally we believe we will continue to demonstrate strong free cash flow as it would be at least $1 billion.
To summarize the presentation portion of our call today we believe we delivered a very strong start to the year and here are some of the highlights.
We are very pleased with the strong robust organic growth story in the first quarter of 8%.
Focused on the tight cost control and surgical price actions across our entire company which enabled an excellent Q1 operating leverage in the face of $50 million of currency headwinds.
Security took another positive step forward on its multi-year transformation with 2% organic growth and year over year profit growth.
Then finally because of our confidence in our free cash flow outlook we were able to accelerate our share repurchase program which means weve really completed $900 million of our program since the fourth quarter of last year in the program that we announced back in the end of 2013.
Our operational focus in 2015 will continue to be on improving near term returns and the relative performance of our company through organic growth initiatives the security margin improvement and stability and continued growth organically cost and pricing actions and of course our ongoing working capitals focus.
We believe this approach was very successful in2014 and again here in the first quarter and we will continue this focus for the remainder of 2015 and beyond as it does position our company to deliver on the long-term financial objectives that we have established.
That concludes the presentation portion of our call.
Now lets move to Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thanks Don.
John we can now open the call to Q&amp;A please.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is from Jeffrey Sprague from Vertical Research.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
You made a very busy day a little easier here today.
I have one question really on your cost actions and kind of thinking about the holistic nature of them.
And really the nature of my question is these offsetting actions you are taking would you view them all as structural and permanent? Or should we expect some of this to come back the other way as perhaps the FX pressures hopefully wane at some point in the future? If you could give us a little context around that I think it would be very helpful.
Thank you.
Yeah absolutely.
So we embarked on this journey of cost actions in a more significant way about a year and half to two years ago and one of our main objectives was to take actions that were permanent in nature and not temporary that would result in some type of snapback of costs in the future.
Weve been targeting areas such as indirect spend which is basically all costs that are non-people related and putting forth policy changes structural changes procurement changes etc.
that are driving a lot of those benefits.
And theyre permanent changes that we expect to be maintained over the long term.
The other thing that weve done is weve taken specific headcount restructuring actions related to the combination of our CDIY and IAR business for Tools and Storage.
Weve taken some corporate headcount actions as well as some of our other businesses that are more surgical in nature that will allow us to really continue to focus on productivity and driving a more efficient P&amp;L Because of this approach and these different types of actions it really gives us confidence that its not of the nature that we are just pushing down costs on a temporary basis and we will experience some snapback in the future.
And our next question is from Rick Kwas from Wells Fargo.
Good morning gentlemen.
In terms of the competitive environment with regards to currency any changes you've noticed here in the US with competitive actions from foreign-based entities? And then quick follow up hedging activity for 2016 Don does this leave you in a position where you're going to still get hit in 2016 unless you put incremental hedges in? How should we think about that as we look forward here? Thank you.
Yeah Ill take the latter one first.
As I mentioned weve done a lot of hedging activities specifically around the Euro and the Canadian dollar.
The benefit we are getting for that here in 2015 or the neutralization I guess of currency is about $70 million.
And so that would be an impact that we would see in 2016.
Well also have a modest carry over impact by some of the recent currency movements weve seen.
So we think going into next year there is about $100 million headwind for currency that some of which we are focused on how we deal with through hedging activities but we are also focused on what cost actions we can take as we go into 2016 to offset that impact as well.
Similar to what weve done over the last two years we are going to take a very similar approach to that as we embark into 2016 as well.
And Jim maybe you want to answer the comment on  On the competitive environment in the US and whether there have been any changes related to the FX dislocation thats occurred.
Most of our in fact all of our major competitors have global footprints that are relatively similar.
Our major European based competitor has a little bit more European footprint in terms of supply chains and our major Japanese competitor has a little bit more in Japan.
But we all have a lot in China Mexico and other low cost areas around the world.
So there really isnt a major structural change to the cost competitors that is created by the dislocation.
I think we are all responding -- all competitors are responding as you might expect which is in the emerging markets where we are shipping into those markets from dollar stable kinds of -- or dollar like Chinese or dollar denominated supply chains there is a fair amount of price appreciation going on to partially offset the currency impact and then the US is always brutally competitive and continues to be brutally competitive.
Our next question is from David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Yes.
Good morning.
Congratulations on a great quarter and all the progress.
I guess the CDIY your incremental margins were substantially larger than I'd expected and obviously there's an awful lot going on in that segment right now.
But I guess the question is just how much of this is from the combination of the IAR business and are these contribution margins expected to sustain through the rest of the year? David very fair question.
There are cost benefits to the combination of the IAR business.
Theyre quite small relative to the volume leverage particularly the advantage of a prolific new product development process that really was founded or grounded in our CDIY business.
Its now incorporating IAR.
So roughly three quarters two thirds of the benefit and ability to maintain margins is due to the volume leverage new products and incremental margins and only a small portion would be due to the -- there are some cost benefits but that is truly the icing on the cake rather than the driver for putting these two businesses together.
But as far as the impact in the quarter or in the past couple of quarters its been nil.
This is just getting going so the impact that John just described is yet to come.
Our next question is from Robert Barry from Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Congrats on a very solid quarter.
Wanted to just talk a little more about the organic growth outlook.
You raised it by 1 to 2 points and wanted to clarify how much of that is stronger end markets versus better momentum on your own initiatives and to the extent that it's the markets where are you seeing any incremental strength or weakness? Yeah Ill take a shot at that and Ill certainly ask Jim or Don to chime in.
It is overwhelmingly share gains in our case.
50% of our revenue roughly is in the US.
Those markets are slightly stronger than wed anticipate.
But you saw our Global Tools and Storage business up 12% in the quarter.
So theres significant share gain there.
Europe as I said in my piece of the presentation globally the markets are up 2% at best.
Some estimates are flat and we are up six 6%.
So again its easily 3X the market growth rate.
Now Tools and Storage business is up more than that.
So again share gains.
I think the wild card is in the emerging markets which collectively represent about 20% of our revenue.
Theyre up but at a much lower rate as Jim mentioned in his piece of the presentation.
Certain markets like China and Russia are down but in total the emerging markets are growing at low single digits and so are we.
So simply said the overwhelming majority of what youve seen in our numbers is share gain and again its focused in our Global Tools and Storage business and our Engineered Fastening business.
Our next question is from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley Hey good morning guys.
It's actually Mike Sang in for Nigel.
I didn't see capital deployment guidance and I apologize if you talked about it but you didn't change your free cash guidance but to the extent you do better on free cash this year how should we think about where you'll spend that incremental upside? This is Don.
We didnt specifically give guidance related to capital deployment.
What we have said about this year though is our primary objective was to complete our program of up to $1 billion of share repurchase and you could argue that weve pretty much done that with $900 million of it completed at this point in time.
We also said that we have opened up our -- reopened our funnel of BD opportunities over the last six months or so and we are evaluating different things and we may have some types of small acquisition later in the year of modest size.
But thats really about what the plan is at this stage and we feel good about where we are.
If we outperform our cash flow well have to evaluate the timing of that and would make sense based on whats happening in BD as well as what our stock is trading at that point in time.
Our next question is from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse Hi thanks and quite a nice quarter again.
Some pretty challenges conditions with the FX side.
I wanted to go back to one of the prior comments on walking around the regions.
John I think you've been clear that some of these European comps a lot of it's been driven by some tremendous share growth and new product innovation.
What's the expectation as far as -- I know you mentioned that you think it'll moderate but has the continued strength caused you to push out your expectation for how long you can keep a four or five point premium to the market growth on that side of the business? Sure.
I'm going to have Jim walk you through that but remember weve got a stated objective of growing at 2x the rate of the market and weve been doing a pretty good job in our Global Tools and Storage business.
But Jim I know you want to shade more light on that.
It's a great question because the comps are -- we are comping against two years organics growth in the tool business thats averaging about 7% per quarter.
When you look at the market growth and you look at that you say how long can this go on? It's very fair question but I would say that the team in European tools in particular but also in Engineered Fastening those two management teams are really really growth oriented teams.
And the ability to gain share is not constrained necessary by structural conditions.
If they keep executing at that level then I think that it will be in that 4% to 6% range for a while.
And the other thing about Europe is that even though the markets havent picked up the optimism in Europe is palpably higher.
If you talk to business people in Europe theres a lot of hope I guess is the best phrase or word I can think of but not necessarily with our people.
But when you just talk to people in general in Europe theres a sentiment a more positive sentiment than weve seen in a long long time.
That may actually help with the market and may over time push the market up a few points and certainly that would be helpful as well.
But the reality of tough difficult comps is a real one and it's one where we dont necessarily push our expectations to organic growth much higher than say 4% to 6 %.
I think achieving that 2x market growth is something that we can continue to do for a while.
Our next question is from Jeff Kessler from Imperial Capital Not to steal the thunder from Investor Day but could you go over -- be a little bit more specific as to the four parts of SFS 2 and how they impacted the first quarter how you expect them to impact the year? What are -- specifically what are they going to do? And number two put some numbers to that to flesh it out.
Sure.
Thats kind of like Investor Day but I'll give you a quick snapshot.
Yeah.
That's all I want.
The four initiatives Digital Excellence Breakthrough Innovations Commercial Excellence and Functional Transformation well start with functional transformation is an approach that we are taking to reduce the cost of our staff functions if you will so increase their efficiency while maintaining their effectiveness which is very high.
The functional transformation will yield benefits over a multi-year period but really at the moment we are investing in this.
Theres an actual expense related to it in the quarter and well get into that at the investor day.
The other three are intended to drive growth and they all require some investment but the functional transformation is a way to fund that investment without affecting our day to day operations in a negative way.
Digital Excellence we are doing a fair amount of work in that area to prioritize where were going to make our investments.
So theres not really any revenue impact from that at this point in time.
There are some expenses associated with that.
I think the one that has the most near term impact is Commercial Excellence because commercial excellence includes several different elements.
One of those element is pricing effectiveness and you probably have noticed over the last year or so that we have been averaging about a point in price as a company and that is about a point higher than we have been doing historically.
I would say virtually a large portion of that differential impact is associated with the Commercial Excellence initiative.
There are many other parts to it.
I think I used the term Commercial Excellence several times when I was discussing the CDIY or the Global Tool Business and they have really taken Commercial Excellence and each element of it and deployed it within that business to achieve some of their differentiated performance and share gains.
They can do even more with Commercial Excellence and the rest of the company can really do a lot more with that.
So thats what we expect to see in the future.
And the final one it's important to differentiate between what Ill call incremental innovation or day to day innovation which I think we and our competitors all do reasonably well.
We have things like a good example do that would be the DC brushless innovation that weve done recently and the share gain that weve achieved through that.
The Breakthrough Innovation is basically taking going beyond Incremental Innovation and really looking for those breakthroughs that can change the whole competitive framework of the industry and give us a competitive advantage.
So we have studied competes in the best pockets of breakthrough innovation in the world primarily in the US.
And we have deployed some of the practices that youll see in the valley and so forth.
And we are doing some experimentation with that and we are hopeful that we can create some breakthrough innovations.
In the meantime we are going full speed ahead with our normal incremental innovation and the incremental innovation is really whats driving the share gain and one of the things thats driving the share gain on the tools business today.
Thats a quick snapshot.
Theres plenty more to come on May 15.
Jeff.
Just let me tie that up in a bow without -- and Jim there I think did a very nice job of not stealing our own thunder for Investor Day because weve got a lot of communicate.
We want communicate it very coherently and systematically all in the same place.
But SFS or SFS 1.0 if you like was focused on operational excellence.
We think weve done a very very good job and working capital turns have doubled as a result of that.
Eliminate ways to eliminate complexity unless it adds a benefit that the customer is willing to pay for and so forth.
Youve heard us talk about it a lot.
We think weve gotten it down.
Weve been at it about eight years and we think it truly truly is imbedded in the DNA of this company.
What Jim described is an effort -- in terms of when will the benefits come we are paying as we go and I think Jim described that perfectly in terms of were investing in getting a little bit of benefit.
The future benefits will come well down the road just like they have with SFS.
But importantly it is all designed to embed a growth culture first establish an embedded growth culture within the company.
If we look at all our long-term objectives weve done a really good job meeting or exceeding all of them with the exception of organic growth where over the years weve been at 3% to 4% which is then about the industry average about our competitors average peer group average.
Of late weve stepped that up due to some phenomenal results from the incremental growth platforms and programs that Jim described.
Long-term we are looking to drive that up and just embed it into our culture and have it become equally as important in our DNA as we think running our operations effectively and efficiently has become.
Our next question is from Jeremie Capron from CLSA.
Thanks and good morning.
I wanted to follow up on your commentary on pricing.
You had a full point of price gains in the quarter and you sounded pretty dismissive in terms of any deterioration in the pricing environment globally yet we're seeing a peeled down train in commodity prices.
My question really is how sustainable do you think your price gains are for the remainder of the year and what sort of dynamics are you seeing in terms of your price cost.
It looks like a nice tailwind here.
Sure.
Ill take that one.
Yeah we were very pleased as John mentioned with our price performance in Q1.
Weve talked about price as a company on and off over the last decade several times but in the last year year and half weve really put a significant emphasis on gaining price in different ways across many of our businesses.
Its not always just about list price.
Its about other types of activities that happen with your customers and really trying to drive the maximum value associated with the product or the service that youre providing to your customer.
That emphasis has not changed.
There has been a new dynamic as you mentioned in the last six months or so where commodities have moved in a certain direction its been a benefit to companies like us.
The reality for us is the number is not overly significant.
We touched on it briefly back in January.
Its roughly $50 million of benefits for us on an annualized basis.
At this point in time we continue to evaluate that as we go into next year and see what other opportunities we have.
But its not really large enough to drive a significant pricing discussion across an $11 billion enterprise like our company.
If that dynamic ever changes then we could potentially have the circumstances that you described and we have gone through those cycles.
But we have put significant routines and processes in place around pricing to really deal with these types of dynamics and make sure that we understand the levels of profitability that we are achieving on key products especially what we call our A products and services that we provide and I dont expect that focus to change.
I actually expect it to accelerate and become more mature overtime.
And our next question is from Liam Burke from Wunderlich.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Your growth domestically on Tools and Storage was pretty strong.
You have brought back manufacturing to the US.
Has that program helped drive organic sales growth and do you plan on adding more capacity in the US? Yeah Liam Ill take it.
The answer is absolutely yes.
Yes and yes.
Simply said we knew -- its turned to be not a terrific hedge in terms of production costs because when we first brought this production back we had total delivered product cost.
Obviously we took a lot of product off the water in time and improved our working capital turns.
We had costs within flat to 5% and we are driving that down towards cost neutral relative to some of the low cost countries.
Its probably not at parity now given the strength of the dollar.
That means but we knew it was a good thing to do in terms of supply chain satisfying our customers keeping fill rates above 98%.
We underestimated the positive impact customer reaction particularly in the industrial distribution channel and what we call the two step channel of the quite frankly the loyalty.
It created the incredibly positive reaction from professional contractors and folks working in manufacturing facilities around the country.
So we are very pleased with not only our ability to get the facilities up and running were very pleased with -- were delighted by the customer reaction.
As a consequence were looking at two other opportunities near term in the US and again its not going to be a step function ship but it will be a gradual shift to expand two existing US facilities to produce more of our core products sold primarily in the US in those markets.
More to come on that when it happens.
We cant get ahead of ourselves in terms of our own workforce then our planning and various negotiations are currently in process.
But there is more to come.
As I say it will not be gigantic but it will be incremental or an evolution versus the revolution but based on the results to date weve got a lot of good reasons qualitatively and quantitatively to do some more of this in the next 6 to 18 months.
Our next question is from next question is from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Go ahead Michael with your question.
Mike are you on mute? Move to the next one.
We have a question from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I just want to go back to an earlier question on the margin performance in the first quarter and the new tools and storage business.
If you look year over year that incremental margin being over 70% and I think you talked to for the full year some of the drivers that are plus or minus.
But was just hoping maybe you can talk to specific in the quarter what the drivers were there and then how you think some of those drivers progress as you move through the year.
Sure we can touch on that.
As we touched on obviously we saw significant operating leverage through the organic growth.
We also are seeing really solid benefits from SG&amp;A actions that I mentioned around indirect costs.
Weve seen some good pricing initiatives that drop all the way to the bottom line.
Its a combination of all those factors.
Of course theres also a little bit of commodity deflation occurring as well thats beneficial to this particular business.
Combining that with the fact that I mentioned at the beginning which is organic growth you have a high level of activity happening in our plants that occur because of higher organic growth in Q1 and expected higher organic growth in Q2 well above what we experienced in the first half or the first quarter of last year.
So theres certainly a leverage effect thats even greater than you would normally see because of organic growth numbers that are basically double digit.
And I will now turn it back over to Greg Waybright for closing remarks.
John thank you.
Wed like to thank everyone again for calling in this morning and for your participation in the call.
And obviously please contact me if youve any further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q2 2015 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Amanda and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor and Government Relations Greg Waybright.
Mr.
Waybright you may begin.
Thank you Amanda.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's second quarter 2015 conference call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued earlier this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR section of our website as well as on our iPhone and iPad app.
A replay of this morning's call will also be available beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
The replay number and access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review our second quarter 2015 results and various other matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Consistent with prior calls were going to be sticking with just one question per caller.
And as we normally do we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It is therefore possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent '34 Act filing.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Hey.
Thanks Greg and good morning everybody.
This is an encouraging quarter to say the least as everything from organic growth the margin earnings and capital allocation demonstrated that innovation is robust SFS 2.0.
is gaining traction and our management team and our 50 000 associates around the world are demonstrating agility and executing really well in a volatile environment and as a consequence they are overcoming numerous challenges that are well beyond their control.
So lets get to it second quarter organic growth of 8% offset by currency of negative 8% so essentially flat revenue.
This is our fourth consecutive quarter of organic growth at or above 6% with Tools and Storage leading the way up with 11% organic growth.
We as a company achieved and delivered growth across all three segments.
The Black &amp; Decker merger closed in the first quarter of 2010 more than five years ago and our operating margin in 2Q 15 expanded to a post-merger record of 14.4% plus 70 basis points versus second quarter 2014.
Volume with sharp cost focus and price realization delivered robust operating leverage despite a $50 million foreign currency pressure.
There are lots of puts and takes with respect to FX and Don will provide a lot more detail around this in our estimate for the year which still includes $200 million to $220 million of foreign exchange headwind that we have every intention of overcoming.
Second quarter diluted EPS was a $1.54 up 11% versus prior year overwhelmingly on strong operational performance.
And on June 23rd we announced the dividend increase of 6% from -- to $0.55 a share from $0.52 that maintains our compelling dividend payout and as well as an unrivaled history on the New York Stock Exchange in terms of continuity of dividend payment and increasing the dividend.
As a consequence of a great first half and actions we are taking up for the remainder of the year we are increasing our 2015 full year GAAP EPS guidance range to $5.70 to $5.90 from $5.65 to $5.85 so the range is now up 6% to 10% versus 2014 and thats despite a $1 to $1.10 per share foreign currency earnings pressure.
Lets take a look at our sources of growth which in fact were very similar in terms of both source and geography for the first quarter of 2015.
Volume was up 7%.
We got 1% from price leading to the 8% organic growth that I referred to previously.
No impact from acquisitions offset by 8% price so you see flat revenue for the year -- for the first half of the year as well as for the second quarter.
All geographies showed some strength with the U.S.
leading the way at 11% strong growth in Europe [Technical Difficulty] despite relatively stagnant market condition emerging markets as a total were up 4% despite some areas of weakness specifically Russia and China that Jim will talk to you about in a minute and the rest of the world was up 7%.
So the very very strong second quarter back to back up 8% organic growth so enough from the total there is lots of really good news and strong momentum within each of our three segments.
So let me turn it over to Jim to take closer look.
Okay.
Thanks John.
I'll start with Tools and Storage which continues to be a great story.
Revenue was up 4% while operating margin grew 9% we said our post-merger record with a 64.4% rate once again demonstrating impressive operating leverage gains resulted from volume leverage modestly positive price operational productivity and continued tight SG&amp;A cost management which more than offset another quarter of severe currency headwinds.
Organic growth remained in double-digit territory this time 11% averaging a noteworthy 10% over the last four quarters.
All regions contributed with strong performances as North America was up 14% Europe 7% and emerging markets accelerated to 5% growth.
Across the global product lines organic strength was broad-based with Professional Power Tools up 14% Consumer Power Tools up 15% Accessories up 12% and Hand Tools &amp; Storage up 5%.
The categories benefited from strong customer level execution and new product introductions as the Tools and Storage innovation machine not only remains robust but continues to gain momentum.
Contributing to growth within the quarter was an outdoor season which is tracking to a more normal pattern.
Against this backdrop we released the stream of new products in the category including the DeWALT outdoor which delivers a full line of products with the performance and runtime demanded by long care professionals that includes a compelling new [indiscernible] line which competes favorably with many gas power tools.
This is a great example of DC brushless technology and advances in lithium-ion that have opened up segments that historically have not been served by cordless.
POS was again robust to get across the channels with major big-box customers in the U.S.
continuing their strength aggregate weeks on hand are in a good place remaining at or below prior year levels.
We also believe sell-through in the hardware lumber store and staff channels was very strong as both resi and non-resi markets -- construction markets benefited from good growth in end user demand.
The e-commerce channel continues to grow an importance particularly for the DIY end-user.
This is true for both big-box and independent retailers.
Not surprisingly Industrial markets in the U.S.
remained somewhat weaker than we saw in 2014 but we are still positive.
For the ninth consecutive quarter we are able to highlight Europe at an impressive growth story for Tools.
The business is averaged 7% organic growth over this time period in a relatively flat market.
Our team continues to control their destiny by leveraging our broad stable of leading brands launching new innovative products across categories and adding new points of distribution.
European Tools represents a prime example of commercial excellence and action as we define it in SFS 2.0.
Growth within Tools emerging markets accelerated in the quarter as a double-digit performance in Latin America and solid growth in India Turkey the Middle East and Africa was enough to overcome a steep market related decline in Russia and a weak performance in China.
The mid-price point product rollout led by our Stanley Power Tool line continues to proceed successfully and this important initiative provided support for emerging market growth amidst volatile underlying market conditions.
And looking at the markets our estimate is that the U.S.
is growing about 5% to 7%.
In constant currency the European market is slightly positive and the emerging markets are growing about 2% to 3%.
On a global basis this takes our total market growth in 2Q at about 3% to 4% which when compared with our 11% organic performance implies continued share again.
Many ask us whether or not the high levels of growth can continue as the comps get tougher and global GDP trends slightly lower.
Our response has been consistent.
Organic growth in the double digits against this backdrop will be difficult to sustain however in the environment we are operating in.
This business has the ability to deliver growth within our 4% to 6% targeted levels on an ongoing basis.
We have leading brands global scale and organization that continue to raise its own high standards for innovation as well for commercial and supply chain excellence.
And clearly we are well on the way to creating the organic growth culture and vision when we integrated Stanley and Black &amp; Decker.
SFS 2.O is the new catalyst which will continue to drive momentum.
Now moving to security.
We continue to make progress on most underlying businesses in security although this quarter it was two steps forward and one back.
Execution in both Europe and the North America Mechanical Locking businesses was very encouraging.
However North American convergent we are continuing to deal with growing pains related to an increasingly complex business mix specifically installing jobs efficiently.
It was truly a watershed quarter for Europe where the list of the compliments including 3% organic growth and double-digit order rates attrition within target ranges and the successful sale of Spain and Italy with nominal but positive cash proceeds.
Our European management team is executing well and delivering their turnaround commitments.
North American Mechanical Lock business also showed excellent progress with 4% organic growth and improving profitability.
The business looks to finally be emerging from the challenges of the distribution model change era and is now focused on revitalizing its performance through innovation and commercial excellence.
The biggest challenge of the quarter was in our North American Electronics business where continued gains in vertical markets were achieved at the expense of core growth as the team struggled with the efficient installation of some of the larger more complex vertical market jobs.
These challenges are well understood and being addressed by our new and capable management team.
Softness in Asia also cut into security 2Q organic growth and profitability.
So overall we made some very good operational progress in the quarter with some isolated and manageable issues.
We continued to be confident in a positive trajectory for security and remain committed to our assessment of its strategic fit by the second half of 2016.
Now turning to Industrial.
Industrial had a solid quarter led by another steady performance from Engineered Fastening and Resilient Infrastructure business the latter of which is battling significant market headwinds in oil and gas and hydraulics.
The net result was a 4% decrease in revenue as 4% organic growth was more than offset by an 8 point negative currency headwind.
Margins rebounded sequentially to 19.1% and expanded 140 basis points versus 2014 while operating margin grew by $3 million or 3%.
Volume leverage across Engineered Fastening and Oil and Gas combined with tight cost controls and pricing more than offset the negative profit impact of foreign exchange.
Engineered Fastening delivered a 4% organic performance led by high single-digit automotive growth once again outpacing light vehicle production which was relatively flat.
Additionally we saw solid growth within Electronics.
This was offset lower North American Industrial sales tied to a slowing market.
So it was an impressive quarter of organic growth and margin expansion despite the translational currency headwinds experienced within the business.
Infrastructure which include oil and gas and hydraulics was up 3% quite an accomplishment considering the market exposures of these businesses.
Oil and gas benefited from a large international equipment sale which contributed to 11% organic growth for the quarter.
We still expect this business to decline organically for the full year but this quarter's results are a great example of the teams willingness to drive forward in the face of market headwinds.
Growth was moderated by a 13% decline within the hydraulics business which services demolition markets that are highly correlated to the vagaries of the scrap steel market.
All in all it was a solid operational performance in industrial with organic growth and margin expansion despite soft markets and significant currency headwinds.
But as you look at this quarter's performance in the aggregate for the company it represents another strong quarter with 8% organic growth record operating margin levels that expanded 70 basis points in the face of 80 basis points of year-over-year currency headwinds.
Our management team continues to execute at a high level overcoming numerous external obstacles including the strong dollar and dynamic end markets to produce exceptional results.
With that I'll turn it over to Don Allan.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning.
Id like to start by spending a little bit time on our second quarter and year-to-date free cash flow performance.
For the second quarter free cash flow was $247 million which brings us to a relatively neutral performance on a year-to-date basis.
The quarterly and the year-to-date declines versus the prior year are explained by carrying higher amounts of inventory compared to last year to service the increased levels of organic growth we are experiencing primarily within Tools &amp; Storage business.
We do however continue to realize benefits from applying our core SFS process and principles.
And for the second quarter we achieved seven working capital turns which was two times of a turn expansion versus the prior year.
We are confident that we will deliver a continued improvement in 2015 towards our vision of 10 plus working capital turns for the company.
We will continue to monitor the working capital levels closely to ensure they are adequate to support our higher growth expectations for the full year.
The core SFS principles require agility to respond when business conditions change such as the strong organic growth we've experienced in the last four quarters.
SFS has enabled us to reach working capital on asset efficiency levels that are considered world-class compared to our Industrial and Security peers but at the same time allowing us to be agile in changing market conditions to ensure we meet our customers needs.
Id also like to spend a little bit of time and give you a quick update on our share repurchase program.
During the quarter we executed cash repurchases of approximately $100 million.
Taking into account all the actions to date this brings the cumulative total share actions to the equivalent of approximately $1 billion which fully achieves our plan announced back in the fourth quarter of 2013.
As we reviewed during our Investor Day in May you should expect us to return over time to a capital allocation of approximately 50% of our free cash flow being deployed to M&amp;A and the remaining 50% back to our shareholders via dividend or the occasional optimistic share repurchase.
So lets move to page 10 and spend a little bit of time on the 2015 outlook.
As indicated by John earlier we are increasing the 2015 EPS guidance range to $5.70 to $5.90 versus the previous range of $5.65 to $5.85.
This is due to stronger organic growth as well as additional indirect cost savings which will be partially reduced by slower margin improvement trajectory within Security.
So lets walk through a little bit of the detailed around these assumptions to provide a level of information that leads to a $0.05 increase to the midpoint of our prior outlook guidance range.
First we expect organic growth to be approximately 6% versus our prior expectations of approximately 5%.
This change recognizes the strong organic growth momentum that continues with our Tools &amp; Storage business.
Additionally we are increasing our expectation modestly within Engineered Fastening due to the solid first half trends within that business.
These improve growth expectations combined with all of our other businesses tracking to their planned organic growth rates results in an overall improved performance for 2015.
This overall improved growth performance contributes an incremental $0.15 EPS impact over and above the EPS benefit that was included in our guidance last quarter.
The next item Id like to touch on is the work weve been doing on our indirect cost savings programs across the company that continue to yield benefit throughout 2015.
This should contribute approximately an additional $0.05 of EPS benefit versus our last quarter's guidance as well.
So the total of those two items contribute $0.20 in positive momentum versus our April guidance.
Finally we now expect a slower trajectory of margin improvement within Security due primarily to the North American electronics project mix matter that was described by Jim earlier.
This represents a headwind of approximately $0.15 of EPS for 2015 versus our April guidance assumptions.
All the other planning assumptions within guidance including FX tax rate shares and restructuring costs remain the same.
But I would like to spend a little time discussing FX but there has been various movements in currency over the past few months.
However based on the present spot rates this week our current estimate of 2015 versus the prior year is still within our April range of $200 million to $220 million.
Significant movements in the British pound the euro Canadian dollar and Brazilian real over the past few months have netted to a relatively neutral impact versus that April estimate.
A few other key items of note relative to our annual EPS guidance that you should be aware of.
The first item is restructuring charges in the third quarter of 2015 will approximate 30% of the full year expectation of $50 million.
There is some timing shift from the second quarter into the third quarter for several key actions.
The second item is related to the third quarter as well.
I have a few comments that I want you to understand related the timing for the back half of the year.
First we obviously expect higher planned restructuring charges in the third quarter versus our April estimate as well as a higher tax rate in that quarter as well.
Combining that with the significant currency headwind this will result in the third quarter EPS of approximately 24% to 25% of the full year EPS estimate.
Another factor to consider when you look at the third quarter is the operating margin rate.
It will be relatively flat versus the prior year as we experienced the largest quarterly impact of currency headwinds during this quarter which is estimated at this point to be approximately $75 million.
Lets turn to segments on the right side of the page.
We expect high single-digit organic revenue growth solid operating margin expansion year-over-year in the Tools &amp; Storage segment due to the volume leverage cost actions price and other significant positive actions that Jim touched on earlier in his commentary which will more than offset the significant currency headwind we are experiencing in that business.
Organic growth is expected to decelerate slightly in the back half on more difficult comparables but still will be at very healthy levels.
Moving to our Security segment we still expect to have modest organic growth for the full year.
The organic growth in Security North America will compliment an improving performance in Security Europe which continued its good momentum in the second quarter as you heard from Jim.
This growth will be partially offset by declines within the China markets as we continue to see some pressure in that part of the business.
Profitability will be relatively flat versus the prior year as Security Europe will deliver solid year-over-year profit growth and North America mechanical will have healthy volume leverage.
However these improvements are being offset by negative North America electronics project mix as well as lower volumes within China.
As Jim stated earlier on the call and we have stated previously several times the multi-year growth in margin rates recovery trajectory of this business will not necessarily be linear.
And we will have occasional timing dynamics to work through resulting from the ongoing transformational activities.
Now moving to Industrial we still expect solid mid-single-digit organic growth as Engineered Fastening strengths will be able to move -- to more than offset the declines in our infrastructure business.
We also expect margins to be flat to up versus prior year as volume leverage generated by Engineered Fastening and cost controls will more than offset the deleveraging impact of both of our infrastructure businesses due to the sluggish market conditions that were touched upon by Jim.
In summary our revised EPS guidance range demonstrates the impact of our organic growth strength combined with indirect cost savings which are more than offsetting the slower margin improvement trajectory within Security.
Therefore we will achieve solid operating margin leverage and a robust organic growth even with significant currency headwinds which means we expect earnings will expand 6% to 10% on an overall revenue decline of approximately 1% in 2015.
The last thing to touch on this page is related to our free cash outlook for the year which we still anticipate be at least a $1 billion.
However as I mentioned earlier we are monitoring the relatively higher levels of working capital experienced in first half of the year to ensure our working capital is adequate to service the higher organic growth expectations for the full year.
This dynamic could put modest pressure on our free cash estimates for 2015.
So lets summarize the presentation portion of our call today.
We delivered a very strong first half for the year and here are some of the highlights.
We are very pleased with another quarter of strong organic growth our fourth in a row at or above 6%.
The proactive tight cost controls surgical price actions across the company enabled excellent second quarter operating leverage in the face of $50 million currency headwinds.
Progress continues with Securitys multiyear transformation with favorable results in the European electronic and North America mechanical businesses.
And then finally our share count actions we have taken since the start of the fourth quarter of 2014 have effectively satisfied the approximately $1 billion of share reduction plans that we announced in November of 2013.
As we communicated during our Investor Day in May our focus in 2015 and beyond will be leveraging our world-class franchises and brands strong free cash flow generation and continued shareholder friendly capital allocation.
This continues to manifest itself through our focus on accelerating organic growth through SFS 2.0 advancing our Security multiyear transformation so the portfolio review of this business is fit by the second half of 2016.
Continue our disciplined approach to cost and pricing actions to ensure operating leverage is achieved.
And ongoing focus on working capital towards our 10 plus returns goal and finally resuming M&amp;A activity likely in the second half of 2015 with a focus on Tools &amp; Storage and our Engineered Fastening franchises.
We believe this approach will help position our company to deliver on the 2018 financial objectives we communicated back in May.
That concludes the presentation portion of the call.
Now lets go to Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thanks.
Thanks Don.
Amanda we can now open the call to Q&amp;A please.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Tim Wojs from Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hey guys.
Great job.
Thanks Tim.
I guess just starting I guess my questions more in the Tools &amp; Storage business.
Could you just talk about maybe what you are seeing from a DIY and Professional Power Tools end customer standpoint? And youre starting to see I guess on the professional side -- are you starting to see employment come back in construction? Is that really a multiyear trend that will really benefit growth as we think about the next couple of years? Yes.
Hey Tim this is John.
Its a complex answer and that it varies a lot by geography.
And I think thats the only point I want to leave you with.
The trends in the US are good.
As demonstrated by the numbers that Jim walked you through were seeing more end users were seeing both online purchases purchases through the two step channel professional purchases through the big box all good.
You see or large customers numbers at the same time we do.
They are nicely 5% to 7% and of course were above double that rate.
So we are gaining share.
Now that being said and thats 50% as you know or 52% of our revenue is in North America.
Europe is relatively flat.
So our organic growth in Europe is representing growth of 2 3 4 times the rate of the market.
It certainly hit bottom.
We dont see it getting any worse.
But in Europe its far from robust.
And the rest of the world I think Jim talked about it pretty nicely.
There are certain emerging markets China and Russia way down China relatively flat the rest of the world doing okay.
But in the North American market we are cautiously optimistic that the signs are positive.
They could be better but they are certainly more positive than they have been.
That shows up in our customers numbers and it certainly shows up in our numbers.
So thats helping us maintain a cautiously optimistic outlook.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
The phenomenal performance in tools and storages forces me to a question on security.
So North American conversion can you just elaborate a little bit more on whats going on there? Is there an issue of not pricing properly for complexity? Or is there an issue of just kind of experience and competency on bigger jobs and kind of a learning curve? Any additional color there would be helpful.
Its Jim.
I think the issue is more of a learning curve issue.
Its also a little bit of an organizational issue in terms of how exactly how were organized and the types of people we have experience the level of experience that we have with people installing these very complex jobs because were getting into highly engineered solutions with Internet of things and software.
And its much more complex than the typical historical access control and intrusion type systems that we used to have.
So there is a learning curve there and there is also a bit of a talent kind of training and development issue.
Now pricing I think were gaining experience on pricing.
We are creating a lot of value with many of these solutions and some of the verticals we are doing a really job capturing the price the value in the form of price and then some of the other verticals.
We need to improve it as well.
So I think we will see continued progress in terms of the moving up the learning curve but its not an overnight kind of a process.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of David MacGregor from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Congratulations on a great quarter as well.
In security you talked last quarter about seeing an increased order rate and then that came through strongly this quarter and now youre talking about seeing the ordering rate in Europe continuing to grow.
I guess the question is really just whats the rate of growth youre seeing in those orders? Does that order growth have a long tail or do those orders come through much more immediately? The order growth definitely has a long tail.
It typically averages about six months in terms of its tail and the backlog is growing in North America and in Europe it is growing as well I would say growing even more in North America.
The European folks are doing a better job efficiently installing the backlog.
North American folks have a growing backlog and have the opportunity to install at a faster rate but are experiencing some learning curve issues as we just discussed.
So its all encouraging from an order rate perspective and we just need to do a better job in North America on the installation side.
Yes David.
This is John.
Just to add on because it ties into a Jeffs question earlier and I think Jeff you are on the right track and Jim I think explained very well what it is.
Within that long tail you have a mix of obviously size of projects as well as margins.
And in appropriate world we installed a higher margin projects first which is not always an option obviously given contractual commitments and customer needs.
But its one of the more difficult businesses when we just look at open orders or backlog to forecast that on a quarterly basis because the sixth plus months of time to get these things install.
So Jeffs earlier question and yours are right on.
I think Jim described it is as accurately as we are able to.
And we continue to learn more about it everyday and were getting better everyday at both prioritization pricing cost estimating and its all part of a learning curve to which Jim spoke.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Barry from Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wondered if you could comment on the benefit to industrial revenue and margin in the quarter from the large oil and gas equipment sale.
And then more broadly what is your outlook for the oil and gas or infrastructure business? Thank you.
Sure.
This is Don.
I will take that one.
We did -- as Jim mentioned we did have a large order in the second quarter associated with equipment which does happen occasionally in this business and particularly in the Far East.
We do get an occasional situation whether the large pipeline being constructed and we are just primarily selling equipment and then training them on how to use the equipment effectively in the construction process.
Those things range from occurrence from anywhere from 6 to 12 months occasion they happen but they are very sporadic.
And we dont end to plan for those types of sales.
And I think its just happened to occur in the month of June which were all very pleased to see.
As far as our outlook of oil and gas I mean which continues to be similar to what weve been saying for the last almost year now where the level of activity of construction of pipeline is really on the onshore really not existing at this stage.
There continues to be a lot of activity within the industry about the potential kind of ramp up of activity in 2016.
We have not seen specific quotes within that nature of the stage that would give us a high level of confidence but then weve also seen a downturn lately in the oil prices as well.
So there is still volatility in this space but ultimately we do feel that we are going to see some type of ramp up in activity in the next 12 to 18 months of pipeline construction because there is a great deal of pent-up volume that needs to be dealt with and have to take to the stage.
We are also seeing on the oil and gas onshore.
Its the onshore business that looks like it might get some legs next year because we are doing a lot of prep work with specifications right now.
Our concern is and the reason Don is very circumspect about it is because there is a good chance that these types of projects will get delayed if the oil prices dont recover.
And again the gas prices are also a factor here because the onshore market is about 70% gas.
The offshore market which is another big piece of our business doesnt look to be too favorable anytime soon.
So its kind of a mixed bag and we expect probably double-digit declines in the oil and gas for the next couple of quarters and then we will see what happens when the comps get easier and the activity picks up.
The other thing I would want to just go back on the first part of the question just to make sure people dont get a view that this order was a huge impact to the second quarter.
The impact at margin the profit for EPS was less than $0.02 of EPS in the quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeremie Capron from CLSA.
Your line is open.
So this is Grace Lee sitting in for Jeremie Capron.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
We hear quite a broad-based trend in automotives end market.
Could you give us a more color around engineered fastening? In which market do you see the strongest growth? And also how would you envision the growth trajectory going forward? Well when you say which market I mean we generally Geographically.
Yes geographically okay.
So Asia was -- were generally outpacing light vehicle production wherever we are operating geographically.
I will say that I think the North American and European markets were a little stronger than the Asian markets in this particular quarter but its all over the map in terms of quarterly -- quarter-to-quarter.
So its -- I would say that its -- our growth is not -- is less market related and more just penetration of platform lot of platforms as we go here but we do consider although overall production was about flat for the global light vehicle.
So it wasnt a particularly strong quarter at all for the market.
And our long-term view of that business answering the second half your question is that we think its a business that fits into our long-term organic growth vision of 4% to 6%.
And its demonstrated a good track record to be within that range.
And as it adopts more of the commercial excellence activities and innovation activities thats 2.0 we think that will only assist in that ability to continue that on a long-term basis.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Rich Kwas from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
This is Deepa Raghavan for Rich Kwas.
Two questions.
Two parts to it.
Oil and gas business I know you mentioned 11% organic growth spike -- from one-time spike but could you share with us what the revenue growth for the total industrials would have been on an organic basis ex this spike? And also what the margin number might have been ex this one-time item? I am just trying to squarer up these strong margins you printed this quarter with the forecast.
Second one.
I will make it very clear.
It was $7 million of revenue and $3.5 million of operation margin.
Which translates to less than $0.02 a share due to the large relatively large for oil and gas its less than a $300 million business.
So when you get a $7 million order shipped in the quarter thats large on a very small base on our $2 billion plus industrial segment base or $1.7 billion engineered fastening base.
However if you want to look at it within oil and gas it was large; within the segment it was tiny.
And then just for analytical purposes we understand why youre trying to get to a run rate but please dont think of it as a one-time item because its part of the ongoing discussion.
As we said many times as it relates to oil and gas its one of our few businesses infrastructure in general and oil and gas in particular where its a long cycle business with large lumpy orders unlike our Global Tools and Storage business and even a security business the way we install and recognize revenue.
You get large orders and depending on when they are fulfilled in a quarter has tremendous variations.
So its one of our few businesses where quarter-to-quarter the numbers can vary dramatically due simply to timing.
And as I said earlier an answer to the first question weve seen this roughly every six to nine months.
We have sometimes as large order like this so its not a one-time item.
Maybe one time in a specific quarter but when you look at a year you can have one to two of these and even occasionally three that happen every year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Liam Burke from Wunderlich.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you.
In the tools and storage business you talked partially about the construction.
Outside the construction both on the industrial and on MAC tools how those markets have been for you? Well the markets have generally been good in terms of MAC tools and markets.
As you looked at some of the numbers that come out theyve been very good.
The statistics very recently published in the last 10 years in the U.S.
which is overwhelmingly where MAC tools is of course.
Car ownership the average age of cars on the road has gone from slightly under nine to slightly over 11 years which means cars have been built better but it also means theyre on the road longer and so there is a generally healthy environment for automotive repair and automotive aftermarket.
Thats clearly helping MAC.
Whats also helping MAC is just the benefit of it been part of our Global Tools &amp; Storage business with a great product development product introduction good sales rhythm good forecasting.
A lot of the newer cars of course require a lot of diagnostics and something where were relatively underdeveloped compared to some of the competition.
But in general Liam those markets are healthy.
And we benefited from that but we clearly believe we are growing faster than those end markets which implies share gain of course.
On the industrial side clearly there is a big differentiation within industrial markets by segment.
And so the oil and gas issues within industrial marketplace are weighing on growth.
We got ag laying on growth and mining as well and hydraulics.
So mixed bag in industry I would say the MRO channel is little weaker than it has been maybe inventories are little higher were not sure about that but it feels that way.
We dont have great data on the MRO channel.
It seems like there might -- wont call it a correction but sort of an inventory build maybe going on there.
So in general the industrial markets are a little weaker than they have been over the last year or so.
And next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks very much guys.
Strong quarter.
I guess a couple of questions but let me just ask one.
Essentially this quarter in terms of guidance you are talking about your year coming in about $0.20 better due to the frankly organic growth and then I guess $0.15 headwind due to the security issues that have been discussed.
I guess I'm curious as to what happened in the quarter.
If you could give us a sense for how much better the organic growth in terms of cents in that same basis $0.20 and that was the $0.15.
If you could give us a sense for what happened in the quarter in those two buckets? How much better was the organic growth in terms of cents and how much worse was the security relative to your expectations going-in in the quarter? Thanks.
Ill take that.
This is Don.
I think our organic growth was about two points better in the second quarter versus beginning of the quarter expectation and most of that was driven as you might imagine in Tools &amp; Storage a little bit an Engineered Fastening.
Our EPS level how does it play out $0.20 versus $0.15? I mean the way my view would be security was about $0.03 to $0.05 off expectation in the second quarter and you can do the math the rest of the way.
But clearly Tools and Storage outperformance depending on how you look at our outperformance of the company we look at the vast majority of that $0.10 as an operational outperformance and a lot of thats being driven by Tools &amp; Storage.
There is some plusses and minuses below operating margin but the bulk of that is next to zero.
And really what youre looking at is a $0.05 to $0.08 operational outperformance but if you factor that $0.03 to $0.05 in then Tools &amp; storage was somewhere around $0.08 to $0.10 or $0.12 outperformance.
Tools &amp; Storage plus industrial.
Plus industrial.
Thank you John.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Its Mike Sang for Nigel.
A few comments on how the quarter phased? I mean were getting conflicting data points with oil and gas over dipping and [indiscernible] is volatile and I think even construction has been a little bit lumpy.
So if you could talk about growth ex in June and how thats trending to July that would be great? Im just trying to get a feel for back half of this facility? Thanks.
This is Don.
Ill take that one.
We -- actually when you look at the second quarter we saw a pretty balance level of growth across the quarter especially in Tools -- actually in all our business.
As we look at all our businesses we saw relatively healthy growth in all our businesses in each point of month across the quarter.
And so we didn't see an accelerating trend or a decelerating trend in the month of June.
Our guidance is reflective.
Obviously we feel good with what weve experienced in the first half of the year and the momentum as we exited the first half of the year which allowed us to increase our organic growth assumption of 5% to 6%.
So were clearly seeing trends that make us feel at least reasonably good about the market.
We will be the first one to admit.
There is a lot of conflicting data and information out there across the construction and industrial phase as to what might happen in the back half of the year.
And as a result weve evaluated that combined with a very healthy organic growth performance in the first half.
I think weve put forth a very balanced view of the full year.
And just to add briefly do that.
I think as Jim pointed out in his piece of the presentation our largest business obviously is within GT&amp;S Global Tools &amp; Storage.
Its where we have the best data.
Inventories are at or slightly below normal levels that bodes well for the future.
Thats partially offset by relatively weak industrial markets compared to what wed like to see.
But simply said a very smooth quarter and a very good position in terms of inventories at the customer level which has led to our guiding the second half of the year the way we have versus importantly if you look at the details some very very steep and difficult comps but keep that in mind as you look forward.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie Capital.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Congratulations on the organic growth.
Thank you.
My question was on the Security business.
You return to the organic growth in Europe.
Can you give us some color in terms of what the margin range is now the improvement in Europe? And is that -- is your decision on what action youre going to take in security dependent upon the execution of the business or the valuation kind of how that parses out within family? Thank you.
As far as Europe goes as Jim mentioned in a nice level of detail that the business continues to progress forward.
Its turned the corner in the sense of organic growth over the last two or three quarters.
Were starting to demonstrate modest level of 3% in the second quarter which we're pleased with.
The profitability continues to improve.
Its still in the range of mid to high-single digits and as it exit this year it will certainly be at the high single-digit level as it continues to progress in the back half of the year through its transformation.
So we really -- and thats really what weve communicated in the past so its consistently performing with our expectation.
As far as our view as to our decision associated with the fit in the portfolio it will be a combination of factors to evaluate.
And certainly the one that probably drives the most a largest part of decision will be valuation and if the valuation improves based on a certain outcome that we make related to that decision.
And ultimately we believe were here to drive shareholder value over the long-term and if we think whatever decision we make is going to achieve that result that will be a big driver of decision.
Certainly evaluating how its performing is a factor but I don't think its the primary one.
Yeah.
Let me -- this is John.
Let me just add to that.
I certainly agree with everything Don said.
But as weve had a lot of focus again on the 15% of our business thats performing slightly below our line average specifically.
So I think Jim pointed out European security and North American conversion.
Were focused on improving the performance.
But I think it's fairly important just to note that while its -- that subsegment of that segment are performing at a level slightly below our [OM] [ph] average.
Theyre performing right in the middle of fair way relative to their peers.
This is not a broken business.
Its the business thats performing not as well as it has in the past.
There is some industry trends as well as some internal executional issues that Jim spoke about I think in great detail.
I guess I just -- we need to be on record.
This is not a broken business.
Its a good business.
It's been better and it will be better going forward.
And our assessment of it will be based on both the trends that as Don said were here to create shareholder value.
Thats ultimately going to be the driver this time next year as we zero in on it fit in our portfolio relative to elsewhere.
Thank you.
And Ill now turn the call back over to Greg for closing remarks.
Amanda thanks.
Wed like to thank everyone again calling in this morning and for your participation in the call and obviously please contact me if you have any further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor &amp; Government Relations Greg Waybright.
Mr.
Waybright you may begin.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's third quarter 2015 conference call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree President and COO; and Don Allan Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued earlier this morning and a supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR section of our website as well as on our iPhone and iPad applications.
A replay of this morning's call will also be available beginning at 2:00 PM today.
The replay number and the access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review our third quarter 2015 results and various other matters followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Consistent with prior calls we are going to be sticking with just one question per caller.
And as we normally do we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It's therefore possible that actual results may materially differ from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
We direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in our most recent 1934 Act filing.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Hey thanks Greg.
Good morning everybody.
We are fortunate to be in a position to report another healthy operational quarter featuring strong organic growth as well as margin expansion.
You saw in the press release organic growth was 6% offset by currency which was a negative 8% and as a consequence net sales were down 2% as the foreign exchange headwinds we've talked about on past calls continue at historically high levels.
This was the fifth consecutive quarter of organic growth at or above 6% for the company on a combined basis with impressive growth once again from the Tools &amp; Storage business 9%.
Jim will give you a lot more segment detail in just a minute.
Our operating margin rate expanded to a post-merger record of 14.8% which is 70 basis points ahead of third quarter 2014.
And we attribute this to volume with sharp cost focus price realization in both developed and emerging markets and commodity deflation that together delivered robust operating leverage despite $70 million in foreign currency pressure during the quarter.
And we opportunistically repurchased about $200 million worth of shares within the quarter capitalizing on the recent U.S.
equity market declines.
So the combination of organic growth and the margin expansion led the third quarter fully diluted EPS of $1.55 which is up 1% versus prior year as the strong operational performance more than offset tax and restructuring headwinds.
Specifically the third quarter tax rate that Don will talk about of 24.5% with 540 basis points higher than prior year while restructuring charges in the quarter were approximately $14 million higher than the third quarter of 2014.
So the restructuring charges were about a $0.07 (3:47) EPS headwind during the quarter.
As a consequence of our third quarter performance and our outlook for the fourth quarter we're increasing 2015's full year GAAP EPS guidance range to $5.80 to $5.95 and that's up from our prior guidance of $5.70 to $5.90.
So up 8% to 11% versus the prior year.
Not surprisingly I'm just really pleased with our organization's demonstrable agility in delivering both organic growth and operating leverage in such a dynamic operating environment.
Organic growth remained strong but diving just a little bit deeper into the sources of our growth it was broad-based.
Volume grew 5% and was aided by 100 basis points of price realization from a combination of efforts to combat the currency headwinds in many of our markets overseas and the implementation of surgical pricing actions domestically resulting in a total of 6% organic growth for the quarter.
As already mentioned the foreign exchange headwinds remained severe and they detracted 8 percentage points from our performance during the quarter.
All geographies grew mid-single digits with the U.S.
leading the pack and Europe growing well above market rates.
Our emerging market group in the rest of the world also posted solid growth despite doing no business in Venezuela and softness in Russia China and Australia.
Interestingly Japan grew 8% driven by strong STANLEY Engineered Fastening performance in the automotive markets.
Let's take a closer look at the segments and Jim is going to walk you through that in a lot more detail.
Okay.
Thank you John.
I'll start with Tools &amp; Storage.
It was another banner quarter for the team in this strong momentum business.
Revenue was up 2% while operating margin grew 8%.
We once again set a post-merger record with a 16.7% operating margin rate demonstrating impressive leverage.
Gains resulted from volume related incrementals modestly positive price variable cost productivity continued tight SG&amp;A cost management and some benefit from input price reductions the combination of which more than offset severe currency headwinds.
Organic growth remained strong up 9% overcoming a 9% comp in a noteworthy fifth quarter in a row at or above that 9% growth level.
All regions contributed with strong performances as North America was up 11% Europe was up 7% and emerging markets up 6%.
Organic strength was prevalent across the global product lines with professional power tools up 9% consumer power tools up 12% accessories up 9% and hand tools and storage up 8%.
All categories benefited from strong customer level and new product commercial execution.
Encouragingly this overall performance shows that the Tools &amp; Storage growth in innovation machine can continue to be successful in the face of tougher comps.
The combination of the launch of our DEWALT Outdoor line as well as other enhanced products in conjunction with a more normal weather pattern this year resulted in the successful outdoor season that was up double digits for the quarter as well as year-to-date.
POS was again robust across the channels with major big-box customers in the U.S.
continuing their recent strength.
Aggregate weeks on-hand at retail is in a good place in line with historical levels.
The U.S.
hardware lumber stores STAFDA and online channels were again very strong as construction markets benefited from growth in end-user demand and our own commercial execution took that a step further.
Mac Tools growth continued at impressive levels continuing to outpace the healthy North American automotive aftermarket on the strength of new product and a growing franchisee base.
Not surprisingly we did experience softness in our U.S.
industrial markets which was directly attributable to the slowdown in Oil &amp; Gas and mining end markets.
Europe continued with its impressive organic growth and commercial excellence averaging 7% growth over the last 10 quarters in a flattish market.
The share gains in the quarter have been broad with almost all markets showing a positive performance.
The stream of new innovative products adding new points of distribution and leveraging our stable of iconic brands is a winning model that continues to reinforce our position as the world leader in Tools &amp; Storage.
Emerging market organic growth was again encouraging at 6% as double-digit performance in Latin America the Middle East and Southeast Asia more than offset steep declines in Russia and a weak performance in China.
The mid-price point product rollout led by STANLEY Branded Power Tools continued to be timely and effective as end users tend to be more value-oriented in economies under economic duress.
And clearly the scale maturity and depth of our emerging market team in conjunction with this important initiative continues to bolster our organic growth and overall developing market performance in a more than challenging and volatile environment.
I would like to take just a moment to recognize our Global Tools &amp; Storage management team in both the developed and developing markets.
The results speak for themselves.
Organic growth averaging 10% over the last five quarters margins up by 130 basis points year-to-date and at record levels despite about 150 points of FX pressure expected for the year SFS 2.0 is clearly enabling strong customer execution outsized organic growth margin expansion and over 9 working capital turns.
And some people have the perception that we are simply riding the U.S.
construction and DIY wave and we are to an extent.
However only about 40% of the Global Tools business benefits from that.
What we're clearly seeing is the manifestation of a performance culture grounded in SFS second and third order benefits from the Stanley Black &amp; Decker merger and the potential of the world's leading Tools &amp; Storage franchise.
What is exciting is that there is even more opportunity ahead as the team takes SFS 2.0 to the next level which we will begin to see in 2016.
Now moving to Security.
This was clearly a quarter of advancement for Security demonstrating the operational progress that we are looking for as we pursue our multi-year plan to transform the business.
Execution within Europe was outstanding and both the North American electronics and mechanical locks businesses took encouraging steps forward.
Europe again had a long list of accomplishments including 4% organic growth another double-digit order rate performance attrition rates within their target zone and operating margin which improved versus prior year for the fourth consecutive quarter and is now in the high single digits.
Commercial execution exhibited good breadth with organic growth achieved in all major geographic markets and signs that we are beginning to move the market share needle into positive territory.
In recent quarters our European management team has demonstrated the winning spirit that comes with consistently delivering organic growth and profitability commitments while winning in the marketplace.
The U.S.
mechanical lock business also showed progress with 4% organic growth and improving profitability.
Our management team remains focused on specification writing revitalizing product lines through innovation and driving commercial excellence.
North American electronics security had a mixed quarter with more positives than negatives.
On the plus side there was sequential margin expansion operational stability and financial predictability.
And on the other side of the ledger inorganic revenue decline.
While we continue to improve field operational performance increase order rates and grow a healthy backlog the opportunity to deliver growth and margin expansion is there in coming quarters.
And Security is relatively a small emerging market domain significant softness in China cut into overall segment organic growth and profitability once again muting some of the gains across the other businesses.
Now turning to Industrial.
Industrial delivered another steady performance from Engineered Fastening and weathered market-related declines within Infrastructure.
And that result was a 7% decrease in revenue as flat organic growth was more than offset by 7 points negative currency.
Margins were up modestly as volume leverage in Engineered Fastening tight cost controls and pricing more than offset the negative impact of foreign exchange and organic declines in the Infrastructure businesses.
Engineered Fastening posted 3% organic growth led by double-digit performance in automotive once again outpacing global light vehicle production which was relatively flat in the quarter.
Additionally we saw a solid growth within electronics.
This growth offset lower North America Industrial sales tied to weakening market conditions.
All in all it was an impressive quarter of organic growth and margin expansion for Engineered Fastening despite the translational currency headwinds experienced within the business.
Infrastructure which includes Oil &amp; Gas and Hydraulics was down 10% in line with our expectations.
Oil &amp; Gas was down 7% as signs of life in the onshore North American market were not enough to offset continued declines and global onshore and offshore pipeline activity.
Growth in Hydraulics was down 17% as volume in our demolition shares is correlated to pricing levels in the scrap steel market.
In summary it was a solid operational performance by the Industrial teams holding organic growth flat and expanding the operating margin rate despite soft infrastructure and global industrial markets as well as a significant currency drag.
So as we assess this quarter's performance in the aggregate it represents another strong quarter for the overall company with 6% organic growth and record operating margin levels that expanded 70 basis points despite approximately 150 basis points of currency headwinds.
We are now on track to grow EPS 8% to 11% in 2015 despite friction from external obstacles including the strong dollar and dynamic end markets.
We are also in good shape for 2016.
Our balance sheet is solid and at current exchange rates our FX headwinds will begin to decrease and we have a series of growth and margin enhancing initiatives both underway and planned.
We also have a solid M&amp;A pipeline and expect to resume our inorganic growth activities in a measured but meaningful way in the near future.
We look forward to finishing 2015 at our upgraded EPS guidance levels and entering 2016 with a viable roadmap for revenue cash flow and EPS growth.
We thank you and I'll now turn it over to Don Allan.
Thank you Jim.
I'd like to begin with our third quarter and year-to-date free cash flow performance.
For the third quarter free cash flow was $171 million which was down modestly from last year's results.
This brings the year-to-date performance to $174 million.
The lower year-to-date results compared to the prior year is mainly explained by higher inventory levels needed in the summer and the fall of 2015 which were required to service the increased levels of organic growth we are experiencing primarily within the Tools &amp; Storage business.
The core SFS principles require agility to respond when business conditions change such as the strong organic growth we have experienced recently.
SFS has enabled us to reach working capital and asset efficiency levels that are considered world-class compared to our industrial and security peers while being agile to changing market conditions to ensure we meet our customers' needs.
We expect that by the end of 2015 we will deliver approximately a 0.5 working capital turn improvement versus the prior year and achieve turns within the range of 9.5 to 9.7 times which will demonstrate another step closer towards achieving our goal of 10 working capital turns.
However given our strong organic growth performance in 2015 of 6% the 0.5 working capital turn improvement will not translate into cash flow benefit for the full year of 2015 but instead will result in a modest cash outflow.
This is one of the benefits of great strong organic growth as it begins to become a bit of a pressure to your cash flow.
One other item of note related to cash flow the improvement of approximately 3 turns from 6.4 turns in Q3 to the end of the year is heavily influenced by the normal Tools &amp; Storage seasonality.
For those of you who have followed our business for many years know that this fourth quarter Tools &amp; Storage seasonality dynamic is a regular occurrence given the timing of sales and shipments as they occur within the quarter.
This outstanding working capital results combined with capital expenditure control and our improved earnings outlook will result in the company delivering free cash flow approaching $1 billion in 2015.
As John mentioned during the quarter we also executed opportunistic share repurchases of $200 million.
This brings our cumulative total share actions to the equivalent of $1.2 billion in the last 12 months.
As we have reviewed during our Investor Day in May you should expect us to return over time to a capital allocation of approximately 50% of our free cash flow being deployed through M&amp;A and the other 50% through our shareholders via dividends and the occasional opportunistic share repurchase.
Let's move to the next page in our updated 2015 outlook.
As indicated by John earlier and Jim we are increasing the 2015 EPS range to $5.80 to $5.95 versus the previous range of $5.70 to $5.90.
We are able to raise our outlook primarily due to strong business performance across several areas of the company driven by commodity deflation and cost control.
In particular we are starting to see stronger than initially expected benefits from steel resin and other base metals that manifest themselves in our income statement's result.
However these benefits are partially offset by foreign exchange headwind that is now expected to be at the high end of our previous $200 million to $220 million range when you use current rates.
Most of that impact is related to the weakening of the Brazilian real over the last two or three months.
The net result of these changes is $0.07 to $0.08 increase to our midpoint outlook range that I just provided.
Moving to the right side of the page and a little bit more detail on the segments.
First let's start with Tools &amp; Storage.
We continue to expect high single-digit organic revenue growth within Tools &amp; Storage.
This is slightly better than compared to our July outlook.
We also expect solid operating margin rate expansion year-over-year in this segment due to volume leverage cost actions price and commodity deflation I just mentioned which will more than offset the impact of currency.
Security remains on track with the forecast we provided in last quarter's guidance.
Margins for the full year are expected to be generally consistent with the prior year on relatively flat organic revenue.
Industrial will continue to benefit from the momentum in our Engineered Fastening Electronics and Automotive businesses which will be modestly offset by slow growth and/or pressure in some of the general industrial markets and infrastructure that Jim touched on.
However this still has us on a path for low to mid-single-digit organic growth for the year with a solid operating margin performance.
In summary our revised EPS guidance range demonstrates a strong year-to-date performance across much of the company which means we are now on track for 8% to 11% EPS growth despite currency headwinds of appropriately $220 million or $1.10 of EPS.
Before leaving this page I would like to make a few comments regarding 2016.
While it is premature to get into a lot of detail for 2016 the current exchange rates will result in approximately $100 million headwind.
This is related to continued devaluations of various currencies including the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real versus the U.S.
dollar as well as the impact of our 2015 transactional foreign exchange hedges rolling off next year.
Similar to what we did in 2015 we are proactively identifying cost reductions aggressively pursuing commodity deflation and other pricing opportunities to partially mitigate this impact and will position us to demonstrate continued operating leverage in 2016 as well as reasonable earnings growth.
So let's summarize the presentation portion of our call today.
We delivered a very strong third quarter performance and here are some of the highlights.
We are very pleased with another quarter of strong organic growth our fifth in a row at or above 6%.
The proactive tight cost controls and surgical price actions across the entire company enabled excellent third quarter operating leverage in the face of $70 million of currency headwinds.
The third item is progress continues with Security's multiyear transformation with sequential improvement across most of the operations and we were very pleased with the result.
We were also able to execute additional share repurchases in the third quarter as I mentioned bringing the total share count actions we have taken since the start of the fourth quarter of 2014 to $1.2 billion.
As we communicated during our Investor Day in May our focus in 2015 and beyond will be on leveraging our world-class franchises and brands strong free cash flow generation and continued shareholder friendly capital allocation.
This continues to manifest itself and are focused on accelerating organic growth through SFS 2.0 while supplementing that growth with acquisitions advancing securities multi-year transformation to achieve consistent low-single digit organic growth and 15% profitability by 2018.
Also continuing our disciplined approach to cost and pricing actions to ensure we have annual operating leverage as we grow.
And finally an ongoing focus on working capital turns.
We believe this approach will help position our company to continue our strong performance trend and achieve our long-term financial objectives.
Thank you.
And that concludes the presentation portion of our call.
Now let's move to Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thanks Don.
Stephanie we can now open the call to Q&amp;A please.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer-session.
Our first question comes from Rich Kwas with Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
I'm going to squeeze in two questions here.
But Jim or John could you comment on price as you start to look at 2016 with the deflationary environment? A lot of companies are starting to struggle in terms of pushing through price like to get your views on that.
And then in terms of the near term on Industrial how do you feel about the landscape right now? There are some pressures in the environment.
Have you baked in some cushion around Industrial and the landscape peers as we move out the next few months? Thanks.
Don is going to give you the view on price going forward to the extent we're going to talk about it for 2016.
And then Jim I think can give you a little deeper dive on Industrial and our thoughts.
Yeah Rich.
On pricing I think it's a couple of dynamics.
One is certainly we've been able to achieve positive pricing benefits because of some of the negative foreign exchange impact we've had in emerging markets in particular and even a little bit in our European regions as well.
So as we import our products into those particular regions and we are impacted negatively by foreign currency we obviously try to recoup as much of that as possible through pricing actions in the local market.
With us having a continued headwind going into 2016 we will continue to be prudent about our approach in that area and go after specific price actions where it makes sense given the different dynamics in those markets.
So we do think there will be ability to gain some price in emerging markets as a result of that pressure from foreign currency.
In more developed markets like the United States or even Europe where we're manufacturing product and selling it within the region pricing will continue to be an area that we stay very focused on.
We've been heavily focused on specific surgical pricing actions in the last year-and-a-half to two years in those developed markets.
We don't see any reason for that to change.
I think the commodity deflation impact will be an area that we have to watch closely.
It impacts certain types of products and it doesn't impact other products quite as much.
And as I said being surgical allows you to evaluate those types of decisions.
Jim talk about the three pieces.
Obviously Rich you're aware that STANLEY Engineered Fastening is the overwhelming majority of our Industrial segment.
But they really are responding to some very different market dynamics.
Yes.
I think when you talk about Industrial it always boils down to the sub-segments both geographically and also just sub-segments within industrial categories.
And I think what we see right now in the North American market is a dichotomy between some of the more difficult end markets such as oil and gas mining and ag in particular and then we see continued I won't call it buoyancy but maybe continued perseverance in the automotive market.
So while automotive kind of chugs on I think that's driven largely by the kind of the resurgence in consumer and also the ageing fleet.
So automotive is very important to Engineered Fastening about 40% of its revenues or so.
And as long as automotive is healthy that particular part of the business is going to be fairly healthy.
And then of course electronics is the other big part of Engineered Fastening another big part and that continues to be strong as well.
And then the general kind of MRO-related industrial it's a function of kind of the accumulation of the sub-segments.
And that is a little bit on the weak side right now in North America.
You can see it from some of the results of the distributors that have actually come out; so a mixed bag in North America.
We don't see it going negative at this point.
It's flattish and maybe slightly up or slightly down but kind of hovering around the flattish.
And then Europe Europe has been challenged in that flattish kind of a way for a long time and we see a little bit of negative drag in Europe but nothing catastrophic at this point.
I think the weak euro as much as the strong dollar has hurt exports in the U.S.
The weak euro tends to have the potential to maybe boost the industrial in Europe a little bit.
So I think on balance we do see some pressure in industrial.
We have factored that into our thought process but we don't see recessionary conditions although industrial production is relatively weak in the aggregate right now.
The only thing I'd add Rich and we'll move on when Jim talked about the North American markets in our sub-segments he mentioned obviously oil and gas mining ag and the relatively depressed prices in the scrap steel market has had an impact on our hydraulics business.
Of course demolition as you know is a very large part of that.
So we've got those headwinds in a couple of our smaller businesses but a modestly healthy environment in Engineered Fastening both domestically and abroad.
I mentioned a bright spot in Japan for us which was quite encouraging and the business is doing quite well.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
The question I had was just regarding getting a little bit more granularity with the adjustments to the full-year guidance.
If you kind of take the midpoint of the prior FX headwind to where you are expecting today it doesn't seem like it's that much more maybe $10 million $15 million or $10 million from the midpoint.
So just want to understand versus three months ago what were the biggest drivers of those? And then conversely in terms of the upside stronger business performance combined with better commodity deflation if you think of like $10 million incremental headwind to get to the guidance range we're talking about maybe another $25 million of positive roughly speaking.
So if that math is right $25 million $30 million of incremental positive how does that break down between the stronger business performance and the commodity deflation? And more specifically where within the business are you seeing that better performance and what's the bigger weight? Rank has its privileges and I'm going to let Don try to tackle that one.
There are a lot of moving pieces Mike.
But I think Don can kind of tie a little bit of a bow on it for you.
Sure.
Your math is actually pretty close so as you think about us raising our midpoint by about $0.07 or $0.08 of EPS yeah we probably have about $10 million of new FX pressure.
As I said we're at the higher end of that range; that's about $0.05 of EPS.
And then you have about $25 million or so of positive impact from commodity deflation and other indirect cost controls.
And the net of those two items gets you basically to $0.07 and $0.08.
Our next question comes from Jeremie Capron with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to focus a little bit on the Tools &amp; Storage segment.
Margins were very strong.
I understand the good volume leverage here but looks like we're coming in at the high end of that range that you've talked about in the past as being sort of the cyclical high margins that we could expect from this business.
Any change in your view here given that at this point you still have 150 points of forex pressure in those margins? Should we envision margins continuing to trend up into next year as long as volumes go up? And the other question a follow-up on this is I understand you have very strong share gains across regions.
I just wanted to get a better sense of what do you see in terms of the underlying demand trends in North America in particular.
Sure.
This is Jim.
When we think about margins and margins through the cycle we don't necessarily let the cycle drive the margins per se.
We tend to be much more proactive about it.
So at the down part of the cycle we're taking out cost at a very healthy pace.
And as we enjoy the ride up the cycle we don't back off in terms of some of the things that we do to maintain the upward pressure everything we can do to maintain the upward pressure on margins.
So I think the potential for what you're calling the peak cycle margin rate is quite high.
And I think evidence of that is if this whole FX headwind hadn't occurred we would be at record-margins for the company and the Tool business.
So the things that we do are things like continuous productivity 3% to 4% cost productivity.
Every year we have a very very surgical and data-driven pricing program in this company which goes across all the businesses including the Tool business where we constantly are improving our subject matter expertise and our analytics in pricing and looking at price/volume tradeoffs and making sure that we're optimizing our margins and our overall margin in that regard.
And then we have design-to-value which is a more programmatic approach to driving cost out of products.
In the design cycle we have a simplification and complexity reduction program which again drives cost out of the products and we have mix management.
We are doing everything that we know how to do to drive margins up.
And where that limit is we don't know but we constantly try to drive them up.
So I think that's kind of the way we think about it.
As far as the share picture in various geographies in the Tool business I have to say that I don't think there is any region in the world except with the possible exception of China where we are not gaining share.
And this business has implemented a commercial excellence initiative which has taken the strength of Stanley and Black &amp; Decker's scale its brands its products its innovation and it is driving that across all geographies in a very aggressive way and it's been very successful and we expect it to continue to do so.
And Jeremie it's John.
Just to add to that both in terms of our drive for margins and share gain more from a qualitative perspective but I think it's demonstrable.
In the past two months we've been named category-specific Vendor of the Year by our two largest customers.
Never before at least in our history I've been here 11 years and Jim and Don 15 years have we achieved such coveted and prestigious recognition from our two largest customers in the same year.
And I think if nothing else or just anecdotally that's a tribute to the strength of our brand the strength of the programs and the commercial execution that Jim was talking about.
And obviously those kinds of things are leading to share gain and we're pleased with that.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
John you briefly just mentioned China and I just have a question overall thinking about kind of the dynamics in the EMs and Tools &amp; Storage specifically.
A very strong performance as you characterized with strong Latin America offsetting weaker Russia and China.
It's being difficult for Latin America to continue to carry that ball with what's going on in Brazil et cetera.
Just wondering if you could kind of give us a little bit more granular lay of the land on how you expect...
Yes...
...those things to play out.
Sure.
Sure Jeff.
Very fair.
To give you some numbers because it  boy they're all over the place but Latin America what we call our Latin American group organically grew 13%.
Brazil which is the largest by far market we grew 4% organically.
But obviously we're suffering some huge currency headwinds that Don talked about.
But we have smaller countries Venezuela as I say where we've done zero business essentially for about the last six quarters.
We had good performance in Mexico good performance in Colombia; Brazil as I say up low-single digits which gave us low-double digit growth in Latin America.
Country-specific they represent a small percentage of our volume but Russia was down 30% China was down 28%.
We think that's not inconsistent with the markets in general.
The silver lining in the clouds for us particularly in China is the expansion of our mid-price-point product offerings locally produced by a subsidiary that we control.
We think that in and of itself is going to help us a lot but we we're working off some high comps.
The bad news is we're down 25% to 30% in both Russia and China.
The good news is those are very small markets and a small base.
So $2 million $3 million $4 million of improvement will bring us back to where we were.
What we're doing about it? I think the simplest way to describe it we aren't withdrawing we aren't cutting back we've stopped adding feet on the street and variable cost resources at the pace we were adding them but we haven't cut anything and we're reallocating resources within our emerging market group Asia and to a lesser extent Latin America because we just think those are still huge economies 45% or 46% of our business is still outside the U.S.
that includes Europe of course and we're not going to withdraw our support for those markets.
So a long answer to a simple question but I think the huge volatility in certain countries gives you a flavor for how we're approaching it.
It's much more a question we're reallocating resources as opposed to cutting them because we're in these bit markets for the long haul.
Our next question comes from Michael Dahl with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to focus on the Security segment.
You've got kind of diverging trends here.
On one hand the previous problem area in terms of Europe is improving and seeing accelerating organic growth and now it seems like you're seeing some deceleration in North America and emerging markets I guess on the electronics side in particular.
So just curious as you look out to  obviously you've outlined a path to what you need to see from this overall business over the next year.
How are these trends playing into that? Are you more or less positive on the positioning of the business as you see it today versus how you were thinking about it three months or six months ago? Sure.
Fair question.
Don will give you a little detail but I guess from top of the house I can say we feel as good or better about these businesses as we have in the past.
You talked about Europe; they're delivering on their commitments which pleases us and pleases the folks there.
And we think we have the right people in the right chairs.
And we think we understand what the issues are within North American Security.
Don has been spending a lot of time with that team.
So let me have him give you a little more granularity.
Sure.
Thanks John.
So what John said is exactly correct.
And yeah we're really pleased and Jim went through it in a lot of detail in his presentation around the European performance how it continues to improve demonstrating a short stretch of time here of consistent organic growth sequential improvement in operating margin rate.
All the things that we talked about a year ago that we wanted to accomplish for that business; we're seeing them really get traction in all those areas.
In North America I wouldn't say that we feel like we're losing traction or slowing down.
We definitely know that we had a little bit of a kind of a blip on the radar in the second quarter of this year because of a large installation that completed itself.
It didn't repeat as you can see in the third quarter because the third quarter bounced back to our expectations.
They're actually slightly better than our expectations around profitability.
And we continue to deal with an evolving and changing environment related to our vertical selling solutions specifically targeting two verticals retail and healthcare as an area to really concentrate and help the business grow.
The positive in North America that I see is that the backlog continues to grow and the order rates are double-digits and these are trends that we've seen now for two quarters or three quarters which is positioning us well for next year to demonstrate some organic growth in North America in electronic security and mechanical security for that matter.
The last piece is China.
I mean overall emerging markets is relatively small for the Security business.
And outside of China it's doing relatively well.
But in China because of the economic circumstances market conditions we've definitely seen some of the retrenching revenue declines that John mentioned in China a few minutes ago of double-digit declines and that's been significant.
We think that's more market related.
It's not a big part of the business.
Like everyone else I think we all think China will begin to gradually get back on track at some point in the next two quarters to three quarters probably.
So we're not overly concerned about that.
So our focus now is continued execution improvement in Europe; continued execution improvement in North America and really hunker down in the emerging markets get through this period of time in China and then begin to demonstrate growth as we come out of that.
Our next question comes from Tim Wojs with Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good job again in a tough environment.
Thank you.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I just had a bigger picture question on Tools.
What inning do you think we're in around some of the adoption of some of the new technology development that's been going on whether it's brushless or just improved battery performance? And I guess would you characterize this as maybe a technology step function that's similar to what lithium-ion was a few years ago or several years ago? I would say Tim it's a really good question and I would say no.
Lithium-ion if you think about it relative to NiCad it was a better mousetrap more power longer run times better for the environment and the only issue was cost.
And like any technological breakthrough when you can get the cost in line it's going to displace its predecessor.
What we're seeing now and I don't think is a step function I think to answer your question which is a very fair one and it's only one person's opinion that you're getting.
That being said the leverage for us is going to come from what I think we do best.
We weren't the inventors of brushless.
We obviously didn't invent and we were a slow follower on the application of lithium-ion and things of that nature.
Where I believe we've excelled and I give tremendous credit to our global Tools &amp; Storage team both in the product development perspective commercial execution et cetera is just the application of all of those technologies.
The application of brushless lithium-ion the way we've been able to get more power more run time combined with the DEWALT brand good programs to support it those are all I would argue incremental as opposed to step functions.
And that's where our success has come the last two years or three years.
Is there more on the horizon? I think yeah.
I think we can see we're cautiously optimistic about what our team has in the pipeline in terms of further advancements of those existing technologies but I don't see anything in the application of those technologies but I don't see another lithium-ion if you will breakthrough per se in the foreseeable future.
But that doesn't mean we're not going to push those hard and get more than our fair share of the market growth by applying the technologies.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood with Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can you give us some color in terms of the North America vertical products in Security just what the life cycle on the margins look like relative to your more typical products there? If you could just differentiate maybe on the installs would we expect lighter is that what we're seeing now and does that become more of a tailwind as you get more to recurring with the vertical products? Yeah.
I'll take that one Mike.
You know the verticals that we're really concentrating on right now are retail and healthcare.
And as you know the idea of a vertical selling solutions is to really create a solution that offers much more than just security to our customers.
Security is certainly a core component of the solution but are there other things that we can do such as in retail where we provide certain information and database on traffic flow in and out of the stores correlating that with POS et cetera.
In healthcare we're looking at helping productivity within the healthcare environment the nurses and doctors and offering solutions in that area to help the customers reduce cost or save money.
And so the model is really to bring forth those types of solutions that give more value and does that translate into more beyond the installation into certain types of recurring revenue streams.
And that's really the intention of it.
At this stage it's still early development around that.
But as we get deeper into these verticals and particularly the two that I just mentioned I do believe that certain recurring revenue streams will evolve from those types of solutions.
So I think that's something you continue to watch and monitor.
It's an area of focus as part of our strategy.
Our next question comes from Robert Barry with Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a quick housekeeping first.
I wanted to clarify those growth rates John was giving earlier on the emerging markets if that was for just Tools or the total company.
But then my question was really on SG&amp;A 21.5% of sales very good performance.
It actually looks like a record at least in recent history.
Just wanted to unpack a little more what's driving that how much is structural and how should we be modeling SG&amp;A going forward? Thank you.
I'll clarify the first one.
The numbers that I gave the growth rates or lack thereof in some of the emerging markets were total company.
That being said with the exception of certain Asian markets that is overwhelmingly Global Tools &amp; Storage.
As Don mentioned Singapore China some we got meaningful Security business 20% of our total in those markets.
But they were total company numbers which were overwhelmingly Tools &amp; Storage.
But Don you want to talk about...
SG&amp;A.
Sure.
Yeah.
So the performance very pleased with the SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue in Q3 at 21.5% or in that category.
But for the year we do expect us to be somewhere around 22.3% 22.4% for the total year.
We do have some additional costs that do creep into the systems for lack of better word in the fourth quarter related to some of the promotional activities we do and in-store activities around the holidays that will likely make that number creep up a little bit in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
But we are definitely seeing another step-change in this particular area in 2015.
So in 2014 we were close to 23% as a percentage of revenue and when we end the year we'll be somewhere between 22.2% and 22.4% by the time we close out the year.
So that's a significant improvement.
Part of that is what we've been doing for the last two years around indirect cost focus and how do we become more efficient how do we drive more benefits and productivity in the use of those particular dollars.
And then also we've had a little bit of benefit although it's not huge from consolidating our CDIY and IAR businesses into the new business called Tools &amp; Storage.
So those things together have really helped leverage that objective.
And I do think we're at a point now where we can continue to drive that down further.
As you know we talked about  I specifically talked about it in Investor Day that we think we can get this number down even further through functional transformation as well as taking some of those savings that we achieved and reinvest in things of digital excellence commercial excellence breakthrough innovation et cetera.
But the net result is really to drive our operating margins to 16% and a lot of that's going to come from what we're trying to do in SG&amp;A along the way.
Our next question comes from Liam Burke with Wunderlich.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> The Black &amp; Decker brand has been fairly successful in your mid-price point overseas.
But how is the Black &amp; Decker brand being positioned domestically? Well the Black &amp; Decker brand domestically  I've got to bifurcate Liam but just from the perspective of Tools it's overwhelmingly domestically a DIY brand and it's performing really really well.
You'll find it in the home centers but you'll also find it in big boxes like Target like Walmart and places like that where it's very very well perceived.
A large outlook for the Black &amp; Decker brand which I'm sure you're aware of but I need to be careful to distinguish it's in the home products both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
The overwhelming majority of those products are licensed as I'm sure you know and we obviously receive a royalty for the use of that brand on products designed for use in the home and primarily in the kitchen secondarily.
So it's important to bifurcate.
But in both cases it's DIY non-professional but premium quality for folks who are doing it not for a living but folks who are serious about the product they purchase.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
Thank you.
I guess the question on engineered fasteners and then just the automotive business in particular.
And I realize you're not talking about 2016 yet but automotive is a business where maybe there is a little more forward visibility because of the platforms.
And I'm just wondering about your content per vehicle and how you expect that to grow in 2016 if you can talk about that? Well our strategy is always to grow our content for vehicle.
And as you know we're selling solutions.
We're selling the equipment or the systems as well as the consumables that go with it.
I am not going to get ahead of myself or ourselves or the business particularly as it relates to anything proprietary with our customers.
But our strategy is always to increase the content per vehicle and that in and of itself is a great source of growth.
And it's why we've been able to grow in some cases 2 times and 3 times the rate of light vehicle production.
And what's playing to our strength there and I know you understand our business very well what's playing to our strength there is the lighter that the vehicles become particularly aluminum it plays to our strength when you can't well protect for obvious technical reasons that advantages systems such as ours so we're looking to grow that content and that absolutely is the source of growth all things being equal above and beyond the growth of light vehicle production.
And that does conclude the Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the call back over to Greg Waybright for closing remarks.
Stephanie thank you.
We'd like to thank everyone again for calling in this morning and for your participation on the call and obviously please contact me if you have any further questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect.
And everyone have a great day.
Welcome to the Q4 and Full Year 2015 Stanley Black &amp; Decker Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stephanie and I'll be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor and Government Relations Greg Waybright.
Mr.
Waybright you may begin.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for Stanley Black &amp; Decker's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Conference Call.
On the call in addition to myself is John Lundgren our Chairman and CEO; Jim Loree our President and COO and Don Allan our Senior Vice President and CFO.
Our earnings release which was issued earlier this morning and the supplemental presentation which we will refer to during the call are available on the IR section of our website as well as on our iPhone and iPad apps.
A replay of this morning's call will also be available beginning at 2 p.m.
today.
The replay number and the access code are in our press release.
This morning John Jim and Don will review our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results and our 2016 outlook followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Consistent with prior calls we are going to be sticking with just one question per caller.
And as we normally do we will be making some forward-looking statements during the call.
Such statements are based on assumptions of future events that may not prove to be accurate and as such they involve risk and uncertainty.
It's therefore possible that actual results may materially differ from any forward-looking statements that we might make today and we direct you to the cautionary statements in the 8-K that we filed with our press release and in the most recent 1934 Act filing.
I'll now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Lundgren.
Thanks Greg and good morning everybody.
Today we're going to spend just a few minutes reviewing a solid operational fourth quarter that wrapped up a really strong year before we discuss this year's guidance and then of course take your questions.
First for the year organic growth was up 6% with Tools &amp; Storage leading the way up 8%.
Security was flat while Industrial delivered 2%.
Operating margin expanded 90 basis points to 14.2% which is a post-merger record for the company.
EPS of $5.92 was a 10% improvement versus 2014.
Jim's going to provide a lot more detail particularly on the margins and growth by segment when he gets into the segment reviews.
Free cash flow came in at $871 million on strong working capital turns of 9.2 times.
And in line with our previous commitments we executed over $1 billion of share repurchase actions in 2015 wrapping up a really strong year in which we overcame numerous challenges not the least of which was foreign currency.
Guidance for 2016 is being established with an EPS range of $6 to $6.20 a share or a midpoint EPS growth of approximately 3% versus 2015.
Don's going to take you through this in more detail later in the call.
Moving to the right on the chart for the quarter revenue expanded 1% organically with total growth down 5% as the top line impact of foreign currency was negative 6% for the quarter.
There was a fiscal calendar phenomenon in the fourth quarter that did have a modest negative impact on organic growth that Don's going to address more in detail when he walks through the quarter but I think it's an important point.
Operating margin rate for the quarter was 14.2% which was in 100 basis point improvement ahead of the fourth quarter 2014.
Our margins increased due to continued sharp focus on price realization and some commodity deflation delivering operating leverage despite $50 million from foreign currency pressure in the quarter.
EPS with $1.78 was up 30% versus fourth quarter 2014 as the solid operational performance combined with lower tax share count and some restructuring less than the prior quarter offset the foreign exchange.
Turning to slide five and an overview of the sources of growth for the quarter.
As previously mentioned organic growth remained positive due to the continued strength of Tools &amp; Storage particularly in the U.S.
and the European residential and nonresidential construction markets and the Stanley Engineered Fastening automotive business which offset pressure in the Industrial channel lower emerging market volumes and customer specific volume declines within the Stanley Engineered Fastening electronics business.
This growth was offset by foreign exchange headwinds of 6% in the quarter resulting in total revenue down 5% as previously mentioned.
Looking at it geographically Europe led the way up 3% as share gains continued in the region and nearly every market contributed positive growth.
The U.S.
generated 1% organic growth while solid Construction POS performance has left customer inventories in good shape as we enter 2016.
Emerging markets in the rest of the world began to show signs of macro pressure to the top line contracting 2% and 3% respectively.
There was as always significant variation among the countries but China Russia and Venezuela showed the largest year-on-year declines.
And quickly for the year organic growth was 6% 5% volume 1% price.
This growth was offset by 7% currency netting down to a 1% decline in total revenue as shown in the box on the left of the chart.
We were pleased that geographically the organic growth was shared around the world spread fairly evenly of course with the U.S.
leading the way at plus 8% Europe plus 4% emerging markets plus 3% and the rest of the world plus 3%.
Let me turn it over to Jim to get into some more operating detail on our three segments.
Okay.
Thanks John.
I'll start with Tools &amp; Storage which wrapped up a banner year with solid fourth quarter performance despite difficult comps mixed end markets and a relentless dollar strengthening.
Tools benefited from strong execution momentum in all areas: new products supply chain and commercial excellence.
As for markets continued strength in U.S.
Construction DIY and Consumer was a help.
However emerging market and overall Industrial conditions were more than challenging.
European tool end markets continued to be flat to slightly positive and continuing U.S.
dollar strengthening especially against Latin American currencies presented familiar but increasingly large headwinds for both revenues and operating margin.
Organic growth for the segment was 3% in the quarter with all regions once again contributing.
Europe led the way up 6% followed by North America and emerging markets contributing 3% and 1% respectively.
Although revenues were down 3% due to a 6 point currency impact operating margin was up 1% with a 60 basis point year-over-year improvement in the rate.
Execution of price productivity and cost control initiatives along with a little help from lower commodity prices enabled us to more than offset the onslaught from currency pressure.
And across the global product lines Power Tools posted 5% organic growth with contributions from Professional Power Tools up 7% Consumer Power Tools up 3% and Accessories up 2%.
Our Hand Tools &amp; Storage business was down 2% as strength within Construction Tools and our Mac mobile distribution business was offset by significantly lower sales within the Industrial channels.
Innovation continues to generate solid growth across the business with ongoing contributions from DC brushless power tools as well as new product rollouts such as the DEWALT 20-volt and DEWALT 40-volt Outdoor Stanley FatMax power tools in Europe and DEWALT Pneumatics.
Within North America retail POS performance was again strong in the quarter wrapping up a record year which saw positive POS in 50 of 52 weeks growth across every SBU and as impressively across all major brands  Black &amp; Decker DEWALT Stanley and BOSTITCH.
Importantly retail inventories remain at healthy and appropriate levels consistent with prior year.
And in addition the team continues to drive out-performance in Mac Tools which closed the quarter with growth in high single digits delivering its sixth consecutive year and 24th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth.
And finally we continued to enjoy robust growth in e-commerce this time highlighted by success with our rebranded and very innovative Black &amp; Decker consumer products.
Europe continues to perform at multiples above the underlying market posting 6% organic growth in the quarter for a full year total of 7%.
This region has shown remarkably consistent share gains in a relatively flat market delivering approximately 7% organic growth across much of the past three years.
Importantly the growth in Europe continues to be wide-spread across nearly all regions as consistent share gains validate the success of our innovation and commercial excellence initiatives.
The emerging market team once again overcame significant market headwinds generating 1% organic growth in the quarter with contributions from Argentina Mexico and Turkey more than offsetting continued pressures in Russia China Brazil and other parts of South America.
And meanwhile the timely global release of the Stanley power tools line for emerging markets continues to gain traction in the large and growing mid-price point segment helping to offset regional economic and geopolitical market turbulence.
The fourth quarter caps off an exceptional year by our Tools &amp; Storage team 8% organic growth for the year against a 6% 2014 comp with an operating margin rate up 110 basis points executing on all fronts taking share improving profitability in the face of a volatile backdrop.
And at the same time the team very methodically and successfully positioned the business for more growth ahead.
In that regard we see continued robust growth for Tools in 2016.
Our innovation pipeline is stronger than any time since the merger and our supply chain and commercial teams are operating at very high fitness levels with the SFS 2.0 firmly embedded in our operating culture.
These are exciting times for Tools &amp; Storage and we expect the performance level to continue to be very high as we go forward.
Turning to Security progress continued across our Security business with Europe advancing on all fronts and North America showing steady progress in its transformation efforts.
Within Europe the business was up 3% organically the fifth consecutive quarter in positive territory.
Commercial wins were widespread across most countries as we recognized benefits from investments in our regional sales organizations.
Profitability continued to improve sequentially and versus prior year with a fourth quarter operating margin rate approaching 10%.
Solid order intake and a healthy backlog both up double digits year-over-year combined with stable attrition rates within our targeted range leave us well positioned to continue forward momentum into 2016.
While organic revenues were down within North America due principally to a large installation in last year's fourth quarter the team posted sequential margin expansion due to improved field productivity within the commercial electronics security business as the benefits from the Stanley standard operational improvement initiative began to take hold.
Strong orders a healthy backlog and a growing RMR portfolio position this business well as we head into 2016.
Emerging markets were again a modest drag on Security growth and profitability as weak market conditions in China continued.
But overall for this segment profitability was up 100 basis points year-over-year and 90 basis points sequentially a solid indicator that our transformation efforts are taking hold within the organization.
Turning to Industrial.
Industrial saw a 1% organic decline in the quarter as lower volumes in Engineered Fastenings Electronics and Industrial businesses more than offset strong global automotive revenue and organic growth in our oil and gas business.
Operating profit was up 5% with a 210 basis point improvement in the margin rate as productivity gains and cost controls were able to counteract lower volume.
Engineered Fastening's 3% organic decline was attributable to weakening within the Industrial channel and lower sales volume in the electronics space as our largest consumer electronics customer unexpectedly reduced production levels on their recently launched smartphone.
This more than offset another quarter in which our automotive revenues outpaced light vehicle production.
The business was able to anticipate some of the Industrial market's softness and thus benefited from proactive cost actions taken within the quarter.
Infrastructure delivered positive organic growth of 2% as oil and gas grew 17% organically propelled by increased project activity in the North America onshore market more than offsetting declines in hydraulics which continues to be impacted by depressed scrap steel prices.
All in all an impressive operational performance was registered by the Industrial teams expanding profitability and margin rates in the face of a choppy and mostly inhospitable end market environment with the exception of auto production.
In summary for the total company the fourth quarter represented a solid performance wrapping up a tremendous year which included organic growth of 6% record operating margins and record EPS.
This performance highlights our team's agility passion to perform and ability to be proactive and responsive to market condition balancing investments for growth and taking out costs when necessary strengths that will serve us well as we head into 2016.
As we consider the 2016 outlook which Don will share with you in a few minutes our ability to generate outsized organic growth albeit at a slower pace than in the preceding two years will be enabled by the investments we have made and are making in SFS 2.0 which is our transformational business operating system.
In early 2015 we launched the next generation of SFS creating a more powerful mechanism to enable sustained above-market organic growth and margin expansion with high asset efficiency.
The expanded SFS 2.0 is transforming the company by focusing our activities in five key areas: digital excellence breakthrough innovation commercial excellence functional transformation and core SFS.
I would encourage serious long-term investors to develop a deep understanding of SFS 2.0 in that this is not an investor relations marketing jargon but rather a carefully constructed and executed framework that enables our organization to extract maximum value out of our world class franchises.
We do this through capital efficient organic growth and continuous margin expansion.
You have already seen the manifestation of commercial excellence in the organic growth and margin expansion in Tools &amp; Storage and other parts of the company.
In 2016 you will see a growing impact from breakthrough innovation digital as well as the other elements of the initiative which is now in its second year and gaining momentum.
I would also say that we are once again open for business when it comes to inorganic growth.
We look forward to supplementing our organic growth with a disciplined approach to M&amp;A that we have deployed during almost 100 hundred acquisitions over the past 15 years a period of time when we more than quadrupled our revenues and market cap and outperformed the S&amp;P 500's total shareholder return by five times.
With that I'll turn it over to Don Allan.
Thank you Jim.
Let's begin with our fourth quarter and full year free cash flow performance.
Free cash flow in the fourth quarter totaled $697 million up almost $50 million from the prior year resulting in $871 million of free cash flow for the full year.
This full-year result is approximately $50 million to $75 million lower than we anticipated going into the quarter and is the result of lower than expected fourth quarter volumes in Tools &amp; Storage and Engineered Fastening which in turn resulted in lower working capital liquidation.
Nonetheless working capital turns finished the year at 9.2 times flat to the prior year but at a level that many industrials would envy.
Overall our cash flow performance remains strong a 96% conversion rate for the full year and our leveraged metrics are in line with our year-end expectations.
One additional comment on free cash flow as it relates to the other line.
As you can see we experienced approximately $120 million variance versus the prior year in the fourth quarter.
This variance was planned and is due primarily to discontinued operation activity in the fourth quarter of 2014 combined with the timing of certain derivative settlements and tax payments.
So let's turn to page 11.
I would like to provide you with an updated outlook on our 2016 foreign exchange headwind.
Certainly it won't be news to anyone that the U.S.
dollar has continued to appreciate against the vast majority of currencies around the world.
This strong dollar has resulted in approximately a 50% increase against the Brazilian real since the beginning of 2015.
Also the British pound and the Australian dollar are at levels we have not seen since the 2008 credit crisis and the Canadian dollar has not been this weak versus the U.S.
dollar for well over a decade.
And last but certainly not least the Argentinean peso which essentially has been on a constant decline since the government's default back in 2001 accelerated its correction with a 30% cliff devaluation in December resulting in another meaningful headwind for us in 2016.
The effect of all these moves is that we are facing another significant foreign exchange headwind in 2016 which at current spot rates results in a year-over-year impact to operating margin between $170 million and $190 million.
This impact is a combination of transactional and translational.
However approximately two-thirds of the 2016 headwind will be transactional pressuring our margins while approximately one-third will be translational.
The transactional amount is substantially higher than prior year as we feel the impact of the 2015 derivative hedges expiring in 2016 and this is approximately $60 million of our total currency headwinds.
This 2016 currency impact is on top of over $300 million in currency headwinds we faced over the past two years where our teams focused on significant operational actions which more than offset these pressures in 2014 and 2015.
However given the magnitude of these continued headwinds we will not be able to completely offset currency in 2016 with price and cost actions.
That being said we will offset approximately 50% of this $170 million to $190 million headwind within 2016.
And as we have previously discussed over the long-term we will continue to identify opportunities to localize production to help mitigate currency as well as improve the efficiency of our global supply chain.
So let's transition to our 2016 outlook on the next page.
As John mentioned we are guiding to an EPS range of $6 to $6.20 or a midpoint EPS growth of approximately 3%.
Let's walk through some of the key drivers in our guide.
First we expect organic growth to approximate 3% which will contribute $0.45 to $0.50 EPS for the year.
As Jim discussed SFS 2.0 will help fuel this growth in 2016 and beyond.
We expect our Tools &amp; Storage business to continue to take market share in most regions.
Our innovation pipeline is robust and we believe this business can leverage that to grow in the low to mid-single digits in the face of challenging global macroeconomic environment.
We expect progress to continue within the Security platform resulting in low single-digit growth and we also expect Industrial to have low single-digit growth as the Engineered Fastening and Automotive business will continue to demonstrate strong growth while the remainder of the segment faces pressures across several end markets including oil and gas scrap steel general industrial and electronic.
One additional point related to organic growth before I move on to the next topic.
It's worth noting that when normalizing for a 53-week activity which was included in the 2014's fourth quarter which is a fiscal calendar phenomena that occurs every seven years.
If you adjust for that the total company's organic growth would have actually been 1.5 to 2 points higher or approximately 3% in the fourth quarter of 2015.
This is notable when you consider the fact of 1% organic growth and us guiding to 3% organic growth in 2016.
We believe this along with the strength of certain markets we operate in namely U.S.
construction along with global automotive production combined with our focus in SFS 2.0 gives us confidence in our ability to achieve 3% organic growth outlook for 2016.
Continuing to the next EPS driver you will see another $0.45 to $0.50 of earnings improvement from additional cost and productivity initiatives.
We have a solid amount of carryover commodity deflation materializing in 2016 and the business teams have worked hard to identify additional cost reduction opportunities which on top of our normal productivity gains will result in a solid contribution to the bottom line.
Also we see an additional increase to EPS of approximately $0.13 from a lower share base due to the carryover benefit of our 2015 share actions as well as opportunistic buybacks particularly if we continue to see depressed share prices.
Working against all of these strong operational actions will be the previously-mentioned foreign exchange headwind which results in approximately $0.85 to $0.95 of EPS pressure year-over-year.
Because of the severity of this transactional currency headwind and its impact on margins we expect the company-wide operating margin in 2016 to be relatively flat year-over-year.
To put this in perspective we estimate that the FX headwinds net of benefits we are receiving from lower commodity costs as well as pricing activities will cause us to lose 60 basis points to 75 basis points of margin rate improvement in 2016.
Our three-year financial vision presented at the May 2015 Investor Meeting contemplated a 50 basis points to 75 basis points of margin improvement each year which assumes a stable foreign exchange environment.
So we believe we're continuing to perform in line with that objective albeit with our improvements offsetting FX rather than resulting in OM rate expansion that we like to see.
A few other items to mention related to guidance are: we expect our restructuring charges and tax rate to be relatively flat to the prior year and then finally as we look to the first quarter we expect our first quarter EPS percentage of the full year EPS to be approximately 18.5% which is very close to the prior two years' average.
Moving to the segment outlook on the right side of the page I've already touched on most of the drivers behind our organic growth so I'll spend a minute on margin rate expectations.
We expect Tools &amp; Storage margin to be relatively flat year-over-year and that is primarily the result of the FX dynamic I described earlier netting against the really impressive operating leverage this business continues to achieve.
We expect Security margins to continue to improve modestly versus prior year reflecting benefits from further progress in field productivity our commercial investments and the realignment of the cost structure of the business to help drive profitable future growth; another good step forward as anticipated.
Industrial margins are expected to be relatively flat as productivity gains in cost takeouts particularly within the Engineered Fastening business are expected to offset top line pressure I previously discussed related to key portions of this segment.
Before moving on to the summary of this morning's call I would like to discuss the potential for a recessionary environment and make a few comments on what actions we would take if and I emphasize if we are faced with deteriorating economic conditions.
At this stage we believe a U.S.
recession is low probability in 2016.
However we have established contingency plans to ensure we are adequately prepared.
If we were faced with this type of an environment consistent with our behavior in past similar circumstances we would execute mitigation plans and they would take the form of head count reductions investment delays and further discretionary spending reductions.
Specifically if the environment resulted in us experiencing a flat organic revenue performance versus our current view of 3% growth we would take cost actions to hold EPS relatively close to our guidance range.
Clearly if a more severe environment were to occur which appears unlikely at this stage we would focus on protecting our earnings base as much as possible similar to the approach we took in 2009.
Now moving on to the summary page.
We are very pleased with the business' performance in 2015.
We witnessed strong operational execution to overcome a host of external challenges including $220 million of foreign exchange headwinds which delivered ultimately organic growth of 6% at the top end of our targeted range; a record operating margin rate of 14.2% which was up 90 basis points versus the prior year; and of course double-digit EPS growth.
We are also encouraged with the progress in our Security business particularly Security Europe which really made meaningful improvements on all fronts.
As we look to 2016 we are focused on positioning the company to manage through another year of turbulent markets and severe foreign exchange headwinds.
As such we remain committed to our core objectives: maintaining our focus on organic growth through both continued innovation and commercial excellence; ensuring progress within the Security segment to maintain the momentum we saw in 2015; of course executing on additional cost and pricing actions to help partially offset our FX headwinds; and also being prepared to take further actions as conditions warrant; as always maintaining our perpetual focus on working capital management and improving that as we move forward; and importantly leveraging the pillars of SFS 2.0; and to continue driving momentum in 2016 and beyond.
That concludes the presentation portion of the call.
Now we move to Q&amp;A.
Don thanks.
Stephanie we can now open the call to Q&amp;A please.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Just one question in line with the rules.
Obviously the Tools &amp; Storage performance in 2015 was exceptional.
A big part of that was SFS 2.0 and the innovation pipeline.
I'm just wondering how does the NPI look for 2016? And maybe just comment on the share gains in Europe; any categories to call out there? Sure.
It's Jim.
The innovation pipeline for Tools &amp; Storage is as robust as it has been at any time since the merger.
And what we've been focusing on if you rewind to 2010 when we put the companies together there was a lithium-ion problem they were losing share we inherited that.
Fortunately they had done a fair amount of corrective action that began to manifest itself shortly after the merger and we started regaining share.
And then we after a year or two of that really came out strong with the DC brushless a complete redesign of the DC brushless products.
And that became the fastest-growing segment of cordless and we were growing at about 2x and still are growing at a very rapid rate vis--vis competition.
And then at the same time there was a lot of call it incremental innovation going on in Hand Tools &amp; Storage in revitalization of the Black &amp; Decker brand and product lines the Consumer Products and accessories as well.
So there's been a lot of I'd call it broad-based but relatively small-scale innovation in addition to the lithium-ion gains and then the DC brushless gains.
So that's all really what's driven the NPI that's driven some of the growth here in addition to the commercial excellence that you referred to.
Now what's coming is something more on the order of breakthrough innovation which is the real SFS 2.0.
And without getting into the details of exactly what it is I think if you stay tuned during 2016 you will start to see some pretty interesting innovation that would be more in the category of breakthrough.
And in addition to that we will continue on with the incremental type innovation and the DC brushless and the continuing progress in lithium-ion.
So it really is a step function increase in innovation that is occurring in the Tools business and you'll start to see the manifestation of that I think in the second half of the year.
As far as Europe there's a number of things going on in Europe relative to the Black &amp; Decker products the Consumer business the brushless which is a big deal over there and a number of other things.
But I'd say Europe is a combination to the NPI plus just the tremendous thrust into commercial excellence which as we've described it or as we describe it involves a multi-pronged attack into the seven pillars if you will of customer-facing processes which include gaining customer insights driving innovation driving brand awareness being excellent at pricing and promotion deploying the sales force properly doing channel and partner programs that are very aggressive and successful and then finally providing outstanding customer sales and post-sales support.
And it's a focus on all those various processes.
When you put them all together that's what's really driving the growth in Europe.
And I'd say on top of that you have what I'd call second order revenue synergies from the Black &amp; Decker merger that are even today manifesting themselves in further growth customer white space distribution channel white space those types of things brand white space are all helping drive the European growth.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hey in terms of Tools &amp; Storage the outlook for U.S.
construction still positive.
Maybe there and just for the broader company that we're getting this offset now from Industrial can you sort of frame and provide a little more color on the magnitude of the drop-off you saw there in 4Q and what are your expectations for the drag from Industrial in 2016? Yeah.
Shannon this is John.
Industrial markets are slowing down.
That's the bad news.
The good news is it represents about 20% of our total business 25% I guess with Industrial Hand Tools within Tools &amp; Storage.
But if I can kind of address I'll say the elephant in the room you're very polite or diplomatic about it but I think I can answer your question quite helpfully.
We strive to grow at two times the rate of the market in our Tools &amp; Storage business over the long term.
And we've met or exceeded that objective over the past two years as Jim just described as the SFS 2.0 growth initiative started to gain traction.
And this being said I don't think it's realistic to plan such outsized growth each and every quarter from any global diversified industrial.
So in the fourth quarter organic growth was lower than we planned but the shortfall was in areas you'd expect and a lot of information from Jim and Don but to try to summarize it we did have lower industrial channel volumes in Tools &amp; Storage and Stanley Engineered Fastening.
That was a full point of organic growth relative to our expectations and that's globally across the company.
Another full point was lower customer-specific volumes and it's been well in the public domain from a large Consumer electronics customer for our Stanley Engineered Fastening business again within the Industrial segment.
But that contributed almost a full point of slower organic growth than our expectations.
Something that's not directly related to Industrial channels emerging markets' softness if you will contributed about a point.
So relative to the 1% reported that's about 300 more basis points.
And then lastly Don talked about the fiscal calendar phenomenon which was another 100 basis points to 200 basis points.
So looking at it all that way I think it's fairly straightforward.
Without question the biggest headwind being industrial markets in general and those markets in the U.S.
in particular because they've been so strong.
Conversely as Jim just talked about Tools &amp; Storage in the U.S.
up mid- single digits; Europe up 6%.
But that's driven by construction in retail even e-commerce which was way up.
Automotive is still strong.
We grew 6% in the fourth quarter which is well above the rate of light vehicle production.
And Security Europe our investments are paying off.
It was up 3%.
So I think your question is spot on.
Our biggest headwind on organic growth obviously that has nothing to do with FX are the industrial markets.
They represent 20% to 30% of our business.
And if they're flat we think  the markets are flat we think that's probably as well as they're going to do.
And I think you can do the math from there.
So I hope that helps.
And if I could just offer a little additional insight on the Industrial.
It's an interesting situation because you have very much a sector-specific series of issues with agriculture mining and oil and gas or energy.
So there's a capital  a CapEx kind of contraction going on in those industries.
And it's sort of spilled over to affect the overall MRO market as well.
And then you have industrial markets such as automotive that are more driven by Consumer demand and those are relatively healthy.
So within Industrial you have a dichotomy of markets that are flat out on their back and then you have other healthy markets.
And fortunately for us a good portion of our Industrial exposure happens to be in the automotive.
And if that holds up that will be a very good thing.
And we'll just see what  how long it takes for this ag mining and energy those segments to kind of play out and trough out.
And then at that point I think we'll be back in good stead with Industrial.
Our next question comes from Mike Dahl with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is Matt on for Mike.
Thank you for taking the question.
I just wanted to ask on the Engineered Fastening business.
Wanted to get your thoughts on the customer challenges you mentioned just on the electronics side specifically.
So how you may be addressing that how you think that dynamic plays out in 2016 and how that is embedded in your organic guidance.
Don will give you exactly how it's embedded in organic guidance because it's pretty much arithmetic.
But as you would expect it's a large customer.
We don't  we just have a policy not to mention customers names on our call.
But I think it's quite clear who it is and that's their choosing not ours.
That being said strategically it's to diversify our customer base just as we've done over the years in global Tools &amp; Storage where there was a point in time where the two largest North American big box retailers represented 40% of our business.
Today they're huge customers but they represent about half that amount.
The same thing with Engineered Fastening and then will turn it over to Don.
Less than three years ago OEM automotive was more than 70% of the business.
So it was a conscious decision to diversify the verticals we serve particularly with a focus on electronics to a lesser extent aerospace.
And we've done that and it's been pretty successful.
So we've had tremendous growth and then a step back relative to one customer's end market product sales being down.
Simply said within Consumer electronics we need to diversify our customer base.
We think we have as good a product offering as anyone to accomplish that.
Of course it doesn't happen overnight.
And then continue the strategic push as Jim and the business leaders talked about in May to serve more verticals.
But Don can talk to you about the specifics of the one issue in Consumer electronics as it relates to our guide.
Yeah.
So our electronics business within Engineered Fastening as John mentioned was down substantially in the fourth quarter.
They had about an impact of a full point across the entire company which equates to about $25 million of revenue.
And that was a percentage decline versus prior year of close to 30% 40% with that particular piece of the Engineered Fastening business.
We expect that type of pressure to continue into 2016 and we formulated that into our guidance.
And that's clearly one of the pressure points that we are anticipating and it's a headwind against the organic growth of 3%.
And so it's one the reasons why the organic growth is at that number versus maybe original expectation closer to 4% Our next question comes from Tim Wojs with Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
I guess my question is just on construction.
Curious what you're seeing in the market and kind of what you're embedding around non-res and residential construction in 2016.
I'll take that one.
So we obviously have a view that's positive related to construction overall and we think that is an appropriate perspective for 2016 at this stage.
And when you look at point of sale information from some of our major customers we're seeing rates that  we ended the year with very strong growth rates and what we're seeing and expect that to continue here in 2016.
As far as the break between resi and non-res I think the non-res market continues to show a little bit of life.
We watch that closely in a portion of our Security business in particular our mechanical lock business is a good indicator of that.
That business is demonstrating kind of mid- to high single-digit organic growth over the last year.
We expect that type of trend to continue.
So we're not looking for a dramatic increase in that space but it's a relatively small part of our company roughly $250 million 300 million of revenue annualized but it's a good indicator of the non-resi market.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey I want to come back to currency more from a strategic standpoint if you can kind of address kind of the question.
Looking at what's going on obviously there could be a debate on whether this is now just a cyclical phenomenon or a secular phenomenon.
And I just wonder where you stand on that.
And really the essence of my question is if you believe it's more secular what does the investment look like to further reposition the footprint of the company geographically to respond to that on a longer-term basis? Yeah.
I'll start Jeff.
You used the caveat if you believe it's secular and I'm not sure we do.
We could have a long debate about it.
But even if it  we're going to do the same thing irrespective of cyclical.
On cyclical Jim Don and I have been doing this a long time.
You want to talk about the euro; everybody worries about it being on parity.
I've done business when it was at $0.85 and we've seen it approach $1.50.
That's fairly cyclical.
Irrespective whether it's cyclical or secular what we can do the most I think two things.
We're not going to double down where the risks are high but we're also not going to walk away from our investments.
We're going to stay positioned particularly in emerging markets and 50% of our revenue is outside the U.S.
in those markets which will continue to grow albeit slower from a lower base to be in a position to leverage our share and leverage our volume when and if it turns around.
But the biggest thing affecting us and I think Don touched on it we always talk about both translational and transactional.
And as the transactional aspect grows to more than 50% of our foreign exchange headwind what we're working very hard to do is move production and sourcing locally.
We have a goal to produce 50% or more of what we do in countries where we sell it.
And if you take that to the next step obviously everyone knows you can't build a plant overnight nor would you want to nor would you want to put bricks and mortar down if you believe it's secular.
But what we can do is a much better job and we're working hard at it qualifying local both raw materials and more important critical component suppliers.
And if you're working in an emerging market as I think you're aware many of our components that are critical to quality are either U.S.-based or U.S.-produced or dollar-denominated.
To the extent we can qualify local suppliers protect our IP but produce those critical components locally to be processed locally that's going to be a tremendous offset or hedge.
Don may want to add something to that.
Yeah.
I think that particular point what John said is exactly correct.
However the reality is that at this stage in certain parts of the world Canada and Brazil being the best example there's not a great deal of suppliers that are available that we can do that with.
So that's something that we have to think about is there an Asian company that we're currently working with that would  they could create a plant within Brazil and allow us to have a supplier locally that is transacting locally.
Those are all things that take time.
These are not necessarily things that happen overnight.
In the meantime we're doing things as much as we can that make economic sense over the short-term and the long-term.
But I think we do view this as very much a cyclical shift and if that view changes over time then obviously our view of where we manufacture will have to shift as well.
Because if you look at the history of Stanley and of course the history of Black &amp; Decker separately they're both known for pursuing the lowest cost possible and also maintaining the highest quality.
And that's not going to change.
So as dynamics shift in the markets around the world and costs shift with it we have to be flexible and agile and make sure that we're doing the right thing from a supply chain perspective.
Our next question comes from Rich Kwas with Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Two quick questions; one John what are your thoughts about asset prices now for potential acquisitions in terms of what you're seeing out there given some of the broader weakness in the global economies? And then second question on Industrial margin I think calling for relatively flat Don does that assume  how much of a decline does that assume in electronics? It sounds like you're assuming a pretty steep decline year-over-year within the guide.
But I just want to get the puts and takes and the risks to upside or downside to the Industrial outlook for margin.
Thanks.
I'll take the asset price.
They're becoming more reasonable just as is Stanley Black &amp; Decker.
As I think Jim could not have been more clear in his pitch Rich that we are open for business in terms of growing this company by a thoughtful strategic acquisition that meets both our strategic goals and our financial hurdles as well as fits within our organizational capacity.
And I'll simply say as multiples come down I think and valuations come down there's more out there that could be attractive to us both domestically and outside the U.S.
I don't think  there's so many bargains out there as we speak that we need to rush to buy something because it's never going to be at a lower price.
But our view is always to buy good companies at a fair price.
We've had a hard time meeting or exceeding valuation expectations in the last six months but we see that  we see it I think as you might expect coming more into line which is that and the fact that we think we have our Security business on the right track which is why Jim made the point in his piece of the presentation.
We are open for business looking at assets in the three strategic areas that we've previously identified.
And Rich on the Industrial question related to margins certainly the impact from the electronics business within Engineered Fastening is pressuring margins as we expect significant top line pressure there.
We also within that business within Engineered Fastening we have a kind of a general industrial sector that's about at $0.5 billion in revenue on an annualized basis that has been feeling pressure as well similar to the Industrial Tool business within Tools &amp; Storage.
For example in the fourth quarter that business was down approximately 10%.
And we expect that to continue at least into the first half.
So those two things are definitely putting pressure on the top line and the margins.
Now offsetting that and going in the opposite direction is what Jim and both John had mentioned about the automotive production business within Engineered Fastening is offsetting that.
We expect growth probably in the mid-single digits again within that business in 2016.
And we also have cost actions and various other productivity actions we're taking across Engineered Fastening to make sure that the margins are flat and hopefully a little bit better than that as the year goes on.
And then the two smaller pieces of Industrial which is the oil and gas business and the hydraulic tool business the combination that we call Infrastructure we expect those to be relatively flat on the top line maybe down slightly and then margins flat as well as those markets are pretty slow at this stage.
But we think we've gotten through the difficult comps as we go into 2016.
Our next question comes from Robert Barry with Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about what's assumed for price in the outlook? And specifically perhaps if you could unpack some of the moving pieces say price to offset currency price to get paid for all the innovation versus maybe having to share some of the commodity deflation with the bigger customers.
Thanks.
Sure.
Fair question.
Fairly complex to say the least.
Yeah.
I'm not sure I can give all that level of granularity for a variety of reasons but I will give you a little bit of color on this area.
We do expect a modest positive in price in 2016 and there's really a makeup within that number.
We do see more positive price in emerging market actions.
So as we deal with this currency pressure in particular in Brazil and some of the other Latin countries but then also in Canada as well which is obviously not an emerging market we expect some price increase there.
So those are positives.
Some of the negatives we will see a little bit of price pressure in different parts of the mature markets because we have dealt with some significant commodity deflation; that's been a benefit to us.
We don't expect that to be significant but those are very kind of surgical strategic decisions that our Tools &amp; Storage team is very savvy at managing and working through as part of the overall offering to our customers.
I guess I'll just add to that.
I think it is important because the very end of your question was more than fair in terms of getting paid for the innovation.
We have a history of if you will protecting price or being paid by innovation just for that reason.
Specifically to bring the same product or a minor modest incremental improvement to a customer even in a flat commodity situation and expect the price increases unrealistic to say the least.
Real prices have been declining 2% to 3% a year or 1% to 2% a year for the last 10 years real prices.
So the way to protect price I think it's probably more important in understanding why Don has confidence that overall we'll see some modest price is to bring in some cases meaningful incremental but meaningful and in other cases to Jim's point breakthrough innovation to the customers.
If no one else has it you can charge whatever  you can value price and charge what you believe is appropriate for it.
So it's far easier to bring a product improvement at a 5% or 6% higher price point that way you cover your inflation your labor inflation or anything else that there happens to be there the incremental cost of that improvement and you and the customer both win.
Because the customer can take his retail price up you can take your wholesale price up and thereby protecting margins and everybody wins and it's a fair trade.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
It's John Coyle filling in for Steve.
Can you maybe talk about the pace of activity over the course of the quarter? Did you see a deceleration as we got later into the year? And then maybe any thoughts on what you see now thus far in January? Yeah this is Don.
I would say that we didn't see anything that was really indicative of significant market trends.
When it comes to our retail business in Tools &amp; Storage there's a lot of ebbs and flows in the quarter that are really dependent on when customers want products refilling orders after the holiday season.
So from a general market trend we didn't see anything dramatic within the kind of consumer side of Tools &amp; Storage.
On the Industrial side it was pretty much a consistent trend throughout the quarter other than electronics.
Obviously electronics shifted to the negative dramatically in the month of November and that held into December and is holding into the first quarter.
So we're not necessarily taking anything as far as market trends in the fourth quarter as a big indicator to the first quarter and beyond beyond some of the things that we've already discussed such as electronics and general industrial.
But you know I think the only thing that really shifted within the quarter would have been the electronics business with Engineered Fastening.
Yeah and the other thing I'll add to that that I think most of us are aware of as it relates to our retail customers and the retail business in general one of the reasons Don said that between 18% and 19% of our earnings take place in the first quarter.
January is always a very slow month.
As I know you understand and most people on the call do our largest customers' fiscal years end in January.
It's post-holiday season.
They have a very appropriate objective of reducing or minimizing inventories as the year closes.
So simply said whatever happens in January we don't ever think of it as a good predictor or indicator of how the year is going to start.
We need pretty much a full first quarter particularly on the retail side for that reason to get a flavor for where we are and where we're going.
Importantly Jim pointed out I think most important.
POS was good in the fourth quarter so inventories are in a good place.
So nothing to suggest dire straits but it's very early days.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood with Macquarie Securities Group.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Can you talk about the progress you made in North America Security margins related to the vertical markets' learning curve? And where are you maybe just give us an update on the evaluation of the overall Security portfolio within Stanley? Thanks.
Okay.
I'll answer the second question first and nothing's changed since we communicated in May of last year at our investor meeting that we would be doing an evaluation that would take about a year.
And that we would during that period of time we were going to evaluate the operational performance as well as the strategic issues and opportunities related to the Security business and then we would come out with some sort of a position in the middle of 2016.
And that continues to hold.
As far as the North American Security business I mean I think we're finding that in the verticals the healthcare vertical is doing absolutely fabulously.
It's achieved mid-double digit margins mid-teens.
And the issue with that now is how to grow it faster.
So we'll be making some investments to grow it faster and it could be a substantial contributor to organic growth.
The retail vertical I think is still kind of in the early days in terms of trying to figure out exactly where the value proposition could be and how big we can make that how profitable it can be.
And so I'd say we're probably in about the third or fourth inning with the retail.
But I would expect by mid to late 2016 we would make a lot of progress on that front as well.
I think the other verticals  and those are the two verticals that we're going to be emphasizing this year and really get them right get the healthcare one growing get the retail strategy fully engaged.
And then at that point we'll decide do we want to add another vertical to our main area of focus.
Our final question comes from Jeremie Capron with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
And congrats on a very solid year.
I wanted to ask you Don about the free cash flow.
I mean it's coming somewhat below initial expectations a year ago.
And I wanted to understand what exactly drove the shortfall here.
I suspect that forex trends were a significant contributing factor here and so I'm wondering if we should expect even more of a headwind on cash flow in 2016 given the transactional effects that you called out earlier.
Thanks.
Sure.
Yeah I mean as I mentioned in my comments the free cash flow for 2015 came in a little bit lighter than we anticipated.
And it was primarily due to less working capital liquidation as a result of the lower organic growth that we saw in the fourth quarter.
And it's interesting the timing of how it played out is usually what happens in our Tools &amp; Storage business in particular is that we have high levels of revenue in October and November preparing for the holiday season as well as doing kind of refill orders after Black Friday.
And then we collect a lot of that by the end of December.
Because we saw a different trend occur in that particular business and obviously a lower organic growth number than our expectation the result was that we didn't get the working capital turn that we were anticipating.
We were anticipating turns of 9.5 times to 9.7 times.
It came in at 9.2 times which are actually fantastic.
And at this stage working capital turn improvement becomes harder and harder.
The other dynamic is as we grow organically and you saw the significant organic growth we had in 2015 you have to improve your working capital turns even more to get a cash flow benefit.
So even with if we had achieved an improvement to 9.5 times to 9.7 times we still would have had a slight negative within our cash flow statement for working capital.
We would have had to get it much closer to 10 times to see a positive.
And that's just the reality of what we're going to deal with going forward that we won't see large working capital benefits in the cash flow statement and we want to continue to improve working capital and get it over 10 turns over the next few years.
And hopefully when we  as we do that the amount of impact to cash flow will be modest.
It likely will be modestly negative.
As a result our cash flow on a go forward basis will still be very strong.
As I said for 2016 I expect the conversion rate to be about 100% which would mean it's going to be somewhere between $900 million to $925 million for 2016.
We always look to improve our working capital more than beyond our goals and expectations so obviously we'll be driving to try to outperform that.
But right now based on where we are with our working capital turns we can't expect large cash flow benefits from that area and really the cash flow is going to come from the earnings performance and operational performance.
Stephanie? That concludes the Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the call back over to Greg Waybright for closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks Stephanie.
We'd like to thank everyone again for calling in this morning and for your participation on the call and obviously please contact me if you have any further questions.
Thank you very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.