Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop Inc.
first quarter 2011 conference call.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Allison Malkin of ICR.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Maxine Clark Chairman and Chief Executive Bear; John Haugh our President Bear and Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with their questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up at a time.
This way we can get to everyone’s questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note that our call is being recorded and broadcast live via the internet.
The earnings release is available on our Investor Relations portion of our corporate website and a replay of our phone call and our webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Maxine Clark.
Maxine? Thank you Allison and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our first quarter fiscal 2011 results.
For our call today I’ll begin with comments from our first quarter performance and update you on our progress in the second quarter.
John Haugh our President will provide additional insight into our product and marketing strategy and then Tina Klocke our Chief Operating and Financial Bear will review our financial results and outlook.
Following our prepared remarks we’ll open the call to take your questions.
In the first quarter total revenue declined 6.1% excluding the impact of foreign currency.
On a consolidated basis comparable store sales declined 8.5% including a decline of 9.3% in North America and a decline of 4.1% in our European operations.
The shift in Easter impacted our first quarter by approximately 5.3 in consolidated comp performance.
In the quarter our eCommerce business was solid increasing 1.5% on a consolidated basis even with the Easter shift.
We had a net loss of $2.3 million or $0.12 per share in the first quarter compared to net income of $1.7 million or $0.09 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2010.
As previously announced our 2011 first quarter results included costs of $0.05 per share associated with our consulting project to improve our efficiencies and reduce expenses.
I will review our progress on this project in more detail in just a moment.
As indicated in our press release consolidated comparable store sales are -3.2% year-to-date through April which includes a 3.3% decline in North America and a 2.7% decline in Europe.
In order to give you the best understanding of our business and because of the sizable impact that the shift in Easter had on our first quarter I’m going to review our performance in two time buckets first by combining January and February results and then reviewing March and April together in order to capture the Easter season as a whole.
Note that April falls into our fiscal second quarter but we feel it is important to update you on March and April combined to fully explain our business.
Note that April falls into our fiscal second quarter again just for clarity.
For January and February combined our North American comparable store sales fell 4.8%.
For March and April combined our comp store sales improved posting a decline of only 1.6% reflecting very strong April comp performance of +26%.
We attribute the January and February decline in North America to two key issues.
Lower sales in the overall in the fourth quarter also meant decreases in gift cards.
This decrease impacted our first quarter sales since we recognize the revenue from gift cards when the cards are redeemed which primarily occurs in the 90 days following activation.
With the lower distribution of cards on the market we have fewer cards redeemed in the first quarter.
We believe the gift card impact with approximately 1.6% on our comp sales are about a third of the total decline for this timeframe.
Second as you may recall we told you that we put more focus on our core plush animals and the fashion level and units of apparel and accessory categories.
We feel we have made strong progress towards our goal but the first quarter was a period of transition for us.
We expect to be in a stronger position both in terms of quality of assortment and inventory levels by the end of the second quarter.
We attribute the improvement in trend in March and April to three key factors.
We added a gift card up sale event for the Easter season and comped the up sale event we had at Valentine’s Day.
During these promotions guests with qualifying purchases could purchase a $10 gift card for half off.
The strongest redemptions of the card are in the 90 days following the purchase.
Therefore we expect this promotion to continue to positively impact the current second quarter.
We added a free-standing ad insert to our marketing mix at the end of March to maximize early spring break traffic.
The redemptions were strong in April.
Our core products particularly our apparel and related accessories have had strong sales.
We are increasing our purchase quantities and pulling in some early receipts to help u maintain our inventory levels in these categories.
Turning now to our European results – For January and February combined our comparable store sales increased 5.4% and for March and April combined declined by 10.5%.
We attribute the strong January-February performance to benefits from weather which made year-over-year comparisons easier and from pent up demand due to the severe weather that impacted the U.K.
in December.
In contrast to North America the U.K.
had higher year-over-year gift card sales which positively benefited this timeframe.
We also had television advertising to support Valentine’s Day for the first time in Great Britain.
For the Easter season combining March and April we believe that the increase in VAT and government spending in the U.K.
negatively impacted consumer spending overall.
We realize we can only control what goes on in our own four walls so we’re focusing on increasing brand awareness and promoting key products through adding marketing initiatives.
But we do expect the business in the U.K.
to continue to lag North America throughout this year.
We continue to see strength in our eCommerce sales in both the United States and the U.K.
Year-to-date through April consolidated online sales are up 8.5% after strong March-April combined growth of 20% reflecting web-specific marketing initiatives improvement in conversion units per transaction and average dollar sales.
We’ve seen a significant increase in our add-on sales driven by enhancements to our technology platform.
For example now when a guest selects a particular outfit to go with their animal choice we also show her a wider selection of matching shoes and accessories which has led to additional items in her basket at checkout.
This is just one example of how we’re making it easier for our guests to shop our site.
We continue to expect a positive impact from our improved technology this year.
We have confidence that we’ll be able to meet our annual retail sales goals on a consolidated basis and offset the short fall of the first quarter with several key product launches and other initiatives that John will discuss.
Turning now to our consulting engagement.
As you know we’ve made significant reductions in our expenses over the last two years in response to the economic environment.
In order to continue to improve our expense structure we determined that fresh eyes with broad industry experience would move us to our goals on an aggressive timeline.
We initiated the consulting project with a focus into product sourcing and supply chain because of the global pressure of pricing and other component and transportation costs.
We have recently moved into phase 2 of the project focusing on additional areas of operation including store productivity marketing and other expense areas.
We expect to realize savings in the range of $4 to $6 million in 2011 primarily in the second half or $0.13 to $0.19 per diluted share and project annualized savings of $10 million to $15 million.
We are aggressively acting on the findings in order to get the most benefit that we can in 2011.
Our 2011 first quarter results included cost of $0.05 per share related to the project.
We expect to have a similar expense in our second quarter for a combined impact of $0.10 per share in the year.
We are also aggressively reviewing our existing store portfolio to optimize our overall productivity and profitability.
During the quarter we closed 2 stores and for the year we expect to close 5 to 10 stores as we adjust markets to optimally position our stores for future growth.
In the next 18 to 24 months many of our North American leases have either a kick out option or expiration.
In the course of business we’re reviewing essentially every market of operations to maximize the profitability of our portfolio.
We expect to close some stores downsize to other locations and strategically open new stores throughout this process.
For example by the end of the second quarter we will downsize and relocate 4 key stores in North America.
We believe we will maintain the sales volume and thereby each store’s overall productivity and profitability.
As part of our long-term planning we will continue to use pop-up stores to test new locations.
For example in the fourth quarter we opened a pop-up store in Tupelo Mississippi.
This allowed us to test a small market with a modest investment in a temporary location.
Tupelo proved to be a huge success for us and we’ve extended our lease on the store.
Had it not been for this pop-up strategy we would not have proven the potential of this market.
In short this is a great way for us to use our capital wisely and make better long-term real estate decisions.
We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet including $45 million in cash inventory that was well-controlled declining from the first quarter last year and we have no debt.
During the quarter we invested $2.5 million to repurchase 375 000 shares of our common stock and now have 21.2 million available under our Share Repurchase Program.
We believe in our business model and our ability to achieve our goals.
We are in a unique position in that we have great financial flexibility.
This allows us to continue to invest in our company and future growth while evaluating all uses of cash for the benefit of our shareholders.
As we look ahead we feel we are moving in the right direction with our business and will deliver our annual goals.
We know that consistency in our sales and operating performance is important and we firmly believe our strategies have us poised to achieve this objective.
I will now turn the call over to John to give you more detail on our product and marketing results.
Thank you Maxine.
I’m going to highlight two areas of our first quarter product and marketing and then I will focus on the key initiatives for the second quarter.
In the first quarter we continue to focus on product innovation and the introduction of limited edition products supported by our fully integrated approach to marketing and promotion.
We’ve had several successes including our Valentine’s Day animals the second release of our proprietary SmallFrys product line and a good overall reaction to Easter products particularly E.B.
the bunny featured in the highly-successful Universal Studios movie Hop.
Our tie-ins with theatrical releases have been consistently strong and we’re excited about our lineup in this category for the remainder of 2011.
While we are happy with these parts of our business we did have one launch under-performance comp with Wizards of Waverly not matching last year’s iCarly.
In addition the fourth quarter short fall of SpeakerStarz led to a price reduction on these animals but we moved through the inventory profitably keeping our assortment quality in place.
On the marketing side we matched closely to last year but we did reduce our North American television spending in quarter 1 to hold dollars for a later Easter.
We introduced Victoria Justice who stars on the hit show Victorious on Nickelodeon as our brand ambassador in our advertising and marketing programs.
Build-A-Bear has always been known for our fashion so partnering with Victoria is a great step.
She is all about the latest trends and hot looks particularly with our core demographic.
She is featured in our TV ads online and coming soon will be Victoria Justice exclusive products in Build-A-Bear Workshop.
The addition of an Easter gift card up sell program put over 200 000 incremental gift cards into the market and will drive business particularly in the second quarter if these cards are redeemed.
In the U.K.
we supported Valentine’s Day with TV ads.
Our brand of tracker shows positive movement in consumer awareness and attitudes.
We know that the U.K.
will be challenging this year but we are committed to maximizing our business in this market.
Looking ahead – We feel very good about where we are headed with our product in marketing.
It was the second quarter last year that our plans to focus on one product with one promotion and one store emphasis really started to gel.
While we feel the strategy has moved our business forward we are just now really hitting our stride to deliver our results.
The focus on themes or stories of animals has been well-received with all of our collections selling through very close to their planned out dates.
However we believe we’ve missed some volume opportunities on certain animals by retiring them at the end of the launch period.
Therefore we’re going to be increasing our quantities on select animals in the collections and moving that animal to our core once the theme has ended.
We will be able to build volume on some very strong animals this way.
For example we will launch our Hot Dogs and Cool Cats collection in May.
Dogs are our No.
2 animal category behind bears.
So in order to maximize sales from these key items 2 of the dogs and 1 cat will remain after the theme retires and continue to sell in our core lineup.
We feel this collection will exceed last year’s zoo event in both animals sold and coordinating outfits and accessories.
Last fall we added new design talent to our product team to up our fashion quotient and improve our apparel and accessory business.
We are very pleased with the results of the initial assortments.
We expect to grow our units and average transactions as we continue to improve our apparel and maximize the latest trends.
As you may recall we had a highly successful Ice Cream Bear collection last year and in 2011 we will introduce the Dairy Queen Blizzard Bears supported with color coordinated fashion apparel which we believe will have greater appeal versus our ice cream-themed outfits last year.
The Dairy Queen tie-in will feature our product in more than double the number of outlets versus last year’s ice cream partner.
And we have moved the arrival into this year’s second quarter to kick off the start of summer vacation with a very appealing collection and match the strength of this product to a big power period for our sales.
As I mentioned tie-ins with movies have been great for Build-A-Bear building buzz and leverage in the energy and advertising that the movie studios create.
Looking Looking into the third quarter we are excited to have a tie-in with the upcoming Smurfs movie anticipated to be a summer blockbuster for families with nostalgic appeal to parents and just plain fun for the kids.
We are happy with the business we are getting from our SmallFrys™ lineup.
As a reminder we launched SmallFrys™ in the third quarter last year and brought out the second collection into our stores this last February.
Based on its success we will have several new collections throughout this year and we are also testing a number of new categories in the next several months to continue to grow our store productivity with expanded product range just like we did with SmallFrys™.
We are intensely focused on delivering all of this at a merchandise margin that works for our business.
We continue to work very hard on managing escalating costs and expect to mitigate the increases through supply chain efficiencies as well as by taking selective price increases.
On the digital marketing side we are keeping our brand alive 24/7 and have several online initiatives driving these goals.
As it relates to kids (inaudible) is the key strategy and we have added new innovative features to this site that have been well received with the brand engagement continuing to grow.
In April visitors were up over last year by 30% and total visits to the site grew 15%.
Our Bear Bell iPhone app launched in the fourth quarter of 2010 we now have over 500 000 users and over 4 million sessions played.
In addition we are growing our top of mind brand awareness and spreading our product news through social media.
For example we have an avid community on Facebook with over 1 million fans.
As a comparison we stood at 300 000 fans at the end of 2010 and with an all-out push we have more than tripled our fan base in a very short time.
We have specific plans to engage these enthusiastic brand advocates and drive revenue both online and in-store.
These digital initiatives will drive our online sales which are showing double digit increases as well as drive brand awareness and store traffic.
To summarize with these product and marketing strategies we expect to deliver increased top store sales and operating performance in 2011.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Tina to review our financial results and outlook in more detail.
Thanks John and hello everyone.
For the first quarter total revenue was $96 million compared to $101.4 million last year a decrease of 5.4%.
Consolidated net retail sales were $94.2 million a decrease of $5.6 million or 5.6% compared to last year’s first quarter.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange net retail sales decreased 6.4%.
Consolidated comparable store sales for the first quarter declined 8.5% primarily driven by the decrease in trend actions which were adversely impacted by the Easter shift.
The net retail sales from European operations were $16.1 million in the first quarter which compares to $15.8 million last year.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange European net retail sales declined 1/1%.
Our eCommerce business was up 1.5% in the quarter excluding the impact of foreign exchange with solid performance in both North America and the U.K.
Commercial revenue was $1.1 million up 14.4% compared to last year.
International franchise revenue was $726 000 in the quarter up 6.3%.
We ended the quarter with 63 international franchise stores.
We expect our franchisees to open approximately 5 to 10 stores in 2011 net of closures including our first store in Brazil.
Our retail gross margin rate in the first quarter was 38.8% compared to 41.1% last year.
The decline was primarily due to the deleverage of fixed occupancy costs resulting from lower net retail sales in the quarter.
SG&amp;A was $41.3 million or 43% of revenues Compared to 39% in the first quarter last year.
Included in this are $1.5 million in costs associated with our ongoing consulting project.
Excluding the consulting project costs SG&amp;A as a percent of sales was 41.4% in the first quarter.
The income tax benefit was $1.4 million for the first quarter to compare to the income tax expense of $1.1 million last year.
For the full year 2011 we continue to expect our tax rate to be 38%.
Net loss was $2.3 million or $0.12 per share compared to net income of $1.7 million or $0.09 per diluted share last year.
As a reminder 2011 results include $0.05 per share for consulting fees.
Our balance sheet remains strong and we ended the quarter with consolidated cash of $45 million compared to $53 million at the end of the first quarter last year.
We have no debt and not borrowings on our credit facility.
During the quarter we repurchased 375 000 shares of our common stock and at quarter end we had approximately 21.2 million of availability under the current Stock Repurchase Program.
Capital expenditures in the first quarter were $2.3 million primarily for software and equipment upgrades as well as store-related capital compared to $3.3 million in the first quarter last year.
For the full year 2011 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $12-$15 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $6.5 million for the quarter down from $6.9 million the first quarter of last year.
For the full year we expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $26 million.
At the quarter end consolidated inventories totaled $39.5 million compared to $47.1 million at the end of first quarter 2010.
Inventory per sq.
ft.
decreased approximately 17%.
This inventory decline compares to an increase of 11% on a per sq.
ft.
basis at the end of the first quarter last year.
The lower inventory levels give us an opportunity to trace the trends and styles that have been emerging and to keep our assortments fresh.
As a reminder the second quarter is our smallest quarter of the year and we typically post a lost even with Easter shifts in this period.
We are pleased with the start to our second quarter with growth in both our comparable store sales and our eCommerce business.
Based on our enhanced product and marketing strategies we expect our positive sales trends to continue for the remainder of the quarter and result in an improvement in our loss for the second quarter.
And now I would like to turn the call back over to Maxine for concluding remarks.
Thanks Tina.
I want to take a moment and thank Kathy Savitt for her work on our Board of Directors.
And as we recently announced I’m pleased to welcome Brad Leonard to our Board.
We are excited to have Brad who is not only a significant investor in our company he is a successful entrepreneur and a father of three daughters who are avid Build-A-Bear fans.
We are looking forward to his input on many levels.
In conclusion while the Easter shift was a tough one our business is moving in the right direction.
We have strengthened our product and marketing strategies and we have identified cost savings which are expected to drive efficiencies across our company.
We are improving the productivity of our stores and we have a strong balance sheet to support our future growth.
I’m encouraged as we begin the second quarter and expect our strategies to deliver improvement in sales and operating performance in 2011 and beyond.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to the Operator to begin with the question and answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions.) Today’s first question comes from the line of Tom Filandro of SIT.
Please proceed.
Hi thank you.
I actually had two quick questions.
First is can you guys really give a little more detail on where the $10 to $15 million in savings is coming from? And then my second question is John you alluded to testing some new categories I think you said over the next few months.
Can you give us a sense of exactly what that is that you’re talking about? Is that similar to like a SmallFrys™ or is this maybe a toy experience type product? What are you thinking about? Thank you.
Tom on the consulting project we’re looking at just every phase of our business from our product sourcing to our distribution to ocean freight to store supplies – it’s really across the board – our IT just everything that we look at from a perspective of indirect and direct expenses.
And again we just started phase 2 so we’re really diving into that to see where the potential savings are so it will be really across the board.
Hi Tom.
With respect to some of the things we’re trying for some new products talked to you last year about small price.
And we spent a lot of energy and thought putting it into market and it’s worked pretty well for us.
There’s a little bit of cannibalization but by and large it’s an incremental purchase it’s helped us with the tween customer it’s skewed even a little bit more girl; it’s got a good proprietary Build-A-Bear margin; we feel great about it.
So with that as a backdrop we’ve got several things in tests and I’m going to kind of put them in some groups.
Some are some open-market products.
For instance we’re going to have Angry Birds in our stores next week – 50ish stores and then the rest of the chain about two weeks after that.
We’re going to start with some product that we just bought in the open market but we want it to be out there quickly and if it makes sense we could turn that into a Build Your Own if we thought that was logical.
We also though more importantly believe we’ve got some proprietary opportunities where we take a look at some other pre-stuffed plush in some cases again incremental pick-ups a product that plays off of our heritage again it’s done with our proprietary margin.
We are also going to go in to test with a craft shop product line in some stores.
We’re going to take the product that we’ve developed for some of our other licensed partners.
We get asked for it on a regular basis so we’re going to put that on a fixture in the store and see if we can drive some business.
We also have something that’s going to come out this summer that we think could expand our demo a little bit.
We’ve always talked to you about kind of 3 to 103 but 3 to 12 is really our core.
We’re going to put a product in the market this summer that we think can capture some business from 0 to 3.
I say this summer kind of June-July-ish.
And a couple more.
And we’re going to put these ideas across the country in some different markets and in one market we’re going to kind of put them all in there and see if we can really drive the business.
But we believe the core of what we do is a make your own experience.
We’re going to continue to be strong there but we believe we can drive incremental visits and incremental baskets with some of these new ideas.
And so we’re going to stay on it pretty aggressively and you’re going to continue to see us trying new things.
We’re going to miss some; we’re going to make some.
But we think if we continue saying this it’ll drive the four-wall productivity of our business.
Thanks very much and best of luck.
Our next question comes from the line of Sean McGowan with Needham.
Please proceed.
Hi first I just wanted to ask you to repeat something that you die earlier in the call.
What was the European January to February increase? It was an increase of 5.4%.
Okay thanks.
And then in terms of a question I’m following up on something you said earlier John regarding keeping some animals after the promotion period.
Just wanted to get your thoughts on – is that a SKU management problem or an inventory management problem? How big could that be over time if you plan to keep them in indefinitely or just a little bit longer than the promotional period? I think more that latter than the former.
I’m going to use last year’s Ice Cream Bear as an example.
We brought out 4 animals.
Obviously there’s a best seller and there’s a No.
4 seller in any of those.
That collection literally came in and out of the store in 3 3½ weeks.
We were still getting emails at Christmas saying “Can I get the Bubble Gum?” “Can I get the Mint Chocolate Chip?” What we will do is we look at somebody’s collections we talk to kids ahead of time.
We are usually pretty accurate as to what’s going to be the best seller so instead of that line being kind of in-store for 6 weeks the majority of the line will be in for 5 weeks we’ll plan to keep around for a few months because we can then still get maximum volume out of it.
So we talked about Hot Dogs and Cool Cats this summer.
Our lead guy is this great little wiener dog and he will debut in about 2 Fridays but we will keep him around longer because we know we can get several months of traction out of that.
With respect to SKU management two things will happen.
We will plan for that so we won’t get ourselves kind of over-assorted.
The second thing well do we mentioned briefly.
In 2010 while we’re happy with our launches a lot of times our apparel would be really specific to the launch.
So think of ice cream again and we had things that were really – our Mint Chocolate Chip Bear had a little dress that was all about mint chocolate chip ice cream.
In ‘11 we’re going to have fashions that match back to the look and to the color of the animal but that fashion will be able to go against more animals and we’ll be able to live with it a little bit longer as well.
So we think we can get more mileage out of some of this great fashion emphasis that we mentioned earlier.
So we are acutely aware of managing the inventory but we think this is actually a win-win because we’ll have the strength of the launches and those good animals will stay around even longer.
And if you remember one of the things we learned last year we talked about it in our last call was our core was not quite- Our launches were good but our core was not as strong as we wanted it to be and we think this kind of hits both sides.
And one thing about the SJ you mentioned we only have 36 bins in every store in the United States and about 30 in the UK so that’s all the animals you could have at any one time.
So last year the core animals and outfits that John just referred to weren’t changing out as much because we didn’t let these launch animals become part of the core which they did in prior years.
So even though we may not have had four animals in a launch in 2009 we might have had one that animal after it launched stayed in our line unless it was a seasonal animal like St.
Patrick’s Day or something like that and that allowed our core to be fresher.
So this is I think the perfect balance between where we might have been prior to 2010 and where we’ll be going in the future.
So the customer doesn’t visit us every single month so the customer who comes to visit and wants the ice cream sees the ice cream bear- So they go to Bearville and they visit our website all the time but they’re a child and mom’s not going to bring them to the store until they come to town or until they go to grandma’s house and they miss some of those things.
And we really listen to those comments and I think that many of these items can become stronger parts of our assortment and while they’re planned to be shorter if the sales are warranted we’ll keep them longer.
Like we had Peace Bear our Peace Bear continues to be a really really strong seller no matter which way we bring it in and it was meant to be part of a trend in 2009 that was playing off peace symbols that were a lot in fashion.
But we have a Peace Bear that we’ve had since then and we just launched one as part of our Rainbow collection the Rainbow Peace Bear which is very strong and we’re reevaluating whether we want to keep that longer than just a few months because it’s such a good bear.
So I think those are the kinds of things that we like to be flexible about but we have already done it in some way shape or form.
But the 36-bin contain us and make us very SKU aware.
Our next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
I was wondering how was your merchandise margin compared to last year excluding the fixed occupancy.
Yeah Gerrick it’s John.
Our retail margin which is what we talk about to kind of keep wholesale and some things isolated our retail margin for Q1 was actually down 0.2% so 20 basis points and it was a mix issue – that was not an escalating price issue.
So we feel pretty good about that.
As we’ve talked about and as you’re well aware the whole world is seeing price pressure but we have spent a lot of energy trying to really manage our margins.
We have looked at our product and how we build it and have seen where there might be opportunities to reengineer it a little bit.
We have looked at our supplier base – this is again all part of this larger consulting project that Tina and Maxine have mentioned.
So we’ve also looked at our supplier base and said “Is there probably a day out of supplier or two in some of our different categories to continue to keep our pricing in line and keep everybody kind of honest?” We have made good progress on our logistics expense so we’ve taken some money out of what it costs us to get product out of Asia over to the West Coast and then from the West Coast out to our stores.
And then finally as mentioned we have looked at some pricing opportunities where we think it makes sense where we think we can deliver value to the consumer and charge just a little bit more.
So when we put all that together while we were off a little bit in Q1 we believe we will keep our retail margins in line with our plan for 2011.
Okay there’s been a lot of discussion about rising cotton costs but how does that impact polyester and what are you seeing in those other inputs that you use? Well I think what happened the guys who do polyester – remember it’s an oil-based product so and oil’s up kind of 2X.
I think in the past when one commodity went up the other guys would say “Hey I’m going to capture a bunch of market share.” What we saw with polyester and acrylic and some of the things right now is when cotton went up they said “Why don’t we get in on it too?” and they just started raising the prices right along with it not quite to the 2X level that cotton saw but all of those raw materials have gone up.
And labor has gone up in Asia as you’re probably aware so I don’t think it’s gone up quite to the same level as cotton but it has gone up.
Rubber has gone up – obviously rubber goes into our shoes.
So we’ve got material cost pressure across the board no different than probably anybody else you cover or anybody else in our industry.
Okay.
And then on the stores you talked about leases coming up for renewal or subject to kick out.
What percentage or portion of your US store base would be coming up for renewal or kick out in the next 12 to 18 months? And then kind of related any plans on reformatting stores the existing store base and when was the last time these stores were kind of refreshed? Hi Gerrick it’s Maxine.
We have in the next 18 to 24 months about 45% of our stores will come under review for a kick out either a first or second kick out – we often put two in there – or lease renewal.
So that gives us a great opportunity to really look at market-by-market store-by-store in that market.
And then the refresh of the stores- We constantly refresh our stores.
As we put something new in the stores a new fixture or a new category then all the stores get it – like last year when we launched Small Fries and we put in a new fixture for Small Fries every single store got that fixture.
And last year we also did a couple of experiments in a new kind of format that we have several stores that are in that look and it’s still the Build-A-Bear process and procedure but a slightly fresher look if you will not necessarily seeing any more sales from those stores that have that look but we are working on a much more engaged maybe back a little bit more to our roots magical experience that pulls back some of the things we put in the store originally that we took out actually for space and first just to make room for customers; and then actually taking out as part of value engineering that we’re going to be looking to add back into our stores especially some of our larger volume stores like Disney New York Myrtle Beach where they truly are tourist and vacation and long experiences longer than the average which is 45 minutes in a store longer when they come to a tourist attraction like Disneyland or Myrtle Beach or New York City for that matter.
Okay I’ll just throw one more in there.
You touched on sort of the tourist attractions – how about the Orlando Airport store and your Children’s Hospital store the status of those and you know your initial reads on how those are performing? The Orlando Airport store opens next Friday or Thursday so it isn’t open yet; we don’t have any sales to report but we’re excited about that because obviously lots of kids come through Orlando Airport.
And while May is not the biggest month in Disney’s schedule we’ll have a good start to just see how the traffic goes and then obviously it heats up pretty dramatically for the summer and beyond.
In the Children’s Hospital that opened up last month and is doing well so far.
It was a quiet opening and they’re going through their experience because not only did they open up expand and open up a Build-A-Bear store but they opened up a Starbucks in a sense almost like a mini-mall in a hospital.
So they’re managing that and all reports are that it’s going as planned and very very smoothly.
Alright thank you very much.
(Operator instructions).
And our next question is a follow-up from the line of Tom Filandro.
Please proceed.
Okay thank you.
I want to go back to the comment originally you talked about the gift card trend in Q4.
Tina can you maybe tell us precisely what happened to the gift card trend in Q4 like how much was it down? I hear you stated I think you had a negative impact of 1.6% so I have two questions related to that: one is any initiatives in place to reverse that trend during the holiday season as we approach it this year? And then the second one is what impact are you anticipating the Easter gift card redemption to have on the Q2 results? Thank you.
Sure.
Tom I think that again some of the decline was the decline in the overall Q4 sales in North America and I think that one way to stem some of that offset was to put in the upsell gift card program we had in Easter in the US which we had not done in the past year; and continue our upsell gift card program at Valentine’s Day which we had last year.
So that put about 200 000 more cards in the marketplace.
And I think on a go-forward basis in holiday again this year we’ll continue to work we’ll continue to have our upsell gift card program.
At Easter time and Valentine’s Day we actually lowered our limit from a perspective of it used to be a $30 purchase you could get the $10 card and we lowered that to $20 to help stem and put more cards in the marketplace.
And again I think we’ll probably do that at holiday time to help put more cards in the marketplace.
But again our gift card program is very successful and we are going to continue to look at outside places to sell our gift cards whether it’s Walgreen’s stores or Cosco’s or what have you.
As you walk into the grocery stores most everywhere carries gift cards now so we’ll continue to enhance that program as we go forward.
Tom one of the other things this is Maxine.
One of the other things that we are doing and one of the things that Build-A-Bear’s known for is our packaging and as we go into the holiday season we’re going to put back some really fun packaging for our gift card that we had actually- It was available but people had to ask for it more so than we just sort of went to this fast mode of “Let’s just sell a lot of cards and put them in an envelope and sell them out the door.” And we’re going to put back some fun packaging for them to make them as giftable.
But we do have a lot of outlets now in the United States.
It’s a pretty mature market the United States selling gift cards in grocery and drug stores but the UK one of the reasons why the UK had a positive year is that we just opened up secondary outlets for them last year not as many as we would have even liked but that opportunity is still out there strongly for the UK to have expanded places to buy a Build-A-Bear card.
And as our awareness grows too that’s just perfect timing.
So we think that with all those things- We look at every single piece of marketing.
It wasn’t so much that gift cards were less a (inaudible) set of our business it’s just that overall the business was less.
So and we did have the strong upsell program so it could have been some tradeoff of customers instead of buying a $35 or a $50 card were buying the upsell card.
But it’s such a successful program and has over time put a lot more cards in the hands of our customers that we thought it was a valuable and worthwhile tradeoff.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hey you had Hop for Easter this year.
Was there a comparable sort of licensing event last year? I can’t really recall.
Yeah if you remember Gerrick we brought out Alvin and his friends for Q4 ‘09 and it was so successful we scrambled and brought Alvin back and Brittany in full size make your own.
We had them for about three weeks kind of right in the middle of March so Hop was really kind of a comp to Alvin and Brittany last year – both $22 price points.
Hop was supported by kind of the first introduction of the movie or excuse me EB was the first introduction of the movie and Alvin and Brittany were riding on the DVD release in Q1 ‘10.
But yeah those were pretty much a comp.
Okay and ever since the Shrek debacle several years ago your licensing initiatives at least on the skin side have seemed to perform pretty well – things like Hello Kitty and Hop and Alvin.
What percent of your skins these days are licensed and how does that compare and how do you think that’ll look through 2011 with the addition of Smurfs and whatever other licensed skins you’re going to bring on? Yeah I think you have to kind of put it in a couple categories.
You’re right – Hello Kitty is licensed and she has done very very well for us since- She came in in ‘04 in apparel and into full size in ‘06 and she’s been a star for us ever since.
We have on 6/10 or June 10th we’re breaking a pink Hello Kitty first time ever and we are really really excited about it.
We’ve got Smurfs and then we do have some things with the holidays which we’re not going to get into here today but we will next time we talk to you guys.
When we look at our licensed skins and then you’ve also got to think about licensed products throughout the store right? So whether that is sports uniforms whether that is tie-ins with iCarly or with Wizards of Waverly when we look at all the license business overall kind of 20%-ish a little bit more somewhere in that range though – some skins some apparel.
We want to be there we want to be contemporary.
We want to certainly trade on these large (inaudible) releases and the budgets they bring and the energy they put in the market but we don’t want to get over licensed so we’re always trying to find that balance.
So you do have some evergreen properties like in HK and then you have some of the movies that we kind of have for the period of time and then we’ll do something like a Victoria Justice who will be our brand ambassador this year and into next year and we’ll do some product with her both apparel and animal.
So that’s how we look at that business overall and again kind of 20%-ish a little bit more.
Okay.
And on your existing stores I guess 2800 sq.
ft.
was kind of the average and then you talked about shrinking down to 2200 with some new stores and new formats and new locations.
Is that still kind of the goal – 2200 sq.
ft.
or maybe are we shooting for something lower? What kind of square footage are you looking at for relocations or new stores? No they’re in the 2200 to 2600 range so it just depends on the shape of the store.
We’re not lower than 2000 sq.
ft.
anywhere.
I mean the selling square feet might be below 2000 but the store itself the gross square footage is usually 2200 to 2600.
Right but stores that you relocate.
What we’re relocating are stores that are 3000 sq.
ft.
We’re relocating them to the current what we believe is the current optimum size of 2200 to 2600 somewhere in that range.
So they were bigger much bigger stores and in some cases they were even over 3000 sq.
ft.
One of the stores that’ll open this week I believe it’s this Friday is International Plaza which when it opened in 2001 in Tampa right after 9/11 actually it had a party room in it.
So it was over 4000 sq.
ft.
and now it’s being downsized to a 2500-ish sq.
ft.
store.
So a significant reduction but in the same mall and in the same general location and so it’ll be a good store for us and much more cost effective.
And is the birthday party concept is that a significant part of your business anymore or has that kind of gone by the wayside? How’s the party business? The part business is not insignificant.
It’s never been as big as a lot of people think it is it’s under 10% of our business but it still is a healthy business and a very important part of our business.
Okay thank you.
That concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back to Maxine Clark for closing comments.
Thank you again for joining us.
We look forward to speaking to you when we report our Q2 results.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you so much for your participation you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop Inc.
Second Quarter Fiscal 2011 Results Conference Call.
My name is [Kiana] and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode and later we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
Now I’d like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Allison Malkin with ICR.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Maxine Clark Chairman and Chief Executive Bear; and Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with their questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up this way we can get to everyone’s questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note that our call is being recorded and broadcast live via the internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website and a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Maxine Clark.
Maxine? Thank you Allison and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our second quarter fiscal 2011 results.
For our call today I’ll begin with comments on our second quarter performance and other key initiatives.
I’ll also give insight into our product and marketing strategy.
As you know John Haugh our President recently resigned.
I’d like to thank John for his contributions to Build-A-Bear Workshop and we wish him well.
While we evaluate our future organizational structure we have assigned his responsibilities to other senior leaders of our company all with significant retail and Build-A-Bear Workshop experience.
Following my remarks Tina Klocke the Chief Operations and Financial Bear will follow our financial results and update you on progress of cost to savings related to our recent consulting project.
Then we’ll open the call to take your questions.
In the second quarter we grew our total revenue by 9% excluding the impact of foreign exchange driven by a 7.1% increase in our consolidated comparable store sales.
Comp sales were up in both North America and Europe positive 8.3% and positive 1.3% respectively.
While the shift in Easter benefited our second quarter comp by approximately 6% our sales growth continued positively post Easter.
Consolidated comp sales in May and June combined are up approximately 1% with strong margins giving its confidence that we are making solid progress towards our annual goal.
Our top line growth also reflects strong e-commerce business up 22.8% in the quarter reflecting the success of web-specific marketing initiatives and our ability to improve conversion and transaction method with an updated technology platform.
Our net loss in the quarter was $6.7 million or $0.37 per share a significant improvement from last year’s second quarter loss of $8.5 million or $0.45 per share.
As you know the second quarter is our smallest quarter and typically results in a loss even when Easter shifts into the period.
We remain very focused throughout our organization on increasing shareholder value.
We are intensely focused on continuing to grow our comp sales through our merchandize marketing and operations initiatives and improving our profitability by aggressively implementing the findings of our consulting project to reduce costs.
We see major opportunities to grow our international revenues in an increasingly global economy through existing franchisees and by adding additional country.
We believe Build-a-Bear Workshop is a great investment so we continue to repurchase our common stock.
And we will strategically use our strong balance sheet to take advantage of other growth opportunities they present themselves.
We also see opportunity to update our store design and experience with existing new features that will increase guest engagement and drive traffic to our stores.
During the quarter we made solid progress towards our product marketing and expense goal.
Our consolidated comp store sales increase was driven by a 5.4% increase in transactions and a 1.7% increase in average transaction value reflecting the strength of our animal launches and related apparel marketing support and operational execution.
Our retail gross margin was up 490 basis points and our merchandise margins were strong as a moderated product cost increases through strong negotiation and selectively increased retail prices optimizing our merchandize mix in the process.
We are in a full core press implementing projects to improve our efficiencies and reduce expenses identified in our consulting project.
As expected our 2011 second quarter results included cost of $0.05 per share associated with this project and we expect to realize significant annualized savings beginning in the back half of this year.
Now let me go through some of the main highlights driving our sales growth in the quarter which gave us growth across all geographies.
Our key merchandize initiatives moved us forward including our new animal introductions updated core animals improved coordination of apparel and accessory and the addition of new product categories.
For example our on core to last years’ Ice Cream Bears Blizzard Bears in North America and Ice Cream Bears in Europe had updated features such as the scented ice cream cup and fashionable related apparel.
We launched this collection earlier than last year in order to leverage a high traffic June and give us a strong kick off to summer.
We brought two great brands together this year in North America with the time of Dairy Queen.
This gave us brand exposure in over 6 000 DQ store and high visibility in digital media resulting in many more brand impression than last year.
In the UK we partnered with Baskin-Robbins in a similar way to expand the reach for our brand beyond our stores.
In our previous calls we said we would be making more frequent update to our core animals which in this quarter included a great launch of Pink Hello Kitty.
Hello Kitty has been a powerful property for us for several years but this is the first time we offered a pink version.
Pink Hello Kitty has a higher than average retail and her coordinated apparel and accessories results in a high average transaction value.
This was such a successful core update that we’re going to leverage other colors seasonally as we move forward.
Our most recent launch starting July was the introduction of Smurfs in conjunction with the movies release.
Theatrical tie-ins generate and help bring traffic to our stores as we leverage the energy in advertising that the movie studios generate.
The Smurfs launch has been such a strong traffic in sales generator that we are bringing in another round of product timed with the release of the movie’s DVD coming this holiday.
We continue to capitalize on opportunities to sell other brand consistent toward products just for impulse purchases and add on sales.
After a successful test we added Angry Birds product flash versions of the Birds and Pigs that are featured in the highly popular mobile game to all stores in late June.
And we also added a new collection of our proprietary SmallFrys on July 1<sup> </sup> and we’ll introduce another collection in September.
We are building a key business category by offering relevant pick up items that are easily added on to core product sales but also appeal to in all of the demographic and bring new customers into our stores.
Our integrated marketing and promotional support was also very effective.
Our Easter gift card up sell promotion were guests could purchase a gift card for half off with the qualifying transaction resulted in 200 000 incremental cards going into the market taking advantage of strong Easter traffic to feed business into the summer months as redemptions peak.
We engage with kids and moms and we’re using digital media to reach both of these targets through online initiatives that put our brand where our customers are spending more and more time.
For kids Bear Bell continues to grow and our new features have resulted in improved key metrics.
Unique business to the sites were up over 48% over last years second quarter and we now have over 20 million avatars created.
The amount of time children spend on the site per visit has increased which means engagement with our brand continues to grow.
Camp Happy Heart a highly anticipated annual event is once again in session and is on track to set new records this summer.
Moms are showing their royalty to our brand as well.
We know have over 1 million Facebook fans making us one of less than 300 companies worldwide have over 1 million fans.
And we have new initiatives in work that will engage our guests with video content and creation and give us a stronger presence on YouTube a site that is very popular with kids and adults.
Victoria Justice our brand ambassador is star of the hit show; Victorious on Nickelodeon continues to be featured in our advertising and marketing program.
Build-a-Bear Workshop is known for our fashion so partnering with Victoria is a great fit.
She is all about the latest trends and hot looks.
In August we will be launching Victoria Justice fashion for bears to lever this relationship even further.
We are confident that our strategies will continue to grow our sales in the second half and we expect to achieve our profitability goals for the year.
On August 5 we’ll start the third annual $29.99 bundle promotion that gives our guest the opportunity to purchase any animal any outfit and any pair of shoes for $29.99.
This event makes it easy for mom to say yes to their kids when they’re outdoing their back-to-school shopping.
In September we are really excited to introduce the world famous Peanuts characters Snoopy for the first time ever.
Our version of Snoopy has a fun movement and musical feature.
While we typically review our Q4 product introductions on our next call I do want to mention some highlight.
We are very excited to partner with Microsoft on the fall launch of Kinectimals now with Bears.
Introduced last year Kinectimal has become one of Microsoft’s most popular titles for their animal friendly Kinect to the Xbox 360 platform.
As you may know the Kinect system launched in the fourth quarter of 2010 with record-setting demand over 10 million systems sold.
In Kinectimals kids families and animal lovers of all ages interact virtually with animals featured in the game.
The play experience is adorable and has brought a whole new customer to Xbox including (inaudible).
Thanks for the leadership of our Digital Marketing Chief Teresa Kroll and our CIO Dave Finnegan; we are once again bringing two great brands together.
This year’s extended release of the Kinectimals game has a bear theme and Build-A-Bear Workshop will offer several exclusive bears that will unlock branded Build-A-Bear Workshop bears inside the game.
It is a natural fit for the leading gaming system and the authority [unflash] to come together in this unique way.
Both companies will use full marketing assets to drive revenues and cross promote each other’s product.
In addition to this merged DVD we will also tie in with two major holiday theatrical releases which will bring a lot of attention to our product and bring guest to our stores to bring the movie characters to life without flash version.
To summarize we are optimistic about the back half of 2011.
Our product assortment looks great.
We’re supporting this with strong marketing integrating these initiatives into our signature store experience.
And while the quarter has just begun July is off to a good start.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Tina to review our financial results and outlook in more detail.
Thanks Maxine and good morning everyone.
Let me start by giving additional details about our second quarter results.
For the second quarter total revenues increased 10.4% to $81.8 million from $74.1 million in the second quarter last year.
Excluding the impact of foreign currencies total revenues increased 9%.
Consolidated comparable store sales increased 7.1% with increases in both North America and Europe of 8.3% and 1.3% respectively.
International franchise revenue increased to 714 000 from 661 000 last year.
We ended the quarter with 70 international franchise stores versus 60 last year.
During the quarter we expanded our international business with a successful opening of our first franchise location in Brazil.
We believe that international growth is a key opportunity and are working closely with our franchisees to aggressively move the business forward.
Retail gross margin increased 490 basis points in the second quarter to 35.8% from 30.9% last year.
This increase was primarily driven by a 130 basis point improvement in merchandize margin and 320 basis points in leverage of fixed occupancy cost.
We will continue to refine our sales mix and expect the benefits of our consulting project to allow us to maintain strong merchandised margins in the second half of the year.
Total SG&amp;A in the second quarter was $40.5 million or 49.5% of total revenues compared to $36.4 million or 49.1% of total revenues in 2010.
Excluding the consulting project costs SG&amp;A as a percent of total revenue was 47.7% in the second quarter.
For the quarter we recorded a tax benefit of $4 million which compares to a tax benefit of $4.1 million in the second quarter of 2010.
For the full year of 2011 we continue to expect our tax rate to be approximately 38%.
Net loss in the second quarter was $6.7 million or $0.37 per share compared to a net loss of $8.5 million or $0.45 per share in the second quarter last year.
As Maxine mentioned the net loss for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 included a consulting fee that impacted our earnings by $0.05 per share.
As a reminder net loss for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 included a non-cash charge of approximately $300 000 or $0.02 per share related to the impairment of ceratin long-term deposits.
Now turning to our first half results total revenues increased 1.3% to $177.8 million form a $175.6 million in the first six months of the year.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency total revenues increased eight-tenth of a percent.
On a consolidated basis our comp store sales declined by 2%.
This includes a 2% decrease in North America and a 1% decrease in the European operation.
Net loss for the first six months of 2011 was $8.9 million or $0.15 per share compared to a net loss of $6.8 million or $0.36 per share in the first six month of last year.
Net loss this year included $0.10 per share in consulting fees.
Net loss in 2010 included $0.02 per share at non-cash impairment charge related to certain long-term deposits.
Regarding cash flow we ended the first half with a strong consolidated cash balance of $34.7 million.
We have no debt and we did not make any borrowings against our credit facility.
During the quarter we repurchased 389 000 shares and now have $18.6 million available under our share repurchase program.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $6.2 million compared to $6.8 million in 2010.
We expect depreciation and amortization for the full year 2011 to be approximately $25 million.
Capital expenditures in the second quarter were $3.8 million primarily for store related capital and software and equipment upgrade.
This compares to $3.2 million in the second quarter of 2010.
We continue to aggressively review our visiting store portfolio to optimize our overall productivity and profitability.
During the second quarter we completed the downsizing and relocation of four stores in North America.
Initial results from these relocated stores are in line with our expectations.
For the year we are on track to open five permanent new stores across geographies.
In addition we expect to open three pop-up stores which allows us to reuse fixtures and equipment and testing markets prior to making long-term based commitment.
We expect to close five to 10 permanent stores this year.
To date we’ve closed three stores in North America and one in the U.K.
We’ve also closed three pop-up stores that were opened last fall.
We expect capital expenditures for the full year to be between $12 million and $15 million.
At the end of the quarter consolidated inventories totaled $46.2 million compared to $57.1 million at the end of the second quarter of 2010.
Inventory per square foot decreased approximately 20% inline with our plans and puts us in good position to respond to product and pop culture trend in the back half of the year.
Turning now to our consulting engagement we initiated the consulting project with a focus into product sourcing and supply chain because we anticipated the global pressure on pricing and other component and transportation costs that the industry is now experiencing.
Towards the end of the first quarter we moved into Phase II of the project focusing on additional areas of operations including store productivity marketing and other expense areas.
We continue to expect to realize savings in the range of $4 million to $6 million in 2011 primarily in the second half which would equate to $0.14 to $0.21 per diluted share.
We expect annualized savings to be $10 million to $15 million.
We are aggressively acting on the findings in order to get the most benefit we can in 2011.
As we move into our fiscal third quarter we are pleased with our current sales trend.
We’re focused on implementing the findings of the consulting project to improve our cost structure and we’re committed to our goal of increasing shareholder value by profitably growing our sales.
For those of you that build models in our business we would like to remind you that last year second half included $6.4 million in non-reoccurring commercial revenue at no gross margin $5.8 million coming in the third quarter.
We do not anticipate a similar transaction this year.
This concludes my remarks.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Maxine.
In conclusion we feel good about the start to the second half of the year.
We are growing our business in our company-owned stores and e-commerce by building synergies between our core product our partnerships with other world-class brands and through added engagement in and out of our iconic stores.
Build-A-Bear Workshop is a powerful global brand kid’s lover and moms trust us worldwide.
We are in a strong financial position to drive growth both domestic and international.
Along with our Board of Directors who will continue to evaluate all potential users of our capital including the repurchase of shares and invest as opportunities arrive in strategic initiatives for the benefit of Build-A-Bear Workshop’s stake holders.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to the operator to begin the question and answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Sean McGowan with Needham and Company.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thank you.
My questions are regarding gross margin.
Typically over the years the second quarter is generally the lowest of the four quarters in terms of gross margin as a percentage of sales do you expect that to be the case this year and how much higher than this level you think they can get? Hey Sean it’s Tina.
Hi Tina.
Last year we ended the year with a gross margin of 40% and so we believe that we can get to that and hopefully improve a bit upon that with our cost savings initiatives through out our consulting projects.
But again in the second quarter we were able to leverage our fixed overhead expenses because we had comp growth in that quarter.
Okay.
So that would imply then at the margins in some subsequent quarters could be higher than 40 right? Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Please proceed.
Hi everybody.
Hi Janet.
Hi.
I just wanted to ask about Smurfs.
It sounds like it’s doing very well and I’m wondering about the inventory availability there and if you think you’ll have enough to meet demand as we go through this period.
and then I think the DVD releases the fourth quarter.
Will you be able to meet demand there?  Well we actually have been to [south] for a couple of weeks so we’ve been selling it like hot cakes.
And while we will have some through the weekend I’m sure and we have some alternatives to little pickup items add-ons we’ll have those longer than we’ll have to make here.
So it depends on the store but obviously there is always opportunities somewhere and we have gone into it for the fourth quarter to make a bigger deal of it and we are also bringing in pop-ups for the fourth quarter.
So that will be a really nice addition to our assortment.
Okay.
And I just wanted to ask about the comp store sales trends in the post Easter period.
They were positive.
Is that right? Yes And were they up to your expectations or did you think that you might have done better if you would had different inventory or different promotions perhaps you could talk a little bit about the post Easter period?  No I think that we have some inventory challenges in early coming out of Easter and we had a very strong Easter and we’re repositioning our inventory but I think that considering how much better our Easter was than our plan then it will take some customers out of the market earlier than later.
And then in May and June which we were positive we ended up there was some changes in school holidays and things like that but June ended on a very strong note and then July is very strong especially with since most of it has come out.
So July is good and this continues it seems to continue to build so we are building back our inventory position and we are feeling good about our business as we go into this part of the year as I said.
It’s just getting all the inventories back in line and also making sure that we the inventory behind the key products that we are featuring for our gap I mean the Smurfs has just been fantastic and we’re very excited about how that’s added to our business in the last few weeks.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Janet.
Thank you.
And we have a follow-up question from the line of Sean McGowan with Needham and Company.
Please proceed.
It’s actually sort of a multi faceted question about the consulting project and the subsequent cost savings.
If you can touch on a couple of things; was there any benefit of the cost savings seen in the second quarter.
Similarly where will we see the impact will it all be in SG&amp;A with some of it being in cost of sales and is the savings goal that you’re articulating is that net of the cost of the consultants or is that before taking out that cost? Okay.
So there was just really just slight benefits not even worthy to call out in Q2 as we started at the latter part of Q2 with the transportation savings that we have gotten and that will be in third and fourth quarter.
And what we look at where it will be I would say right now we’re looking at probably about 40% of the between the $4 million and $6 million will be related to gross margin and the other portion will be in SG&amp;A expenses and the $4 million to $6 million are after consulting services.
So it’s the net because we’ve already taken $0.10 or the $3 million in consulting expenses in the first and second quarter.
Okay.
So of the annuals or annualized as well as the after I mean (inaudible) are similar pay $5 million to save $5 million.
Okay thank you.
(Operator Instructions) As there are no further questions I’ll turn the call back over to Maxine Clark for closing remarks.
Well thank you again for joining us and we look forward to speaking to you again when we report our third quarter results in October.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Build-A-Bear Workshop Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carris [ph] and I’ll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And I would now like to hand the call over to your host for today Ms.
Allison Malkin of ICR.
Please proceed ma’am.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Maxine Clark Chairman and Chief Executive Bear; and Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with their questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up this way we can get to everyone’s questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note that our call is being recorded and broadcast live via the internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website and a replay of both our call and web cast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
And we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Maxine Clark.
Maxine? Thank you Allison and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our third quarter fiscal 2011 results.
For our call today I’ll discuss our third quarter performance and give insight into our product and marketing strategy.
Following my remarks Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear will review our financial results and update you on progress with cost-savings related to our recent consulting project and then we will open the call to take your questions.
I am very pleased to report solid profitability of $0.05 per diluted share in the third quarter a significant improvement over the loss reported in the third quarter last year.
In the quarter we grew our total retail sales our comparable store sales our e-commerce and our international revenues.
We improved our gross margins and real life savings and our expense structure.
We believe our results show continued progress towards our number one objective to increase shareholder value by profitably growing sales.
Additional highlights of the quarter include delivering another quarter of positive comp growth and increasing our third quarter comp for two consecutive years.
We had double-digit growth in our e-commerce business.
The size enhancements that we made and continue to make our marketing initiatives and our social media presence are paying off as both top line and key metric improvements in this channel.
We reduced promotional activity and we put an intense focus on product cost and optimization of retail pricing which led to an increase in our retail gross margins of 160 basis points.
We started seeing expense savings from our consulting project and are on target to hit our annual goal.
Our international revenues from franchised operations increased 14% in the quarter.
To put our full international presence in perspective when you combine our company owned stores in Canada and Europe with our franchised operations we had 153 stores in 16 countries at quarter end.
We continue to see major opportunities to grow internationally in existing countries as well as in new countries.
We continue to believe Build-a-Bear Workshop stock is a great value and we invested $5.1 million of our cash to repurchase 934 000 shares of our common stock during the quarter.
Now let me talk about some of the key drivers of our sales growth in the quarter.
We effectively capitalized on the back-to-school season with strong results in the key traffic months of July and August which led to a solid quarterly performance.
As we mentioned at our second-quarter call our July launch of Smurfs in conjunction with movies release was a great success.
The time with the Smurfs enhanced our own marketing and generated lot of buzz and excitement.
We will continue to partner with relevant and brand appropriate characters and movies as these tie in and help bring traffic to our stores which drive sales across all of our products.
In August we held our annual bundle promotion where we offer any animal any outfit and any pair of shoes for 29.99.
We supported this promotion with our full marketing arsenal including TV advertising direct mail and e-mail online and in store.
This is the third summer we offered the promotion.
Our guests responded very positively and we have improved our sales and execution each time we held the event.
In September we introduced Snoopy for the first time with a fun movement and musical feature as well as our Halloween launch Hello Kitty.
We also eliminated several promotions that ran in 2010 keeping the marketing and operational focus on the excitement of the new product launches and improving our overall profitability for the quarter.
Our fabulous [ph] science category which includes small fries angry birds and other pickup items continues to be strong.
We are building a key business category by offering relevant impulse items that are natural add-ons to core product sales but are also are easily picked up by casual shoppers or children’s allowance.
As you move into the fourth quarter we are very excited with our lineup and expect to maintain our positive comparable store sales trends.
Continuing to build on our success with major theatrical releases we have some exciting tie-ins coming this holiday.
Next Tuesday we will launch the Happy Feet collection in advance of the US release of the movie Happy Feet Two.
Previously we featured the starring penguin in the original Happy Feet movie and it was an extremely popular launch.
On the Friday before Thanksgiving we will introduce our Alvin and the Chipmunks collection ahead of the much anticipated Chipwrecked movie in 3D which launches in theaters in December.
Included in this assortment is the line of apparel featured in the movie and found exclusively at Build-a-Bear Workshop.
In mid-November we will bring back Smurfs to capitalize on the release of their DVD.
Our assortment will include the return of the highly popular Smurfette and clumsy and just in time for Christmas we’re adding Papa Smurf.
With this launch we expect to gain sales from guests that missed out on the first release as well as collectors that want to complete the trio of characters.
Also as you may recall we began our partnership with Microsoft and their connectables [ph] title now with Bears this October which will help drive sales of our core items.
As you move into the holiday season we will once again promote Build-a-Bear Workshop as the place for gifts this holiday with our Get Your Wish on campaign that promotes gift bears as well as the gifter the experience that comes with the Bear Buck gift card.
Our gift cards are sold in our own stores as well as through third parties and we increased the outlets of distribution by over 10%.
Gift card redemptions are key to our first-quarter business and we expect our fourth-quarter plan to result in improved sales as we move into 2012.
Our store experience remained strong with guest satisfaction levels maintaining at 80% highly satisfied for the quarter.
Our brand is unique and that we have a connection with our guests in and out of our store with both kids and moms.
Our digital initiatives are a key component of staying connected with both of these segments and put our brand where our customers are spending more and more time.
Kids engage with our brand on Bearville resulting in over 3 million hours of online engagement per month and our Facebook community a prime platform for us to connect with moms continues to grow.
We now have approximately 1.6 million fans.
To put that in context we are one of only about 150 retail or consumer product companies worldwide to have over 1.5 million fans.
To summarize while we recognize that the economic backdrop continues to be uncertain we believe our product and marketing strategies position us to deliver the holiday season.
We also remain on track to achieve our margin and expense savings objectives.
As a result we remain confident in our ability to achieve our sales and profitability goals for the year.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Tina to review our financial results and outlook in more detail.
Thanks Maxine and good morning everyone.
Let me start by giving additional details about our third quarter results.
For the quarter our total revenues were $97.4 million an increase of 2.3% excluding the impact of foreign currency and last year’s single wholesale transaction of $5.8 million which had no gross profit.
Consolidated net retail sales increased 3.1% excluding the impact of foreign currency.
This increase was driven by comp store sales growth across geography specifically a seven tenth increase in North America and a 3% increase in our European operation.
We increased our average transaction value by 4.5%.
This was partially offset by a 3.4% decline in transaction as we reduced promotional activity significantly improving our profitability.
International franchise revenue increased 14% to 872 000.
During the quarter our franchisees opened six locations.
We ended the quarter with 76 international franchise stores versus 58 last year demonstrating our progress in our strategy to aggressively grow our international operations.
Retail gross margin was $38.4 million an increase of $3.1 million or 8.4%.
Our retail gross margin percentage was 40.2% and represented 160 basis points increase over last year.
This increase was primarily driven by a 70 basis point improvement in warehouse and distribution cost and 60 basis points in leverage of fixed occupancy costs.
Total SG&amp;A in the quarter was $37.8 million or 38.8% of total revenues excluding the prior year wholesale transaction represented a 270 basis points improvement.
This was driven by a 160 basis points reduction in marketing related expenses 50 basis points in store operations expense and a 40 basis point decline in corporate depreciation expense.
For the quarter we recorded a tax expense of $1 million which compares to a tax benefit of 524 000 in the third quarter of 2010.
For the full year we expect our tax rate to be approximately 35%.
Net income in the quarter was $900 000 or $0.05 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $1.4 million or $0.05 per share last year.
Net loss for the third quarter fiscal of 2010 included $0.03 per share cost related to the decision to close our operations in France.
Turning now to our first nine months results total revenues were $275.2 million an increase of 1% over last year excluding the impact of foreign currency and the $5.8 million wholesale transaction that had no gross margin.
On a consolidated basis our comp store sales declined slightly nine tenths.
We had 1.1% decrease in North America and a flat result in Europe.
Net loss for the first nine months of 2011 was $8.1 million or $0.45 per share compared to a net loss of $8.2 million or $0.44 per share in the first nine months last year.
Net loss this year included $0.11 per share in consulting.
Net loss in 2010 included $0.05 per share in costs associated with the decision to close our operations in France.
Regarding our cash flow we ended the quarter with a strong consolidated cash balance of $25.1 million.
We have no debt and we did not make any borrowings against our credit facility.
During the quarter we invested $5.1 million to repurchase 934 000 shares.
Through the first nine months we have repurchased 1.7 million shares for $10.2 million and now have $13.6 million available under our share repurchase program.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $5.9 million compared to $6.7 million in 2010.
We expect depreciation and amortization for the full year to be approximately $25 million.
Capital expenditures in the third quarter were $3.8 million primarily for infrastructure and new stores.
We expect capital expenditures for the full year to be approximately $12 million.
For the year we are on track to open 6 stores across geographies.
We expect to close 6 stores this year in accordance with natural lease expiration and kick out clauses.
This reflects our ongoing refinement of our real estate portfolio as we work to optimize our store locations.
At the end of the quarter consolidated inventories totaled $56.3 million compared to $54.7 million at the end of the third quarter 2010.
Inventory per square foot increased approximately 2.9% in line with our plans and puts us in a good position to respond to top sellers and new trends.
Turning now to our progress on our expense savings initiatives we generated 700 000 in savings in the third quarter of which 400 000 was in SG&amp;A areas as we reduced store payroll and other store expenses.
The remaining 300 000 represented a reduction of cost of goods sold primarily through freight and sourcing cost improvements.
We expect cost savings to be approximately $4 million or approximately $0.14 per diluted share in 2011.
On an annualized basis we continue to expect savings in the range of $10 million to $15 million inclusive of the reductions that we expect to achieve this year.
As we begin the fourth quarter we are pleased with our positioning for the holiday season.
We are focused on continuing to reduce our expenses and improve our cost structure and we are committed to our goal of increasing shareholder value by profitably growing our sales.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Maxine.
Thanks Tina.
In conclusion we are confident in our strategy and our ability to continue to achieve improvement in our sales and margin and profitability as we enter the final quarter of the year.
Build-A-Bear Workshop is a powerful global brand kids love us and moms trust us worldwide.
We are in a strong financial position to drive growth both domestic and international.
Along with our Board of Directors who will continue to evaluate all potential uses of our capital including the repurchase of shares and invest as opportunities arrive in strategic initiatives for the benefit of Build-A-Bear Workshop’s stakeholders.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Sean McGowan with Needham and Company.
Please proceed.
Hi I have two questions probably more directed at Tina.
First you have a loss through the first nine months of the year.
So kind of curious where did tax [ph] would that result in an effective rate in the fourth quarter needing to be quite a bit below that 35% in order to get the full year to 35%? Yes I mean I think that’s what you have to do.
You have to back into the 35% number.
And I know that’s a function of how profitable it would be and you know give that estimate but that’s the adjustment you had to make right? Right and it also depends on profitability in each jurisdiction.
Right.
Because Europe has a different tax rate than the United States.
Right okay and then secondly if you could review again the year to date savings and you know where you think those savings in the fourth quarter are going to you know for the full year of $4 million where do you think you’ll see the impact in the fourth quarter? So we have – to date we saved approximately $700 000 which was primarily in the SG&amp;A category related to store operation.
We believe that on fiscal 2011 we’ll save about $4 million and it will be split primarily between SG&amp;A expenses and cost of goods sold looking at freight and transportation being the primary drivers of that.
On an annualized basis so for 12 months inclusive of the $4 million we believe that we’ll save $10 million to $15 million.
No when you say annualized you mean taking the year-to-date and assuming that it was four months like you know for the quarter multiplied by four.
Is that what you mean? No so for instance if we say for 4 months $4 million in 2011 we’ll save $6 million to $11 million in 2012.
Okay.
Got you.
Okay thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Please proceed.
Hi it’s Janet Kloppenburg.
How are you guys? Good Janet.
Hi.
Just a couple of questions.
I think your [inaudible] was stronger in July and August.
At least you talked about it on your last call then it turned out to be and I think that had to do with the promotional activity being paired back in September.
I’m just wondering how successful you thought that was and if you are going to continue to use that policy going forward or if you think that you know the customer needs those promos to keep you know visiting the stores and the website.
We think it was a successful strategy because I think we got out of balance.
We had so many promotions that was hard to get a customer to come into buy anything at regular price and in a year that we have such good launches that are supported by outside media such as a movie launch of the Smurfs or earlier in the year of EB or coming up this holiday season we really can allow those to stand on their own and drive traffic at full price versus at sale price and we want to use our promotional dollars or our marked down dollars to help making sure that we are clean at the end of the season where our inventories are in very very good shape very fresh and we don’t have to give it away all the time.
Build-a-Bear we’re only going to buy so many bears a year and I think that we are you know don’t want them to they are going to come in to buy for you.
They’re going to buy and stock up.
We see that over the course of history.
We haven’t seen any change.
We offer a sale and we have that regular price.
How many bears people put into their homes? So how do we optimize our retail and our emphasis in the other part of it is our emphasis has been on the must win months of July and August and November December and you know February and March and the Easter wherever Easter falls and so we want to make sure that we’re driving those times because and it’s the other – we have to rob from Peter to pay Paul take out marked down dollars in some months to drive the geese are flying so to speak that we’re going to do it and it has worked out for us in all the quarters that we pulled back on that those promotional techniques that we were using.
And so then when we look into the fourth quarter I know you have several different you know benefits from movie launches like Happy Feet and DVD et cetera et cetera but is that an improved schedule of movie releases and collaborations versus the fourth quarter last year or is it about the same? Well it is much improved last year our holiday animal is Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer which while he was successful it was one theme.
You know we had Rudolph inquiries and we didn’t have a movie because that’s a classic.
So you know while children watch it on television it’s not something new.
These are both new and the Smurfs DVD is new.
Now you won’t have this next year.
Those are the challenges that you have you know looking forward but right now this is a plus and is a very positive plus at least as our history has taken us that we look back on all of these events that we tied into in the past Build-a-Bear goes after it in a very meaningful way and we’re able to get out ahead of it.
So we launched the movie HAPPY FEET Two on Tuesday right after the day after Halloween and the movie doesn’t come out for a few weeks.
So we get ahead of it just like we did for Smurfs and then on Thanksgiving we’ll launch the Chipwrecked and that comes out in December and then in between the both of those in the middle of November we will have the Smurfette hit the store again and we actually have a lot of customers waiting for those to come back in.
So we’re excited about their relaunch.
Okay and my last question is it seemed like a big part of your SG&amp;A reduction was the 160 basis point reduction in marketing.
Is that a trend that we should look forward to continuing? It’s a timing thing again.
When we made some decisions not to run some promotions we move those marketing dollars that would have supported that promotion into different things in the fourth quarter.
So we expect this and use the marketing dollars in the year but not necessarily in that quarter and we look to save wherever we can but we had you know reserved some marketing for promotion should we need them but again we’re trying to optimize our retail sales and use the marketing dollars on more branding more gift cards more high value retails and low promotional pricing.
Okay thank you very much.
You’re welcome Janet.
Thank you.
Good luck for the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) And your next question comes from a line of Berke Bakay with BBS Capital Fund.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Hi Maxine and hi Tina.
First of all I have a comment on a couple of questions but I’d like to congratulate you on cost of same-store sales and positive EPS number and more importantly the aggressiveness that you’re showing on the buyback plan and as one of the larger outside shareholders of the company I want to encourage you to keeping the aggressive pace especially with the recent trends and the valuations that the stock has.
So that’s my comment and what I’d like to know is how do you feel about your in stock position going into the fourth quarter for some of the popular items and when we look at the second question when we look at the expense saving plan that you identified there is a significant difference between what you have achieved in the third quarter and what do you expect to achieve in the fourth quarter.
So what’s your comfort level there how quantifiable in terms of timing that we should expect for the fourth quarter and the first half of next year because we are talking about fairly significant numbers here and then I like to also ask you about your comfort level and visibility on positive same-store sales which you have already commented for the fourth quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks for that multi-questions.
We appreciate it.
I will answer the one about the stock position and then Tina will talk to you about the savings and how that is going to look as it rolls out.
So we feel like we have a really good stock position.
We’ve been very clean all year long.
In fact we felt we were you know almost too clean in some places and repositioned our inventory.
So we are in stock on the things that the customer wants all of our holiday goods are in transit and are in the warehouse and flowing out to the stores as we launch our holiday floor set next Tuesday.
We always launch the day after a holiday for the holiday season and that our mailer will hit our holiday catalog and mailer will hit next week too to our customers so all the merchandise when they come in there will be fresh and new and exciting.
The other thing that we did earlier in the year when we are so successful in these movie launches because we do benefit from the marketing that the studio does and if you recall earlier in the spring we had EB the movie that was about the Easter Bunny and we sold out of that really quickly.
When that success made us go back in and look at the Smurfs inventory that we launched in July and we doubled our buy on Smurfs at that point in time and that wasn’t enough.
So when we had the Smurfs success in summer we went back in and not only bought more Smurfs but also looked at our plans around the other characters that we had to make sure that we were in stock on all of those things and that we are calling attention to that to the right characters and the right quantities in the right percentages as we thought we had but we upped the ante.
So we feel like we are really in good shape to maximize this holiday season with what the customer is going to be looking for and what will be in the popular culture.
We happen to see lot of it here in St.
Louis but all across the world series they’ve been advertising the Happy Feet Two movie which I think is good exposure you know for some for that and it’s already started.
So we feel really excited about how the media will be supported not from Build-a-Bear’s budget but from the budget of our business partners.
We also have the connectables which tie in with Microsoft which I mentioned which is a really fantastic partnership.
We didn’t really you know there is nothing core key about our products.
They’re just our regular teddy bears but they come to life when you buy the connectables game and we started to see those animals really pick up pretty dramatically in the last several weeks as connectables was launched on October 11.
So we are very excited about that because those are 4 core animals that are in that game and we’ve seen them pick up and I think as kids get back for holiday and again it’s their marketing.
It’s their efforts to promote their game that’s going to help drive customers to the Build-a-Bear store.
So really looking at a one plus one equals you know 10 kind of marketing plan there and then I’ll answer your comp store question I think we commented on already.
We feel really positively about the plans for the quarter just based on just what I just told you things that are just a total plus to last year a multiple story a multiple faceted story not just a one story like we have with Rudolph and Clarice last year which was a very strong classic story but this is a much more contemporary for Christmas and we believe that that alongside of our gift cards which kids are going to want is going to be a very successful holiday season for us.
And as we embarked on our cost savings initiatives this year we knew that we were going to recognize most of the benefits in the fourth quarter because first of all it’s our largest quarter and we knew that some of the things that we would be doing such as looking at the our operational payroll would be more effected in the fourth quarter.
Again as I said this is our largest quarter.
We started recognizing savings on our freight in late June and that will carry through again again more of cost savings in the fourth quarter because we are shipping a lot more product and bringing in a lot more products.
So we feel comfortable with how we have it laid out throughout the next 12 months and how we will achieve between $10 million and $15 million.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
(Operator instructions) And your next question comes from the line of Tom Filandro with Susquehanna Investments.
Please proceed.
Hi thank you and congratulations.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks Tom.
Can you guys can you update us a little bit on your pricing strategy as you enter holiday both for light items and just give us a sense if there is any mix changes that we could that we might see in the holiday season and then I have a follow up question please.
So the pricing you know because obviously we have – every holiday season we go into a licensing mode and we are whether it’s a holiday animal like Rudolph or Clarice or it is these movie tie-ins and those are usually top of our line.
So the key characters this holiday season are $23 which is our price point for licensed characters that have light up features and we’ve been successful with that price point so far.
So that part is so a good percentage of our focus is on those kinds of animals.
On the other hand the connectables animals which are part of that story and there are four of those are $18 and $20 and there are really much more core price points and that we still of course have our value proposition our value items that are you know always strong for us are $10 to $15 animals.
And then for Christmas if you would recall last year on after Thanksgiving we – couple of years ago we started adding a promotion and this year we were able to buy into it.
So we bought it very opportunistically.
We will have a really great value for our customers on the two days after Christmas.
That’s a collectible and I mean to days after Thanksgiving excuse me there is a connectables and great value and good news is the way it is organized it is the same day as we launch Alvin and the chipmunks.
So they can come in and get the new hot item and also get great value of a tremendous you know tremendous value for Christmas.
And then later in the month of December we also have a promotion that we had last year.
We been running in the UK for the last five years which is you know when you spend a certain amount of money you get an animal at a great savings and then we have our you know Bear Buck up sell that we do every year.
That’s a great value.
Our line overall though is you know up slightly.
I would say that some of our you know closing items that maybe used to be 10 or 10.50 you know we’ve added some oomph to our products to you know make them more to the next price point but it’s not up dramatically.
You know it’s not up you know like 20% 30%.
It’s just in some selected places and we worked really hard to keep our price points in the middle.
We do see a resistance from customers.
You know when it is not licensed over $23 you know it becomes harder but we just had a you know really good launch of our German Shepherd which is you know our Bearemy’s Kennel Pals price point which is $22 not licensed but that we make those always $22 and our [inaudible] earlier in the year was really successful.
So you know I think we’re seeing a strong acceptance of you know our better products.
Those products that have more details that have novelty fur that have a reason for being and our lower priced animals which are core animals continue to be the core.
They continue to be there not as don’t get as much promotion but in holiday with so many fashions coming out those become the items that really kids dress up and doll up because they’re more modestly priced and you can put all the clothes on them that you want.
The Smurfs usually come dressed.
So it’s a tremendous value.
When you buy and so is Alvin and Britney they come with a little outfit on them.
Now thank goodness people buy more outfits for them but when you buy that for $23 that already come with a little dress or little shirt if it is Alvin and that is another way the parents get a great value from us.
So Maxine can I just sort of get a more direct answer to this question.
Do you guys think that the trend in transactions will remain negative and your view is as you have become less promotional and balance your assortment through some of your better goods slightly better goods that we should see ATV or average transaction value and AUR offsetting what might be a slower transaction environment or am I misreading that? No I think that is certainly what we are working on.
We want to make sure that you know Tom we want to make sure that we do get as much value out of our pricing as we can.
Because we are working really hard to keep our prices low or the same as they have been without taking cost increases.
So then if we just cost increase and then have to give it away on a sale we really haven’t accomplished anything for our customers.
But we do know that sales drive traffic and we have them more planned.
And we also have sort of planned into them like I told you about the Thanksgiving animal last year we just sort of took it out of our hide but this year we have planned it into the margins.
So we can give the customer a balanced assortment of really good day in and day out pricing as well as great licenses that come in that are worth the top of the line pricing.
And we do expect that transactions will be less.
I think it is just slightly less.
It depends on really when we added Smurfs they weren’t less.
You know so I think it is what you have got drives people in but overall we know that those promotional ones.
We literally eliminated a clearance event in the month of October that we didn’t need because we didn’t have a clearance to mark down.
So yes we had less the transactions were lower on that weekend than we expected but way more profitable.
So I think we are trying to balance that and kind of wean ourselves off of these things that are diminished the value of the product and the experience but might give you some transactions but it takes you a really long time to get the – you’ve got to sell a lot more of them to make up for the lower retail.
So I think we have got a balance now.
We’re watching it closely.
We have reserved money.
We have reserved ideas.
We have signs designed and ready to go should we need to be offering promotions to our customers but we are not doing it every single month every single weekend.
It is just more than we can handle.
Now there are some great promotions on the web and if a customer wants to shop on the web.
But of course they have to add on the freight to do that as well.
So we’re kind of balancing all those things to see how it works and it has been working and if we see that it isn’t working we will do some other things.
But we think we have a good balance right now.
And I applaud you focusing on profitability.
Are you guys currently testing any complimentary toy or experience based products and can you kind of update us on your longer-term view as it relates to potentially offering maybe a broader assortment other than what you currently have? So you mean broader than like the Angry Birds? Yes I mean I don’t want to bring up a sore point but like the Zhu Zhu pets have you… We continue to test things all the time.
Some things are more successful than others.
Sorry to bring that up? That is all right.
No we continue to test products and we want to be where our customers want us to be.
So we have several tests going on.
Some work some don’t.
We found that the angry birds has really continued as they have even brought out new things for the fourth quarter and that continues.
We’re just feeding it if the customer wants it.
They also know that these character friendships and the things that we have every fourth quarter we come out with these friends of the characters that we promote.
And those are just hitting the stores and will be hitting next week and I think those are going to be really good and that is sort of part of those pick up items.
But yes we are in fact working on several programs that we think can be in addition to the hunter cub [ph] which is you may have seen it in our stores which is sort of beginnings of a lion that when a child comes into our store with the mom who has gotten older sibling you know they pick up something for the baby and we have seen that in the test stores be an interesting beginning to what we think can be a bigger strategy.
And we have some other things that you will see next year.
again some we might decide to test some we might decide to go full boat on depending on what the pop culture is around that idea.
Okay thank you.
And one final one and I will let you go do you guys plan on filling the former president role? We are looking at all that and evaluating it and we will keep you posted if something is worth conversing about.
Thank you very much.
Best of luck over the holiday.
Thank you.
Thanks Tom.
And at this time there are no further questions in queue.
And I would now like to hand the call back over to Maxine Clark for closing remarks.
We thank you and we hope that you will be shopping for the holidays at Build-a-Bear Workshop.
We have lots of great gifts and we will talk to you soon.
Thanks.
Have a great holiday season.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop’s fourth quarter and fiscal 2011 results conference call.
(Operator instructions)  A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you Ms.
Malkin.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Maxine Clark Chairman and Chief Executive Bear; and Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with their questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone’s questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note that our call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website and a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Maxine Clark.
Maxine? Thank you Allison and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our 2011 fourth quarter fiscal year results.
On our call today I will discuss our full year results including our fourth quarter then I’ll turn the call over to Tina Klocke our Chief Operations and Financial Bear to review the financial details.
After that I’ll conclude the call with an overview of our growth plans for 2012 and beyond.
For the full year of 2011 we had essentially flat net retail sales and our comp store sales declined about 2% on a consolidated basis.
I am extremely disappointed to report a sales decrease in the fourth quarter particularly on the heels of two periods of positive comps in our second and third quarters.
We do understand the reasons for the decline and we are already putting changes into effect in 2012 to improve our results.
In fact through Valentine’s Day our comp store sales are essentially flat in North America and the UK and e-commerce is up almost 9%.
Coming off of a solid third quarter in which we grew our total retail sales comparable store sales and e-commerce we believe that we had a line up to the fourth quarter that would continue to improve our sales.
Not only do we have a solid core assortment of Build-A-Bear Workshop proprietary products but we also had tie-ins with highly anticipated feature film releases particularly <i>Happy Feet Two</i> and <i>Shipwrecked</i> featuring Alvin and the Chipmunks.
We were excited that the movie industry was placing such a high emphasis on family-oriented films and given our strong sales history of products that tied into these movies we felt that our holiday would benefit from these partnerships.
Unfortunately for the movie industry and for Build-A-Bear Workshop the holiday season at the theater was one of the most disappointing in years.
Both <i>Happy Feet Two</i> and <i>Shipwrecked </i>were sequels with strong historical box office performance and very strong sales on the feature characters at Build-A-Bear Workshop but neither film performed as projected or in accordance with their box office.
In fact box office revenues were down over 60% and 40% respectively to their last releases.
This contributed to a sales shortfall to our plans for our movie-related product.
Had either of the films performed to expectations our fourth quarter would have had positive sales on a consolidated basis.
As many of you know the holiday season was also very discount-driven.
We anticipated this trend and offered promotions throughout the holiday to entice shoppers including our popular bundle promotion which we’ve used successfully in the past to increase average transaction value and guest conversion.
However when the characters from the movies came up short of plan we had to step up our promotions to move the inventory and drive traffic.
These promotions impacted our merchandise margin for the fourth quarter which declined by 150 basis points from the prior year.
It was the right thing to do given the season and our product challenges.
The final note on the fourth quarter is that our gift card sales increased on a consolidated basis indicating that the Build-A-Bear Workshop’s gift of the experience is still very much in demand.
To add to that our guest experiences for us for the fourth quarter were at record levels.
As we begin 2012 we recognize the global economy remains uncertain and consumers are still focused on value and promotions and yet we have demonstrated that when we have the right product make it easy for moms to say yes and deliver our signature guest experience we’ve been able to grow our sales both in our stores and online.
We are intensely focused on improving our product offerings and refining our promotional strategies putting our learning from the holiday season into practice right away.
On the product side our goal this year is to continue to leverage our proprietary product collections which arrive about once a month to encourage increased shopping visits and offer new products when guests come into our stores.
In early March we begin our buildup to the Easter season with the arrival of the Watercolor Bunny and Sunny Chick.
We will also launch a purple Hello Kitty and in conjunction with the Girl Scouts’ 150<sup>th</sup> anniversary we’ll introduce a limited edition Girl Scouts Bear and official uniform for the first time ever.
I do want to note that while we had a rough season at the box office this past holiday we continue to have success with licensed product and we will evaluate each opportunity as it develops and maintain a greater balance in our offerings.
On the marketing front our goal is to let kids know about our exciting new products as well as our front store experience and make it easy for moms to say yes.
To highlight three key marketing events – our currently running promotion with McDonald’s Happy Meals the kickoff to our 15<sup>th</sup> birthday year and a refresh of our loyalty program.
Starting with McDonald’s beginning February 10<sup>th</sup> and running through March 8<sup>th</sup> McDonald’s Happy Meals feature a collectible mini Build-A-Bear Workshop animal.
There’s a coupon for a free mini-T for the Happy Meal animal that is bringing guests into our stores and while they’re there they can use a $10 off coupon that also comes in the meal to purchase our latest merchandise.
In addition kids receive a code to use in Bearville for a virtual prize.
McDonald’s is supporting the program with national television online and in-store marketing.
While this is our fourth Happy Meal promotion in total this one is a plus over last year.
There will be between 25 million and 30 million meals with Build-A-Bear Workshop cobranding distributed during this time and historically we’ve seen a lift in our business in conjunction with the program.
Second we will be adjusting the balance between product-specific advertising those that feature our store experience and brand marketing.
We will leverage the occasion of our 15<sup>th</sup> birthday and highlight Build-A-Bear Workshop as the place to celebrate to increase visit occasions and grow our party business.
In December we sold our 100 millionth Furry Friend and we will use this platform to reemphasize the connective and emotional elements of our brand and store experience.
Our guests are our best brand advocates and they can tell their own personal stories across a wide variety of channels including our Facebook community which has now grown to 2 million fans.
This month we are refreshing our Stuff Fur Stuff loyalty program with the objective to increase program awareness and increase guest retention metrics such as shopping frequency and spend per household.
Members can earn rewards sooner and more often.
For example guests will get an award at every 50 points versus the previous 100 point threshold.
While early we are pleased by the initial response and expect to see benefits in the second half of the year.
We continue to be in a strong cash position ending the year with $46.4 million in cash and no borrowings on our credit facility even as we invested $15 million to repurchase $2.5 million shares of our common stock during the year.
In summary we had a good second and third quarter in 2011 and a tough fourth quarter with our dependence on movies.
We are aggressively acting to move our business in the right direction in 2012.
Our product and marketing strategies are key to our success for the year and we have initiatives to expand our customer base and to connect more closely with our loyalty members to drive incremental sales in our stores and online channels.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Tina to review our financial results and outlook in more detail.
Thanks Maxine and good morning everyone.
Before I review our results this morning I would like to discuss the non-comparable cost and benefit that impacted our fourth quarter and fiscal 2000 year results which are also detailed in a reconciliation table in the press release we issued earlier this morning.
For the fourth quarter these costs include a $15.6 million or $0.93 per diluted share non-cash cost related to the establishment of a tax valuation allowance; a $285 000 after-tax or $0.02 per diluted share non-cash store asset impairment cost; and a $915 000 after-tax or $0.05 per diluted share benefit to deferred revenue related to our loyalty program.
Excluding these non-comparable cost and benefits our adjusted net income for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $5.9 million or $0.34 per diluted share.
For the 2011 year in addition to the cost and benefit included in the fourth quarter we also incurred a $1.7 million after-tax or $0.10 per share in non-comparable costs related to our consulting project.
Excluding the cost and benefit just mentioned adjusted net loss for fiscal 2011 was $435 000 or $0.03 per share.
As many of you are aware GAAP requires companies with a three-year cumulative book loss to record a valuation allowance to reduce net deferred tax assets.
The recording of the valuation allowance is a non-cash book charge and does not have any impact on our consolidated operating income or cash flow.
In addition recording the tax valuation allowance does not impact our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets when we generate taxable income in future periods.
As such we will be able to recognize a benefit in future profitable periods.
Now on to our review about the fourth quarter.
For the fourth quarter total revenues were $119.1 million compared to $125.8 million in the fiscal 2010 fourth quarter.
Total revenues include $1.5 million in net retail sales due to an adjustment to deferred revenue related to the royalty program.
In the fourth quarter of 2010 this adjustment added $4.3 million to net retail sales.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange total revenues declined 6%.
Consolidated net retail sales decreased 5.8% excluding the impact of foreign currencies.
Comp stores sales decreased 4.9% on a consolidated basis which included a 6% decline in North America and a six-tenths decline in Europe.
This was driven by a 6.1% decline in transactions partially offset by higher transaction values.
Consolidated e-commerce sales rose 3.5% in the fourth quarter excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Retail gross margin was $50.7 million a decrease of $5.6 million or 9.9%.
Our retail gross margin percent was 43.3% a 240 basis point decrease from last year.
The decrease was primarily driven by a 150 basis point decline in merchandise margin due to higher promotions and discounts and 100% basis points of deleverage on fixed occupancy costs.
Total SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter was $42.7 million or 35.9% of total revenues a 290 basis point improvement primarily due to a reduction in salaries and bonus compensation as well as decreases in marketing costs.
In 2010 SG&amp;A included $800 000 related to the closure of the remaining stores in France as well as higher payroll costs associated with the bonus.
Turning now to our full-year results for the full year 2011 total revenues were $394.4 million compared to $401.5 million in the fiscal 2010 full year a 1.8% decrease.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange and a $6.4 million from non-recurring commercial transactions in fiscal 2010 total revenues declined 1.2%.
Consolidated net retail sales were $387 million essentially flat compared to $387.2 million in fiscal 2010.
Fiscal year 2011 included $1.5 million in net retail sales due to an adjustment to deferred revenue related to the loyalty program which compares to a $4.3 million adjustment in 2010.
On a consolidated basis comparable store sales declined 2.1% and included a 2.5% decline in North America and a two-tenths decline in Europe.
Consolidated e-commerce sales rose 8.5% excluding the impact of foreign exchange and included growth in both North America and the UK.
For the full year retail gross margin was $154.5 million a modest decrease of $660 000 or four-tenths from 2010.
Our retail gross margin percent was 39.9% and represented a 20 basis point decrease from the prior year.
Total SG&amp;A for the full year was $162.3 million or 41.2% of total revenues a 40 basis point decline from the prior year.
Regarding cash flow we once again ended the year with a strong consolidated cash balance of $46.4 million.
We have no debt and we did not make any borrowings against our credit facility.
During the year we invested $15 million to repurchased 2.5 million shares of our common stock.
Depreciation and amortization for 2011 was $24 million compared to $27 million in 2010.
Year-end fiscal 2011 inventory was 51.9 million representing a 12.5% increase on a per-square foot basis as compared to year end fiscal 2010.
Over half of the increase in inventory was driven by an earlier Chinese New Year which caused in-transit inventory to be higher in the fourth quarter this year.
Also at year end we renewed our two-year credit facility with US Bank.
This extension lengthens the maturity of the facility through December 31 2013 increases our financial flexibility and includes the same or less restrictive covenants.
Available credit has been maintained and includes $40 million for the first half of each calendar year with a seasonal overline of $50 million from July to December each year.
While Maxine will go into more detail about our future plans in just a moment in 2012 we will be very active on the real estate front.
For the past two to three years we have been aggressively renegotiating rents and executing short-term extensions to line up lease states within markets as part of an overall strategic plan to optimize our store locations and market positioning.
As the next phase of that plan moves forward we will close 15 to 20 stores this year in accordance with natural lease expirations and kick-out clauses primarily in multi-store markets.
We expect to maintain a percentage of sales from the store closings by transferring customers to other stores that remain open in the market.
We will also open four to six new stores relocate ten to 15 stores and remodel approximately five stores in a new store design and enhanced experience.
In support of those plans capital expenditures for 2012 will be between $20 million and $25 million.
This compares to $12 million in 2011.
Turning now to our progress on our expense-saving initiatives for the full year we generated $3 million in savings of which $1.6 million was in SG&amp;A areas as we reduced store payroll and other store expenses and overhead costs.
The remaining $1.4 million represented a reduction of cost of goods sold primarily through freight and product-related costs.
Looking ahead we expect cost savings to be approximately $9 million in 2012.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Maxine.
In conclusion I want to restate my disappointment with our fourth quarter results but I also want to be very clear that I’m excited about our future.
2012 is moving in the right direction.
We think very strategically about our business and are on track to meet our long-term goals.
We are executing again several key strategic growth platforms that I will review with you.
First I’ll talk about our stores and then I’ll review our key marketing plans.
As it relates to our stores Build-A-Bear Workshop was built on our experience and going to one of our stores is a special occasion.
We have a two-pronged strategy to reenergize and build the destination appeal of our stores and to maximize our productivity and profitability.
As Tina mentioned we’ll close between 15 and 20 stores in 2012 as an initial phase to right-size our store portfolio primarily in multi-store markets where we’ve become over-stored.
These are strategic closures that will benefit the comp sales of the remaining stores in the market.
We will also relocate select stores in existing malls reduce their square footage and increase productivity.
At the same time we’re investing in our company as we build our first newly designed stores that feature a bold new look and enhanced experience.
I’m very excited with the design the culmination of nearly two years of intense work.
While many other retailers are trying to create an experience to draw shoppers to their brands we have always offered that and we will continue to lead in the interactive experiential retail space.
While our store base in North America will be leaner with fewer stores that have higher volumes and profitability we will continue to grow internationally in our company-owned operations in the UK and through franchisees those already existing and by adding more countries.
In 2011 our franchisees grew their store base by 25% net of closures and they plan to add another ten to 12 stores in 2012.
Build-A-Bear has been on the forefront of international growth and we are putting the support and infrastructure in place to continue this expansion.
On the brand building and marketing front we plan to leverage our database and more finely segment our customers as we update and develop new products and experiences that will increase the lifetime value of our guests.
In order to grow our business we need to continually have new guests come in to our brand and retain them once they have experienced our store.
To attract new guests we will enhance our marketing initiatives that focus on our experience and our brand.
For the past two and a half years our marketing has focused primarily on specific products and promotions and we’re rebalancing our messaging.
We are also intensifying our guest retention strategies.
Our guests—kids and moms both—are passionate about our brand as evidenced by our 2 million Facebook fans our Bearville community and our in-store database and loyalty program members.
We have specific plans to maximize engagement in and across each of these channels including our loyalty program refresh that I discussed earlier.
We recognize the changing demographics in the United States and we’ve dedicated team members to improve our business in our most diverse markets particularly in highly Hispanic areas.
We are seeing positive results and will continue to develop this platform.
Finally we sell a lot of gifts not only in the fourth quarter but all year long.
The number one gift occasion for Build-A-Bear Workshop is someone’s birthday.
Guests have made coming to our store for their birthdays an annual event and we are using our own 15<sup>th</sup> birthday occasion to take this initiative to an entirely new level.
Build-A-Bear Workshop is a powerful global brand one that kids love and moms trust.
We’re in a strong financial position to drive our growth and long-term strategies.
On a final note I’m proud that Build-A-Bear Workshop was recently honored where we were named to the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For list for the fourth year in a row.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to the operator to begin the question and answer portion of the call.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question and answer session.
(Operator instructions) Our first question is from Sean McGowan of Needham &amp; Co.
Good morning.
First a clarification and then a question.
On the clarification Maxine did you say that if either of those movie promotions had met their targets that consolidated sales would have been up?  Yes.
Okay thank you and Tina could you review what some of the other influences are on gross margin? Maybe give us a little bit more color on what the markdowns on these movie promotions cost just generally talk about puts and takes on gross margin? Sure.
On a quarterly basis Sean? Yes please.
Basically our retail merchandise margin was down about 150 basis points and then the other 100 basis points was due to deleverage of occupancy costs.
So Sean we had to take some markdowns during the holiday season on Happy Feet -- or we promoted him pretty aggressively.
Not the Chipmunks not quite as aggressively.
They did better and they’re still selling and all of this is still selling in our stores by the way but we’ve had to at least particularly on the <i>Happy Feet</i> movie bring those down pretty aggressively and have since the middle of December.
Can you give us some sense of what the impact would have been if you had sold those products at the expected margin? Were there other factors that impacted the merchandise margin? No honestly those were really -- the lack of business on those two products which are key products for the holiday season we put a lot behind them and we had had -- The <i>Happy Feet </i>movie was six or seven years ago a long time between them.
We’ve never had a bad penguin and the Chipmunks movie had been very successful for us all the times we had run it before so there was nothing to really indicate that that wouldn’t have been good and actually up until the beginning of November when we launched them everything was in great shape for a wonderful quarter.
So as we said we’ve looked at it a million ways until Sunday.
I think if either one of them had gone and made their plan -- obviously <i>Happy Feet </i>missed its plan by the most.
Our other products did well.
Our core and proprietary products lived up to expectations as best they could because there was -- the traffic just wasn’t wanting the movie products.
Okay thank you.
(Operator instructions) Thanks again for joining us.
We look forward to speaking with you when we report our first quarter results in May.
This does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Ms.
Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you.
Ms.
Malkin you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Maxine Clark Chairman and Chief Executive Bear; and Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with your questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone’s questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note that our call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion on our corporate website and a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factor section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Maxine Clark.
Maxine?  Thank you Allison and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our 2012 first quarter results.
On our call today I will review our performance for the quarter and highlight the progress we’ve made on the priorities that we’ve set at the start of the year.
Then I’ll turn the call over to Tina Klocke our Chief Operations and Financial Bear to review our financial results in more detail.
After my concluding comments we’ll open the call to answer the questions you have for us today.
We’re off to a solid start in 2012 returning to growth in our comparable store sales and increasing our e-commerce and international franchise revenues in the quarter.
We’ve improved our gross margin and continued to realize benefits from our expense savings initiatives.
While we had a loss of $0.06 per share this is a considerable improvement over the loss that we reported in the first quarter last year of $0.12 per share.
We believe this reflects real progress towards achieving our number one objective to increase shareholder value by profitably growing sales and gives us confidence that our business strategies will continue to move us forward.
Additional details on the quarter’s performance include getting our comp store sales back on the growth track with a 1.2% increase in consolidated comparable store sales led by a 3.6% increase in North America where we had positive comps in each month of the quarter.
While the quarter benefited from an early Easter holiday than 2011 our performance post-Easter gives us confidence that we are on track as we move forward.
We now have had positive comp sales in three of our last four quarters.
On the e-commerce side we’ve increased our sales for seven straight quarters including a 9.1% increase this quarter excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Both North America and the U.K.
delivered significant increases.
We continue to be in a strong cash position ending the first quarter with $33.5 million in cash and no borrowings on our credit facility.
Now let me go into a bit more detail on our product and brand building plans a key platform of the growth strategies that we detailed in our last call.
Looking back at the first quarter in January we drove business by maximizing traffic and redemptions from our gift card program.
We keyed into strong gifting product and messaging to deliver Valentine’s Day in February.
And in March we leveraged the Easter season with our Watercolor Bunny &amp; Chick and offered an Easter egg decorating kit as a gift with purchase.
We also had a strong response to our first ever tie-in with the Girl Scouts introducing a special bear in conjunction with their 100th anniversary.
This partnership is a great fit with our core demographic tween guests.
On the marketing front we are attracting new guest to our stores with a renewed focus on brand advertising and an emphasis on special occasions as a reason to visit a Build-A-Bear Workshop store.
We want to let kids know about our exciting new products as well as our fun store experience and make it easy for moms to say yes.
As I mentioned on our last call we had three notable events this quarter.
Our promotion with McDonald’s rebalancing our advertising to speak to both product and the brand experience and a refresh of our Stuff Fur Stuff loyalty program.
One of the highlights of the quarter was our fourth quarter promotion with – our fourth promotion with McDonald’s Happy Meals in North America.
The promotion began February 10 and ran through March 8.
Each of the Build-A-Bear Workshop Happy Meals in the United States included a coupon for a free mini T for the Happy Meal Animal which drove traffic to our stores.
To make it easy for moms to say yes we included a coupon that could be use to purchase our latest merchandise.
To further engage kids with our brands there was also a code for a virtual price in Bearville.
To take advantage of the increased traffic we extended our gift card up-sell promotion which we believe will drive incremental visits throughout the year.
We will market to the guest that visited during the promotion with targeted e-mail and direct mail that showcases our product stories and promotional offers.
We also kicked off the year-long celebration of our 15th birthday highlighting Build-A-Bear Workshop as the place to celebrate in order to increase special occasion visits.
We are emphasizing our fun store experience and the emotional connection that is made between Furry Friends and their owners with our Friends Count Campaign featuring the personal stories of our guests and the over 100 million stuffed animals that have been made in our stores.
We launched new TV advertising in late February as part of the campaign with solid results and persuasion scores.
Our guests have already posted over 2 000 of their own stories on our website and it’s been a strong platform to engage our Facebook community that now has over two million fans.
To increase our guest retention metrics such as shopping frequency and spend per household we refreshed our Stuff Fur Stuff loyalty program this quarter.
Now our loyalty members can earn rewards sooner and more often.
For example in North America guests will get a reward every 50 points versus the previous 100-point threshold.
The rollout of the program went smoothly and we continue to expect to realize initial benefits in the second half of the year.
We also remain on track with the other full year priorities we detailed during our fourth quarter call.
We will open our first store and our new design in September.
We expect to improve our store productivity and profitability as we right size of our portfolio and we’re on track with our international growth plans.
In just a moment Tina will give you more detail on these initiatives.
In the second quarter we continue to emphasize our proprietary product and brand marketing strategies building on the positive momentum of the first quarter.
As it relates to product we kicked-off the post-Easter season with a fashion right floral-themed enchanted garden collection.
This past weekend we launched an Avengers costume collection in advance to the movie’s release.
This was a big hit across the board but especially with boys.
In May we launched the Farmers’ Market collection followed by an update for our proprietary small price line and a terrific Under the Sea theme which is supported by one of our most popular gifts of purchase a beach towel.
Another hot fashion trend has been SKECHERS Twinkle Toes footwear and we are building on our own success with this line by releasing a late summer package to take advantage of back-to-school traffic that features SKECHERS apparel and accessories tied to their next-generation Twinkle Toes shoes for girls and Hot Lights for boys.
We’ll also be introducing our exclusive bear collection.
We’ll have a strong sports theme in our U.K.
stores to take advantage of our traffic for the Olympics.
In summary we made good progress in the first quarter and we believe we’ve identified the right strategies to allow us to continue our progress this year.
We’ve improved on our fourth quarter comp store sales results.
Through the end of April which picks up all of the Easter switch our comp sales are essentially flat on a consolidated basis.
We have a sales increase in North America and are seeing significant improvement in our U.K.
sales trend.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Tina to review our financial results and outlook in more detail.
Thanks Maxine and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report improved first quarter results that included increased revenue expansion in gross margin and a solid improvement in our operating results as compared to the first quarter last year.
For the first quarter total revenue was $96.4 million compared to $96 million last year.
Consolidated net retail sales were $95.2 million an increase of 1% compared to $94.2 million last year.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange net retail sales increased 1.6%.
Consolidated comparable store sales increased1.2% driven primarily by increased transaction value.
Our e-commerce business was up 9.1% excluding the impact of foreign exchange with a solid performance in both North America and the U.K.
International franchise revenue was $797 000 up 9.8%.
We ended the quarter with 82 franchise stores up from 63 last year.
We expect our franchisees to open a total of 10 to 12 stores this year net of closures.
Our retail gross margin was 39.9% compared to 38.8% last year.
The 110 basis point increase was primarily driven by the benefit of our cost savings initiatives that was implemented last year which led to lower packaging warehousing and distribution costs.
These savings combined with leverage and fixed occupancy costs fueled by our positive comp growth more than offset increased product costs during the quarter.
On the cost containment front we continue to expect cost savings to approximate $9 million in 2012.
We will continue to strategically reinvest the portion of these savings to support our growth initiatives and to offset product cost inflation.
SG&amp;A was $40 million or 41.5% of revenues compared to 43% in the first quarter last year.
We realized $1.5 million in savings in store payroll and other expenses as a result of our cost reduction efforts.
This benefit was offset by increases in our accrual for incentive compensation and $475 000 in non-recurring costs related to our minority interest in RIDEMAKERZ.
Included in last year’s SG&amp;A were $1.5 million expenses associated with our consulting project.
Excluding the non-recurring costs from Q1 this year and the consulting fees from the 2011 first quarter SG&amp;A as a percent of sales improved by 40 basis points.
Pre-tax loss was $1.1 million compared to a pre-tax loss of $3.6 million last year an improvement of $2.5 million.
In 2012 we had an income tax benefit of $116 000 compared to an income tax benefit of $1.4 million for the first quarter last year.
Remember in last year’s fourth quarter we established a valuation allowance in all of our U.S.
deferred tax assets.
Until this valuation can be released we cannot recognize the tax effects of changes in our deferred tax assets.
This reduced our benefit and resulted in an effective tax rate of 10% in the 2012 first quarter compared to 38% last year’s first quarter.
Net loss was $1 million or $0.06 per share compared to a net loss of $2.3 million or $0.12 per share last year.
This year’s net loss included $0.03 per share in non-recurring costs related to our minority interest in RIDEMAKERZ.
The first quarter last year included $0.05 per share in cost related to our consulting project.
Adjusting for these items adjusted loss per share was $0.03 in 2012 compared to $0.07 in 2011.
Our balance sheet remains strong and we ended the quarter with consolidated cash of $33.5 million compared to $45 million at the end of the first quarter last year.
We have no debt and no borrowings on our credit facility.
Capital expenditures in the first quarter were $3.8 million primarily for store-related capital and IT upgrades compared to $2.3 million last year.
For the full year 2012 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $20 million to $25 million.
Depreciation and amortization was $5.4 million down from $6.5 million last year.
For the full year we continue to expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $22 million.
At the quarter end consolidated inventories totaled $45.6 million compared to $39.5 million at the end of the first quarter 2011.
Inventory per square foot rose approximately 15% following an unusually low level of inventory last year.
On a two-year basis which engaged the non-comparability of last year inventory per square foot declined 3.3% in quarter end.
Now let me update you on our progress towards our objectives for our stores.
We’re on track with both pronged strategy to reenergize and build our destination appeal and to maximize our store productivity and profitability.
First we’re investing in our experience with plans to open our first newly-designed stores in September.
We’ve been working on the bold new design and enhance experience for nearly two years and are very pleased with the response and feedback that we have been getting from guests that have engaged in our onsite prototype.
One of our competitive advantages is our interactive environment and we will continue to lead in the space.
At the same time we are executing our strategies to improve the productivity and profitability of our existing store base.
As we told you on our last call this includes closing 15 to 20 stores this year in accordance with natural lease expirations and kick-out clauses primarily in multi-store markets.
These are strategic closures that will benefit the comp sales of the remaining stores in the market and are weighted in the back half of the year.
We will also relocate select stores within existing malls; reduce their square footage and thereby increasing productivity.
Outside the U.S.
we continue to see potential for growth both in our company-owned operations in the U.K.
and through franchisees.
In 2011 our franchisees expanded their store count by 25% and we expect them to add 10 to 12 more stores this year net of closures.
We are pleased with the start of our second quarter and where we sit year-to-date now that all the Easter timing has played out.
Based on our enhanced product and marketing strategies we expect a positive sales trend for the remainder of the quarter and improvement in our pre-tax loss for the second quarter.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to Maxine for her concluding remarks.
Thanks Tina.
Let me wrap up by saying that I’m pleased with the start to the 2012 fiscal year and with growth in total net retail sales and in comparable store sales particularly in North America.
I remained confident in our ability to continue the positive trends towards achieving our long-term sales and profit goals.
Let me also reiterate our objectives for this year.
First as Tina outlined we are aggressively working on improving store productivity and enhancing our experience with the new store designs.
Second we will increase shopping frequency bringing new guest to our stores rebalancing our marketing to speak to both product and brand and then bring the guest back for return visits through retention strategies including our loyalty program refresh.
Third we are reinforcing Build-A-Bear Workshop as the top destination for gift including the gift of experience that comes with one of our gift card by capitalizing our own 15th birthday to grow this initiative to an entirely new level.
Fourth we continue to realize benefits and efficiencies from our cost savings initiatives.
And fifth we will continue to grow internationally through company-owned and franchised operations.
Nearly 40% of our store base is already outside of the United States and we are projecting this to be an ongoing growth opportunity.
In summary I believe we have the long-term strategies in place to change the dynamics of Build-A-Bear Workshop continue to grow our comp store sales and ultimately maximize shareholder value.
We have powerful global brand one that kids love and moms trust.
And we’re in a strong financial position to execute our plans.
With that I’d like to turn the call to the operator to take your questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Sean McGowan with Needham &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Really really thanks.
One question and a follow-up.
(Inaudible) last final size or maybe even more years in that the first quarter gross margin has wound up being at or above the full year average.
That wasn’t the case last year.
So I was wondering if you could help us figure out if the gross margin reflected in the first quarter of this year is indicative of what you’d expect for the whole year or is it higher or lower?  Sean it’s Tina.
Thanks for the question.
I think that in the first part of the year so the first half of the year; we’ll still continue to see the savings in the packaging and distribution as a result of our cost saving measures that we implemented last year.
And as we continue to have comp store sales increases you’ll see the leverage on the occupancy.
Again that will be offset by some of the cost pressures we’re seeing on the initial merchandise margin.
So is your expectation in that that there won’t be an increase in gross margin as the year goes on then?  I think it’ll be a slight increase as we get through Q2 and then they’ll start to maybe level off in Q3 and Q4 as we anniversary some of the cost savings in the packaging and distribution area and (inaudible).
Thank you.
Then the follow-up is just can you help us with what’s the effect of the net store changes you talked about the 15 to 20 closings what are the plans for openings and what do you think the net effect will be on the year?  We’re still anticipating of the 15 to 20 closures that will open somewhere – excuse me for the six stores just depending upon the real estate we’re looking at few stores in the U.K.
and a couple of stores here in North America.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I was hoping if you could breakdown your North American same-store sales a little bit and a little bit more granularity between number transactions price unit per transaction can you give us a data please?  So basically the increase was all driven by an increase in average transaction value bags are relatively – bags is units per transaction.
We’re relatively stable and we had a slight increase in transaction in North America.
Okay and getting back to inventory.
Inventory is up 15% but your payables down 9% what would explain the difference there?  Again I think it’s timing and the receipts of when the inventory came in and some of the carryover that we had from fourth quarter.
Okay.
And lastly can you just describe the – I think it was $475 000 hit from RIDEMAKERZ.
How was that – what did that arise from? And should we be expecting more of these to come in future quarters? Thanks.
Yeah.
We shouldn’t expect anymore in future quarters when we initially made the investment in RIDEMAKERZ.
There was a put option by the initial group of people that started the company and the put expired on April 30 and they exercised it in the first quarter.
And it was outlined in our 10-K also.
Okay.
Yeah.
And we don’t anticipate any other further costs.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from line of Neil Weiner with Foxhill Capital Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Maxine can you just go over in a little bit more detail granularity the $20 million to $20 million plus CapEx where it’s going and how it’s being spent over the year?  Yeah.
Let me let Tina give you that.
She’s got the numbers right in front of her.
The majority of it will be for new store investments as we close stores and relocate stores and open our new store design concept.
We also have probably several million dollars in investment in just technology for the new store and also to enhance our back-office systems that need upgrade.
So would you say three-quarters of it is for new store investment and design versus a quarter for technology? Would that be kind of good breakout?  I’d say it’s probably one-third for the technology and two-thirds for the stores.
And technology is encompassing all of the upgrades and things like that.
And so is this a one-time investment you think or is this something you think you’ll need to continue next year?  Well as we rollout the new store design and redo existing stores we’ll continue to have that capital investment.
And you’re always going to have upgrades through technology infrastructure but again some of it is things that we delayed over the last couple of years just due to capital restraints.
So I think you’ll see more of it will be spent on new stores but we haven’t really looked out past – this year to see how many new stores in the new store design we’ll be doing.
Next year we want to make sure we tweak model and make sure it’s the right store design for us.
Okay.
So can you – is there – possibly you can give us kind of a sense of dollar amount want to cost for new store design?  The new – well there’s lot of things that go into a new store design.
There’s the whole redesign of the stores so there’s architectural cost for something like that.
There is new technology in the store that is interactive that is technology that is software developed for Build-A-Bear Workshop exclusively to work in Build-A-Bear Workshop to enhance our experience.
That’s part of the experience.
And then there’s the part to build the store.
It’s a prototype at this point so each one is going to build uniquely.
And then like our first 10 or 15 stores we built starting back in 1997 and then we take the good things and we mass produce them for expansion to other stores.
And our plan is that we will convert all of the stores that we intend to move forward with over a relatively short period of time not all in one year or two years but probably within a three to five-year period to the new element of the store.
They are meant to be able to be rolled into the new – to an existing store and enhance that store because the last thing you want is the one store that you’re doing either that looks like a brand-new store that has a fantastic new experience in it that it will go up – it may go up 50% of what it was before but the other three stores in the community that you have that are the old store format go down 50%.
That wouldn’t value anything.
So we really are looking at this on a market-by-market basis as well as a store-by-store basis but first the stores that are launched in the fall of this year and then we will make those evaluations.
We’re very excited about it.
It has a lot of very positive response from the kids that are using it and playing with it here in St.
Louis.
But we want to wait until we get it open in the fall and then make all of those determinations.
But we’re very excited about it and we’re talking about these enhancements for a long-term – for a long-term future not for one-year or two years.
No no I understand that.
So do you have a sense of conversion of the store just generally what that might costs?  What might cost?  That conversion to the new technology in new store from an old...
No.
From an existing store.
Well we only have the initial costs that we’re doing this year but those are meant to be prototype costs.
And so when we roll it out we haven’t yet decided what we’re going to – what’s going to be successful; what we’re going to keep; what we can value-engineer down so we don’t have an idea yet.
That’s why we’re doing the stores this fall and we’ll make those determinations from that store – those stores and what we see we can do differently once we see it in action.
I mean that’s the other thing too you have to see it in action what do the kids like what causes any quagmires in the traffic flow.
But so far we feel like – we’re hopeful that all of these elements will be able to be continued into the store.
But we don’t know what they’ll cost on a roll-up basis yet.
We haven’t finished the actual prototype designs yet.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO.
Please go ahead.
Hey I’m back.
You touched on the London Olympics.
Wondering what percent of your U.K.
revenues actually come from stores in London trying to get a sense of how the Olympics can impact things over there?  It’s probably about 5% of our business our London – actual London area stores.
But I think that there’ll be – they could be larger during this particular timeframe but that’s what they are in a normal basis.
Okay great.
And then on the new store prototypes can you give us a hint where these new – these six remodels will be so we can check them out in September?  I’ll give you the first hint.
It’s – the first one is going to be in St.
Louis Missouri.
All right.
We’ll see you then Maxine.
Yeah.
We’re just finalizing leases and agreements even though we’re well on our – well through the process.
But we want to do each one of these with the big launch and a big announcement in the town because honestly there are foreclosing stores in some of these markets and so sometimes there’ll be a store closed for two or three months while we build this future store and we want to make sure that we’re communicating properly most importantly to our guests so they know where to go during the interim and they know to come back when we open up our stores.
So we have carefully planned out marketing and media strategy including the – when we announce for closing that store we want to make that into a very worthwhile announcement and then when we’re going to be opening it up again.
Okay.
So you’ll let us know when the...
I will.
I will and we’ll probably have more specific information for you on our second quarter call because we will want to be people to know about it.
It’s not like a secret but we want to make sure that our guests know where to go shop-in and so that’s the most important part to us.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from line of Neil Weiner with Foxhill.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for the follow-up.
Just a question on the – on your program with Major League Baseball.
Do you anticipate rolling out anymore ballparks or teams than you currently have and what do you think that opportunity is?  We carry all the Major League Baseball team’s merchandise in our local stores.
So that is something that we’ve carried for I don’t know six or seven years now maybe longer.
We have a very strong relationship with Major League Baseball so we carry uniforms we carry t-shirts sportswear accessories under the Major League Baseball team in that each locale.
But we have three stores right now one in St.
Louis one in San Francisco and one in the National Stadium.
And we are in constant contact with ballpark owners and teams to consider Build-A-Bear Workshop stores in those areas.
But there are certain criteria number one is dependence number two is the children that they attract to the game and there are the space because there’s lots of space constraints in a ballpark for anything other than food at themes.
But anyway we’re continuing to talk to teams.
They approach us all the time and we have to make the appropriate valuations but our store this year is also a great start.
Okay.
Terrific.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
We have no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Ms.
Clark for any closing remarks.
Thanks again to all of you for joining us and we look forward to speaking with you when we report our second quarter results in July.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop second quarter fiscal 2012 results conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you.
Ms.
Malkin you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Maxine Clark Chairman and Chief Executive Bear; and Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with their questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone’s questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note our call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations section on our corporate website and a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Maxine Clark.
Maxine? Thank you Allison and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our 2012 second quarter and first six months results.
On our call today I will read the progress that we've made on our key strategies as well as update on you store product and marketing initiatives.
Then I’ll turn the call over to Tina Klocke our Chief Operations and Financial Bear to review our financial results in more detail.
After my concluding comments we will open the call to answer your questions.
At the halfway mark of the fiscal year we continue to show progress towards our 2012 objectives.
We have positive comparable store sales for the first half of the year in North America showed solid improvement in quarterly trend in Europe and drove significant growth in our e-commerce business.
We also have improvement in our operating performance reducing our pretax loss by nearly $5 million.
As we begin the second half of the year we fully expect further improvement in sales productivity and profitability.
We continue to execute our long-term strategies to optimize our store base increase shopping frequency and improve cost efficiency.
Let me go into a bit more detail about our quarterly performance.
In the second quarter the Easter Shift had a negative impact on April sales as planned but we returned to the positive column in May and June in North America.
In Europe where the macroeconomic climate is especially challenging we saw marked improvement in trend and continue to focus on key initiatives to move this unit back to positive comp and we once again posted growth on the e-commerce side with a 5.5% increase coming on top of a 23% increase in last year’s second quarter.
We continue to be in a strong cash position to execute our strategies ending the quarter with $26.5 million and no borrowings on our credit facility.
On the product front one of the highlights of the second quarter was the strong reaction to our first ever tie in with the Girls Scout as we introduced a special bear in uniform in conjunction with our 100th anniversary.
We saw a gain in our core demographic Twins dress and drove an increase in our party business.
We also had a great response to the Avengers costume collection that tied into the movie release a big hit across the board but especially with boys.
In marketing we continue our two-prong approach speaking to both kids and moms.
We’ve had kids know about our new products and fun store experience and make it easy for moms to say yes.
We see a renewed opportunity and some early positive results from rebalancing our experiential brand focus advertising and value added marketing events versus featuring only discount and promotional messages that had been needed during the economic downturn.
For example in June we brought back one of our most popular gifts for purchase a summer beach towel and we saw strong guest response to the offer.
Our enhanced brand focus has also shown benefit.
We continue to engage on the emotional connection that guests have with our brand with our year-long celebration of our 15th birthday and our Friends Count campaign.
We are using this campaign to increase special occasion and celebratory events as reasons to visit a Build-A-Bear Workshop store.
Moms continue to be value focused.
So we know it’s important to provide balance.
For example the coupon that was offered in the promotion we ran with McDonald’s continue to drive traffic into our stores throughout the second quarter.
Looking at our third quarter line up we have an updated to our partnership with Sanrio with the launch of Pink Leopard Hello Kitty.
This was followed by our Best Friend’s collection that features strong animals and fashion elements.
We are also bringing back what had become a highly anticipated event our $29.99 any sale.
This very popular bundle promotion offers any animal any asset and any pair of shoes for one set of price of $29.99 in the United States and core funding value in our other countries of operation.
We’re excited about our fourth quarter product line up and we’ll give you the details on our next call.
What I would really like to do today is give you more insights into a few of the strategies that we have in place to achieve our 2012 objectives.
These strategies lay the foundation not only for the current year but for our future as well.
A key component of our plan involves our real estate strategy.
We will continue to be very active on this front over the next two to three years.
Leading us to this point we’ve been aggressively and successfully renegotiating rents and executing short-term extensions to line up lease space within market as part of our overall plan to optimize market positioning.
As we move the strategy forward we will close underperforming stores in conjunction with natural lease expirations and kick out clauses primarily in multi-store markets.
For example last year we closed 14 stores including temporary and seasonal locations and this year we will close 10 more.
We expect to maintain a percentage of sales from the closing stores by transferring customers to other locations that remain open in the market.
While it’s early based on the closures that we have made so far we believe that on average about 20% to 30% of sales from closed stores will move to our remaining store.
We will also improve productivity by relocating and right sizing select stores and remodeling other stores in a new design that will update our experience.
Our excitement is building as the first newly imagine store will soon be opening.
In just over a month we will introduce this highly interactive store in St.
Louis.
Following the St.
Louis debut we will open stores in Detroit Indianapolis Washington DC Annapolis and the San Francisco East Bay area.
I am very excited about this store.
When Build-A-Bear workshop started our concepts redefined retail and this new design will change it again.
The new store merges Build-A-Bear workshop hands-on-bear making experience with the power of technology to provide a magical new experience to our guests.
The new interactivity is an evolution that recognizes that technology is a part of play for kids today and a way to enhance our signature process.
We have been working with a group of kids our sub-advisors and their moms on the interactive feature.
This co-creation has been extremely valuable to perfecting the working model of the design and really get a feel for how our guests will engage with the store and our product.
The store will be great fun and continue to provide memorable innovative experiences for families for many years to come.
A new look and enhanced experience combined with closing secondary locations would give our newly imagined stores flagship status and destination appeal.
We have designed modular components that will allow us to update and remodel future stores with select features once we have identified the stations with the largest return on investment.
Our competitive advantage is our interactive retail environment; no one does it like Build-A-Bear Workshop and we will continue to lead in this space.
We have lot of the year to still deliver but I believe we have the right strategies to allow us to continue our progress on our long term objectives.
And now I will turn the discussion over to Tina.
Thanks Maxine and good morning everyone.
Our results for the first six months of the year show solid progress toward our annual and long-term objectives.
The shift in Easter and associated school holidays impacted the timing of our sales on a monthly basis but we have delivered improvement in our pretax loss both the first and second quarters.
Our first half results which removed the Easter shift show stability in our North American comparable store and consolidated e-commerce sales and put us in a good position as we move into the back half of the year.
I would like to highlight the key components of our second quarter the full details can be found in our press release.
In the second quarter revenue was $80 million.
Our net retail sales decreased 1.8% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Consolidated comparable store sales decreased 1.7% driven primarily by a 6.1% decline in transaction as a result of the Easter shift partially offset by an increase of 4.7% in transaction value.
Our e-commerce business rose 5.5% in the quarter excluding the impact of foreign exchange with a solid performance in both North America and UK.
This was our eight consecutive quarter growth in our e-commerce business.
Our retail gross margin declined 80 basis points to 35%.
On the positive side we had benefits from reduced warehousing distribution and packaging cost.
However this was offset by product margin pressure primarily due to promotions and mark downs needed to accelerate the clearance of carryover on seasonal holiday products.
While impacting our margin rate this allowed us to end the quarter with appropriate inventory levels.
SG&amp;A was $37 million or 46.1% of revenues compared to 49.7% in the second quarter last year.
The change is a result of improved payroll management and savings and other operational expenses included in last year’s SG&amp;A were $1.5 million and expenses associated with our consulting project.
Excluding the consulting fees SG&amp;A as a percent of sales improved 180 basis points.
Pre-tax loss was $8 million compared to a pre-tax loss of $11 million last year.
Our effective tax rate was 9% in the second quarter compared to 37% last year.
The wide variance is due to the valuation allowance established on all of our US deferred tax assets at the end of 2011.
Net loss was $8 million or $0.46 per share.
This compared to net loss of $7 million or $0.37 per share last year.
Our second quarter net loss was negatively impacted by $0.14 per share related to the change in our effective tax rate and $0.04 per share resulting from a change in share count due to repurchases that were made in the second half of 2011.
Last year’s net loss was negatively impacted by $0.05 per share related to our consulting project.
For the first six months total revenues were $177 million a decrease of four times excluding the impact the foreign exchange.
On a consolidated basis comp store sales were essentially flat and included a 1.1% increase in North America and a 6% decrease in European operations our retail gross margin improved by 30 basis points to 37.7%.
As we look to the back half of the year we expect cost pressure and our promotional environment to negatively impact gross margin in the third quarter.
However we expect a slight expansion in gross margin in the fourth quarter.
SG&amp;A was $77 million or 43.7% of revenues compared to 46.1% in 2011.
Included in last year’s SG&amp;A were $3 million in expenses associated with our consulting project.
Excluding the consulting fees SG&amp;A as a percent of revenues improved 70 basis points.
We expect deleverage in SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue in the back half of the year driven by a shift in the timing of marketing and other expenses to coincide with new openings and accrual for incentive compensation this year versus no accrual last year.
Pre-tax loss for the first six months was $9 million an improvement from pre-tax loss of $14 million last year.
Net loss for the first half of the year was $8.6 million or $0.53 per share.
This compared to a net loss of $8.9 million or $0.50 per share last year.
2012 was negatively impacted by $0.17 per share related to the change in our effective tax rate and $0.05 per share resulting from a change in share count due to repurchases that were made in the second half of 2011.
Last year’s net loss was negatively impacted by $0.10 per share related to our consulting project.
As it relates to the balance sheet we have a strong position with consolidated cash of $26.5 million.
We have no debt and no borrowings on our credit facility.
At the quarter end consolidated inventory was $47 million an increase of 3.3% on a per square foot basis.
Depreciation and amortization was $5 million in the quarter and we continue to expect approximately $22 million for the year.
Capital expenditures in the second quarter were $5 million primarily for store related and IT upgrades.
For the full year we expect capital expenditures to be $20 million to $23 million; about half of our anticipated capitals spend for the year will be for stores.
We’re building six stores and are in new design and three in a current design two of these in the UK.
We’re also relocating select stores in existing malls in conjunction with least explorations to right size their square footage and improve productivity.
All of this activity is part of the multi-year real estate strategy that Maxine spoke to earlier.
The balance of our capital expenditures are primarily being invested in IT.
We’re making updates to systems that will support our stores improve overall back office efficiency power the experiences of our new store design and continue to upgrade our e-commerce.
The updates will support key initiatives to our organization and position us to continue to execute our long-term strategies.
Build-A-Bear workshop has a disciplined approach to capital expenditures with a focus on delivering a solid return on our investments.
One of our other key objectives is to grow our business globally.
I want to give you an update on our progress and plans for this business segment particularly our franchise operations.
When you combine our company-owned international stores and stores operated by franchises nearly 40% of our store base is outside the United States other than our stores in Canada and UK we currently use our franchise model.
This is a highly effective model that requires a minimal capital and brings the localized expertise of our franchises to our business.
We’re also able to leverage key resources and deliver profits that can be reinvested back into the segment.
In the past year we have been focused on helping our existing franchises deliver their business plans and growth commitments.
We’re also developing the infrastructure and talent that is needed to grow both with existing franchises and new countries.
This is a multi-year strategy that will increase shareholder value as we grow the segment.
At the end of the first half our franchisees operated 84 stores in 14 countries and our revenue from international operations was $1.5 million.
Build-A-Bear workshop has been on the forefront of international expansion and we will continue to grow this business.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to Maxine for concluding remarks.
Thanks Tina.
Let me wrap up by saying that I am confident that we will post further improvement in sales productivity and profitability when 2012 is complete.
Our brands are in favorite of kids and moms and we are investing in key areas that will keep it a favorite for future generations.
Our new store design will bring renewed energy to our experience.
We will rebalance our marketing to include a stronger brand message while still recognizing the challenging economy that families face.
This strategy will be a key to increase shopper frequency.
It is important to keep our prices affordable given the discretionary nature of our product and while we have cost pressures we are very committed to disciplined expense control and delivering profitable results.
We are executing a strategic real estate plan that includes closing select locations and increasing productivity and profitability of remaining stores.
And as Tina discussed we are positioned to continue to grow internationally with the existing franchisees and new countries of operation.
Let me reiterate I am very excited about our new store design it will reenergize the interactive retail experience that we bring to the mall and once again put Build-A-Bear workshop on the cutting edge.
We are on the right track and we have the long-term strategies in place to change the dynamics of Build-A-Bear workshop continue to grow our comp store sales and maximize shareholder value.
And now we will open the call to your questions.
In locations where you had multiple stores and you did close in under performing store what kind of comp list do you see in the remaining store there? It depends on the store location I don’t have any quite off the top of my head but we said we have about 20% to 30% transfer rate until that definitely does give us a plus most of the stores all we do is tell the customers that the store is closing and the new store the closest store to them is that.
We haven’t done any marketing like we will do around our total remodels and stores of the future.
So those are really getting some higher than other transfer sales some in the mid-teens others in the low single digits but it just depends on where the store is and how many other stores may be in the market because some stores may split up to customers may split up and go to multiple store locations.
So everybody could pick up 5% with overall you are picking up a good percentage of that business.
And may be just for clarity can you or Tina run through the store openings closings and with locations that you had in the second quarter and you expect for the full year? Thank you.
For the full year we expect to open or remodel or relocate 20 stores.
We expect to close 10 and this quarter we closed three.
So in net of 10 new stores at the end of the year? Well relocated here we are going to relocate and remodel.
Well that's what I am trying to get to I am trying to see if you could breakdown what's being open brand new what's being relocated and what's being closed rather than comping it all together? So we will have we will open five new stores and we will relocate or remodel 15.
And then of that 20 six will be in the new store design.
Okay and closing 10.
Correct.
And the 10 include seasonal and temporary locations also.
And lastly you mentioned clearance and promos affecting gross margins so what kind of same-store sales result would you have had if you excluded those sort of promo sales and just looked at current if you will current product sales.
Yeah Garret there's always going to be a portion of clearance and promotional activity and so we really we don't look at it that way it's part of the overall base of our business and what we do at this point in time.
I also have a couple of questions.
If you can review the promotions and programs that are planed for the third quarter could you review for us what are you are comping against last year and/or get a sense of what might be incremental this year.
And say could you do a Hello Kitty last year.
We did Maxine Clark last year but in a different timeframe so that might not necessarily be comparable but our promotional schedule for the third quarter is pretty much the same.
The biggest promotion that we have is our any sale the $29.99 event which is a national event.
It's an annual event and that comes in August and it’s the same time this year as it was last year and then the rest of the events are really kind of are really launches of Animal a little repositioning sometimes one may reopen in one week and then it was another week last year but there is not any major shift and certainly not really any big plusses in the third quarter.
We really are focusing our efforts on correcting the things that we thought were are shortfalls last year in the third quarter which just might be a just a better product in the same week that we launched something last year and then also on our fourth quarter transition.
So then the comp growth whether it’s in May and June period and your forecast is really coming from traffic I mean transaction values you are just doing a better job of getting people to splurge on shoes and stuff.
Yes.
While the transactions themselves might be down slightly.
The customers who are coming in to the stores is being spending a little bit more and we’re improving our ratio of accessory shoes and clothes to the Bear transaction.
We’re working very hard on that and getting that back up to the levels that it has been in the past because it is part of our experience and the customer at least up until the present time has been positively responding to that.
Again economy does come into effect but I wouldn’t say that the mall traffic is significantly a positive factor.
I don’t think that’s up to pre-2008 level yet but has been improving slightly.
Tina regarding some of the leases coming up.
If we look at over the next several years is it sort of an even flow of how leases are expiring or is their concentration in any particular year when you have leases coming up? I think 2012 and 2013 back when we in 2002 and 2003 I think we had about 80 stores that we opened.
So those will be coming through natural lease expirations but then again as we've talked before over the last several years we’ve been aligning some other leases in the market so that we can look at the overall market.
So about 80 leases will come due in between now and the end of 2013.
Or we already have as part of our real-estate negotiating repositioned extended we’re really working on those on an ongoing basis market by market.
So many of those stores are some of the most profitable stores in the Build-A-Bear family.
And we want to make sure that those are the stores that are targeted for remodel.
The good news is that most of them we did position them to be in 2013 and 2014 because we wanted to have the benefit of what we learned from the new store the future and what elements might if not all of them be transferred into the new store.
Any stores that we opened up this year prior to September are updated but not a new format.
And maybe have a feature or two of the new features that we just reopened in Hamleys.
In the UK we re-did our store there as part of their remodel and we put in a couple of new elements from the store the feature that has been very very positive to their sales.
So we feel really encouraged about the ability to remodel stores not necessarily start all over and call it a new store but move elements of the new store the feature that we're working on into next year's remodel from the ones that we’re doing the remainder of this year.
On relocations and any new locations are there still 10-year leases or are they shorter? It’s going to vary by location.
Few of them are shorter in terms and the average would still be about 10.
Tina also for you what are the tax rate in the quarter I know it is weird when you have negatives and tax allowances but what does it mean for what you effect and what you expect to see assuming some return to profitability? Or just say a permanent reduction in the effective tax rate or is it just a quart of that quarter?  It’s going to be a quart of the next few quarters Sean because of the valuation allowance and so until we are able to reverse that valuation allowance it’s going to fluctuate and I think that and it’s hard to -- it’s really hard to say what it will be.
I mean it could be about a 14% rate this year.
Okay thanks.
Then last question when does (inaudible) open a new store a new model I mean? The 21<sup>st</sup> of September we will send you a formal notification.
We hope you will join us.
The cardinal is town.
It will be because of the world series the final to get and go in there.
That's what may do the best September.
Great thanks.
Just one more question on the components of the same-store sales you said 6% decline in transactions 4.7% increase in transaction value how about unit the third component or if you could break out transaction value between units and price perhaps?  I think Gerry it’s probably about flat on units and the majority of it is from a price perspective increase in price.
The increase in price or perhaps an increase or change in the mix? It could be that too it could be a little bit of change in mix but I think units are essentially flat.
Like Gerrick just FYI I think this might be helpful.
So in the past years the girl scout party.
If the girl scout came in and brought a Bear for a party they would have probably brought a $10 or $12 Bear as part of their party but the Girl Scout bear that we made this year was $15 and it was special and so I would say a huge percentage may be 90%  of the Girl Scout parties that came in brought a Girl Scout bear plus all the other Girl Scout.
So it was definitely an upgrade and we have the uniforms that are $15 so they all got pretty delved in those uniforms as special part of the Girl Scout anniversary celebration.
So that is the plus for this year as well as the fact that on a couple of our promotions particularly on the Beach Towel promotion we raised a threshold on the product.
So that you had to spend $30 in order to qualify and that also raised our – you know those kind of things when you have a really good value promotion like the Beach Towel that tied under the Sea Collection and you encourage the customer to spend $30 they will.
You can't do that all the time but I think that that really helped us as well as.
And so those are the kinds of techniques that you can use it doesn’t work sometimes just on a regular launch when you just -- it is just a new animal and it does have its cute clothes and everything.
But there is not much of a marketing effort put behind it.
But the Girl Scouts put their own marketing behind their anniversary.
That helped us and as well as our own marketing and then the promotion of the Towel promotion was one that we added back in this year.
Okay with no other questions thank you again for joining us and we look forward to speaking with you on our Q3 call in October.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Results conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.
If anyone should require operator assistance during the conference please press star zero on your telephone keypad.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you Ms.
Malkin.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Maxine Clarke Chairman and Chief Executive Bear and Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with their questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one questions and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone’s questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note our call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website and a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the risk factors section in our annual report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Maxine.
Maxine? Thank you Alison and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us to discuss our 2012 third quarter and first nine months results.
On our call today I’ll review the progress that we’ve made on our key strategies as well as update you on our store marketing and product initiatives; then I’ll turn the call over to Tina Klocke our Chief Operations and Financial Bear to review the financial results in more detail.
After my concluding remarks we will open the call to answer your questions.
Clearly we are disappointed with our third quarter results.
We were up against a difficult comparison from last year when product tied to the release of the Smurfs movie drove traffic and transactions throughout the quarter.
Our product and marketing events were not strong enough to offset the strength of last year’s product which was supported by tremendous studio marketing and advertising.
As you know we are in a turnaround phase.
Build-A-Bear Workshop has historically produced very high sales per square foot and profitability and we are taking steps that are needed to regain that position.
For more than a year we’ve had bold actions in play to deliver our long-term strategies and objectives.
As a reminder our objectives as well as our recent progress include first introducing a new store design to reinvent our experience that gives our stores destination appeal.
We have opened three of the six stores scheduled for this year.
Second improve store productivity by reducing our store base and overall square footage to drive traffic and sales to fewer stores that are overall more profitable.
We are in the midst of executing aggressive store closure and repositioning plans.
Third increase shopping frequency by rebalancing our marketing to emphasize brand advertisement as opposed to strictly product and promotion messaging.
In mid-October we launched our new national brand TV advertising campaign in the United States which I will add is already seeing positive guest reaction.
Fourth reinforce Build-A-Bear Workshop as a great place for gifts.
We have built a strong holiday product and marketing plan.
Fifth grow our global presence.
We continue to expand internationally primarily through our franchisees.
And sixth continue to improve cost efficiencies.
We saved an additional 1 million this quarter bringing our year-to-date savings to 6.3 million.
We are on track to achieve 7 million in savings this year for a total of 10 million over the past 18 months.
In today’s call I’ll go into more detail on three of these objectives with particular attention to the aspects of our real estate strategy.
As you know we’ve been working on reinventing our store experience with a new format store with destination appeal.
Our competitive advantage at Build-A-Bear Workshop is our hands-on bear-making experience and we now have successfully opened three of six stores planned for this year in our new design.
We have added new experiences for our guests by merging the power of technology with our signature process.
Sales at all three locations are up 30% or more exceeding our expectations.
Build-A-Bear Workshop has always had strong openings but these stores have also exceeded their original grand opening performances which occurred in much better economic times and when Build-A-Bear Workshop had lower market penetration.
The sales increase is a result of higher traffic and transactions which was our goal.
The stores are driving repeat and new guest visits and keeping strong average transaction value.
We know that it is early but by all metrics these stores are off to a great start.
We remain on track to have all six newly imagined stores open this year.
Given the strong initial results we are moving forward with plans to update additional stores to incorporate key elements of our new design.
We are working on getting the costs in line with our recent historical averages and our landlords have been very supportive financially with these initial stores.
By the end of 2014 we expect to refresh our store design in at least 40 to 50 locations with either full or partial elements of our new design.
The other side of optimizing our stores is reducing our store base and overall square footage to drive traffic and sales to fewer stores again building on our destination appeal.
As we have discussed in previous calls and in our most recent 10-Q the evaluation of our real estate is an ongoing process.
Over the past few years we have aggressively renegotiated rents while retaining kick-out and termination rights so we would have maximum flexibility to manage our portfolio.
We currently believe the optimal number of Build-A-Bear Workshop stores in North America is between 225 to 250 locations.
We have determined what we believe to be the appropriate number of stores in each market and will close underperforming locations while repositioning our most productive stores to incorporate features of our new design.
We are building on a solid base.
On a trailing 12-month basis over 80% of our stores were contribution-positive on average at 15%.
By the end of 2014 we plan our store base to be more productive as we see the impact of the combined effect of store closures and remodeling key stores in major markets.
We have given particular focus to the stores that are contribution negative or marginally profitable on a trailing 12-month basis.
Some of these stores have already been addressed with completed closures and we expect to close 50 to 60 more stores in the next two years in conjunction with natural lease events.
We are also projecting to move our remaining stores to a profitable position as a result of rent renegotiations or the transfer of sales from one of the closing locations.
This essentially will put 98% of our stores in a profitable position based on current performance.
Our net retail sales will be impacted by the store closures but the remaining stores should be more profitable.
On an annualized basis we currently project the impact of store closures net of sales transfer to be a reduction of 30 to 35 million in net sales.
This includes transfer of 20 to 30% of the sales from closed markets to other locations which is based on preliminary results in select markets.
We are forecasting a 2.5 million to $4 million benefit to overall store profitability by the end of 2014 which comes from both the closure of unprofitable stores and the transfer of a portion of sales into other profitable stores.
I should also add that this is an ongoing evaluation and we will continue to refine and adjust our strategies to maximize our store and market profitability.
I also want to note that while we are reducing our store count in North America we see opportunity to continue to expand internationally predominantly through our franchisees.
As our work with real estate shows we are committed to improving our business across our store base.
We have also recently made a significant move toward our objective to reinvigorate our marketing by emphasizing brand advertising particularly on television which will help raise the performance of our entire store base.
We have a multi-dimensional marketing program but TV as a media remains important to maintain high brand awareness and keep our experience top of mind.
Build-A-Bear Workshop started advertising nationally in the United States on television primarily targeting kids’ programming in 2004.
While we initially featured our brand and experience our messaging evolved to most recently focusing strictly on product and promotion ads.
While it was appropriate to feature product and promotion during the height of the recession we think that it is imperative that we rebalance the messaging at this point to speak to our experience which is important to bring in new guests and our products which tend to resonate strongest with repeat guests.
Our advertising is designed to reach both kids and moms.
We want to show kids our fun store and interactive experience and make it easy for moms to say yes.
While we will continue to offer select promotions and value-add offers our research shows that moms also respond very positively to brand marketing specifically messages that get at the emotion of the shared store experience.
We began our new advertising campaign on October 15 and will continue through December.
Essentially kids that are entering our target age range for guest acquisition – those children ages 3 to 6 – have never seen a Build-A-Bear branded message.
Those in our core demographic – age 7 to 12 – have not seen a brand message in four years.
At a time when we are focused more than ever on our experience this advertising will renew consumer excitement and our overall brand profile and drive incremental traffic to our stores.
I encourage you to check into our new spots which can be viewed on our website in the About Us section and on our investor website.
Let me wrap by speaking to our holiday merchandise.
We have put significant work into rebalancing our holiday inventory and merchandise mix with innovative proprietary products and classic characters.
Our proprietary products for this holiday include a collection of animals that each come with a scented plush accessory.
We first introduced scented products with our highly popular Ice Cream Bear collection in 2011 and have since added scent chips that can be inserted into any animal.
This year’s holiday animals will have seasonal scents of mint sugar cookie and gingerbread.
On November 7 we will launch our core Christmas story with nostalgic but updated favorites of Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer and Clarice both with light-up features.
In North America we will have a new addition to our classics with the Grinch who comes with a heart that lights up and glows.
In the U.K.
we will offer the Snowman in lieu of the Grinch.
The Snowman is a beloved character from a classic children’s book that is also featured in an animated special that airs on television each year in the U.K.
We follow with the addition of Paddington Bear another British icon who will remain part of our core assortment post-holiday.
We are planning gift card sales to be strong this holiday.
A gift card from Build-A-Bear Workshop allows you to give the gift of the experience and we expect the emphasis on our store experience in our advertising to bolster demand for this category.
In total we believe our short-term product and marketing strategies will deliver a solid fourth quarter.
I also firmly believe that our longer term strategies to elevate our store experience optimize our store base and broaden our customer base with brand building marketing will drive improvement in our sales and profitability.
We continue to have a strong balance sheet to support our strategies and despite our third quarter results I remain very optimistic about our prospects and outlook for the future.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Tina to recap the financial results in more detail.
Thanks Maxine and good morning everyone.
I will highlight the key components of our third quarter and first nine months results.
The full details can be found in our press release.
For the quarter total revenues were 86 million a decrease of 12% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Consolidated net retail sales decreased 11.9% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
This decrease was driven by a comp store sales decline of 11.1% due to the decline in transactions as our average transaction value was flat.
Ecommerce sales declined 7.6% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Retail gross margin declined 370 basis points to 36.5%.
We had benefits from reduced packaging costs; however this benefit was offset by de-leverage of occupancy cost of 270 basis points and merchandise margin pressure of 130 basis points.
SG&amp;A decreased to 37 million or 42.5% of total revenues compared to 39% in 2011.
The dollar savings were a result of lower store payroll.
The increase as a percent of sales was driven by the de-leverage of advertising and corporate expenses.
Pre-tax loss was 4 million compared to pre-tax income of 2 million last year.
Our effective tax rate was 4.5% in the third quarter compared to 54% last year.
Our tax rate continues to have high volatility due to the valuation allowance established on all of our U.S.
deferred tax assets at the end of 2011.
Net loss was 4 million or $0.26 per share.
This compares to net income of 900 000 or $0.05 per diluted share last year.
Net loss for the quarter was negatively impacted by $0.14 per share related to the changes in the effective tax rate and $0.02 per share resulting from a change in share count due to repurchases that were made in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Turning now to our first nine months results total revenues were 263 million a decrease of 4.5% over last year excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
On a consolidated basis comp store sales declined 4%.
Retail gross margin declined— I apologize.
Our power went off at our office so I will begin at retail gross margin.
Retail gross margin declined 110 basis points to 37.3%.
In the fourth quarter we expect to have a slight expansion versus the prior year.
Compared to 2011 SG&amp;A decreased by 6 million to 114 million remaining flat as a percent of total revenues.
Included in 2011 SG&amp;A was 3 million in consulting costs.
Excluding these costs SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue decreased 210 basis points driven by decreases in store payroll and advertising costs partially offset by increases in corporate expenses.
Pre-tax loss for the first nine months was 14 million compared to a pre-tax loss of 12 million last year.
Net loss was 13 million or $0.79 per share compared to net loss of 8 million or $0.45 per share in the first nine months last year.
2012 was negatively impacted by $0.24 per share related to the change in the effective tax rate and by $0.07 per share resulting from a change in the share count due to repurchases that were made in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Net loss in 2011 included $0.11 per share in consulting fees.
We continue to have a strong balance sheet with no debt and consolidated cash of 22 million.
Total inventory at quarter-end was 54.9 million and on a per-square foot basis was flat with the prior year period.
Capital expenditures in the third quarter were 5 million primarily to support our real estate strategies and to build our infrastructure.
We expect capital expenditures for the full year to be approximately 18 million with about half to the capital supporting store activity and the balance for IT updates.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was 5 million compared to 6 million in 2011.
We continue to expect depreciation and amortization for the full year to be approximately 21 million.
As Maxine mentioned we see the opportunity to grow internationally.
In October we opened two stores in the U.K.
where we continue to believe the market potential is about 70 stores.
We currently operate 60 stores so while we have room to grow we are not pushing to hit a store count especially with the economic pressures in Europe.
We will open stores on an opportunistic basis in this market.
For example the two stores we opened this year were on a short-term basis in order to validate sales plans.
Both are in new markets which will not impact other existing stores.
In international franchise operations our franchisees operated 87 stores in 14 countries at the end of the quarter.
Our revenue from franchise operations was 800 000 for the quarter and 2 million for the first nine months.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Maxine.
Thank you Tina and I apologize again for our loss of electricity.
We’re both using our mobiles so I hope you can hear us.
At the end of our last quarterly earnings call I wrapped up by saying that I’m confident we will post improvement in sales productivity and profitability when 2012 is complete.
I still feel that way.
Our brand is a favorite of kids and moms which we have seen clearly in the initial response to our new store design.
I want to emphasize that our plans are not just about closing stores.
We are changing our business dynamics across the board.
What does success look like for Build-A-Bear Workshop?  Success means positive comps starting in the fourth quarter driven by a balanced assortment and supported by our brand advertising.
Success means consistent annual profitability.
This will come from elevating our experience and reducing our store count to have destination locations in each market.
For the end of 2014 we expect to have between 225 to 250 locations in North America.
These stores will have higher sales and profitability as they benefit from the transfer of sales from closed locations.
The other essential piece of our plan is to refresh our store design in at least 40 to 50 locations and we expect to continue our global expansion particularly with existing and new franchisees.
I am optimistic as we begin the fourth quarter.
We continue to drive all of our long-term strategies in order to return our company to its leadership position for the benefit of our shareholders our associates and our guests.
And with that I’ll open the call for your questions.
Hey thanks.
Maxine can you please first confirm – you guys are paying your electric bills right? Yes!  The whole place is dark the whole office complex outside and all around us.
It’s not just us here.
Somebody must have cut a cable.
Okay well hopefully everybody’s safe.
So two quick questions – I want to really hone in a little bit more on the new store design.
Can you be more specific about what’s going on in that store that’s different than your core stores; and more important is from a merchandising point of view what are the variances there?  And then my second question is also related to that.
If you can more deeply explain what you said about that 30% pop is it possible that you’re a little premature in identifying 50 to 60 store closings if you’ve just identified what potentially can be a big productivity boost to your core base?  Thank you.
Thank you Tom.
That’s a good and long question.
So let’s just say that we’ve always said at Build-A-Bear Workshop the story for the customer what they’re paying for when they come into our stores is half of it is the product and half is the experience.
While our product has changed over time a lot meaning every couple of months or every couple of weeks sometimes we’re changing and bringing in new products we really haven’t changed our experience in 15 years.
And that’s pretty amazing when you think that we’ve stood the test of time that way with children who are constantly being bombarded with new and different all the time.
So we have been aware obviously when we added Bearville that that was something that kids liked and gaming is a big part of our engagement after the Build-A-Bear Workshop experience.
But we really wanted to figure out how to incorporate that love of the technology with their love of a soft cuddly stuffed animal and we’ve worked hard on that for the last 18 months including our guests—I mean totally including our guests to help us do that.
So the store—you know you’ll basically go through the same processes but we’ve enhanced several of them.
The first one that’s been enhanced is the opening of the store.
You can actually see into the store you’re not blocked by signing.
Everything is wide open and bright.
We have interactive digital signing at the door that greets you and tells you about the new merchandise but we can also convert it into a game that kids can play with on the front door if there’s lines which fortunately in these new stores – in some ways that’s fortunate anyway they have been – and they’re playing with that and keeping them active in the line.
The next big difference is Build-A-Bear’s core trademark and what moms and kids tell us they loved the best about Build-A-Bear is putting the heart inside the bear and making that special.
We’ve created a special heart station which really begins your process of customization now and when you put your heart in you add attributes to it through a gigantic tablet that’s turned into two heart stations and allows you to personalize with different kinds of smart silly funny cute strong – all kinds of different attributes and actually we will also be able to—when you get a special barcode come up on your mailer come in in the future and just scan it and get special attributes also.
The stuffing station is the same for the most part; however there are some different interactions that now our bear builders can perform with you because they know exactly what’s inside your bear.
When they scan your barcode it pops up on their screen right there in front of them what the attributes are about your bear and if today is your birthday they now know that and they’re able to go through the birthday experience.
The other is that there’s a squishometer on there and you can decide how soft and fluffy you want it or how hard you might want your bear to be stuff.
The next big change and I think it’s still the most—personally I love it is the bear bath.
We’ve always had a bear bath at Build-A-Bear Workshop but this one has tabletop top on it that makes it look like it’s really a bathtub.
And the different toys that you play with on the bath tub the little toy boat the soap the soap causes it to bubble the little toy boat goes across it and toot-toot-toots makes a noise and then the little duck swims across.
And then a few seconds later it starts to tell you that it’s getting ready to—your bear is getting cleaner and cleaner and now it drains and you move onto the next station because kids would stay there.
We learned that in the testing – they would have stayed there forever.
That and the heart station are what they say right now are their favorite stations.
You go into Dress Me and beginning with your Dress Me transaction is now what we call Match Me which allows you to scan the barcode of your animal and it will show you a picture of the most popular outfits for your bear and it will also—it’s being refined as we go and as more and more kids scan their barcodes and get to know what the most popular outfits are but right now it’s showing you the most popular outfits that we know of and it also can break down the accessories and tell you where to go find the—what the accessories actually are.
So kids are printing that out taking that with them taking it home giving it to grandma – that’s been a popular station.
And then the Dress Me is different in two ways.
One it’s divided in half so half is on the right side of the floor and half is on the left side and each one of them has a seam on the top so for lack of a better description I’m going to say it’s half—one side is mostly boys and the other side is mostly girls which allows boys now to have their sort of own section which they’ve requested over time and we’ll see if this really makes a difference.
Boys have always been about 30% of our business and we haven’t seen a marked change in that.
But it’s still 30% of our business but on a bigger base of customers that are coming into these stores.
Name Me is slightly different.
Now that it has—it’s still Name Me and you still get to add on your name and address and participate but now that your bear has these special attributes when you start the naming process and you put your bear on the top of the tablet it scans the bear and it tells you—defines all the things that are inside your bear and when you find it you get some extra benefits as well.
And then it tells you about Bear Grow and it prints your birth certificate and it tells you to go to Bearville and register your bear.
It also—when the birth certificate prints out now each one prints out individually.
It will print out with the attributes and a picture of your bear which we’ve never had that before.
You can see a virtual tour of the store by the way online and Take Me Home is just basically the same.
So the other important part of your question is is the merchandise any different?  The merchandise is exactly the same as merchandise in every other store that we have.
There’s only one product that’s different which we made a little bath kit to mimic the bath kit that’s on the (inaudible) station.
That’s the only difference and in St.
Louis for instance we can see all the other two mall stores that we have and we can see the St.
Louis at the West County store which has the new store design and we can see that it’s exactly the same and presented in an attractive way but the new store is doing so much better and that is I think a testament to the fact that merchandise isn’t our problem really.
It is the experience had not been refreshed.
And this has been consistently now on our third store—actually the fourth one opens tomorrow but it’s been every single one of these stores has shown the exact same thing.
When you compare it to other stores in the market it’s the same.
So I think that that is a really—that just bodes incredibly well for this.
Your last question about the number of stores are we being too soon on this – well we’re not closing them tomorrow and if we see that there’s a difference certainly we can adjust.
But I believe this is the right number.
When I wrote my business plan in 1997 I said that we would have 250 stores and as we got bigger and we got to the marketing we saw how the advertising was growing also the encouragement of our investors and business partners – such a great concept why don’t you bring it to more places?  I think that in some ways we’ve actually maybe saturated some markets more than we should have or needed to and we saw that when we closed West County to remodel it how much business went from West County to the Galleria.
Just because we were closing it temporarily that store had a huge boost and it just says that maybe we don’t have to have three to six stores in a market.
We can have fewer stores and make them more destination stores as I had originally planned.
And as we know Disney has about 210 stores (inaudible) has about 64.
Of course they’re adding more but I don’t think they’ll be much more than probably 150 maybe 200.
And then American Girl only has 14 stores and they said possibly they’re going to have 16 stores so those are the most competitive—directly competitive to Build-A-Bear even if you could call them that.
So I believe that when you’re in this kind of discriminating and discretionary product category and the malls and everyone is going through so much economic changes and the Internet is part of our life to stay that we are smarter to think about a 250 store or less footprint and right now I think that’s a really comfortable number.
It’s funny that it came back to the exact same number I said originally but that’s through refinement store by store not by just saying oh let’s go back to that number.
So it’s a long answer to your question but I think it’s important to understand where we’re coming from on that.
Thank you.
Hey good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk about the impact of the Olympics on the U.K.
business.
Was it a positive or was it actually a negative considering the change in shopping dynamics over there? I’d say it was probably a negative.
In some places like in Stratford Mall where we have a store they actually closed it off.
They had tight security so people were having their bags checked so it was probably not as well executed in the retail space.
They also told people to stay home so in some parts of central London it wasn’t nearly as busy as it should have been and we know this to be true also from our concessions that we have in other retail stores not just Build-A-Bear but how other stores fared.
So I think it was really good leading up to it and the Queen’s Jubilee and all of that was really fabulous for business and especially in London stores where that was tourist and traffic driven.
But when the onslaught of tourists came they weren’t shopping as much as any of us had hoped in the retail area.
But quite frankly we had started the British products category starting at Boxing Day this past year so we actually had a phenomenal year in selling product that related to I Heart London I Heart Great Britain the Union Jack all kinds of fashion products that revolved around the patriotism going on in the U.K.
Bu those couple of weeks of the Olympics were quite difficult.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Can I ask two questions? Sure.
All right.
Excluding the stores that you guys are planning for closing do you know what your 3Q same store sales result would have been for the rest of the portfolio?  I mean I understand there’s going to be different dynamics after those closures but right now how are those other stores excluding the was it 50 or 60 or so that are planned for closing how are those comping? We haven’t actually determined all the stores that we’ll exactly close just the ones maybe in early stages of the decision-making process so we can’t tell you that by market.
But we’re really looking at the stores on—they aren’t closed so they aren’t having an impact on the other stores yet except in stores that we’ve closed in prior years and earlier this year where we did have an average of about a 20 to 30% transfer sales so that helps that store that’s receiving the sales.
But otherwise we haven’t closed those stores and there’s no way to tell you their comps because the other stores are still open.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Hey just one quick one on the marketing sort of a two-part question.
One I think I heard Tina say that the ATV for the quarter was basically flat so what I’m curious about Maxine is why the change in strategy on the marketing where I think you had said previously that the marketing was more tied to pricing and now you want to tie it more to branding if you didn’t see a downward pressure on ATV and maybe AUR was there – maybe that’s the reason.
And then the second part of that question is how do you leverage television advertising and marketing overall and if Tina if you could put some numbers around this when you’re going to have 30 to 35 million I think you said of lower volume as you close these stores over time.
Thank you.
Well that’s a challenge that we’re working on because the marketing is working and we can see that already in the change in our trends even since it started and that’s pretty much what we had back in October of 2003 when we started testing television.
We were—we turned a significant negative into a positive by telling people about the brand of Build-A-Bear Workshop and so the same thing has already started to happen so we can see that this is different.
And it really is – when you look at the commercial I think you’ll see.
If you can remember back to our first commercials it’s a child engaged in the Build-A-Bear Workshop experience and mom is present and that is the way the Build-A-Bear Workshop experience happens most of the time and we never show that.
We haven’t shown that in years in four years and so the customer—the young customers who have been growing up with us they don’t remember four years is a lifetime to them.
But the little kids that are just coming into our age the 3 to 6 year olds have never seen it so if they don’t want that Hello Kitty that we had on television or they don’t care about—children don’t care about 29.99 mom cares about that.
That’s all they’ve really seen and we had to do that in 2008 in response to the recession and cutting back advertising dollars pretty dramatically.
We’re nowhere near those numbers by the way.
While we might end up a little bit higher in dollars for the quarter because we want to invest in this you remember when you first met us we had turned those dollars into huge sales and profitability by investing in the marketing.
So we can’t exactly tell you the whole model and what the advertising—how we’re going to manage the national advertising on a smaller footprint but we started national advertising when we had 150 stores and so I think that we’ll be able to figure it out like we figure out most things.
It’s critical to our brand.
I mean you don’t see a sale advertisement on television.
If you see any TV from Lego and Disney you don’t; and American Girl does branded TV and I think it’s the right place for a premium brand like Build-A-Bear Workshop.
If we aren’t continuing to remind each generation of child this is fun this is important this is cool they’re not going to know it on their own.
They’ve got a lot of other cool things being thrown at them all the time not necessarily from advertising but just from what they’re playing on games et cetera.
And our research shows that the brand ad has about two times more impact on sales overall than a product commercial.
I mean we’ve done a lot of testing on this so the money works harder for us when it’s on our brand because it appeals to everyone.
It doesn’t appeal to just somebody who wants that Hello Kitty or a frog.
It doesn’t even tell them what products we have.
And  when we did those brand advertising we also saw customers come in and buy a broader range of products.
It’s about transactions – we’re driving transactions.
We always have seen when Build-A-Bear Workshop has high transactions we have the sales as we want and the comps we want and the flow-through that we want and so we’re really focused on that.
I think we started in October 2003 with this test the same exact time.
We kind of tried to mimic it so we could project the results so we feel really encouraged Tom about how this is—not that we felt we should have definitely been out of the market for four years.
We did what we had to do that was appropriate for business and we thought we were doing the right thing refocusing the advertising.
But in retrospect we probably should have had a much stronger balance and maybe not cut back as severely as we did.
Okay.
Tina would you be willing to give us the AUR specifically for the quarter and what’s the outlook of AUR for the fourth quarter? I mean it’s historically been around $35 a transaction and I think that we’re projecting it to be fairly consistent through the fourth quarter.
Again we’ll see slight variations over time but as Maxine said the real thing that we need to do is drive transactions and that’s one of the things that not only brand TV advertising did for us it also reignites customers that may not have been in our store in a while.
So again it brings new and then brings the current customers back.
You know one of the things Tom that I think is important just to highlight here is that we ran—for the grand opening of the St.
Louis West County store we ran television advertising around that not the first two weeks but the second two weeks after it had opened.
We let the normal buzz start on that.
And the good news here is that we haven’t seen the dissipation of the sales at the St.
Louis Galleria which was about 8 miles apart.
They’ve actually held their own and that’s pretty impressive and I think that the only reason that’s happening is because of the brand advertising.
It’s elevating the brand and so people are going to their St.
Louis Galleria the Fairview Heights store and the West County store which is exactly what we wanted – again another vote for brand advertising.
Understood.
Thank you.
Thanks again for joining us today.
I wish all of you a happy holiday and look forward to speaking with you when we report our year-end results in February.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012 Results conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.
If anyone should require operator assistance during the conference please press star zero on your telephone keypad.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Alison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you Ms.
Malkin.
You may begin.
Thank you good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Maxine Clarke Chief Executive Bear; Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear and Mary Lou Fiala Chairman of the Board of Directors who will give concluding remarks.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with your questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone’s questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website and a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the risk factors section in the annual report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statement.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Maxine Clarke.
Maxine? Thank you Alison and good morning everyone.
Two weeks ago I announced my plan to retire as Chief Executive Bear of Build-A-Bear Workshop.
With our multi-year turnaround strategies to position our company for long-term profitable growth in place and beginning to gain traction I feel it is the right time to attract a new chief executive to take the company forward.
When I founded Build-A-Bear Workshop my vision was to redefine retail and I am proud that 16 years later our company has become a favorite brand of families worldwide.
The Board of Directors is actively working to identify my successor.
In the interim I remain focused on Build-A-Bear Workshop and I will continue to work as a member of the Board of Directors when the transition is complete.
Turning to the fourth quarter while the overall results were not what we wanted the priorities we implemented combined to deliver positive comparable store sales of 1.5% in North America.
We attribute this to the actions we’ve taken on the real estate side with store closures and remodels as well as the rebalancing that we’ve made in our marketing program and product assortment.
In the quarter we added branding to our marketing television advertising in our U.S.
markets.
The ads began airing in late October and attribute a significant improvement in trends leading to positive comps in North America in November and December and for the quarter.
In fact in the U.S.
where we had the benefit of the ads comp sales were up 2.4% an improvement of 14 points from the third quarter comp results and this trend has continued into the first quarter.
And I feel that we had the right balance in our merchandise which featured Rudolph Clarice and Grinch alongside our own proprietary holiday products.
In the U.K.
comparable store sales declined 11.4% reflecting the challenging economic environment; however we believe we can improve by adjusting our marketing and product initiatives similarly to what we’ve done in North America.
Our e-commerce sales rose 14% for the quarter and 8% for the year.
The investment that we’ve made to improve the design and features of our website has translated to stronger conversion on the site.
We are in the midst of a multi-year turnaround plan.
I want to emphasize that our company today has a strong base of profitable stores that we are working to make stronger.
Putting that in perspective our top 200 company-owned stores had an average 20% unit level EBITDA and we believe by the end of 2014 our portfolio will be more profitable as stores benefit from our key initiatives.
In 2012 we made progress on these six key initiatives including first our new store design.
We opened our first six newly designed stores with very strong guest response.
We continued to have sales increases of 30% or more.
The remodeled stores are driving repeat and new guest visits and maintaining strong average transaction value.
We continue to expect to remodel 40 to 50 additional store locations over the next two years to build on the destination appeal of our stores.
Second we continued to execute our store closure plans in conjunction with natural lease events to improve productivity and profitability.
This includes transferring a portion of the sales from the closed stores to other locations in the same markets.
We expect to have a total of 50 to 60 closures in the next two years.
This comes on top of the 22 stores we closed in 2011 and 2012.
The pace of closures is increasing.
In 2013 we have already closed 13 of the approximately 35 stores planned to close for the year.
As I told you on our last call our total net retail sales will be impacted by the closures but we expect to improve our profitability.
When the closures are complete we expect an annualized sales impact of 30 to 35 million net of transfer sales.
We are forecasting a 2.5 million to 4.0 million benefit to overall store profitability by the end of 2014 which comes from both the closure of unprofitable stores and the transfer of a portion of sales into other profitable locations.
We also expect this initiative to improve the sales per square foot on our overall North American store portfolio by approximately 25% as underperforming stores close and remaining stores get the benefit of the transfer sales.
By the end of 2014 we will operate fewer stores but we expect those stores to have higher average sales and improved profit levels.
Third putting an emphasis back on our brand and experience in our marketing.
In the fourth quarter we introduced brand-building TV advertising in the U.S.
that features our store experience and we moved to re-balance our value proposition emphasizing experience and product versus product and promotion.
This led to the improvement in our North American comp trend and also drove increased merchandise margins as we eliminated select promotions.
We will continue to re-balance our marketing efforts for this initiative in 2013.
Fourth we moved our gift program forward particularly in the key fourth quarter when our gift card sales increased by over 30% on a consolidated basis.
We believe the brand advertising contributed to the strong sales of gift cards by prompting parents and other relatives to give the gift of our experience.
Across geographies an earlier start to a historically successful gift card promotion also contributed to higher sales.
Fifth we continue to grow globally.
Our franchisees finished the year with 91 stores in 14 countries.
We also opened two stores in the U.K.
We expect our franchisees to open 8 to 12 stores in 2013.
Given the challenging environment in the U.K.
we do not expect to open more stores until we see improvements in the economy and our own store performance.
And sixth we focused on improving cost efficiencies saving an additional 7.5 million during the year which enabled us to offset product cost increases and support our brand-building marketing advertising.
We are continuing to adjust our expense structure to reflect the smaller store base we will have as we close stores.
As we begin 2013 there are a couple of differences to note.
Last year we participated in a major McDonald’s Happy Meal promotion that began early in February and we benefited from the associated marketing.
The promotion was successful for both Build-A-Bear Workshop and McDonald’s and we will continue to partner with them; but the timing varies each year depending on various promotional scheduled and entertainment offerings.
This year the promotion moves to our fourth quarter.
Also this year’s first quarter will benefit from an earlier Easter but that will impact the second quarter accordingly.
We expect to show significant progress on our initiatives in 2013 as the groundwork that we have laid takes hold and can impact our business on a larger scale.
We remain cautious on the overall environment particularly in Europe; however we believe the changes we are making in our real estate portfolio combined with the reinvention of our store experience will drive improved productivity.
I also feel that we have a good balance of iconic license and proprietary product to appeal to the broad demographic that shop in our stores.
Our marketing will balance messaging of the destination appeal of our store experience with news about our products.
We will also use marketing to let people know about store closure and direct them to other locations they can visit.
Altogether we expect these initiatives to move us toward our long-term objectives.
And now Tina will review the financials in more detail.
Thanks Maxine and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by discussing the non-comparable charges that impacted the fourth quarter and fiscal year.
This information is also detailed in a reconciliation table in the press release we issued earlier this morning.
Our net loss for the 2012 fourth quarter was 36 million or $2.23 per share.
Excluding non-comparable charges our adjusted net income was 2 million or $0.13 per diluted share.
These costs included a 34 million non-cash charge to impair the goodwill associated with our U.K.
business and a $6 million non-cash charge as related to trade credit and store asset impairment and the establishment of a valuation allowance on our foreign net deferred tax assets.
This was partially offset by a $500 000 benefit to deferred revenue related to our loyalty program.
With regard to our non-cash goodwill impairment while we have impaired the goodwill associated with our U.K.
business in its entirety this does not change our long-term outlook for this business segment.
For the 2012 fiscal year excluding all non-comparable charges our adjusted net loss was 10 million or $0.62 per share.
Now let me go into more detail on the fourth quarter.
Total revenues were 118 million compared to 119 million in 2011 a slight decline excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
In 2012 total revenues increased by 500 000 from an adjustment to net retail sales related to deferred revenue under our loyalty program.
This adjustment in the fourth quarter last year was 1.5 million.
Consolidated net retail sales were flat despite closing 10 stores in 2012.
Comp store sales decreased by 1.7 on a consolidated basis which included a 1.5% increase in North America and 11.4% decline in the U.K.
This was driven by a 2.2% improvement in transaction value offset by a 3.8% decline in transactions.
Consolidated e-commerce sales rose 14% in the fourth quarter excluding the impact of foreign exchange on top of a 3.5% increase in the 2011 fourth quarter.
Retail gross margin was 42.4% a 90 basis point decrease from last year primarily driven by an 80 basis point decline from asset impairment charges and 50 basis points of de-leverage on fixed occupancy costs.
This was partially offset by an increase in merchandise margin due to fewer promotions and discounts and less licensed product than in the prior year.
Total SG&amp;A was 43.8% of total revenue.
Excluding 3 million in asset impairment charges SG&amp;A was 41.6% of total revenues compared to 36% last year.
The increase in adjusted SG&amp;A as compared to the prior year primarily reflects investment in marketing and store-related costs as part of our long term strategic plan.
Turning now to our full-year results total revenues were 381 million a 3% decrease excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Consolidated net retail sales were 375 million a 3% decrease excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
This included 500 000 from an adjustment to net retail sales related to our deferred revenue under our loyalty program and compares to a $1.5 million adjustment in 2011.
On a consolidated basis comparable store sales declined 3.3% and included a 2% decline in North America and an 8.4% decline in Europe.
Consolidated e-commerce sales rose 8% excluding the impact of foreign exchange on top of an 8.5% increase in fiscal 2011.
We had growth in both North America and the U.K.
Our retail gross margin percent was 38.9% and represented 100 basis point decrease from the prior year driven by de-leverage of fixed costs.
Total SG&amp;A for the full year was 166 million or 43.4% of total revenues.
Adjusting for the 3 million in non-cash charges SG&amp;A was 42.6% of total revenues.
We ended the year with a strong consolidated cash balance of 45 million.
We have no debt and we did not make any borrowings against our credit facility.
During the year we invested 1.3 million to repurchase 367 000 shares of our common stock.
Depreciation and amortization for 2012 was 21 million compared to 24 million in 2011.
As Maxine mentioned we plan to close approximately 35 stores in 2013 13 of which have already closed.
We also plan to remodel 20 to 25 stores in our new design.
For your reference we have also included a store opening and closing schedule as an exhibit in our press release.
In support of these plans capital expenditures for 2013 are expected to be between 20 and $25 million.
This compares to 17 million in 2012.
Depreciation and amortization is expected to be in the range of 20 to 22 million in 2013.
Year-end inventory was 47 million a 7% decline on a per-square foot basis as compared to fiscal 2011.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Mary Lou Fiala.
Thank you Tina and good morning everyone.
Speaking on behalf of the Board of Directors I wanted to provide an update on the transition to a new CEO and to state our support for the strategies that the management team is working on and that Maxine has articulated throughout 2012.
But first I want to take a moment and acknowledge the great work that Maxine has done creating this concept.
She’s built an incredible brand that is a favorite of kids and their families around the world.
I am pleased that she will continue to impact the future of the company as a board member following the eventual transition to a new CEO.
As it relates to the new CEO the Board has been actively working to identify the right person to take the company forward.
Our objective is to bring in an executive with significant retail experience and a strong financial background who will also add to the strategic vision of the company.
We’re giving this our highest priority and attention in order to bring in the right person to lead this company to its full potential.
In the meantime the Board has been working very closely with the management team on a multi-year turnaround plan and I’m very confident in this plan and management’s ability to return Build-A-Bear Workshop to profitability and long-term growth.
We realize this is not going to happen overnight.
With the benefit of hindsight it’s clear that the concept was over-expanded particularly in light of the downturn in the global economy; however despite several difficult comp store sales years the vast majority of the company’s stores still have strong unit level economics and going forward management is focused on right-sizing this store base refreshing stores in an updated design and adjusting its expense structure to match the reduced store count.
The Board supports management in recreating a smaller but much healthier and once again profitable company.
I would now like to turn the call back over the management team for the Q&amp;A.
Maxine? Thanks Mary Lou.
Operator can you please open the call for any questions from our listeners?  Yes how are you?  I know that you’re in the midst of the turnaround through refreshing your stores but is there any specific concept for your bears that you’ll be focused on in 2013 or 2014? You mean anything— Yeah you had the holiday concepts for the fourth quarter but is there anything on an annual basis that you will be looking at? Well we change our animals all the time.
Tomorrow we’ll launch our Easter collection and then in a few weeks we’ll launch a new Hello Kitty collection.
Every month or so every couple of weeks actually at least every month there’s a whole new collection – not an entire assortment in the whole store but a limited edition collection that’s available and new.
We have some exciting ones coming up particularly that we’ve never done before.
One exciting one right after Easter is the first launch ever of make your own My Little Pony.
Okay.
And is there any additional cost savings you’re going to be able to achieve in 2013? We’re working very much on that and we will have updates for you on that as we keep going forward on our calls as we’ve done in the past.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
First Maxine I want to wish you all the best with continued success.
You’ve been an inspiration to myself and many many children out there so kudos to you.
Thank you Tom.
If I can expand a little bit if you guys could give us some clarity around that question that was just asked on the expense side of the equation at least give us a sense of the buckets where you see the greatest opportunity.
And then my second question is is there any consideration—with a Board member present is there any consideration of doing something that is broader in scope in terms of what you offer to the consumer meaning not just selling skins and accessories and considering other product opportunities.
I know you’ve done a little of that in the past.
Those are my two questions.
Thank you.
I’ll let Tina get to the cost savings; but on the products we continue to test new products all the time Tom and we want them to be able to be substantial enough and meet our margin requirements.
As you know Build-A-Bear has all proprietary product and our margin is pretty substantial and so finding products that can take the space in our store and generate the sales and the comparable margin is always a challenge.
So we had a successful run when Angry Birds were really very popular so we were able to sell quite a bit of that and it was a meaningful number.
We have a line in about 50 stores of—a new line called Hug a Cub which is different than the Hug a Cub line we launched about a year and a half ago – much more proprietary very cute and soft and cuddly and customizable.
We’ll see how that goes.
And we have our Small Fries which was a successful introduction and did add value and a new category to our business.
But the one challenge is when a mom walks into Build-A-Bear she walks in and she spends about $35 a child and she still spends about that $35 a child.
We hope she’ll come back more frequently – that’s the idea.
She may still spend $35 this time but she’ll come back another time and maybe she wouldn’t have come in but she’ll buy that $10 Small Fry for her child.
So we’re looking for those kinds of items and things that can complement our brand but also can earn their space and their profitability in the assortment.
Understood.
Tom this is Mary Lou.
Nice to meet you over the phone.
I think in the short term in 2013 management has done a very good job and the Board is excited about the content that is coming in for the next several quarters.
So one we feel good about that.
We’re coming into this quarter or year with really a lean inventory so we don’t have a lot that we have to work through.
I think the biggest change for this year is really the continued focus on the brand advertising versus advertising on just product and price and the fact that advertising is going to be more to the child so the child is asking to come into the store versus the mom seeing it on TV and feeling there is value with it; so we want to look at both.
I do think the answer to your question on the long term are there opportunities to move forward there are; and I think that whether it’s product extensions growing online et cetera that’s going to happen.
But this year our focus is on G&amp;A savings right-sizing the stores building those stores a future and driving traffic into our stores to improve productivity and our comps.
Very helpful.
I call it the whine factor – when my kids whine to me.
Yeah that’s perfect.
That’s exactly what we want.
Thanks.
Tina? So Tom we’ll see some cost pressures from the merchandise margin in the first couple of quarters of the year and then we feel like we have some room to improve our merchandise margin in the end of the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
And again some of that will be helped by not only better pricing but will also be helped by less discounts.
We’re also looking at as Mary Lou pointed out right-sizing the organization for the amount of stores that we have so there will be savings in just SG&amp;A overall as we close the stores but also as we right-size the headquarters for the amount of stores that we have.
And as we do every year we’ll continue to look at every line item as we have over the last several years to reduce the cost but the majority will probably come in the SG&amp;A.
Got it.
Thank you Tina.
Thank you all for your time today and I’ll look forward to speaking to you on our next call with our first quarter results.
Have a great Valentine’s Day and it’s still not too late to buy a really cute bear at Build-A-Bear Workshop.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to Build-A-Bear Workshop First Quarter Fiscal 2013 results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is my pleasure to introduce your host Alison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you you may now begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Maxine Clark Chief Executive Bear and Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with your question.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow up.
This way we can get to everyone's question during the one hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the internet.
The earnings release is available on the investor relations portion of our corporate website.
And a replay of the call and webcast will be available later today on the IR website.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the risk factors section in the annual report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statement.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Maxine Clark.
Maxine? Good morning everyone.
For the call today I will discuss our first quarter results and update you on our key products and marketing initiatives.
Then Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear will review the financial results and update you on our real estate optimization plan.
I'm very pleased with the progress that we have made on our strategy and the impact that it's having on our business.
We had strong comp store sales increases in both North America and Europe at 10.6% and 9.7% respectively.
This resulted in a 10.4% increase in consolidated comparable store sales.
Our e-commerce grew 7% on a consolidated basis.
Even more impressive than the first quarter we grew our total revenues by $8 million for an 8.5% increase.
With 24 fewer stores this year versus last year’s first quarter.
All of this led to a profitable quarter giving us a great start to the year.
I'm also pleased to report that we have maintained our positive sales momentum moving into the second quarter.
Breaking apart our year so far January and February comps were up 4.9% while March and April comps increased 15.7% which removes the impact of the shift in Easter.
This gives us positive consolidated comp sales of 10.1% year-to-date through April.
Our results clearly reflect that our marketing products and store strategies are working and driving improved sales and profitability.
I want to discuss the key factors that contributed to our sales growth across geographies throughout the quarter and update you on our long-term objectives.
First we continue to shift the messaging in our marketing to brand experience and product from the previous product and promotion mix.
We started this initiative in last year’s fourth quarter and continued to realize positive impacts in the first quarter.
In addition to the brand messaging we have intensified our communications with moms which included adding a flight of TV ads in the first quarter ahead of key Valentine’s Day gifting period.
We’ve had comp sales increases in North America in both quarters since we’ve made these changes.
The marketing has increased the demand for the Build-A-Bear Workshop experience which has also contributed to stronger gift card business.
Since gift card sales are recognized and the cards are redeemed the ground work that we laid at the end of last year was critical to starting off the new fiscal year on a positive trend.
During last year's peak gift giving period in the fourth quarter we were able to increase the issuance of gift cards by 30% with nearly 350 000 more gift cards in circulation on a consolidated basis.
As a result we realized higher sales and transactions in our first quarter as guests redeemed their cards.
We have continued to see growth in the issuance of new gift cards with a consolidated 35% increase in the first quarter positioning us for continued growth in redemptions in future quarter.
We’ve also enhanced our gift card business by expanding our popular gift card upsell promotion which guests with a qualifying transaction can purchase a $10 or GBP10 card for half off.
This has contributed to our improved results across geographies.
We began this year with a fresher inventory position versus last year we had significant carry-over of holiday inventory.
The combined impact of the marketing and quality of inventory allowed us to reduce promotional activity throughout the quarter.
The promotions and discounts that we did use including the gift card upsell that I just mentioned was strategically focused on driving traffic and more than offset a strong McDonalds Happy Meal promotion that we ran in 2012.
In fact in the quarter transactions grew 7.9% on a consolidated comparable per sale basis.
As a reminder we have the next Happy Meal promotion later this year in our fourth quarter.
In addition to emphasizing our brand our marketing highlights key products to keep kids requesting visits to our stores.
So far this year we have had a good balance of licensed and proprietary products something we continue to focus on in our merchandising.
For example our proprietary Valentine’s Day pop and floral bunny for Easter sold well as did the iconic My Little Pony launch that has fuelled our post-Easter sales.
Other notable and culturally relevant products include the Thin Mints Bear the second in a series in partnership with the Girl Scouts of America.
An added benefit of this partnership is strong party business with Girl Scout troops.
We also had a limited-edition autism bear that had a charitable tie-in with autism organization which has resonated well particularly with moms.
Let me update you on other significant activity  towards our long-term objectives.
First we are in the process of opening stores in our new design.
The six stores already opened in our new format continued to generate significant sales increases of 25% on average in the quarter.
We remain on track to open approximately 25 more stores in the design by the end of this year.
Next strategically-closed stores to improve overall productivity and profitability.
We closed 18 stores and transferred over 20% of the sales to other locations in the same markets as planned.
We expect to close 35 to 40 stores in total in this fiscal year.
On the international front we are focused on improving sales and profitability in our UK operations and expanding high potential franchisees.
In the UK our results this quarter reflect the ongoing changes that we’ve been making in our product and marketing strategy.
While we are pleased with the rebound we’ve seen in our business which is up 7.9% year-to-date through April we are still cautious of the overall economic environment in Europe.
As I noted our primary focus with international expansion is to grow high potential franchisees.
We continue to expect our franchisees to open eight to twelve stores in 2013.
Finally we are focused on improving cost efficiencies.
Our bottom line results showed significant improvement but we have more work to do.
As it relates to product margins we were successfully reducing promotional  activity versus the first quarter last year.
However our merchandised margins were impacted by higher product costs.
We have a new head merchant who has already made progress on sourcing and product costs.
In addition we are adjusting our merchandise mix.
The impact of these changes is expected in the back half of the year.
We maintained  our stringent control of costs and expect to realize cost savings of approximately $5 million to $10 million in 2013 which includes expense reduction initiatives and savings from closed stores.
In total I am very pleased with our progress this quarter and remain confident that our strategies will result in improved long-term sales productivity and profitability and drive increased shareholder value.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Tina to review our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Maxine and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter performance included higher total revenues with 24 fewer stores than a year ago.
Strong comp store sales growth across geographies and an operating profit.
Our strategies are taking hold and moving us toward our goal of increasing long-term shareholder value.
The quarter’s results included incremental costs in SG&amp;A related to management transition expense and store closings.
Adjusted for these costs first quarter earnings rose significantly to $0.14 per diluted share from an adjusted loss of $0.03 per share last year.
For the first quarter total revenue was a $104 million compared to $96 million last year an increase of 8.5% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Consolidated comparable store sales increased 10.4% driven by a 7.9% increase in transactions and a 2.5% increase in transaction value.
By geography comparable store sales were 10.6% in North America and 9.7% in Europe and will remain strong on a year-to-date basis.
Our e-commerce business was up 7% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Our retail gross margin was 41.5% compared to 39.9% last year.
The 160 basis point improvement was primarily driven by leverage and occupancy expense and decreased promotional activity partially offset by our higher product costs.
SG&amp;A was $44 million or 41.9% of revenues compared to $40 million or 41.6% last year.
The dollar increase was driven by several factors.
First they had incremental cost related to management transition of $1.8 million and store closings of $600 000.
Excluding these costs SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue decreased to 39.6%.
Second SG&amp;A increased as planned with the additional investment in our marketing initiatives.
As expected this investment has driven growth in our total retail and comp store sales.
A third factor was an increase in foreign currency transactional losses.
The translation of foreign currency into U.S.
dollars generally affect our sales more than profit as sales and expenses are translated at the same rate.
However the substantial decline in exchange rate in the quarter brought approximately $400 000 in transactional currency losses related to foreign payable balances denominated in U.S.
dollars.
This compares to currency gains of just under $300 000 in the 2012 first quarter a swing of $700 000.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
We ended the quarter with consolidated cash of $41 million compared to $34 million at the end of the first quarter last year.
We have no debt and no borrowings on our credit facility.
Capital expenditures in the first quarter were $4 million primarily for store related capital and IT infrastructure comparable to last year.
Depreciation and amortization was $5 million down slightly from last year.
For the full year we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $20 million to $25 million and depreciation and amortization to be in the range of $20 million to $22 million.
As quarter ends consolidated inventories totaled $38 million compared to $47 million at the end of the first quarter 2012.
Inventories per square foot declined 10%.
Now let me update you on our progress towards our objectives for our stores.
In terms of our real estate optimization plans we have made significant progress on our store closure initiative.
During the quarter we closed 18 of the 35 to 40 stores planned for this year.
We expect to close 20 to 25 more stores in 2014 to reach our optimal store count of 225 to 250 locations in North America.
On an annualized basis in 2015 we expect a sales impact of $30 million to $35 million from the store closures.
And overall store profitability to improve by $4 million to $6 million as we close stores and realize transfer sales to other locations.
We are working to make a strong base of stores even more profitable.
Our top 200 company-owned stores had an average 20% unit level contribution in 2012.
By 2015 we’ll operate fewer stores but we expect our ongoing store base to be more productive and more profitable.
Our first quarter results are indicative of the impacts we expect our strategy to deliver overtime.
On an adjusted basis first quarter income rose significantly to $0.14 per diluted share from a $0.03 loss per share last year.
Historically as you are aware the second quarter is our smallest quarter of the year and typically results in a loss.
We remain confident that we are driving towards our long-term objectives of sustained profitability and increased shareholder value.
Now I would like to turn over the call back to Maxine for concluding remarks.
Let me warp up by saying that I'm pleased with the start to this 2013 fiscal year with growth in total net retail sales comparable store sales and profitability during the beginning stage of our multiyear turnaround.
And I am even more excited to see every single one of our strategic initiatives working and driving towards our long-term sales and profit goal.
We have a powerful global brand that kids love and mom’s trust and we are in a strong financial position to execute our plans.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to the operator to take your questions.
Just in terms of sales I guess do you think the sales growth is more related to I guess product or store design or was it both? We only have six stores in the new store design.
So they aren’t making a significant impact on the total company yet but product and also as we discussed when we sold so many gift cards the kids have those in their pocket and those came from the marketing.
So we’ve enhanced the marketing which says to a kid “Mom I want to go to Build-A-Bear”.
Mom may buy them a gift card or bring them into Build-A-Bear.
The gift card is something that burns a hole in the kids pocket and so they have been spending them at a pretty high rate which is great.
I guess you expect that to continue right.
You said that second quarter might continue into third and fourth quarter? That's what we are hoping and working for.
All of our plans are in place to make that happen.
And I guess the autism related bear is that significant in terms of the jump that you saw on sales of first quarter? And I guess that's still somewhat of a long-term growth right because that was just introduced  this quarter? The autism bear was for the month of April because April is autism month.
So it was significant in the month of April but it's not unusually significant in the quarter.
We have very strong products all the way from Valentine’s Day through Easter.
Each of those products was incredibly strong this year versus prior years in terms of sell through and full price retail impact.
And then we had My Little Pony right after Easter which started off the  second quarter very positively.
Hey good morning.
Very impressive quarter.
Just a quick question wondered if you could give everyone an update on the management transition and what sort of qualities you are looking for in your successor? The Board is continuing to focus on the process of finding a successor for my position here at Build-A-Bear and everything is moving along as planned and I think that they have identified the key characteristics that are successful somebody with retail experience somebody with a strong feeling for branding and children’s retail and toys and many other attributes as well.
So I think we are in a great position to attract a wonderful candidate for the future transition  of the company.
You also mentioned I believe it was $5 million to $10 million in cost savings you anticipate  for this year.
I am wondering if you could give us a bit more detail on where that will come? Is it just some  store closures? It's primarily going to be – it will be across the board they’ll be may be 30% to 40% hopefully in the gross margin line and the rest in SG&amp;A as store closures happen and also as we continue our stringent cost initiatives that we do from a perspective of how we go do (RPs) and things for all of our services.
So it will be you know 30 70 40 60 merchandise margin and the remaining SG&amp;A.
Could you guys just update us on averaging unit  costing what do you seeing in terms of labor product costing and how should we think about the initial markup for the balance of the year please? So actually I don’t think our costs have been climbing a little bit every year but I think it now is having a real looking at this much more globally and putting in a sourcing department which we didn’t have at Build-A-Bear we were all sort of individually doing the sourcing I think we are going to make strides in that because we are really using strategic buying around this.
It's not easy in the toy business because not a lot of people want to make these products and also not a lot of people want to put all the quality technical aspects into the business that they may not have if they were a clothing factory per se.
But so far we’ve been getting – actually starting to get some really strong price decreases this year.
It just won’t be impacting us until the second half of the year.
So we are really collecting all that.
We also had some price increases over the last several years that we really because business was so difficult we didn’t take mark-ups on products.
We just said business was tough and we were in such a promotional mode that we take the mark-up up and we then would use a promotion to mark it down.
Now that we have weaned ourselves off the promotional playground we can establish stronger retails and maintain them rather than just going between mark-downs all the time.
So I think that our mark-ups will be back up to our traditional levels by the end of the year if not sooner and that we can then be on our steady street on our marketing.
We have a significant merchandise margin because we design and make all of our own products so it's always been strong but it's petered backwards a little bit in the end of last year.
Hey Maxine or Tina can you give us a bit of a maybe quantify a little bit on the basis point differential from maybe peak to where you think you can achieve your gross or IMU? I think we could probably get from a perspective of just merchandised margin probably 50 to 100 basis points improvement towards the back half of the year.
Does that help Tom? Yes it does.
Is there a longer-term opportunity to see several hundred or is that at a point where you are getting close to sort of historic peaks or any perspective on that would be helpful.
I think we are close to historic peaks and I think we want to make sure that we -- doesn’t mean that there is an opportunity because as you work with factories and you try to use other techniques in there to similar materials just in different colors to make products that you can maximize margins a little bit more.
But I think that we have always had very high merchandise mark-up and merchandise margins.
And so we want to make sure that we are always giving the customer the value for the money and not -- that’s one of  those things that has been sensitive certainly during the recession.
And it’s so sensitive that I think we are starting to see a little bit more room there.
Over time our average transaction has been between $35 and $37.
So the higher every individual price goes up we sell less units but we still stay around the same $35 to $37.
So we are starting to see an opportunity here to creep back up and we are taking some mark-ups along with it.
It's not just about getting cost decreases which we are getting in fairly significant ones but we also are working hard to make sure that the customer enjoys the experience at our store.
You know that's the bear the clothes the shoes the accessories the sound and we want to make sure when they walk out they are walking out with a great value for their money.
Great.
And just one follow up if I could any update on the party business? How that's performed in the quarter either as a percent year-over-year or penetration versus a year ago? The party penetration is reasonably stable but it has been really good this year.
Our Girl Scouts Bear has aided that dramatically and especially we started the Girl Scouts Bear in February.
So we increased our parties and are strongly in the first quarter and that's continuing it may level off a little bit in the second quarter.
Because last year we sort of pushed we had the better receipts on the Girl Scouts Bear in the second quarter than the first quarter last year.
So the parties were sort of forced in the second quarter so we are a little bit cautious about second quarter parties.
But first quarter has been very positive.
Can you just tell us Tina what was the penetration say in 2012 on the party business? I’m sorry Tom the 2012 party business? I'm just trying to get a benchmark on what the penetration of that business was overall.
I think in the past it's given that the volume as a percentage of the total in the past.
In all of our years it's always been you know less than 10%.
Thank you very much.
Best of luck.
Thank you again for joining us and we look forward to speaking with you when we report our second quarter result in July.
Have a great week.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop second quarter fiscal 2013 results conference call.
(Operator Instructions) It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you Ms.
Malkin you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Maxine Clark Founder; Sharon Price John Chief Executive Officer and Chief President Bear; and Tina Klocke Chief Operations and Financial Bear.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with your question.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow up.
This way we can get to everyone's question during the one hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website.
And a replay of the call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the risk factors section in the annual report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statement.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Maxine Clark.
Thanks Allison and good morning everyone.
On today's call I'll open with an overview of our second quarter and year-to-date performance.
Turn the call over to Tina to review financial details.
And then pass the helm to our new CEO Sharon John.
Our second quarter results continue to show progress in our multiyear turnaround plan.
Our key initiatives in real estate marketing product and expense management are driving topline growth and improving our bottomline results.
For the quarter consolidated net retail sales increased by $1.4 million while operating 31 fewer stores than last year.
Our comparable store sales grew by 7.3% on a consolidated basis with an increase of 8.6% in North America and 1.7% in our European operation.
This was the third consecutive quarter of cost increases in North America.
E-commerce was up 5.2% on a consolidated basis.
We opened four additional stores in our new design and continue to have same-store sales increases of over 20% in these remodeled locations.
Retail gross margin increased by 180 basis points and we showed an improvement in our operating performance.
On a year-to-date basis our consolidated comp store sales are up 9%.
The key factors that have driven include rebalancing our marketing to include more brand-building advertising particularly on TV and more messaging and communications with moms.
We continue to gain efficiencies on our marketing spend by optimizing our investments during peak traffic and seasonal periods.
The brand-building ads have had a halo effect continuing to positively impact our business in subsequent weeks and months.
We also see a cumulative benefit as the messages gain higher awareness and recall with consumers over time.
Our focus on brand-building has gone hand-in-hand with reductions in promotions which contributed to improved merchandise margin in the quarter.
Our product mix both proprietary and licensed has continued to resonate well with our guest.
The launch of My Little Pony in particular was highly successful and the team will continue to build on this product line throughout the year.
Our real estate optimization strategies are also working with our store closures and stores of future remodel delivering the results we plan.
Given that this is my last call as Chief Executive Bear I just wanted to add a few comments.
I am especially pleased to welcome Sharon John as Chief Executive Officer and Chief President Bear.
Sharon is uniquely qualified with her strong track record in the toy industry as well as in children's retail and we are delighted to have attracted her to our company.
With our turnaround plans gaining traction the timing is right for Sharon to step in and take Build-A-Bear Workshop forward.
She has hit the ground running adding great energy and fresh ideas and the team is embracing this challenge of building our company's future.
In the past several weeks Sharon and I worked closely together to complete the transition.
It has been great fun to me to hear her perspective and to share our dreams for the future of the brand.
I have tremendous pride in this company and the team that has developed and nurtured our concept and brand a brand that has become a favorite of families worldwide.
Transitioning a company from one CEO to another led alone from a Founder to an outside CEO is never easy but as important stakeholders I want you to know that this transition has been very smooth.
I have great confidence that Sharon is absolutely the right person to elevate the Build-A-Bear brand to new levels and drive the company forward.
As a board member and as a large stakeholder in the company's future success I look forward to working with Sharon and the board to achieve her goals for the company.
Before we hear Sharon's comment Tina will review our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Maxine and good morning everyone.
For the second quarter total revenue was $82 million up $1.5 million while operating 31 fewer stores an increase of 2% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Consolidated comparable store sales increased 7.3% driven by a 5.3% increase in transaction value and a 1.9% increase in transactions.
We had comp sales growth of 8.6% and 1.7% in North America and Europe respectively.
Our e-commerce business was up 5.2% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Retail gross margin improved by 180 basis points to 36.8%.
The improvement was primarily driven by leverage and occupancy expense and decreased promotional activity.
SG&amp;A was $37 million flat with last year.
As a percentage of sales SG&amp;A was 45.1% of revenues compared to $46.1% last year.
Included in this year's SG&amp;A were $900 000 in management transition and store closing cost.
Excluding these costs SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue decreased to 44% an improvement of 190 basis points.
Adjusted net loss was $0.33 per share an improvement from an adjusted loss of $0.46 per share last year.
For the first six months total revenues were $186 million an increase of 5.5% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Consolidated comparable store sales rose 9% and included increases of 9.7% in North America and 5.9% in Europe.
E-commerce sales rose 6.3% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Retail gross margin was 39.4% an improvement of 170 basis points compared to last year.
The improvement was primarily driven by leverage and occupancy expense and decreased promotional activity partially offset by higher product costs in this year's first quarter.
SG&amp;A was $81 million or 43.3% a 40 basis points improvement from the prior year.
SG&amp;A includes incremental marketing expenses in the first quarter as well as $3 million in management transition and store closing costs.
Excluding the management transition and store closing costs SG&amp;A improved by 200 basis points to 41.6%.
Adjusted net loss was $3 million or $0.19 per share an improvement from last year's adjusted net loss of $8 million or $0.49 per share.
We continue to have a strong balance sheet with consolidated cash of $28 million compared to $26 million at the end of the second quarter last year.
We have no debt and no borrowings on our credit facility.
Capital expenditures in the quarter were up slightly over last year from $4.5 million to $5 million primarily for store-related capital and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization was $5 million comparable to last year.
For the full year we continue to expect capital expenditures to be in the range of $19 million to $22 million and depreciation and amortization to be approximately $20 million.
At quarter end consolidated inventories totaled $48 million up $1 million from last year.
Inventory per square foot increased to 11.5%.
The increase in inventory supports our higher store sales volume and includes earlier proceeds of new merchandise compared to the prior year.
Now let me update you on our progress to optimize our North American store base.
One of the components in improving our productivity is to remodel stores in the new design.
During the quarter we opened the first four of approximately 25 locations planned for the year.
The stores and their new design continue to generate average same-store sales increases of over 20%.
As the rollout continues we are working to gain economies of scale and drive down the capital investments to build the stores.
We also continue to strategically close stores and transfer portion of the sales to other stores in the same market.
In the first six months of the year we have closed 28 stores.
We have retained approximately 20% of sales from the closed stores.
We expect to close 35 to 40 stores in total this year.
We continue to focus on cost control and expect to hit our cost savings of $5 million to $10 million for the year which includes expense reduction initiatives and savings from closed stores.
The savings are weighted in the back half of the year when we realize the full impact of this year's store closings.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Sharon.
Thanks Tina and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to speak with you today on my first call as CEO of Build-A-Bear Workshop.
For those of you who don't know me I have more than 20 years of experience in the specialty retail toy and advertising industry.
I have built a strong track record of success in positioning children's brands for growth at companies including Hasbro Mattel and Stride Rite.
Most recently I was President of the Stride Rite Children's Group where I build solid team and executed a strategy to streamline the business model and retail footprint.
This resulted in industry-leading comparable store sales increases wholesale growth and an improvement to overall profitability.
I joined Build-A-Bear because I believe in its tremendous potential.
And I am excited to use my skills to evolve the current strategies to return the company to profitability and build a platform for sustained growth.
In my first few weeks as CEO I have worked with the executive team field leadership and store associates in a number of markets.
The team has been open to new ways to think about the business and the future opportunities.
Although our sales trend has softened slightly in July we believe we have the right initiative in place and are intently focused on executing the balance of the year.
We are also beginning to solidify our strategies for the future and I believe we have several key strengths from which to build.
We have a successful brand.
The children of all ages adore and mom's trust when that resonates with consumers on an emotional level.
We have a seasoned and passionate team and the ongoing key strategic initiatives are showing positive result including the rebalancing of our marketing to include more brand-building advertising the store closures initiative which is showing overall sales transfer rates of 20% and lastly the remodeling of stores to the new design to drive improved productivity.
Looking forward I believe we can enhance brand engagement and increase the lifetime value of our consumers.
This includes increasing business with our most loyal guests as well as driving frequency and value with other segments.
One initial action will be to reemphasize our party business which had both trial and retention benefits.
We are effectively using data to positively impact our business and drive key strategic shift such as repositioning our marketing programs and developing the real estate optimization plans.
However I believe we can improve our results on a broader basis by expanding the use of more robust data-driven decision making throughout the organization.
We are exploring opportunities to increase efficiencies within our product development sourcing and distribution channels while balancing the overall value proposition for our guests.
Most importantly on the longer-term I see the opportunity to further leverage the power of the Build-A-Bear Workshop brand and take advantage of our core competencies and infrastructure.
I am joining this company in a time when the momentum is moving in a positive direction.
The key initiatives that the team are implementing have improved sales trends and profitability and positioned us for the future.
I look forward to updating you on our progress as we move forward.
And now I would like to turn the call over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) We'll move on to our next question from James Fronda of Sidoti.
Can you give us I guess any specific into what's driving the strong comp sales? I mean anything in product that you can talk about.
We have a strong selection of both proprietary products that are build-a-brand driven as well as a very good array of core licensed products that have driven our sales this year including for example My Little Pony line which was very very strong for us.
We also have in the January time period for the first six months we enjoyed above average gift card redemption because of the work that the team had done in the December time period of the prior year to sell the gift cards.
So that drove a lot of the first quarter results as well.
Is there still I guess capacity for those gift cards to be redeemed in the next six moths of this year? Yes.
And that will also be a plan of course for us to work again for the remainder of the year and driving those gift card sales.
Clearly they are good for us during the quarter but they also pay-off as we move into the first quarter of 2014.
And I guess do you think the reduced promotional activity you're seeing do you think that's sustainable for the rest of the year or at least in the upcoming third quarter? We think that we have some very strong both proprietary brand marketing plans as well as plans against a number of different initiatives from My Little Pony edition rather Twilight Sparkle which will be out in the 31st.
We also have Smurfs that's coming up so we feel like we have the movie on Friday.
And we've heavied-up our advertising so we feel really good about some of our brand initiatives going forward.
We are prepared if we need to do some selective promotions we will.
But for the most part our objective is to continue to build upon the Build-A-Bear brand strength.
And your next question is coming from the line of Tucker Golden with Solas Capital.
I had a question regarding the franchised segment.
In the past I know that it's fine to disclose an estimated potential for 300 franchised units globally.
It seems like we're stuck a little bit in 90 as further some openings there are also some closings.
Wondering if you could provide any color there? And then just your view for the long-term potential and in relation to this how closely you've considered whether or not it makes sense to evaluate converting the European stores to a franchise model and really focusing on the domestic operations? I'm going to let Tina answer the first portion about the franchise store count and then I'll speak about the potential for us to change our model.
Tucker we still believe that we have the opportunity for about 300 franchise locations.
Again we are not in China yet which is a big opportunity for us.
But as you are well aware the global economic situation that our world has been in has also impacted our franchisees and so while we are sitting at around 90 locations they are good locations and they are producing favorable results for us.
And so I think as the economy gets better globally we'll see that pick up.
We'll as we hopefully enter China.
That has lots of opportunity.
We're not in India.
There is several big countries that we still haven't sourced in.
And as we continue to look for the right franchisees we believe that we'll be able to be in those countries in the near future and reach our potential of the 300 locations.
And in terms of the model for me I've been here since June 3 clearly I'm going to be looking across the organization at different opportunities based on some of the basic outlines of strategy that I provided which is inclusive of insuring that we're building on and leveraging the strength of the brand and managing and leveraging our infrastructure in core competencies.
Right now the franchise model does seem to be working for us in terms of it is providing positive results from a revenue perspective and that's so in the short-term we'll remain with the current model.
And the U.K.
we will maintain the ownership position at least in the foreseeable future.
Is there anything structural there that would prevent a potential to consider franchising the stores? Well clearly there is opportunity and we continue to revaluate what's the most beneficial business model for the corporation.
As of this moment again having I've only been since June 3 and getting to know the U.K.
organization and how it works with our team overall.
We're in the early days of exploration on what would be the right business model for us.
But in the foreseeable future we would expect to keep the U.K.
in an ownership position.
And also continue to expand the franchise model selectively throughout the rest of the world where it's beneficial to us.
Additionally as I'm sure you know it helps us cover our costs to have that organization.
Just one more thing we have 60 stores there.
And our policy at least has been in franchise is to not divide up a country to have one franchise dealer.
So you'd have to find somebody who'd have substantial wherewithal and to really experience in running a retail business or sell the business something like that.
And I think that we have found that it just gives us as Sharon just said leverage in our company.
We don't have to duplicate our staff over there.
We have a tremendous leverage.
And I think that with Sharon's initiative we will have that business clicking really strongly and be a good stronghold for us in Europe for expanding our franchisees in those countries that we're not in yet.
And then if we could just get a little more detail on the new franchise in which did you grow and in which market did you get back some stores? I think there were 10 added and 10 closed or something like that.
We've continued to expand in Germany and then I think in few select countries they've reduced where there non-performing locations have been.
So it's not any one country it's many different.
Our next question comes from Jon Evans with JWest.
Can you just a talk a little bit about kind of the cadence that you saw in the quarter from a comp store basis or a comp stores sales? And then you said July was a little bit softer if you could give us any more insight? And then the other question the $5 million to $10 million that you said in the cost saves can you split that up between COGS and SG&amp;A? Those are my first two questions.
I'll take the cost savings first.
We're looking at and again primarily in the back half of the year that about 60% of that will be in cost of good sold and the remaining portion will be in SG&amp;A.
And again as you probably know Easter switched from second quarter of last year to the first quarter of this year.
So we did have some strengthening in the first quarter because of that but remained fairly consistent through the rest of the quarter from the May and June perspective.
And the comps in the quarter as we mentioned in the call the comp store sales in consolidated with 7.3% and that's 8.6% in North America and 1.7% Europe.
And the July softness that I mentioned is we are looking at opportunities of course to move that forward overall.
It's kind of across the entire retail organization but one of the things that we've done to build up that July opportunity is as of July 22 we actually heavied up our media.
We have Smurfs coming as I mentioned and we've actually seen some positive early results of the Smurfs movie expectations on Friday as well as the heavy up of TV which is a balance between both Smurfs specific advertising and our brand-driven advertising.
Does that answer your question? But I mean I guess so if you think about July so far I mean are you still positive or are you negative? Or can you give us any kind of insight you just said it's come-off from the pace that you have? At this point Jon we really don't give monthly comps.
So if you take the $5 million to $7 million the midpoint $7.5 million and if you take 40% of that that's $3 million.
So if we look at SG&amp;A in absolute dollars are you basically saying that you would expect SG&amp;A dollars for the year to be down $3 million year-over-year is that a fair assumption? Yes.
And I think that's a fair assumption.
And then the rest is in COGS so can you help us understand that cost saving COGS is that because you got cheaper rents or what's that because I think you also have an initiative to buy better to increase gross margins also.
So can you maybe help us understand the difference between the two? Because one to me it seems like it's a cost saving efforts where you're doing better on real estate or redoing stores.
And the other one seems like it's you're buying better and those seem like they're different.
So could you help us articulate that strategy? It is a combination of both of those.
And the $5 million to $10 million is net year-over-year.
So you're going to get some impact of the store closures.
And as we said earlier in our first quarter call that we were going to increase our marketing spend so that's in office.
So closing stores impacts the COGS it does impacts SG&amp;A offset by some increases in marketing and our transition costs as we've called out as well as store closing.
So I would say probably from the perspective of cost of goods sold the relationship between closing stores and improvement in true retail margin it's probably fifty-fifty.
And then could you maybe help us to think about if you're successful in your strategy of buying better and putting this team together of improving gross margins over time.
Can you help us understand the opportunity you think to improve your retail margin? Yes.
We haven't really given that guidance per se from our margin perspective.
But we do believe that we have the opportunity long-term to get into double-digit operating profits returned to double-digit operating profits as we have been in the past.
But again as you know this year and next year transition years from us from a perspective of our store closing and remodels that we haven't worked on for the last 18 months.
And when we get a slightly positive comp we do leverage our occupancy costs which are primarily fixed those of the warehouse and rents and things like that.
So as we continue to have the positive comps we will get some of that leverage back too.
And then the last question I would for you is can you give us a roadmap of kind of where you expect to be from a store base of the new concept stores.
So in another words if we're at the next year in 2014 can you give us a sense of where you or what percentage do you hope that the store base would be of the new stores? And then the other question I would have is when will you give us kind of the productivity difference in the new stores on a four-wall basis? You have said that they're producing 20% better kind of sales but I'm curious what kind of return that they're producing better so can you help us understand? The first store has just been open not even a full year.
It's about 10 months at this point in time.
So again so that's one store.
So as we continue progress and give more information we'll update you on that.
We just don't have information.
And we believe that our goal from a store comp basis that in North America that will be 225 to 250 stores once we're through all of the transition of closing stores.
We also believe at this point that we remodeled six stores last year.
We're going to remodel 25 stores this year.
And we believe the opportunity for next year is 20 to 25.
And that's about where we have left off from that perspective as far as going out.
So the opportunity to be 50 plus stores in this remodeled formats.
However we believe we also have the ability for modular moving some of these specific items that we put in the new stores like Hear-Me station that we can move in other stores and not have to do a complete remodel.
And I guess we are working on engineering and driving our costs down in the new stores.
So far we are pleased with their performance and we're on target to hit our pro forma payback which is two years and less which is back to historic as we were opening stores in the early 2000 we were paying back our stores in less than two years.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line Tucker Golden with Solas Capital.
You touched on operating leverage and warehousing costs.
Just curious what utilization rate and what capacity rate do you see currently running? The DC is running at probably about 75% capacity.
And again that's going to fluctuate during peak inventory times it's going to be more productive in the back half of the year as we're building inventories for the higher sales volumes.
Do you get close to full capacity there during the year? Not at this point.
Is it under consideration that you might with the owned store base being reduced is it under consideration that you might want to explore options there whether it's brining in another partner to share the facility or somehow becoming more efficient on that area? Of course and we continued to look at all opportunities to leverage the warehouse whether it be another business partner expanding the web business because our web fulfillment center is in the warehouse also.
So we continue to look at all of that.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Sharon John for closings remarks.
Thank you for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with you when we report our third quarter results in October.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop Third Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you Ms.
Malkin you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Sharon Price John CEO; and Tina Klocke COO and CFO.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with your question.
We ask that you limit your questions to one.
This way we can get to everyone's question during this one hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website.
And a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statement.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Sharon Price John.
Thanks Allison.
Good morning everyone.
On today's call I will begin with an overview of our third quarter results provide a few fourth quarter highlights turn the call over to Tina to review financial details and then we will take your questions.
As outlined in this morning's press release in the third quarter we delivered consolidated comparable store sales growth of 6.4%.
This marks our fourth consecutive period of comparable store sales growth in North America and our third consecutive increase in Europe.
We also expanded gross margin by 360 basis points and had a $ 3 million improvement in operating performance reducing our pre-tax loss to $1 million compared to last year's third quarter pre-tax loss of $4 million.
We attribute these results to increased discipline of expense management improved leverage and occupancy cost and a balanced merchandized offering integrated with marketing which allowed us to reduce overall promotional activity compared to last year.
Specifically we saw solid performance in our Build-A-Bear Workshop proprietary core animals and fashions while driving new license introductions.
The launch of My Little Pony animals and accessories performed well across geographies and the launch of products featuring the popular singing group One Direction was especially successful in the UK.
This compelling product offering plus refocused marketing allowed us to reduce a number of discount driven promotion.
As an example we successfully eliminated our all store $29.99 bundle promotion that we had run in the third quarter for the past four years in North America.
Looking ahead we have a solid plan in place to capitalize on the fourth quarter.
This year's holiday scene is towards the fund for Christmas and was strategically developed to encourage kids and families to experience Build-A-Bear Workshop during the holiday season.
In support of the concept our product line features Wishes Santa which is designed for children to insert their wish list from Christmas along with a heart as part of our signature ceremony that occurs at the Fluff Me Station.
This positions our stores as an ideal pre-holiday family destination.
To round out our holiday lineup we have proven multi-generational holiday favorites including Rudolf the Red Nosed Reindeer and Frosty the Snowman.
A significant portion of our annual and marketing spend occurs in the fourth quarter.
We have an integrated plan to support the "Twas the Fun Before Christmas" theme that features a combination of brand and product messaging including national television reaching both kids and moms throughout the holiday season.
Driving our gift card program is another important component of delivering the quarter.
We intend to expand gift card sales by emphasizing the Build-A-Bear Workshop gift of experience as an ideal NED gifting solution.
We are integrating gift card specific messaging in our national marketing including TV implant and elevating our suggestive selling into the service model across all channels.
We are focused on adding mobile POS to our top gift card stores to deliver speed and convenience to purchase.
Not only is growth in gift card sales important for the fourth quarter it positions us well for the start of 2014.
Additionally we are pleased that McDonalds for the fifth time will feature Build-A-Bear Workshop Mini Plush in their Happy Meals starting November 15 and running through December 12.
This marketing initiative is expected to reach approximately 20 million consumers in North America.
The McDonalds Happy Meals programs have consistently driven traffic and sale to our stores and provided new guest trial.
Our strategy is to rebalance our marketing program improve our product offering reduce discounts and promotions and optimize our real estate have been driving consistent improvements in our results enabling us to establish a foundation to deliver our stated objective of sustainable profitable growth.
I am pleased that the third quarter and the first nine months of the year we advanced our objectives.
Build-A-Bear Workshop is a powerful brand when the kids love and moms trust.
Going forward we will leverage the strength of the brand and build on our core competencies and infrastructure to deliver results and increase shareholder value.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Tina to review our financials in more detail.
Thanks Sharon and good morning everyone.
For the third quarter net retail sales were $84 million while operating 31 fewer stores.
To put them in perspective the 31 fewer stores resulted in 10% fewer operating weeks in the quarter while our net retail sales declined less than 1% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Consolidated comparable store sales increased 6.4% driven by a 6.2% increase in transaction value and a two-tenth increase in transactions.
By geography comparable store sale rose 7.6% in North America and 2.3% in Europe.
Real estate optimization strategies drove approximately 30% of the comparable store sales increase in North America in the quarter with the balance coming from organic growth in our base.
E-commerce business was up 1.1% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Retail gross margin was 40.1% compared to 36.5% in last year's third quarter.
The 360 basis point improvement was primarily driven by decreased promotional activity and leverage and occupancy expense.
SG&amp;A was $36 million down slightly compared with the third quarter last year.
SG&amp;A was 42.2% of revenues compared to 42.5% last year.
Included in this year's SG&amp;A was $600 000 in management transition and store closing cost.
Excluding these costs SG&amp;A was 41.6% an 80 basis point improvement versus last year.
Adjusted net loss per share improved to $0.05 from $0.25 per share last year.
For the first nine months net retail sales rose to $257 million while operating 31 fewer stores compared to $259 million in the first nine months last year.
Again to put this in perspective the 31 fewer stores led to a 7% decline in total operating weeks in the first nine months of the year while net retail sales rose 3.4% excluding impact of foreign exchange.
Our consolidated comparable store sales rose 8.2% driven by 4.5% increase in transaction value and 3.7% increase in transactions and included 9.1% increase in North America and 4.6% increase in Europe.
Real estate optimization strategies drove approximately 20% of the comparable store sales increase in North America in the first nine months but the balance coming from the organic growth in our base.
E-commerce sales increased 4.7% excluding impact of foreign exchange.
Retail gross margin was 39.6% compared to 37.3%.
The 230 basis point improvement was primarily driven by decreased promotional activity and leverage and occupancy costs.
SG&amp;A was $116 million or 43% of revenues including $4 million of management transition and store closing expenses compared to $114 million or 43.3% last year.
Excluding these costs SG&amp;A was $41.6% a 140 basis points improvement versus last year.
Adjusted net loss was $4 million or $0.23 per share a solid improvement from last year's adjusted net loss of $12 million or $0.74 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet at quarter end consolidated cash was $14 million compared to $22 million at the end of the third quarter last year.
We had no borrowings on our credit facility at quarter end.
For the first nine months capital expenditures were up slightly from last year at $15 million primarily for store-related capital and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization was $14 million down slightly from last year.
For the full year we continue to expect capital expenditures to be approximately $20 million to support the refresh and repositioning of our stores and investment in infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization is expected to be approximately $20 million.
Consolidated inventory at quarter end totaled $57 million compared to $55 million at the end of the 2012 third quarter.
Inventory per square foot increased 12.1%.
The $2 million increase represents a combination of timing of receipts and additional inventory to support our fourth quarter sales plan.
Now let me update you on our progress to optimize our North American store base.
A real estate optimization plans are a key factor in establishing a foundation to deliver sustainable profitable growth.
We continue to strategically close stores and transfer a portion of sales to other stores in the same market.
In the first nine months of the year we have closed 34 stores and have retained approximately 20% of their sales on average in other locations.
We expect to close an additional 10 to 25 stores in fiscal 2013 and 2014.
We also continue to renegotiate leases to improve our rent structure.
As we renew leases we've updated for less stores in our new design.
During the quarter we remodeled five existing locations and opened three new locations to give us a total of 19 newly remodeled stores.
As we continue to remodel stores we're working to gain economies of scale and drive down the capital investment needed to build the stores.
We have also downsized stores as a part of our initiative to improve overall store productivity.
Organic sales growth combined with our store closure remodel and downsizing activity have driven a 12% increase in sales per square foot in North America for the first nine months compared to last year.
We will opportunistically open stores including four pop-up locations this holiday.
This is the cost effective method of validating select market during our highest productivity months of the year.
We expect to operate these stores for six months to evaluate their long-term potential.
We expect to achieve approximately $10 million in net cost savings for the year the high end of our original stated objective.
Approximately 60% of savings will be realized gross margin and the balance in SG&amp;A.
And now I'd like to turn the call over the operator to begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from James Fronda with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Could you discuss I guess a little more in detail what's causing the strong comp growth? Do you think it was specifically related to My Little Ponies products or are the products doing well as well? James I think that it's a combination.
This is a Sharon.
It's a combination of things.
As we said we have a balanced product offering proprietary Build-A-Bear products that are driving sales as well as some Vikings products including My Little Pony and as we mentioned One Direction.
We're very pleased that it's a balanced approach.
Okay.
And did you record any decent I guess gift card sales during the quarter or that's primarily during the fourth quarter? We have actually improved our gift card sales over the first nine months as well.
Our next question comes from Jack Ripsteen with Potrero Capital Research.
Please proceed with your question.
For next year if you look at what kind of expenses do you think you could drive out of the middle of the P&amp;L as you shrink the store-base? Thanks Jack.
It's Tina.
And I would say on a go forward basis we'll continue to look at our supply chain from the point where we manufacture the product and try to all the way to where we take it into the store.
And so we're embarking on that.
So we believe that there is some leverage that we can find there whether it be the product makeup whether it be transportation how we do things.
And so we think that there will be some expansion in that area.
But also as we continue to close stores and have the benefit of a full year of those store closures we should see improvement in not only that piece of the gross margin but also in SG&amp;A.
And in terms of SG&amp;A I mean last year it was on about 165.
I mean can that come down to like 150 with this new store base? Just generally speaking how much is left to come out of that? Well I think from that perspective it's the cost to operate the store from a salary perspective payroll perspective and other supplies and that type of stuff.
So I think there is some room there.
And as we get deeper into the store closings we will come and come back to you all with a target number that we think we can hit.
Okay.
And Jack -- Yes.
This is Sharon.
On that front we are doing a complete supply chain effort right now.
We're looking at taking cost out on every link of the value chain and we will be driving some value engineering as well into the product lines.
But just as you know that takes a while for it to flow.
So we might be able to see some improvement in SG&amp;A before we are able to see some improvement on the cost.
Okay.
But I was just kind of curious because obviously you're shrinking the store base but you want to transfer the sales and -- but you stop to spend a certain amount of SG&amp;A dollar towards marketing? Yes.
So can we see some improvements is there a way to grab some efficiencies there as well even though you're still trying to achieve the overall branding and marketing campaign? Yes there will be efficiencies overtime.
We are transferring as we said on average about 20%.
And there is some marketing expenses associated with that on a one-time basis to communicate to the consumers that we are more familiar with the store that's closing to ensure that they understand that there is some times a newly imagined store open -- being opened near them or to tell them to go to in a different store in their location near their location generally within 5 or 10 miles.
So that expenses in there that won't be an ongoing expense.
But we also see that we might have some opportunities with more elevated and integrated marketing that have a little better ideas over the course of time.
Yes.
I'm just trying to -- if I look back like a Q4-to-Q4 comparison that's coming up at one point in -- like say a '11 I think the SG&amp;A was $42 million and you had roughly the same sales and in the next year it jumped to $51 million and I'm just trying to discern what's the right number because clearly the sales were about the same of the SG&amp;A almost $10 million higher? Yes that was a process I think which was a good process for the company to go through rebalancing the marketing communication which included brand marketing and product marketing.
And some of that brand marketing was inclusive of advertising to moms in a more robust manner and mom's TV is a little more expensive to kid's TV.
But I think over the course of time now we are really learning what that right balance is.
And as I say I'm hopeful that we will have a better ideas as we go forward.
One other things that we're doing was the "Twas the Fun Before Christmas" campaign for example is ensuring that the communication points are the same from moms to kids and were saying were pulling everything together throughout all touch point to the consumer so that again elevated and integrated approach really drives generally some efficiencies in the process.
So what you say if it's into that $50-ish million is kind of the high watermark and we wouldn't expect to see that going forward? I would certainly hope so.
Okay.
Great.
I mean it would be relative of course if we continue to drive sales right -- Right.
But just closing store sales.
Dollars will go up and (inaudible) will go down yeah.
Right.
But just closing.
I mean so even if you improve sales you still are sort of flat right on revenues sort of taking the levels that will have come down right? Right.
Well there should be some leverage there sure.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Tucker Golden with Solas Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
I had a question about the balance sheet.
So if we look at the cash position versus about a year ago it's declined to $8 million or $9 million and it seems to me that you're basically spending all your EBITDA no more no less on various capital initiatives and store remodels systems and it looks like working capital really accounts for the vast majority if not all of that reduction in cash.
So wondering if you could just go through the items there looks like receivables are over $10 million like it's never been that high in my memory inventory and payables smaller moves and I think you explained in the release that you're making a small incremental that on the fourth quarter and so maybe that's why inventories are a little higher per foot.
But really receivables is the thing one that's big shock to me which is we just like to understand why that kind of sucked up $6 million of cash over the last year and whether we can expect that to come back and see that kind of year ending cash balance back at that sort of $45 million level what was last year or hopefully better? Sure Tucker its Tina.
To answer your question about cash and the receivables pieces as you highlighted a portion of it is the increase in inventory.
The other portion is this we build these stores we get tenant allowance construction allowance from our landlords and so that's the portion that we need to collect as these stores are completed.
Since we only built only six stores last year and we're on the road path to do 25 that's going to increase that.
But that will go down by the end of this year beginning in the first quarter of next year.
And the other pieces is ad we've highlighted in our 10-Q we have a dispute going with the customs authority in the UK and that in order to continue to go through the process we had to make a deposit or we put it on the books as a receivable and that totals about $2.5 million and as we proceed through that late hearings in that we should -- we will either have to pay that or will get it back.
It's just as part of the overall.
So may be $2.5 million from this customs dispute and the other kind of $4 million -- $3 million $4 million from tenant allowances correct? Correct.
Just being kind of higher than last year? Right.
And then a couple million in inventory and then the capital is slightly higher and so that balance is with really the change in cash.
Right again remember this is our low point.
Q3 is always our low point as we build inventory and as we head into the holiday season and that we will have -- we'll be pretty close to our setting cashes last year at the end of this year as we as the sales come in gift cards come in and the like.
Yeah I just wanted to confirm that the change versus the disappoint last year was not permanent.
Thank you.
Okay great.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Joey Baum with Delta Incorporated.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi you guys are doing a great job helping Build-A-Bear realize its real value as a business.
But closing on profitable stores will only get you still far.
Can you give some more details on how you're planning to help Build-A-Bear realize its growth prospects? Okay Joey yeah.
The -- if this is a multifaceted approach to return into sustainable profitable growth.
So the real estate optimization program was a necessary part of this and we realized that the closure of the unprofitable doors is only a portion of the solution and that is why it's not the only part of what we're doing.
As we mentioned we are rebuilding the marketing program by rebalancing the communication and ensuring that we're branding as much as we are driving products and we're at the same time reducing our promotional activity and discount activity because we know the strengths of the brand.
When you really back away from it though and recognize what's going on with the store closures we still are having growth the whole water level is rising because we're having organic growth from the stores on the comp where our comp base is 70% from the organic doors versus the newly remodeled doors.
So it's not just a closure of the doors that's helping us.
It's everything that we're doing to drive the brand overall.
It is the combination of driving the top-line and as well as improving our bottom-line by closing all possible doors.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over the management for closing comments.
Thank you again for joining us today and I remain confident in our business prospects as we enter the final quarter of the year.
The strategies we've implemented have led to improvements in our comparable store sales and margins and profitability and we expect to build upon our progress during the holiday season and into 2014.
We would look forward to speaking with you when we report fourth quarter results in February.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop First Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you you may now begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Sharon Price John CEO; and Tina Klocke COO and CFO.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with your questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone's questions during this one hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website.
And a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Sharon John.
Thanks Allison.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
On today's call I will review our first quarter results and give you an update on the progress we’ve made on our strategic initiative.
Tina will follow with a more detailed review of our financials and then we will take your questions.
We had a solid start to the year marking our fifth consecutive quarter of operating improvement.
We are pleased with this period’s overall profitability particularly given that Easter shift into our second quarter.
By staying focused on our stated strategy we achieved our total revenues of $98 million with 17 fewer stores in operation at quarters end compared to a $104 million last year.
We expanded retail gross margin by 200 basis points and we generated an increase of $5 million in net income or $3 million in adjusted net income as compared to the first quarter of 2013.
With these results we are making progress on our stated objectives to return to sustainable profitability while we are laying the groundwork to drive top line growth and leverage the strength of the Build-A-Bear brand to expand our business model.
This quarter consolidated comparable store sales decline by 2.2% primarily driven by the Easter shift as well as the highly publicized weather patterns that impacted the retail sector overall.
Through April which normalizes further Easter shift consolidated comparable store sales were down approximately 1% following at 10.1% increase from the same period a year ago.
In the U.S.
our largest region we posted a slightly positive comp through April.
Even with the reduction of and in some areas the elimination of school vacations due to the need to make up for the added snow day.
Notably in areas of the U.S.
less affected by the adverse weather patterns we posted an average comp increase of 5%.
Now let me give you some updates on our key strategic initiative.
First we continue to execute our real estate optimization plans to improve store profitability.
In the quarter we closed seven stores and expect to close an additional five to 10 during the year.
In total for the 17 fewer stores in operation at the end of the quarter we transferred approximately 15% of sale to other stores in same market.
With the stated objective to drive down the cost of capital for store remodel.
We have been evaluating the most impactful features of the stores that were updated in 2012 and 2013.
In fiscal 2014 we will update eight stores that are forced to relocation corresponding at least expiration.
We are using a streamlined approach that is expected to reduce the average capital per store by 40% versus last year.
As we review our real estate portfolio our analysis shows that doors adjacent to tourist destination such as our Myrtle Beach or Downtown Disney location are among our highest performers.
Applying this insight and given our stated strategy to opportunistically open new stores in June we will add a store in an expanded development in Pigeon Forge Tennessee located near the Great Smoky Mountains National Park which is the most visited National Park in the United States.
We also have plans to open five to 10 pop-up locations in advance of the holiday season.
This is a proven approach to drive opportunistic sale and in select markets provide a cost effective method of validating locations without long-term commitments.
Second we continue to reposition our marketing programs to elevate the Build-A-Bear brand and integrate messaging across all consumer touch points while refining the value equation.
In the quarter for the important Valentine holiday we launched a new campaign called “A Million Hearts A Million Wishes A Million Ways to Help” which drove a per door sales improvement during this key time period.
The campaign included a partnership with a Make-A-Wish Foundation and provided a basis of social media engagement as well as an expanded PR effort that resulted in the delivery of $240 million brand building impression an increase of 63% over the prior-year.
This program enabled the granting of some very special wishes for kids in need.
We also partner with Disney to launch the Disney Princess Palace Pets collection based on a new expanded princess story line that was introduced via their popular new app for little girls.
In advance of this summer’s Marvel Superhero film we introduce the newly imagined Captain America and Spider-Man Bears along with their iconic costumes both of these efforts have been well received.
And for the Easter season we balanced our license merchandise offering with a collection of our historically best performing traditional proprietary products in spring fashion.
Third we continue to rationalize our expense structure.
SG&amp;A as a percent of total revenue improved by 160 basis points excluding management transition and store closing cost.
This was primarily driven by expense savings from closed stores and disciplined expense control throughout the organization.
Merchandise margin rose by 270 basis points driven by selective price increases and cost savings achieved through the value engineering of product design.
Turning to the second quarter we will continue to evolve our elevated and integrated marketing strategy.
In fact today for the eleventh year in a row we are announcing our annual search for Huggable Heroes.
A program that recognizes charitably minded kids.
For greater impact we will expand the concept of heroes by partnering with the USO in support of their campaign Every Moment Counts to honor our armed forces heroes.
In addition we will encourage consumers to recognize the everyday heroes in their life given that both Mother's Day and Father’s Day occur during the program timeframe.
We’re also very excited to announce that we will be introducing for the first time ever a line of make-your-own Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in advance to the highly anticipated release of the new movie scheduled for August 8.
Separately given our objective to actively reengage in international growth we are pleased to announce our first new franchise in three years.
The addition of Turkey brings our total international franchise presence to 15 countries complementing our owned and operated international stores in Canada the United Kingdom and Ireland.
We expect our new franchise to open its first store in its symbol this June.
As we look ahead we’ll emphasize and involve the strategies that has contributed to five consecutive quarters of operating improvement.
With the increase in profitability and solid action plans I believe that we are positioned to continue our progress in the second quarter and for the balance of the year.
Now I would like to the call over to Tina to review our financials in more detail.
Thanks Sharon and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter results included and improvement in margin and operating expenses resulting in net income of $5 million compared to $13 000 in the first quarter of last year.
Net retail sales were $97 million with 17 fewer stores in operation at the quarters-end compared to $103 million in the prior year.
The 17 left stores resulted in a 6% decline in total operating weeks for the period while net retail sales declined by 7% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Consolidated comparable store sales declined 2.2% reflecting the Easter shift.
We had an 8.5% decrease in transactions partially offset by an increase in transaction value.
By geography comparable store sales declined 1.9% in North America and 3.2% in Europe.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange our e-commerce business decreased by 9.1% with a significant improvement and profitability.
Retail gross margin improved by 200 basis points to 43.5%.
Merchandise margin improved by 270 basis points partially offset by deleverage of fixed occupancy expenses.
SG&amp;A was $38 million or 38.6% of total revenues compared to $44 million or 41.9% in the first quarter of last year.
Management transition and store closing expenses were $400 000 this quarter versus $2 million in the first quarter of last year.
Excluding these cost in both periods SG&amp;A improved 160 basis points to 38.1% in the first quarter of this year.
Adjusted net income per diluted share improved to $0.31 from $0.14 in the first quarter of last year.
Turning to the balance sheet at year end.
Consolidated cash was $42 million up $1 million from last year.
We had no borrowings on our credit facility.
Consolidated inventories totaled $44 million compared to $38 million last year.
This increase is due to the timing of Easter recites.
Inventory per square foot increased 24% which follows a decrease in inventory per square foot of 10% in the first quarter last year.
Capital Expenditures were $1 million primarily for store related capital and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization was also $5 million… For fiscal 2014 we now expect capital expenditures to be $12 million to $15 million to support selected store updates and opportunistic openings as well as the ongoing investment in IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization is expected to be approximately $18 million.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 90 000 shares of our common stock at a total cost of $700 000.
At the end of the quarter we had $6 million of availability under the current stock repurchase plan.
Looking forward the second quarter has historically been the smallest quarter of the year even when Easter falls into this period which can make it challenging to leverage fixed expenses.
However we believe we are positioned to continue our progress in the second quarter and the balance of the year.
And now I would like to turn the call over to the operator to begin the question and answer portion of the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question is coming from the line of Alex Fuhrman with Craig-Hallum Capital Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on a really nice first quarter here against a tough retail backdrop.
I wanted to dig into the increase in merchandise margin I mean that’s a pretty significant pick up in a period of when you think about the weak traffic and for a lot of retailers in January and February.
You know probably a period where a lot of other retailers have been seeing a lot of markdowns.
I mean where specifically is that coming from? I mean is it from the reduced couponing or how much of that is due to efficiency initiatives you have in the supply chain and kind of thinking forward out into the balance of the year or I mean how much of that increase do you think is sustainable? And then you know the other part of that gross margin equation I guess is the occupancy cost? I’m just trying to get a sense of the stores that were closed here in Q1 and then the stores that you have plan to close later on in the balance of the year.
How does the occupancy cost per foot of those stores compare to your overall fleet? Thanks Alex I really appreciate the comments.
On the [merch] (ph) margin we are very focused on that.
I mean clearly as we’ve mentioned the return to sustainable profitability is our primary objective and we mentioned in the script that there were really two aspects that were driving that for us and it was an improvement in the cost of the product through value engineering and ongoing renegotiations with China as well as some selective price increase particularly – well really only in the United States is where we did that.
And we did that in a couple of different ways we took some prices increases on products that were very popular and that we were selling at a good clip and we also took some price increases on some more moderately priced products that drive a lot of volume for us some lower price products we actually increased our entry level price point and put in a pricing segmentation strategy.
This seems to be working and that the consumers are not reacting adversely to.
On occupancy cost portion of the question I’m going to let Tina take that.
Hey Alex when we look at occupancy cost of the closed stores it was fairly consistent with the overall average.
We really expect to have continued leverage through the year but we’ll anniversary that cost savings from last year in Q4 and little bit more in Q3.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful.
And then just from – I mean kind of thinking over the balance of the year and as you have some of these leases coming up for renewal.
I mean how do you think about some of these larger more expensive flagship locations? I mean I think given the transfer you are getting of revenue from closed stores into other channels and other stores I mean certainly it seems like your customer will seek you out wherever your are or at least that’s the indication from the early stores.
I mean might there be an opportunity to perhaps close some of these larger flagship type locations like the one in New York city and what could be the four wall impact of doing something like that? Right that’s a good question.
One of the things that we’ve noted of course is that we’ve certainly improved significantly from 2012 to 2013 on the number of stores that are in a negative situation.
We now have listen 5% of our doors that we expect at the end of the year that will have an negative EBITDA.
So we are improving overall clearly and it is this real estate optimization program that’s doing that.
With that in mind we still do have some big doors that are challenging for us and the New York door is an opportunity for us to look at although we have to balance that with this information that we shared with you as we are looking at new segmentation of our overall fleet.
That we do tend to over perform in tourist areas of which new city is.
One.
So at the same that we are looking at that particular location we also have to balance that with the need to solve for New York City I mean we have a couple of ways that we are looking at that that may or may not be inclusive of the renewal of that lease.
That’s interesting.
Well thank you for your answers.
Congratulations and good luck.
Looking forward to seeing the stores over the next few months.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Gerrick L.
Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning.
I was wondering what some of your best performing skins were in the quarter also payables were down 20% while inventory was up on the book 16%.
What explains the difference there? And my third final question would be regarding Easter what portion of your Easter sales are physical product sales? And then what portion are sort of deferred sales from gift cards? Thanks.
Okay and I’ll take the – Gerrick Hi its is Sharon.
I’ll take the question on top selling products.
Clearly our valentine’s products were our top selling – it started to be our top selling products at the tail end of the quarter but in the first portion of the quarter we introduced Milo Pony which did quite well.
And we also had a nice bridge strategy of a new assortment that was – called Bling in the New Year that also did well.
On your question about the gift cards.
Most of our sales for this time period were as you would imagine they were just straight sales.
And we did have of course a positive gift card impact versus prior year.
Although we still continue to expect more gift card redemption throughout this quarter and beyond because we had such a significant increase in gift card sales during the Christmas holiday time period.
Frankly we had a higher percentage of gift card sales fourth quarter versus prior fourth quarter and then we had a gift card redemption first quarter versus last first quarter.
We think some of that was related to Easter being later an of course the weather impact.
So but we do expect them to continue to redeemed those gift cards given that we have a 90% redemption rate in gift cards overall.
And due to the decline in the payables is relative in relationship to the increase in inventory it’s strictly really timing of our payables.
We had more inventory that we paid for earlier and we actually had less capital this year than we did last year.
So it’s all timing.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is coming from the line of James Fronda with Sidoti.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
How are you?  Hey James.
Hi James.
Could you just talk about how much potential savings you anticipate within SG&amp;A for 2014 or I guess that’s related to the store closures? There is good portion of that of course that’s related to the store closures and we do expect to start and reversing some of the bigger impact saving towards the fourth quarter of the year.
Okay.
But there is probably a few more bucks in there.
Okay cool.
Thank you.
In addition on a second point we’ve just now kicked off the supply chain as we’ve just talked about I think in the last call we have a supply chain initiative then we may be able to continue to pick point but not in the same areas that we’re picking them up right now.
Right okay.
And then you mentioned the pop-up locations how many did you say for this year? I think that we had five to 10 in the call.
Five to 10 okay.
And then so those are we’re in the middle of negotiating some of those.
Okay cool.
All right.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Okay.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mrs.
Sharon for any additional concluding comments.
Thank you for joining us today.
And I look forward updating you again following our second quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Greetings.
And welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop Second Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you Ms.
Malkin.
You may now begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Sharon Price John CEO; and Tina Klocke Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
On today’s call we will begin Ms.
Sharon discussion of second quarter results and the progress the company continued to make on its strategic initiative.
Tina will follow with the more detailed review of the financials and then we will take your question.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with your questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone's questions during this one hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website.
And a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in the annual report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Sharon John.
Thanks Allison.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I am pleased to report that our disciplined approach to the execution of our stated strategies led to our six consecutive quarter of improved operating performance.
And for the first six months our company has delivered pretax income of $1.3 million an increase of over $7 million versus the prior year marking the first time since 2008 that we have been profitable at the half way point of the year.
As noted in this morning’s release historically the second quarters are smallest in terms of revenue which made it even more important to stay focused on our primary goal of improving profitability.
We delivered on our goal of profit improvement.
Although consolidated comparable store sales decreased by 4.9%.
Last year’s second quarter was busy by a strong launch of Build-A-Bear’s first MY LITTLE PONY collection and had a 7.3% comp increase.
Therefore our strategy for this year was to leverage the benefit of the Easter shift and to anniversary the young girl’s business that have been driven by MY LITTLE PONY.
As planned we delivered positive comparable store sales in April with the solid performance from our proprietary Easter line-up.
And for the quarter in total we improved key operational levers that are more in our control by increases in dollars per transaction unit per transaction average unit selling price and consumer convergence.
However traffic was a challenge in part due to the lingering effects of the first quarter weather pattern which caused some school vacations to be cancelled and the school year to be extended in many markets throughout the second quarter.
This can have a particular impact on experience for children’s retailers including Build-A-Bear as our traffic benefits when kids are out of school.
Also we made a strategic decision to eliminate a Gift with Promotion that had been repeated for a number of years.
This promotion and its supporting marketing had historically driven significant traffic but did not deliver a profitable return.
This decision was consistent with our ongoing strategy to shift from promotion driven marketing to brand building.
Our plans to anniversary the MY LITTLE PONY launch and counteract the potential traffic impact of the elimination of the Gift with Purchase Promotion included the addition of the Disney Palace Pets collection a series of royal pets tied to Disney Princess franchise targeted to the young girl consumer base.
And the launch of a series of products tied to highly anticipated movie releases supported by integrated marketing program.
Disney’s Palace Pets is a relatively new concept for little girls introduced by their popular app late last year.
This product collection is an important part of our assortment for the year.
However the second quarter brand build was slower than planned.
As Disney has continued to grow awareness of this brand we have elevated our partnership marketing with them and the sales have gained momentum.
We will continue to drive the collection which includes the introduction of new palace pets characters in the back half of the year.
The movie partnerships were with Marvel’s Amazing Spider-Man 2 and Captain America: The Winter Soldier as well as Dreamworks How to Train your Dragon.
Inspired by the popular Marvel property we created a proprietary line a theme Superhero Bears which extended our historical costume-only offering for the first time.
We integrated the expanded product launch into broader marketing campaign associated with our 11th Annual Huggable Heroes program which recognizes charitable-minded kids.
Additionally we partnered with the USO in their Every Moment Counts campaign.
This broadened marketing approach moved us beyond the concept of traditional heroes and enabled us to celebrate Superheroes Everyday Heroes and Military Service Heroes.
The campaign resonated emotionally with our guests and generated over $80 media impression created awareness and drove high product demand particularly with boys and adult affinity consumers which contributed to the product selling out in advance as a movie release date.
The Spider-Man Bear is already back in stores with strong ongoing demand and the replenishment of the Captain American Bear will be in stores this fall times strategically to take advantage of the September DVD release.
Late in the second quarter we launched Toothless dragon from How to Train Your Dragon 2.
Product demand was high as consumer re-thought was broader than expected reaching across key demographics including girls boys and adult affinity guest.
Because of the rapid sell-through we immediately put an action plan in place leveraging our robust social media network to communicate directly with consumers and for the first time at Build-A-Bear we are providing an opportunity for guests to sign-up to be personally notified when Toothless is reintroduced in October prior to the DVD release.
In addition to fulfilling the growing late list we are projecting continued demand for the balance of the year.
Clearly we're starting to demonstrate the key high-impact product launches combined with our ability to execute elevated marketing program gives us an opportunity to drive consumer awareness and product demand.
Looking forward to the balance of the third quarter and back half of the year.
We are well-positioned with a powerful line-up of hot licenses proprietary concepts and holiday offerings introduced in a strategic cadence supported by our new integrated marketing approach.
In fact for the month of July our comparable store sales are on a positive trend across geographies driven by a balanced offering of Build-A-Bear core products and new license launches further validating that we have the right strategies in place to continue to improve profitability and grow comp.
Specifically in early July we added freshness to our offering of Hasbro’s MY LITTLE PONY line with new characters which has sold well including a collector targeted web exclusive pony retailing for $35 a new pricing threshold for Build-a-Bear animal.
We continue to gain momentum in July with the introduction of the full line-up of Nickelodeon’s Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.
The launch is having a major effect on our overall business with a very strong response from boys girls and adult affinity consumers and it’s continue to build as we approach the move release date in North America on August 8th.
Notably the enhanced partnership that we have received from both Hasbro and Nickelodeon including excusive digital content available only on our website further demonstrates our evolution from traditional license arrangement to elevated marketing relationships.
We expect both of these properties to continue to fuel sale throughout the year.
As mentioned in September we then have the return of Captain America Bear and in October we bring back Toothless the dragon times with both of their DVD releases.
I’m also excited to announce that in November we will be expanding our ongoing Disney partnership with the addition of a new collection featuring excusive flash tied to the movie Frozen which continue to be extremely popular.
And of course we will have a full line-up of proprietary Build-A-Bear products and license properties specifically for the holiday season.
In conclusion this quarter's results reflect our commitment to our stated strategy and the progresses that we are making toward our goal of sustained profitability.
As we evolve our business model to leverage the strength of the Build-A-Bear brand and drive future growth.
I'm confident that we have the right strategies in place and that we are building the processes tools and the team to continue to drive improvement and further increase shareholder value.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Tina to review our financials in more detail.
Thanks Sharon and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter pre-tax results were in line with both internal and external expectations.
As noted for the first six months of the year we generated pre-tax income of $1.3 million an increase of over $7 million from last year.
This is the first time in six years that we have had a pre-tax profit to the first half of the year.
Net retail sales were $75 million with 10 fewer stores in operation at quarter’s end compared to $80 million in the prior year.
On average approximately 16% of sales from closed stores transferred to other remaining stores consistent with past closures.
Consolidated comparable store sales declined 4.9%.
A decline in store traffic contributed to an 8.3% decrease in transactions partially offset by an increase in average transaction value.
We improved the key operational metrics that are more in our control including dollars per transaction units per transaction average unit selling price and consumer conversion.
By geography comparable store sales declined 4% in North America and 8.1% in Europe.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange e-commerce sales decreased by 4.3% with a continued improvement in profitability.
Retail gross margin increased by 220 basis points to 39%.
This was a result of a 360 basis point improvement from expansion in merchandise margin and reduction in distribution costs partially offset by deleverage of fixed occupancy expenses.
SG&amp;A was $34 million or 44.6% of total revenues compared to $37 million or 45.1% of net revenues.
Management transition and store closing expenses were $900 000 in the second quarter last year.
Excluding these costs in 2013 SG&amp;A as a percent of sales was 44%.
While sales declined expansion in gross margin and lower expenses drove a $2 million improvement in pre-tax loss compared to the same period a year ago.
Net loss was $4 million or $0.25 per share compared to a net loss of $6 million or $0.38 per share in the second quarter last year.
Adjusted net loss was $0.25 per share an improvement from $0.33 loss per share in the second quarter last year.
For the first six months total revenues were $174 million a decrease of 8.6% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Consolidated comparable store sales declined 3.4% and included a decrease of 2.8% in North America and 5.5% decrease in Europe.
E-commerce sales declined 7.2% excluding the impact of foreign exchange with continued improvement in profitability.
Retail gross margin was 41.6% an improvement of 220 basis points compared to last year.
This increase was driven by 300 basis point improvement in merchandised margin partially offset by deleverage of fixed occupancy expenses.
SG&amp;A was $72 million or 41.2% of total revenues including $400 000 in management transition and store-closing expenses.
This compares to $81 million or 43.3% of total revenues including $3 million in management transition and store closing expenses in the first half of fiscal 2013.
Excluding these cost in both periods SG&amp;A improved 60 basis points to 41% of total revenues in the first half of fiscal 2014.
Pretax income was $1.3 million compared to pretax loss of $6 million in the first six months of fiscal 2013.
Adjusted net income improved to $0.06 per diluted share from an adjusted net loss of $0.19 per share last year.
Turning to the balance sheet at quarter end consolidated cash was $42 million up $14 million from last year.
This is primarily attributable to our improved profit performance in the first half of 2014 decreased capital spend and the timing of payments for inventory and rent.
We had no borrowings on our credit facility.
Consolidated inventories totaled $43 million compared to $48 million last year.
Inventory per square foot decreased 6.7% reflecting the timing of transit inventory.
Capital Expenditures were $3 million primarily for store-related capital and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization was $9 million.
For fiscal 2014 we continue to expect capital expenditures to be in the range of $12 million to $15 million to support selected store updates and opportunistic openings as well as the ongoing investment in IT infrastructure.
This includes the opening of six to eight popup stores in advance of the holiday season.
We continue to expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $18 million.
As a reminder of fiscal 2014 and January 3 2015 and includes the 53rd week versus last year’s 52-week year.
In summary by staying true to our strategy and focusing on brand-building programs we delivered solid improvement in gross margin operating performance and our bottom line leading to our sixth consecutive quarter of improved results.
We believe our initiative position us to continue our progress towards the same profitability in the second half of the year and longer term.
And now I would like to turn the call over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Steph Wissink with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Tina I wonder if I could just draw out a couple housekeeping questions and then Sharon a question for you.
Curious on the comp for leverage point in the model now that you've extracted some of the cost and lowered the overall store base? And then if you could help us to navigate the tax rate for the year that seem like below the line items for where we were off of it on the loss per share estimate that you could help us just reconcile as we think about the back half how we should be modeling the tax.
And then Sharon for you really intrigued by this notion around kind of social media and leveraging your follower relationship base as well as some of the affiliate marketing and partnerships.
Could you talk a little bit about the margin potential as you see building into some of those leverage points as well as some of the anticipated traffic improvements from some of the licensed partnerships into the back half? How we should be thinking about the next couple of quarters? Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks.
I’ll take the question first and then hand it over to Tina.
Okay Steph thanks for the question.
Yeah affiliate marketing partnerships and social media one of the things that we feel that we have an opportunity with is that social media impact.
I believe that we’ve noted a few times that we have a very robust loyalty program that includes 4.4 million active loyal team members.
And consumers given our high emotional brand are very involved and engaged in our brand on a number of different front from Facebook Pinterest et cetera.
So being able to activate against that as a part of a more integrated marketing program can be a key for us particularly as our consumer base shifts to more than Millennial mom and move who as you know and have heard from many marketers I’m sure at this point are really native to that entire environment.
So it is that piece of the puzzle it’s actually much more efficient wide market.
It is cost effective.
It’s very clean.
It’s in the moment.
It keeps your marketing dollars pretty liquid up until you need to spin them versus other types of media from direct mail to television where often you have to make commitments far out and you might be uncertain of your actual need to push the media given the sales of the product.
And so we can really activate that in a very efficient manner that can actually be [aid in our 8F] (ph).
I think on the affiliate marketing partnership it’s really -- it's kind of this concept of when a number of different entities are saying the same thing you get more leverage.
It is a classic one plus one equals 10 kind of approach.
And when you elevate the partnership that -- really what it means is there is a give and take.
Our partner see us a value as well as we see them as a value.
That value lies not only in but certainly partly in.
The fact that we do have this very loyal consumer that we can reach directly and speak to them in a very unique way particularly given that the products that we offer that represent their brand that we offer them in a way that it’s the only place that you can experience it.
You could come in and make a very special Spider-Man Bear and it’s the only place that you can do that.
He has the Spider webs all over him and he is very high affinity to that young boy and an experience that they look forward to having.
So we feel like that that approach that we just now started to activate against as you saw and as I sort of explained in the second quarter against Spider-Man Captain America (indiscernible) gives us a lot more latitude in a much more efficient way to drive consumer demand.
And frankly in this quarter it drove consumer demand beyond what our supply was.
And I am -- what we have to do is learn where those levers are and what the opportunity the untapped opportunity still is when we hit all of those levers at the same time.
Does that make sense? Yes.
It is very helpful.
Thank you.
Okay.
Tina.
Good morning.
Traditionally we’ve just needed a slightly positive comp to leverage our SG&amp;A and leverage our fixed occupancy expenses.
So as -- and you can see that in past quarters that we have enabled the leverage when we do have that slightly positive comp.
Related to the tax just a reminder that we are in a full valuation allowance on our U.S.
taxes and so any tax expense during the quarter is related to taxes that are paid in jurisdictions other than the U.S.
when we don’t have an offsetting benefit.
And we at this point expect our full year tax rate to be somewhere in the range of 15% to 20%.
Okay.
Thank you.
I will jump back in queue.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from James Fronda with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your questions.
Hi guys how are you? Hi James.
Just on the I guess the Disney and the Nickelodeon products are there any significant license fees licensing fees associated with those without her margins at all? There is a royalty associated with the license products.
And what is that that comes out of sales or is that part of cost of goods? Yes.
It’s a part of cost of goods and what we tend to do because in traditional terms the payment of a royalty should be expressing added value in a brand awareness of the property that you’re paying the royalty for.
So comparatively it’s built into our margin and we are able to generally charge a slightly higher price for licensed properties.
Okay.
All right.
So it wouldn’t affect the margins either way I guess if you are able -- still at the higher price correct? We have -- it’s into our overall objective of what our margin strategy is.
Okay.
And the continuation of… Degrading is that it’s not margin degrading.
All right okay.
And I guess just in terms of the franchise closures I mean the previous strategy I thought was to expand those but are those going to continue to close I guess for 2014 into 2015? Yes the margin -- the franchise expansion strategy which we spoken about is not only the right -- part of that is the rightsizing first of our franchises that we currently have but also the expansion of franchise partnership into new countries and territories.
Okay.
So for example the announcement of Turkey would be a franchise expansion that we announced last quarter.
But in the meantime some of our franchises are going through not at a similar situation that we in North America went through in the last two years of a need to do similar state optimization.
Okay.
So you are going to see some puts and takes in our longer-term franchises but at the same time as we write it started to write the ship in the North American side we are getting a lot of interested parties on potential expansion into new international countries and territories.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning.
I understood the impact on store traffic from the vacation schedules being shifted but e-commerce is down a little bit does that impact by vacation schedules as well and what explains that decline? No Gerrick that would not be impacted by vacation schedules.
The comps on our e-com specifically are compared to period from first half of last year where we were still in a highly promotive mode on e-com.
So that midyear last year somewhere in the back half around the back half so shortly after arrived we looked at our e-commerce business and put a strategy around it that was inclusive of it not just being a clearinghouse but being more of a brand building consumer facing entity.
So we are taking out a lot of the promotions on the e-com front that has negatively affected the comps but we now have been significantly increasing profitability over the past few quarters.
Good.
And then third quarter looks like that’s a pretty tough comp what are we comping against there marketing campaign changes more Pony what else is in there? We had some good proprietary products through that time period as well as My Little Pony continue to do quite well through that period.
You are correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alex Fuhrman with Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed with your questions.
Great.
Thanks guys.
I really amazed to see the phenomenal gross margin here and in spite of the continued traffic weakness.
And I am wondering as you think about the merchandise assortment and specifically the licensing goods here I mean it seems like a lot of retailers and including some of the vertically integrated retailers are having a lot of success with top brand licensing partners.
And the hard part of that’s obviously getting the partnerships and you’ve got partnerships with all of the top brands I mean Spider-Man Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles these are top brand and the demand for a lot of these products seems like it’s been more than you would have anticipated.
I mean is this a big kind of focus that changes some of the merchandising direction? I mean is this the catalyst that can get comps actually back into growth mode? And then I’m wondering maybe more broadly if you think about distribution I mean ecommerce obviously that’s not a huge channel for you and like you said that they’ve been very promotional in the past.
I mean just having the inherent brand awareness and tapping into the brand awareness of the Spiderman fan and the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles fan.
I mean is that change the thought of ecommerce.
Does that get more people coming into that channel? And then similarly internationally I would think having partnerships with a lot of those top brands would also cause you to have more awareness right off the bat as you think about international market.
So with all that cash on the balance sheet provided that held out of the country I mean is there any thought and maybe taking an approach out of the country especially now with a more broad licensed assortment of top brands.
I mean is there any thoughts maybe going with more of an in-house capital approach there? That’s interesting.
First I want to just make some comments on some of the early pieces of what you said.
Yes we are excited about some of these partnerships.
And what we’ve done and the partnerships that we’re creating and the value-add that’s being created on both side of that relationship.
The interesting piece is that you are correct.
Ecom does have a broader and more significant role when you think about some of these licenses particularly as it relates to a consumer segment that I mentioned a lot in the script which is the adult affinity consumer who often time bids and as excited about the making of the product.
They just want the product.
And we are seeing some interesting off take I mentioned one particularly which was exclusive a web excusive My Little Pony where we’ve been actually been able to break what has been a historical animal price point of $35.
And there seems to be absolutely no pushback on that.
So we had opened up an entirely new space for us.
On that front so I just want to be a little cautionary that we’re not in the business of just becoming a licensed staff placed for only licenses.
But I did -- because we had just incredible opportunity for not only the creation of our own proprietary concepts and lines that we need to learn how to market and drive ourselves but also just our classic bears are still a big driver.
And most of our top three -- top five products are still just a classic and in some cases entry-level price point core product line.
So I don’t want to misconstrue that the licenses are just everything about what we’re doing but it has been what we’ve been able to create some of the early successes if you can think about driving business to the point of driving -- selling out a success but driving successes with this integrated approach.
On the international side you have a terrific point that it gives us a foray into new market that may not be as aware of Build-A-Bear out of the gate to put some of these license property that do have high awareness in our windows in the upfront area use it in our advertising to drive trial.
And on the capital side we’re still going to stick with our franchise approach for now.
But that’s interesting to think about the insight that you have there.
Great.
Well thanks for the answers there and looking forward to seeing the new products as it rolls out in the stores.
Thank you Alex.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Clay Kirkland with Intrepid Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Actually you just answered a couple of my questions.
But while I have you here can you give any more color on what's driving the deposit comps so for in July whether it’s traffic or pricing some of the new launches you have out? Just any color on that would be great.
Absolutely.
So we mentioned in the script that the key new product launches are creating a lot of buzz for us and a lot of opportunity with My Little Pony and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.
But interestingly we believe that some of the positive comps out is starting and almost kick started almost on the first day of July is the fact that kids finally got out of school.
So what’s interesting is well as when we look at our four level model right now traffic conversion UPTs and DPTs we’re positive on all fronts through July.
So we've been able to not only maintain those improvements in key metrics that I mentioned that we've increased through the first half of UPTs DPTs and conversion in AUR But now with that ability of traffic it’s really starting to show up in our comp.
Okay.
Make sense.
All right.
That’s all I have.
Thank you very much.
We have a follow-up question from Steph Wissink from Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Just a quick follow-up Tina on the transference of sales when you do close some of your stores.
Can you talk a little bit about I think you said 16% that has been tracking pretty consistently.
Any efforts around building awareness in those markets where you’re online only or where you maybe exiting a lease and still trying to retain some business in your ecom channel? Yes.
I think that’s just part of the overall integrated marketing plan and as we identify where the consumers are shopping their shopping patterns are.
Also keeping in touch with them and leveraging our database to communicate with them to make sure that they're still aware of all the promotions in the products that are coming out.
That 16% has been fairly consistent throughout since we started closing stores.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to management for closings comments.
Thank you for joining us today and we look forward to updating you again on third quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a great day.
Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop Third Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now pleasure to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Build-A-Bear’s CEO Sharon Price John; Tina Klocke Chief Operating Officer; and Voin Todorovic who joined Build-A-Bear on September 15 as Chief Financial Officer.
For today’s call Sharon will begin with a discussion of the third quarter results and fourth quarter outlook.
Tina will follow with a more detailed review of our financials.
Then Voin will provide some introductory remarks and then we will take your questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone's questions during this one hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Members of the media who maybe on our call today should contact us after this conference call with your questions.
Please note that this call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our website and a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before I turn the call over to management I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I will turn the call over to Sharon John.
Thanks Allison.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I’m pleased to report that the continued disciplined execution of our stated strategies resulted in our seventh consecutive quarter of improved operating performance with a $2.1 million in pre-tax income an improvement of over $3 million versus last year.
Additionally on a year-to-date basis for the first three quarters we have delivered pre-tax income of $3.4 million an improvement of over $10.5 million versus last year marking the first time since 2007 that we’ve been profitable at this point in the year.
These results demonstrate our progress toward our stated goal of sustained profitability as we evolve our business model to leverage the strength of the Build-A-Bear brand to drive future growth.
During the quarter our company achieved net retail sales of $85.6 million with seven fewer stores in operation at quarter end a $2 million increase over the prior year; increased consolidated comparable store sales by 0.8% which followed last year’s 6.4% increase; improved key operational levers including dollars per transaction units per transaction and average unit selling price; drove comparable e-commerce sales by 14.5% over the prior year at a significantly improved profitability; and expanded retail gross margins by 360 basis points.
Importantly these positive results give us momentum for our key holiday selling period as we remain focused on driving the business by executing our stated strategies including the delivery of sustained profitability and improving sales through the evolution of our consumer value equation.
Looking at the third quarter in more detail we continued to demonstrate that high-impact product launches supported by well-executed elevated marketing programs can drive broad consumer awareness and demand.
The most impactful introduction for the period was the full line-up of Nickelodeon's Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in anticipation of the release of the new film.
The July launch was supported by a dynamic marketing program which drove strong sales from all key consumer segments including boys girls and adult affinity guests.
Because of the multi-segment multi-generational appeal of the turtles which were purchased two three and four at time we were unable to keep up with the early product demand resulting in spotty inventory by the time the movie released.
As you may recall we had previously experienced similar results with other key licensed launches earlier in the year.
Given the recent history we have prepared a consumer-centric action plan to bridge the inventory gaps while expediting additional shipments to meet the strong demand.
First given that the interim shipments would not be able to appropriately resupply our brick-and-mortar locations based on the self velocities we strategically redirected these shipments to our webstore to create a go-to in-stock distribution channel.
Secondly adjusted our in-store service model and signage to inform consumers that the turtles were quote-unquote temporarily fighting crime in a sewer and enable guests to purchase the product from buildabear.com with a free shipping incentive during their visit to the store.
Third for the consumers that did not want to purchase the products online we took their information to directly inform them when we would be back in stock at the store level.
With this action plan we were able to manage consumer expectations in a brand right manner protect a portion of overall sales and ultimately drive e-commerce despite the inventory challenges.
We are now in-stock in all stores and online with continued strong sales.
On a similar note as we mentioned on the last call Toothless the dragon from DreamWorks How to Train Your Dragon movie franchise sold through the initial shipment late in the second quarter prior to the movie release.
At that time we provided our guests an opportunity to be notified when the product returned.
In late September we notified over 30 000 guests on the waiting list of the return of Toothless which helped fuel strong traffic contributing to our positive comp although the ideal objective is to more accurately forecast product demand.
In these particular cases we executed a proactive approach to manage consumer expectations and elevate guest engagement.
As a result we maintained high interest and demand for these products through the out-of-stock time frame that resulted in immediate sales when the product returned.
Overall the positive consolidated comparable store sales for the third quarter were driven by a combination of robust sales by these key licensed products continued strength in our core collection and a successful early launch of our proprietary Halloween program.
As we move forward into the fourth quarter we remain focused on the disciplined execution of our stated strategies and while early our sales trend continues to be positive.
Our planned cadence of high-impact licensed and proprietary launches supported by elevated marketing programs throughout the remainder of the year is designed to continue to evolve the consumer value equation toward more brand-building initiatives versus discounting.
And because of our recent inventory challenges associated with high impact launches we have made the strategic decision to significantly increase purchase quantities for select fourth-quarter introductions including Build-A-Bear’s eagerly awaited product line based on Disney’s popular Frozen franchise which includes a make-your-own Olaf the snowman and our exclusive Elsa and Anna Bears.
Our guests will be able to complement their frozen selection by also purchasing signature costumes and sound chips with songs from the film including the chart-topping Let It Go.
While the comprehensive global PR marketing effort will officially begin in early November we pre-launched Olaf last weekend to drive excitement for the entire line.
The outstanding results have provided further confidence and the potential of this offering for the holiday season and beyond.
Next we’re celebrating one of our favorite holiday offerings with the 50th anniversary launch of Rudolph The Red-Nosed Reindeer in mid-November.
Collectible versions of Rudolph with its signature Light-Up Nose and its twin Clarice will be available.
Our licensed partner Classic Media will be actively promoting the milestone and we expect a heightened attention to this multi-generational perennial to elevate demand for the collection.
Also launching in November will be our key story for the holiday season based on a new proprietary concept for Build-A-Bear.
When planning for the fourth quarter we had an objective to be a place where families come as a part of a holiday tradition not unlike or perhaps in conjunction with their annual visit to see Santa.
Although we still expect Build-A-Bear Workshop products and gift cards to be under the tree on Christmas morning we also want guests to have a reason to make furry friends with their children before Christmas as well.
With this insight we are launching a new holiday collection of adorable make-your-own reindeer.
To bring the collection to life we have created an engaging story called Santa’s Merry Mission where the nice list is so long that our Build-A-Bear Reindeer must go in a mission to help Santa make enough toys to ensure everyone on the list has a Merry Christmas.
Of course when Santa’s workshop is overwhelmed with the task where else would the reindeer go to make the extra toys but Build-A-Bear Workshop? This multi-faceted concept features a proprietary storyline with instantly recognizable holiday theming a broad consumer appeal for boys girls and affinity adult guests an interactive component to drive awareness sales and encourage continued play beyond the plush and a proven cross-marketing tie-in appropriate for the season.
We are kicking off the Merry Mission concept with a completely integrated marketing plan including TV direct mail PR email and social media the first week of November which will highlight key components of the program including our free Merry Mission app that is available now through iTunes and Android which amplifies the storyline establishes the individual personalities of each of our eight reindeer and includes interactive reindeer games.
A choice of a boy or girl Build-A-Bear reindeer that can be customized with one of our festive collars featuring classic reindeer names such as Comet or Cupid.
A code on the collar unlocks additional content in the app and will virtually bring the individual reindeer to life to extend the play beyond the plush.
A refreshed holiday service model and store look that includes literally changing Build-A-Beer Workshop into Santa’s workshop with the seasonal modification of our store-front signage and opportunity for consumers to personally participate in the overall Merry Mission storyline via our cross-marketing partnership with the Toys for Tots annual gift drive.
The Merry Mission concept represents the first time that Build-A-Bear Workshop has developed a comprehensive holiday campaign supported by an app designed to both sell and enhance a specific product line and create play beyond the plush.
Because of the positive response to the app and storyline during testing we expect to not only drive reindeer sales but increase overall brand interest.
We also believe this launch begins to demonstrate the potential our brand has to extend into broader product concepts and repeatable entertainment platforms.
Also reinforcing our objective to be part of holiday tradition this morning we announced an expansion of our strategic partnership with Macy’s including the opening of five shop-in-shop locations for the Christmas season.
The shop locations include Macy’s Herald Square flagship store in New York City and the State Street store in Chicago where Build-A-Bear will also be showcased in their highly popular Santaland attractions.
This is an extension of our existing relationship which includes the Build-A-Bear float in the annual Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade and we are excited to share that Santa’s Merry Mission and our reindeer will be the theme of the float this year.
Separately on the international front we have expanded our franchise agreement with a new partner in Germany which adds two new countries; Switzerland and Austria.
This is another solid step forward on our strategy to proactively build the global presence of our brand and follows our recent expansion into Turkey.
On a final note as we enter the holiday season we have a new leadership team in place.
When I joined the company in June 2013 I believed that the strength of our band provided us with an opportunity to leverage the equity into incremental revenue and profit strength.
To achieve this goal we shared our clear strategy that included; first returning to sustained profitability primarily through the rationalization of expenses in real estate and also the resetting of the value equation for our consumers.
Now to further enable us to drive future incremental sales and profit we are evolving our infrastructure and skill set.
This evolution is inclusive of the new organizational structure that we recently announced internally which will allow us to be a more consumer-centric brand driven organization with streamlined processes that allow better integration of the product creation team and the marketing team.
Key talent that has been added to lead this change includes; Gina Collins who joined our company earlier this year as Chief Marketing Officer.
Gina’s strong background in brand building most recently with the Coca-Cola Company has been instrumental in the elevation and integration of the marketing programs that is currently driving our consumer awareness and demand for key products; Jennifer Kretchmar who was named our Chief Product and Innovation Officer in August.
Jen has 20 years of product development experience most recently at Stride Rite Children’s Group a division of Wolverine Worldwide and is leading our product development merchandising sourcing planning and wholesale teams; and Voin Todorovic who joined our company as Chief financial Officer in September.
Voin was most recently the Head of Finance and Operations for the Billion-Dollar Lifestyle division of Wolverine Worldwide which includes global brands such as Sperry Hush Puppies and Keds.
The addition of these individuals to my senior leadership team is an important advancement in positioning our company to continue to drive towards the delivery of our strategic plans and achieve our goal of sustained profitable growth in 2015 and beyond.
Separately as previously announced Tina Klocke who has been serving as Chief financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer will be leaving the company after the transition period.
Until then Tina will retain her role as COO.
Now let me turn the call over to Tina who was CFO during the vast majority of the third quarter to reveal our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Sharon and good morning everyone.
We’re pleased to report our third quarter pre-tax income of $2.1 million which represents an improvement of $3.2 million over last year.
Through the first nine months of 2014 we have generated pre-tax income of $3.4 million marking the first time since 2007 that we have been profitable at this point in the year.
For the third quarter net retail sales were $85.6 million with seven fewer stores in operation compared to $83.6 million in the prior year.
Consolidated comparable store sales increased 0.8% driven by an 8% increase in average transaction value partially offset by a decrease in transaction.
By geography comparable store sales increased 1% in North America and were flat in Europe.
E-commerce comparables sales increased by 14.5% with a continued improvement in profitability.
Retail gross margin increased by 360 basis points to 43.7%.
This was a result of approximately 300 basis point improvement from expansion in merchandise margin with the remainder coming primarily from improvements in packaging costs and leverage on fixed occupancy expenses.
SG&amp;A was $36.2 million up slightly from last year.
As a percent of total revenues SG&amp;A improved by 40 basis points to 41.8%.
Management transition and store closing expenses were $800 000 in the quarter compared to $600 000 last year.
Excluding these costs to both periods SG&amp;A as a percent of total revenue improved 70 basis points to 40.9%.
Pre-tax income was $2.1 million compared to a pre-tax loss of $1.1 million in the 2013 third quarter.
Net income improved to $1.8 million or $0.10 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $1.4 million or $0.08 per share in the third quarter last year.
Adjusted net income was $0.15 per diluted share a $0.20 improvement from an adjusted net loss of $0.05 per share last year.
Now moving to our year-to-date results for the first nine months total revenues were $260.9 million.
Consolidated comparable store sales declined 2% and included a decrease of 1.6% in North America and a 3.6% decrease in Europe.
Comparable e-commerce sales declined 0.9% with continued improvement in profitability.
Retail gross margin was 42.3% an improvement of 270 basis points compared to last year.
This increase was driven by a 300 basis point improvement in merchandise margin and reduction in distribution costs partially offset by a deleverage of fixed occupancy expenses.
SG&amp;A was $108.1 million or 41.4% of total revenues including $1.2 million in management transition and store closing expenses.
This compares to $116.5 million or 43% of total revenues including $3.8 million in management transition and store closing expenses in the first nine months of fiscal 2013.
Excluding these costs in both periods SG&amp;A improved 60 basis points in 2014 to 41%.
The deleverage of fixed overhead expenses was partially offset by decreases in store payroll and supply costs.
Year-to-date pre-tax income was $3.4 million compared to a pre-tax loss of $7.1 million last year.
Net income improved to $2.5 million or $0.14 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $7.6 million or $0.46 per share in the third quarter last year.
Adjusted net income was $0.21 per diluted share a $0.44 improvement from an adjusted net loss of $0.23 per share last year.
Moving to the balance sheet at quarter-end consolidated cash was $40.5 million up $26.7 million from last year.
This is primarily attributable to our decreased capital spend improved operating performance and the timing of payments for inventory and rent.
We had no borrowings on our credit facility.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 225 000 shares of our stock for $2.5 million.
Consolidated inventories totaled $45.7 million compared to $56.7 million last year.
Inventory per square foot decreased 17.3%.
This decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in units due to later receipts of holiday products compared to last year and decreased costs of the units on hand.
On a two-year basis inventory per square foot decreased 5.3%.
Year-to-date capital expenditures were $5.7 million primarily for IT infrastructure and store-related capital.
Depreciation and amortization was $13.4 million.
For fiscal 2014 we continue to expect capital expenditures to be in the range of $12 million to $14 million to support selected store updates and opportunistic openings as well as the ongoing investment in IT infrastructure.
This includes the opening of six pop-up stores in advance of the holiday season including a location in Times Square in New York City which opens next week and as mentioned we will also open five seasonal shop-in-shop locations with select Macy’s stores.
We continue to expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $18 million for the 2014 fiscal year.
As a reminder our fiscal 2014 ends January 3 2015 and includes a 53<sup>rd</sup> week versus last year’s 52 week a year.
In summary by staying true to our strategy and focusing on brand-building programs we delivered solid improvement in gross margin operating performance and our bottom line leading to our seventh consecutive quarter of improved results.
We believe our initiatives position us to continue our progress towards sustained profitability for 2014 and longer term.
And now I would like to introduce our new CFO Voin Todorovic.
Good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to speak with you on my first earnings call at Build-A-Bear Workshop.
For those of you not familiar with my background throughout the last 15 years I had many financial and operational positions with increasing responsibility across a number of multi-billion dollar global companies that well prepared me to be a great addition to the Build-A-Bear Workshop senior leadership team.
My experience in working with global consumer brands operating across both retail and wholesale channels and with owned licensed distributor and international franchise operations will assist Build-A-Bear Workshop in achieving our strategic objectives and profit expectations.
In addition I also had critical leadership roles in corporate finance real estate asset management and accounting at both divisional and corporate levels within Payless Shoe Source Collective Brands Stride Rite Children’s Group and most recently Wolverine Worldwide.
I have spent my first six weeks at Build-A-Bear Workshop getting to know many aspects of the company and working with the finance and operations teams with Tina’s support during the transition.
I’m excited to apply my finance operational and capital allocation knowledge at Build-A-Bear Workshop to assist the company to achieve its long-term goal of sustained profitability and growth.
I’m also looking forward to getting to know you our investors and analysts in upcoming meetings and investor conferences.
Now I would like to turn the call over to the operator to take any questions if you have.
Operator?    Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Stephanie Wissink with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Great thanks so much for taking our question.
This is actually Maria Vizuete on for Stephanie.
We just had a couple of quick questions.
We’re wondering if you can talk a little bit more about mall traffic trends maybe by region in Q3 and maybe what you're seeing today? Thank you.
Our mall traffic trends well I mentioned a lot of operational levers that we have improved but I did not mention traffic.
If you recall we have improved in dollars per transaction units per transaction and average unit selling price but our traffic has been a little bit off and it's not really been significantly by region in this particular quarter but if there was a region that had some challenges is probably the Northeast.
And then any color on Q4 today? Other than what we mentioned we’re positive we have a positive comp to-date in third quarter - I mean fourth quarter rather.
And then if I can just add one quick one and just from a longer-term perspective we’re just wondering what Macy’s partnership could imply for the future distribution model? Are there any plans or considerations to launch some more in multi-format stores beyond that? Thank you.
One of the things that we’ve talked about in the past from a strategic perspective is looking at our fleet in a portfolio manner and if you think about the different types of retail environments in which we currently exist we have malls we have what we call tourist locations we have shop-in-shops we have pop-up stores and we’re looking at that a lot more strategically.
And as a part of that solution shop-in-shops in more non-traditional approaches like a Macy’s relationship we do think bode well for us in the future particularly if you want to have a diversified portfolio if indeed mall traffic continues to be somewhat challenged.
We found particularly with these tourist locations which I had mentioned in the past they tend to over perform on all key metrics.
We do look at this Macy’s shop-in-shop opportunity particularly the Herald Square and State Street location as clearly being opportunistic from a tourist opportunity.
These are places that new consumers go that would also be inclusive of our Time Square pop-up store which will open next week.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Fuhrman with Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed with your question.
Congratulations on a really good third quarter.
We’d love to talk about specifically the gross margin I mean that just keeps beating quarter after quarter and it seems like there's a lot of things benefiting that a lot of things in the supply chain that I feel like we're kind of starting to lap now and yet the growth in gross margin is really not abating at all.
Can you maybe talk about where that's coming from and then maybe what the most important drivers are whether it's initial pricing or markdown control or maybe just some extra legs of what you've been doing in the supply chain and really where could that keep going if you just flow through obviously the traffic has been down and you put up those margins regardless when are we going to start to run into the natural ceilings of the initiatives that are driving gross margin higher today? Mostly what you're seeing that's contributing to the gross margin expansion to-date is a combination of strategic pricing and when I say strategic pricing I'm not talking about that we're just randomly increasing pricing or creating price banding advantageous for us.
And I had mentioned this I think last time on the call as an example of price banding.
We actually did increase our entry-level price point for example on our core product line from $10 to $12.
We did that late in the second quarter - or in second quarter last year.
So we haven't actually lapped that yet this year rather.
And the other piece is what we've talked about to some extent which is value engineering the reduction of the cost of the goods that are coming in.
This is really the first quarter that we have enjoyed true value engineering from the bottom up versus value reengineering if you will of products that had already been somewhat designed.
It takes about six eight months to get through - to loop through the whole product development cycle.
So the third and fourth quarter are representatives of product lines that were completely engineered from the bottom up with the value construct in mind.
And is there any -- yes and on your question about upside just and you can look back in our information.
The highest retail gross margin we've ever had is 49% in 2005.
So we're not at our height yet.
I'm not saying that we can get to that.
We had clearly a lot more volume and those were different days but we still feel like we have some plays.
Great that’s really helpful.
And then if I could just take you back on Maria’s second question here for a second.
I mean it seems like this license stuff is really taking off giving you opportunities in different channels I mean the Macy’s partnership could be great for the holiday season.
Do the terms of your license agreements do you have the freedom to put that product wherever you want in any channel and any market and did you have to get special approval from your licensors to be able to do that that Macy’s partnership or do you really have that latitude to put the product where you feel it’s appropriate? For the most part we have latitude.
Our deals are based on being a vertical retailer.
But we partner with our licensed -- we have great license relationships so there is quite an open conversation.
We’re running those stores.
You're owning all the economics of that? Yes.
Just for clarity are you asking if we have - you are referring to our Disney products and Marvel products.
You’re not referring to that we have a Macy’s --?  Not referring to your own.
Okay.
All right so then that's the right answer.
Yes thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of James Fronda with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with our question.
Just on the Halloween items do you think that could have as a significant impact as the Nickelodeon items had? We launched our proprietary Halloween products as I mentioned in late September.
They really did quite well.
We had a nice response to them.
We had two specific Halloween products; a Werewolf and a Kitty.
The Werewolf sold out very quickly.
Once again you can go on - he is actually upon eBay right now for more than we’ve sold in for.
And our Kitty is just -- we’re pretty scattered on her.
So we sold totally clean on our Halloween products but they are nowhere near the volume of Nickelodeon Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles mostly because they have a really tight window of opportunity and they don’t have a national film.
But our Halloween offering isn’t just about those products kids dress up like all sorts of characters during Halloween and what we do is push the approach of everything from our superheroes to our princess suits products those are the number one costumes for kids and we have those in our products.
So although we lead with things like a werewolf or a purple kitty the Halloween story that will be really pick up next week isn’t reliant on these specific products.
Are you forecasting or expecting any shipment issues for the fourth quarter similar to what you had in the third quarter? Shipment issues you mean from a quantities perspective or a flow perspective? I'll try to answer.
I thought you said that the Ninja Turtle product could have been even better but there were some short-term shipment issues.
Well they weren’t shipment issues.
We didn’t order enough of initial quantities to meet the demand.
So there is always going to be possibly a little chase.
We are being a lot more as I mentioned in the call aggressive on a strategic basis with key stories based on our last few quarters of experience of being able to drive velocities at a higher rate than was expected.
I think we're better prepared for this quarter for some of the opportunities particularly given that the key licenses like Frozen we certainly have some idea about the potential success of Frozen given that it's been out for quite some time in other channels.
Shipment yeah so we feel that we're fairly well prepared for the fourth quarter.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll pause for just a moment to allow for any other questions.
Ms.
John there are no further questions.
I would like to turn the floor back to you for any closing and final remarks.
Yes.
So thank you for joining us today.
And in closing I just want to acknowledge that this is the last earnings call for Tina as CFO and thank her for 17 years of service in that role at Build-A-Bear Workshop.
Voin and I look forward to updating you when we report the fourth quarter results in February.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop Fourth Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you.
Ms.
Malkin you may now begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Sharon Price John CEO and Voin Todorovic CFO.
For today’s call Sharon will begin with a discussion of the fourth quarter results and outlook for 2015.
Voin will review the financials and then we will take your questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone's questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Members of the media who maybe on our call today should contact us after this conference call with your questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate Web site and a replay of our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before I turn the call over to management I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Sharon John CEO.
Thanks Allison.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
We were pleased to deliver solid results in 2014 and believe that our strong fourth quarter represented the convergence of the key strategies that we have been driving throughout the year.
For the fourth quarter we achieved a 9.9% increase in consolidated comparable store sales expended retail gross margin by 730 basis points and delivered net income of $13 million versus adjusted net income of $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 and an increase of $6 million.
In total for the 2014 fiscal year we achieved an increase of 1.6% in a consolidated comparable store sale on top of a 5.1% increase in fiscal 2013.
Expended retail gross margin by 450 basis points following a 220 basis point expansion in fiscal 2013 and delivered adjusted net income of $16.5 million versus adjusted net income of $3 million in fiscal 2013 an increase of $13.5 million.
The continued disciplined execution of our stated strategies is the primary contributor to our improved results for the quarter and for the year.
As we stated our plan for 2014 focused on four key strategies.
Optimizing our real estate refining our consumer value equation rationalizing our expenses structure and establishing the groundwork to further leverage our core competencies and brand equity.
Throughout the year we believe we have successfully and consistently delivered against these strategies.
First we have continued to execute the real estate optimization plan that was initiated in late 2012.
At that time 22% of our North American retail stores were unprofitable.
In contrast we ended 2014 with 98% of all stores generating a positive four-wall contribution margin.
Specifically we generated margin of over 19% in our North American stores which is almost double the margin we achieved in 2012.
The results show significant progress towards reaching our stated goal of a 20% to 22% four-wall profit margin.
Simultaneously with the closing of underperforming stores we have selectively opened stores in new format to take advantage of high-traffic tourist locations.
An example of our ongoing opportunistic approach to non-traditional real estate is the fourth quarter opening of five temporary shop-in-shops within key Macy's locations including the Herald Square in New York City flagship store.
This initiative not only added sales in the quarter but also increased our brand exposure to the hundreds of thousands of tourists and local consumers to visit Macy's as a part of their holiday tradition.
Second we have continued to successfully refine our consumer value equation.
We balanced the tactics of reducing discounts and taking selective price increases with an integrated brand building marketing effort designed to drive more profitable sales and elevate product stories.
During the fourth quarter our Merry Mission Christmas campaign was a great example of how this new brand building marketing approach can generate both sales and margin for our company.
We positioned our proprietary Merry Mission Reindeer product as intellectual property and buoyed it with exclusive advertising and a mobile app.
This approach elevated the perceived value of the line enabling parity retail pricing with our licensed offerings for the first time.
By doing this we increased average transaction value and added margin.
The app which extended our brand interaction by creating play beyond the plush had over 1.5 million game sessions.
This along with the strength of our other proprietary and licensed properties namely Disney's Frozen and Nickelodeon's Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles fueled our 9.9% comparable store sales increase in the fourth quarter.
The combination of real estate optimization and refinement of the consumer value equation was instrumental to our North American sales per square foot improvement of $409 up from $381 in 2013 moving us closer to our stated sales per square foot goal of $450 to $500.
Third we have continued to manage our expenses and successfully expand our margins.
The fourth quarter marked the first period where we were able to comprehensively value engineer our product offering from the planning stage versus cost reducing the line midway through the development process.
This effort combined with the strategic price increases help to drive a 730 basis point expansion in retail gross margin for the quarter and a 450 basis point expansion in retail gross margin for the year.
And fourth we started to lay the groundwork for the expansion and creation of new revenue streams.
In 2014 we expanded into new international markets for the first time in over three years with the opening of two stores by our franchise partner in Turkey.
We also elevated and expanded our franchise agreements in Germany adding two additional countries for future development Switzerland and Austria.
In addition we started to make key investments to upgrade our IT infrastructure and supply-chain with the goal of continuing to improve productivity and efficiency.
During the coming year we will begin to evolve our 2014 strategies and stated goal of sustained profitability to sustained profitable growth.
Through a combination of continuous improvement of current initiatives and strategic expansion into additive opportunities we will focus on the following four key strategies for 2015.
One expand into more places.
During the year we expect to open stores in high potential destinations such as tourist locations outlet malls and shop-in-shops.
Given that these types of locations tend to over index on key metrics versus our traditional mall stores.
In the back half of the year we will also start to update our aging store fleet and systematically rollout a new store design that has been developed to improve productivity while refreshing our brand look to be more relevant to the millennial consumer.
We will update stores with our new design primarily in conjunction with natural lease events including new store openings relocations and lease required remodels.
We will also continue to leverage the current momentum of our owned and operated retail business to enter new global markets with both a restructured franchise model and organic corporate expansion.
To this end we are pleased to share that we recently restructured the Nordic franchise arrangement which included converting the store in Tivoli Gardens one of Denmark's most popular tourist destinations into an owned and operated enterprise.
Two target more people.
We will continue to drive our core consumer business with an evolved segmentation product development and marketing strategy.
We will focus on initiatives that increase trial and repeat visits from the 3 to 12-year old core consumer who currently represents over 60% of our sales.
We will also strategically expand our effort to the over 12-year-old consumer base with a focus on less price-sensitive categories including giftable affinity and collectible products.
This consumer currently represents approximately 20% of our sales and has a tendency to over index for online purchases.
Therefore we expect to leverage our e-commerce business to efficiently target this segment.
Three develop more products.
We will continue to develop more high impact proprietary product stories coupled with elevated marketing programs that tend to garner higher price points drive add-on purchase and create play beyond the plush.
We also intend to strategically expand our brand presence and generate new sales and profit streams by launching an outbound licensing program.
Licensing will enable us to extend our brand reach with new offerings in relevant categories and will provide consumers with products beyond the plush.
Four drive more profitability.
We will continue to improve the value engineering of products to further optimize margins while implementing new systems that facilitate sales growth and increase efficiency.
We have also prioritized the incremental growth initiatives that I have just discussed to strategically expand our profitability.
These initiatives are comparatively margin accretive because they leverage existing infrastructure To date our first quarter 2015 comparable store sales are positive.
Key contributors are the impact of the redemption of holiday gift cards and the implementation of our strategies including the launch of fresh new offerings of proprietary and seasonal products and the continuing performance of key license properties that we accurately anticipated would remain relevant after the holiday sales period such as Frozen.
Of note this past Valentine's Day was the third largest single sales day in our history and represented the highest average daily store sales since 2006.
Buoyed by the holiday falling on a Saturday we further fueled this opportunity by leveraging our interactive personalized store experience to create an integrated marketing effort designed to appeal to kids parents grandparents and teens who wanted to create a furry friend for someone special in their life.
Our campaign called Share your Heart paid homage to our iconic and holiday appropriate heart ceremony an emphasized adding a personalized message to your furry friends with our record a sound accessory.
We also partnered with the Make-A-Wish Foundation for the second year in a row to enable our guests to share their hearts and their support for children with life threatening illnesses.
To drive our boys business during the Valentine period we built on our historically successful superhero product lines with the launch of a new Hulk Bear in advance of the May 1<sup>st</sup> release of Marvel's Avengers: Age of Ultron movie.
This super cute buffed up Hulk was also a natural giftable for our over 12-year old guests who wanted to send a message of strong affection for someone special.
To drive sales for the remainder of the first quarter we will take advantage of the Easter shift back to the first quarter with the introduction of an innovative brand building TV advertising campaigns timed with the Easter season and the arrival of our proprietary spring collection.
We will launch a new Build-A-Bear product line called Promise Pets a more realistic breed based plush primarily targeted to the older girl and boy segments.
Promise Pets is supported with an age appropriate free mobile app that allows the child to bring the product to life and virtually care for their new furry friend further building on our goal of extending brand interaction and creating play beyond the plush.
We will introduce the first of a series of limited edition collectible Disney Princess bears created to appeal to both the younger girl and the over 12 collector segments.
The initial offering will be the Cinderella Bear which we expect to benefit from heightened character awareness due to Disney's March 13<sup>th</sup> release of the live action Cinderella film.
And we will continue to drive our boys business by systematically launching new Avengers characters building up to the film's release.
Overall our outlook for the quarter remains positive and we continue to expect to leverage the momentum from 2014.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Voin to review our 2014 financials in more detail.
Thanks Sharon and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report our eighth consecutive quarter of improved operating results including positive comparable store sales expanded retail gross margin and increased net income for both the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2014 demonstrating the disciplined execution of our strategies.
Before I continue as a reminder fiscal 2014 was comprised of 53 weeks compared to 52 weeks in fiscal 2013.
The 53<sup>rd</sup> week is included in our 2014 fourth quarter results.
For the fourth quarter net retail sales were $130 million compared to $106 million in the prior year an increase of 23% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Consolidated comparable store sales rose 9.9% driven by 12% increase in transaction value with gains in both average unit retail and units per transaction partially offset by a decrease in transactions as we experienced lower conversion on foot traffic.
By geography comparable store sales increased 8.5% in North America and 14% in Europe.
Comparable store sales are compared to the 14-week period ended January 4 2014.
Our e-commerce business increased by 9% excluding the impact of foreign exchange with continued improvement in profitability.
The fourth quarter also benefited from an adjustment to deferred revenue related to our loyalty program which was approximately 1% of net retail sales for the quarter.
Retail gross margin expanded 730 basis points to 52.2%.
This was a result of a 420 basis point increase in merchandise margin and improved efficiencies in the supply chain.
The remaining 310 basis points of expansion was attributable to leverage and fixed occupancy expenses driven by improved sales performance including the impact of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week and the deferred revenue adjustment.
SG&amp;A was $56 million or 42.9% of total revenues including $1 million in management transition asset impairment and store closing expenses.
This compares to $44 million or 40.9% of total revenues last year which included $1.5 million in management transition store closing and asset impairment expenses.
Excluding these costs SG&amp;A was 42.1% of total revenues in the fourth quarter this year an increase of 260 basis points.
The additional expenses were related to increased performance-based compensation and higher investment in elevated brand marketing to drive store traffic.
Adjusted net income per diluted share improved to $.73 from $.40 last year.
For the fiscal year net retail sales were $388 million compared to $373 million last year an increase of 3.4% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Our consolidated comparable store sales rose 1.6% primarily driven by a 7.3% increase in transaction value.
That included gains in both average unit retail and units per transaction partially offset by a decrease in transactions.
By geography comparable store sales grew 1.4% in North America and 2.3% in Europe.
E-commerce sales increased 3.5% excluding the impact of foreign exchange with significant improvement in profitability.
Retail gross margins for the year increased 450 basis points to 45.6% driven by 370 points of expansion in merchandise margin and improved efficiencies in the supply chain.
The remaining 80 points of expansion came from leverage on fixed occupancy expenses driven by improved sales performance including the impact of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week and the deferred revenue adjustment.
SG&amp;A was $164 million or 41.9% of revenue including $2 million of management transition asset impairment and store closing expenses.
This compares to $161 million or 42.4% last year which included $5 million of management transition store closing and asset impairment expenses.
Excluding these costs SG&amp;A was 41.3% a 30 basis point increase.
Pretax income improved to $16 million from a pretax loss of $2 million in fiscal 2013 and $18 million increase year-over-year.
Income tax expense was $1.7 million for an effective tax rate of 10.4%.
The 2014 tax expense and effective tax rate reflect the full release of the valuation allowances in foreign jurisdictions as well as the portion of the U.S.
valuation allowance.
We currently expect to see a reversal of the remaining U.S.
valuation allowance in fiscal 2015 which would result in an overall tax benefit for the year.
Net income improved to $14 million or $.81 per diluted share compared to net loss of $2 million or $.13 per share last year.
Adjusted net income improved to $16.5 million or $.93 per diluted share compared to last year's adjusted net income of $3 million or $.17 per diluted share.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At year-end consolidated cash was $65 million up $21 million from last year.
The increase in cash is attributable to our improved operating performance and reduced capital spend.
The majority of our cash at year-end was domiciled outside the U.S.
In addition during the year we had no borrowings on our credit facility.
During 2014 we repurchased 327 000 shares of our common stock for $3.4 million leaving approximately $3.8 million of availability under the current stock repurchase program.
For the 2014 fiscal year capital expenditures totaled $11 million primarily related to the refresh and opening of stores and IT infrastructure.
This compares to $19 million in the prior year.
Depreciation and amortization was $18 million in fiscal 2014.
For fiscal 2015 we expect capital expenditures to be in the range of $20 million-$25 million.
As Sharon mentioned we will begin to update our aging store fleet and systematically rollout the new store design that has been developed to improve our productivity while refreshing our brand look.
The majority of the store spend is expected to occur in the back half of 2015.
Separately we will continue to invest in IT infrastructure throughout the year.
Depreciation and amortization is expected to be $16 million-$18 million.
Consolidated inventories at quarter end totaled $52 million compared to $50 million last year an increase of 3.4%.
This change was driven by an approximate 10% increase in units partially offset by a decrease in average unit cost as we realize benefits from our ongoing value engineering initiative.
The increase also partially reflects the proactive adjustment of our manufacturing lead times in order to mitigate anticipated first quarter disruption of shipments at West Coast port which positioned us well for the start of 2015.
Finally as you model 2015 the full-year should reflect an adjustment for the 2014 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
For modeling purposes this adjustment should represent an average week of sales with a higher flow through.
Also note due to the timing of Easter falling on April 5 this year the majority of the sales for this holiday will occur in this year's first quarter versus the second quarter last year.
And now I would like to turn the call over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Stephanie Wissink with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead with your question.
Voin I will start with my follow-up first and then Sharon a question for you.
On the product margins that you mentioned I think up 400 basis points particularly from the value engineering.
Can you talk a little bit more about what the balance of the year might look like in terms of opportunities on the [raw] [ph] product cost? And then Sharon my question for you just coming off of multiple days of toy fair this weekend there is a lot of talk around the entertainment slate for 2015.
Could you help us look beyond the first quarter beyond Avengers and talk a little bit about what you see coming through the balance of the year? Thank you.
Okay.
From the gross margin perspective we are very pleased with the performance that we have seen in Q4.
We expect to continue to see some of the pricing benefit that we are seeing in margin expansion in the first half of the year.
As you can realize from the stuff that we reported over last few quarters our margin has expanded significantly more in the second half of the year.
So as we are starting to annualize those things in 2015 there is going to be wraparound impact of that margin expansion and pricing activities that we took last year.
Yes Stephanie.
So the entertainment slate yes clearly having great partners is a key part of our strategy and we have done a great job at building those relationships over time.
This particular year is a very powerful year for us.
I mentioned that we the Cinderella collectible doll.
A collectible bear that will be out for the live action film.
That is an important new approach for us in that it will be an $80 product in a limited edition.
So we really are pushing into the strategy that we discussed earlier about the collectible business the affinity business the over 12 opportunity.
And the product is all inclusive.
So it will come in its own unique package with an exclusive dress wig shoes etcetera.
So we are really excited about that.
And then we do follow on with Avengers.
We also have Minions for the summer.
We are very excited about that.
We have a lot of good early buzz on that.
We have new product for Frozen which we expect to continue to be powerful.
And then in the fourth quarter we have Star Wars.
Our next question comes from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
I was wondering if we could talk about the increase of value of transactions.
Is that driven by more add-ons like clothes and shoes or is that from selling more higher priced bears? It's a combination of both things Gerrick.
As we mentioned we have taken selective price increases basically in two different strategies I think we have talked about before.
One being selective price increases as it relates to licensed products in some of our key proprietary products taking it to a higher price point.
And then the price banding where we took our entry-level price point from $10 to $12.
But we also have with the marketing of comprehensive story we are seeing add-on purchases increase as well.
So it's not just the dollars per transaction it's also the unit dollars and it's the units per transaction.
Okay.
Great.
So what's the percent of your bear sales now that are licensed versus proprietary and how does that compare to say last year or maybe even a couple of years before that? Yes.
I think that we have mentioned in the past that we have a range that we look at some 30% to 40% this year.
With the powerful license roster that we had it was on the higher end of the range and certainly hits the top edges in the fourth quarter when you have the combination of a Frozen which is one of the biggest licenses to ever hit in a single year and Turtles.
But for the year we are just on the higher end of the range.
In the past it's been in that same range down the 30% up to 40% depending on the power of the film or the property itself.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Alex Fuhrman with Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed with your question.
Congratulations on a great year.
I was hoping to get a little bit of more clarity on what comps could look like in the first quarter.
I mean it sounds like they are positive so far and obviously you are going to get that benefit from the calendar shift of Easter.
I mean what does that kind of end up looking like then for Q1 and then how should we think about Q2 with the calendar shift as well.
Yes.
So we are positive year-to-date.
We did have a great Valentine's and we actually had a good January given the increase in the gift card sales coming out of the fourth quarter of last year.
We feel very good about the quarter.
We don’t give exact guidance on quarter-to-quarter comps but the shifts should be beneficial to us.
I will just caution that like a lot of retailers we have experienced some hit and miss with some of the weather.
We have managed just to fight through it thus far.
And although I think we have planned very robustly to manage through some of the port issues if they remain chronic or become more acute we are not completely immune.
But we have done quite well on mitigating it.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks.
And then as a follow-up it was very interesting to hear what you mentioned about Denmark.
Was there something kind of unique about that franchise that made that an interesting opportunity to bring that in house or is that perhaps maybe the international strategy? As you think about new organic stores you are also potentially going to be bringing more comprehensive markets in-house? I think that it's really an extension of our current North American strategy in that when you think about what Build-A-Bear can really mean to people it's about marking moments in time creating memories.
And that same sort of over index on key metrics and tourist locations applies also to doors like a Tivoli Gardens where for those of you that aren't familiar is a huge tourist attraction in Northern Europe for both in Denmark and some Northern German and Belgians.
So it was an extremely successful door for us some years ago up in the $5 million-$6 million range that had not been performing at those levels and we had an opportunity to renegotiate some of that deal with our Nordic partner and take that to an owned and operated enterprise which we felt would be an excellent opportunity for us.
And it's basically just an extension of the strategy because the same key metrics hold in place.
So we are pretty excited about that.
And we are looking at restructuring as we mentioned some of those franchise deals in key countries.
And if it makes sense for us financially and strategically we will continue to do that.
It also leverages our U.K.
operations.
So it wasn’t really outside the scope of what we would be able to do in the normal course of business.
We are managing it with our general manager of the U.K.
Okay.
Great.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Oh and Alex sorry.
I am just going to add on you had a second part of that question on the second quarter.
Second quarter has historically been whether Easter is in it or Easter is not our smallest quarter.
It is hard to cover on Easter I mean on second quarter particularly with an Easter shift.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg McKinley with Dougherty &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
So Sharon you talked a little bit about your promotions strategy in your product offerings here for Q1.
Can you tell us a little bit about what this TV marketing effort is going to be? How that compares and contrasts with what you have done in the past? And then just want to make sure I understand what are these products these Promise Pets? And how many additional limited edition Disney collectibles are out there? Is this sort of a staged product line that we will see unfold over months of quarters? Yes.
Okay.
So the TV strategy.
One of the things that we were careful to do as we restructured the value equation for the consumer was not just pull out the discounts and increase pricing without balancing that with increased marketing.
Brand building marketing.
Because you have to give and take a little bit there.
You have to balance it in a way that ultimately you increase your margins as well by not spending so much that you made up the difference or lost the difference.
But you need to go back in and speak with the consumer again in a different way.
So that brand building over arching marketing story and you will see a really great example of that as we go into the Easter timeframe is resetting who we are and introducing ourselves to the millennial in a fresh new way.
Very important.
But that’s just one arm of our marketing strategy.
The second arm is to build these stories not just sell skews.
We are not just churning out stuffed bears.
This is a story building opportunity for us.
It gives you a hook with the marketing it helps to drive add-on purchases it creates efficiencies in your marketing.
And we have seen that that’s working.
It worked very well with Reindeer story.
So we believed in the Reindeer story and planned into something that had a broader opportunity in both scope and scale.
So Promise Pets can be a perennial for us.
It's not seasonal.
It appeals to both boys and girls and it is a little bit of a different approach then the type of animal that we have had on our shelves in the past.
It's not as cartoonish.
It's pretty realistic but really cute.
And you will be able to get your free app and download it.
And that particular animal whatever breed that you have purchased comes to life on this app.
And the kid gets to interact and pet and see it and care for the pet in a virtual way but also have this tactile real friend that they can play with carry with them sleep with.
Which is an important part of childhood.
And kids still like to have that tactile interaction it's not all virtual.
So we believe that we can bring together the best of both worlds.
We expect that we will be able to continue to update Promise Pets throughout the year and in the coming years with new breeds just churning through new breeds.
On your third question which was the princess question collectible question the answer is yes.
We do expect to have a continuous cadence of collectible dolls.
And right now we are doing it in a limited edition way which is 30 000 collectible dolls of each one of the different princesses that we are planning.
We are working hard in conjunction with Disney to plan these introduction in conjunction with some other entertainment opportunity that they may have slated or marketing that they may have slated around the princesses.
But you will see us start to bring these out as a series.
And when you say as a series is it a princess series or we could see a series of these with other types of Disney property? Well right now it's a princess series.
But clearly if this works for us and it's successful we would continue it in fresh new way.
Our next question comes from the line of James Fronda with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Just on I guess low overall oil prices do you think that had a significant impact for the fourth quarter and do you think it will have a big impact for you guys in 2015? Yes so like we got a little bit of a benefit but it's really not significant and we really don’t expect it to be significant in 2015.
Okay.
On either the top or bottom line correct? Correct.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from the line of Gerrick Johnson with BMO.
Please proceed with your question.
Question on Easter.
It falls on the 5<sup>th</sup> and New York City schools are off the week after.
Isn't that when you usually get the nice lift is when the kids are off from school.
So I am kind of wondering how it's more of a first quarter event as opposed to second quarter? Okay.
Good point.
But the first quarter sales of the pre-Easter product when kids wake up and have something in a basket.
That’s going to happen in first quarter.
And we do quite a few [bunny] [ph] sales.
So all of those sales will come before.
The spring break should buoy us in the second quarter assuming kids don’t stay in schools like they did last year because of the weather.
And they lost so many school days last year that we actually lost a lot of our spring breaks particularly in the polar vortex affected areas which did affect our sales in a negative way in second quarter.
So there might be an opposite effect for us this year assuming that kids stay out of school for the spring breaks.
Okay.
That makes a lot of sense.
And then on the new remodeled stores that will be appealing to millennial moms.
What about these new stores will make them appealing to those moms? Well we have done a complete brand refresh which takes -- from the logo through the color palette.
That brings us sort of up-to-date.
If you look at where we have been in the past from color palette to logo to typeface it looked as if it was created in the 1990s and it was.
And we haven't really touched the brand since the beginning.
And most major -- most great brands do continuously update and tweak their brand and brand look.
We have also re-looked at the entire process and flow to make sure that people get through the process in a way that may feel like that each stop is beneficial an exciting and that we are driving either affinity in some way or an add-on purchase and to make it more efficient for us.
And we are also interestingly and I mentioned this at the ICR presentation we are taking what is probably our most iconic most eye-catching element of the store which is our [stuffer] [ph].
Certainly the most unique element of our store.
Pulling it up towards the front of the store and making it a lot more prominent to make sure that people know that something is fresh and new inside.
So I think when you get into one of these stores and when we start to remodel we will be sure and tell you guys where they are located.
I think you will see how big a [stop] [ph] that it really feels different but in fresh without losing the core essence of who we are.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Greg McKinley with Dougherty.
Please proceed with your question.
Sharon we talked about launching outbound licensing.
Can you give us some examples of how that may show up? What should we be looking for and when? Yes.
You should be looking for things more in the fourth quarter of this year.
And clearly our priorities would be categories where we have been successful in the past.
We have had out-licensing in the past in categories that are close in to our brand equity.
So some of the things that we have done well in the past with certain segments of apparel arts and crafts snack foods and candy.
And we are all in the process with great partners.
We have identified partners.
It just takes a while to develop these products and get them out on the shelf.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then it seems like your seasonal stores were I am guessing highly successful not just in terms of generating revenues but exposing the brand.
Can you or will you help us understand the degree to which those impacted your Q4 revenues? Well it was only 5 shop-in-shops.
So it was comparatively not that material in a purest revenue form.
But we feel we believe that it was material in an impact way.
And now we also believe that we have exposed the brand to a lot of new consumers.
We are still working with Macy's.
They are wonderful partners of ours.
And it's another one of those ways where we can integrate and elevate relationships.
You probably know we for years have had the Macy's float in the Thanksgiving Day parade.
And it helps us to pull that whole story together and helps us to have presence in areas that would otherwise be very difficult in some of these downtown core big cities if they weren't for a shop-in-shop deal on a percent rent basis.
Thank you.
There are no additional questions at this time.
I will turn the floor back to Sharon John for additional comments.
Thanks guys.
Really appreciate everyone joining us today and we look forward to updating you on our progress in the first quarter 2015 when we have our next call.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop First Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today Ms.
Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you.
You may now begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Sharon Price John CEO and Voin Todorovic CFO.
For today’s call Sharon will begin with a discussion of our first quarter results and the performance against the key priorities we identified at the start of the year.
Voin will review the financials and then we will take your questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone’s questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Members of the media who maybe on our call today should contact us after this call with your questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website and a replay of both hour call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before I turn the call over to management I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Sharon John CEO.
Thanks Allison.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
The first quarter of fiscal 2015 marks our 9th consecutive quarter of improved operating results driven by an increase in consolidated comparable stores sales of 2% a 330 basis-point expansion in retail gross margin a 33% increase in pretax profit to $7.1 million from $5.3 million last year and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.49 compared to $0.29 last year.
The quarter’s comparable store sales growth was led by a double-digit increase in Europe balanced by a flat performance in North America.
The growth was driven by an increase in both dollars per transaction and unit per transaction countered by composed Valentine’s headwind and overall traffic and conversion primarily in North America.
On our call in mid February we noted all geographies had posted solid positive store sales and from year-to-date buoyed by seasonal gift card redemptions in January and a strong Valentine’s Day performance.
Not unlike recent retail reports however during the post Valentine period and leading up to Easter adverse weather became a factor in North America.
We rebounded to positive comps for the key Easter week resulting in a flat comp performance for the quarter.
Overall we believe our positive consolidated comparable store sales which were led by areas that were less affected by weather particularly in Europe as well as our continuing improvement in operating results point toward the ongoing impact we are making with our disciplined management of the business as well as the elevation of our product and marketing campaigns.
For example our Valentine’s Share your Heart marketing campaign resulted in the highest average sales per square foot on a single day since 2006.
We leveraged our evolved segmentation strategy to drive business across all of our key consumer groups while enhancing the story with a heart-filled cause marketing tie-ins specifically our Share your Heart called action paid homage to our iconic and hearty appropriate heart ceremony and emphasized adding a personalized message to your free friends with our popular recorded sound accessory.
The dedicated multi-faceted marketing including TV advertising not only helped to increase our total business but drove an increase sounds business by double-digit for the period contributing to our overall increase in UPT.
As a part of the campaign we expanded our U.S.
partnership with the Make-A-Wish foundation to include the UK and Canada.
This brand right relationship and enabled our guests to share their hearts and their support for children with life threatening illnesses by making a donation to make a wish.
Overall we facilitated a $0.5 dollars in consumer donations indicating a strong consumer connection to the campaign.
We also orcastrated a number of very special Build-A-Bear wishes for these kids in need.
As we stated during 2015 we intend to transition our overall objective form sustained profitability to sustained profitable growth.
To do this we are staying focused on the plan we have outlined to evolve the company that includes continuous improvement in businesses where we are already starting to show success while simultaneously establishing the building blocks for strategic and profitable expansion of the top line from current and new areas of development.
As a part of this ongoing disciplined approach we have articulated our more time score for strategic plan that outlines specific opportunities for both our continuous improvement and strategic expansion initiatives.
Progress for the more time score plan includes one more prices.
On the continuous improvement side using our data driven cohort strategy we have identified store groupings such as stores and outlet locations that tend to over-index our key metrics.
With that insight in mind starting in July we have plans to add a number of new stores and outlet centers near key tourist destinations including Hilton Head South Carolina; Williamsburg Virginia and Rehoboth Beach Delaware.
In addition to the sales growth that should come from added doors we expect our reinvented merchandising approach which includes an outlet specific value offering to become an important link in our new product lifecycle process designed to improve inventory turns and profitability.
Also in July we expect to open a new store in New York City on the ground floor of the world famous Empire State Building.
This high traffic location has been selected in order to continue to service our New York City consumer base and tourist trade in light of the June closure of the Fifth Avenue store.
Separately we recently revealed a new break frame [ph] store design that incorporates evolved branding and is focused on elevating the consumer experience while improving overall store productivity.
We are planning to update between 10 and 15 stores in this design in the back half of the year with the first location opening in August.
The selection of the size is primarily driven by natural lease activity and includes locations in both the U.S.
and the UK.
Included in our plan is our multimillion dollar flagship store in the mall of America with the grand reopening scheduled for October.
On the strategic expansion front in more places we have promising early results for the Tivoli Gardens store in Copenhagen Denmark which was converted to an owned location from a franchise in February.
As a reminder Tivoli Gardens is one of northern Europe’s popular holiday destinations making this move consistent with our overall strategy of organic corporate expansion into international markets as well as global development of tourist locations.
Two more people: From a continuous improvement perspective we have steadily improved our boys segment while maintaining a solid offering of hot property to the first quarter including Nickelodeon successful Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Toothless from Dreamworks How to Train Your Dragon film.
The Boys business was augmented throughout the first quarter with the introduction of our superhero bears designed for Marvel’s Avengers Age of Ultron movie.
The collection has also benefitted from the studio marketing that led us to the May 1st film review.
On the strategic expansion side our first offering in series of limited edition Disney Princess Bears Cinderella launched late in the quarter in conjunction with Disney’s mid-March live action movie release.
This collectible series appeals to our over 12 affinity consumers as well as younger girls.
Supported with an exclusive service model and packaged as complete ensemble including her signature song gown and heart [ph] we have sold thousands of Cinderella bears worldwide thus far for $80 each successfully stretching our previously assumed pricing boundary.
Three more products: As we focused on continuous improvement on the product side by developing and marketing a variety of new stories with enhanced feature designed to extend the play beyond the plush versus selling individual skews.
We believe our expanded product selection and integrated story telling approach to marketing is contributing to the increases in both our units and dollars per transaction as well as elevating our consumer engagement.
For example following the Easter weekend we successfully introduced our proprietary Promise Pet collection of adorable puppies and kittens with strong initial consumer response from the targeted segment of older girls and boys.
The Promise Pets mobile app virtually brings the new furry friend to life and has delivered over 100 000 unique game sessions in the first month exceeding our expectations.
Initial reads show that the UPTs and the DPTs on transactions including a Promise Pet are above average and specify to remain strong as we deliver a variety of new animals to update the collection in the back half of the year.
In terms of strategic expansion and the products beyond the plush we have recently signed a number of outbound licensing agreements to sell Build-A-Bear branding merchandise in the including fashions confections snack food and non-competitive toy categories.
We expect to continue to expand the offering with key partners in relevant areas and to realize some limited revenue in the back half of the fiscal year with a more meaningful impact in 2016.
Four more profitability.
During the quarter retail gross margin expanded 330 basis points and profitability rose over 30% as we continued to improve our process in areas including value engineering and supply chain management.
We are currently updating some key systems including a new merchandise planning tool which we expect to help improve our product forecasting accuracy as well as provide support for our consumer segment and store cohort strategies.
On the strategic expansion front we expect to further improve profitability by prioritizing the incremental growth initiatives that I’ve just discussed while leveraging our ecommerce business to target the gifting affinity and collector consumer segments.
In 2015 our plans are to upgrade our POS system moving us one-step closer to having an omnichannel solution.
This upgrade will allow us to integrate our growing and profitable web business with our retail model to systematically complete ecommerce transaction in our stores as well as online and through mobile platform.
Looking forward to second quarter and beyond we are pleased to share some insights on a few best-in-class entertainment licenses.
As we’ve highlighted these powerful partnerships with organizations like Disney are an important part of our overall strategy as they provide Build-A-Bear with an opportunity to broaden our consumer base stay fresh and relevant in a dynamic media driven marketplace leverage built and awareness of intellectual property and marketing spend for blockbuster films market stories to drive add-on purchases and enjoy premium pricing on select products.
In addition to providing our make-your-own versions of popular characters like Toothless from How to Train Your Dragon in many cases we collaborate with our partners to create uniquely Build-A-Bear interpretations of characters such as our highly successful Elsa and Anna Bear from Disney’s Frozen film.
Additionally we generally benefit from the broader story that also includes fashions and other accessories to drive up the total transactional value.
For example in 2014 average value of a transaction that including Anna Bear with over $85 which is more than twice the average transaction value for our stores overall.
With that in mind we would like to update you on a few license collections we will be launching in the next few months.
First prior to the July 10th U.S.
premiere Minions a spin-off of the hit Despicable Me franchise from Universal Pictures we will launch three Minion characters.
We expect these characters to have wide appeal across all of our consumer segments and geographies.
Second we are partnering with MGA Entertainment to introduce a very special collection of Lalaloopsy plush dolls targeting our younger girls.
As the popular TV show notes Lalaloopsy characters magically come to life when the last stitch is sewn which of course is the perfect fit for the Build-A-Bear workshop experience.
Our launch will be in June to coincide with MGA’s multi-faceted celebration of Lalaloopsy’s fifth birthday.
Finally we recently returned from the Star Wars celebration 2015 event where we received great feedback on our upcoming Star Wars classic lines based on the original film series.
For the first time Build-A-Bear is offering a make-your-own version of Chewbacca as well as signature Star Wars bear.
This fall we will offer a compelling collection of new products inspired by the eagerly anticipated film Star Wars The Force Awakens.
On a final note in April we named Chris Hurt as our new Chief Operations Officer overseeing our global company-owned retail operations.
Chris has over 20 years of retail experience and most recently served as senior Vice President of North America for American Eagle Outfitters where he was responsible for over a 1 000 retail locations in the U.S.
Canada and Mexico.
Chris is a strong leader and is passionate about retail.
And we believe his first 10 retail operations experience will be instrumental for us as we work toward achieving our long term adjectives.
Overall our year-to-date consolidated comp is flat and trending positive post the anniversary of last year’s Easter on April 20th.
This is consistent with our expectations that May and June are the larger months of the second quarter when Easter falls in the first quarter.
We believe we have an exciting cadence of launches planned for the balance of 2015.
These include a number of new proprietary stories as well as products associated with some of this year’s most anticipated movie events.
This line up combined with disciplined execution should position us to deliver on our stated objective of sustain profitability while we continue to establish the groundwork to evolve our adjective to sustain profitable growth.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Voin to review our first quarter financials in more detail.
Thanks Sharon and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report positive comparable store sales expanded retail gross margin and increased net income for the first quarter of 2015 demonstrating the ongoing effective execution of our strategy.
Before I review the results this morning I would like to discuss two items that impacted our performance in the first quarter.
First there was a one week calendar shift in the quarter due to the addition of a 53rd week in fiscal 2014.
Comparable store sales were not impacted as we adjusted for the shift and used an equal number of weeks to the calculation.
That said it did create a tougher comparison for us from a total revenue perspective.
The second item relates to currency losses due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar versus the British pound and Canadian dollar.
On the one hand we saw gains and losses as we translated the sales cost of goods and SG&amp;A of our international operations back into dollars.
This lowered first quarter net retail sales by $1.9 million but was not material to our bottom line.
We also saw an impact from the re-measurement of the balance sheet based on the end of the quarter exchange rate.
This has a negative impact of $1.3 million on net income or $0.08 per diluted share.
Turning to our first quarter results.
Net retail sales were $92 million compared to $97 million in the fiscal 2014 first quarter.
The lower sales are primarily due to the shift in the fiscal calendar and the foreign currency impact.
Consolidated comparable stores sales increased 2% driven by a 9% increase in dollars per transaction and the 3% increase in unit per transaction partially offset by a decrease in traffic and conversion.
By geography comparable store sales were flat in North America and increased 13% in Europe.
Our ecommerce business increased by 9% excluding the impact of foreign exchange it delivered the continued improvement in profitability.
Retail gross margin improved by 330 basis points to 46.8% with the majority of the expansion coming from enhanced merchandise margin supply chain and reduced discounts which offset the deleverage of fixed occupancy expenses due to the lower sales volume.
The strengthening of the U.S.
dollar negatively impacted gross margin by 10 basis points.
SG&amp;A was $37.2 million or 39.9% of total revenues and included $1.5 million currency loss.
This compares to SG&amp;A of $37.8 million or 38.6% of total revenues including a $200 000 currency gain in the first quarter last year.
Pretax income improved to $7.1 million compared to $5.3 million in the first quarter last year and increased $3.5 million excluding the impact of currency gains and losses.
Income tax expense was $230 000 for an effective tax rate of 3.3%.
As mentioned on our fourth quarter call our tax expense and effective tax rate reflect a reversal of the U.S.
valuation allowance.
We continue to expect to record a reversal of the remaining U.S.
valuation allowance in fiscal 2015 which would result in an overall tax benefit for the year.
For modeling purposes we are suggesting to use no tax expense or benefit this year.
Net income per diluted share improved to $0.40; adjusted net income per diluted share improved to $0.49 compared to adjusted net income per diluted share of $0.29 last year.
Turning to the balance sheet at quarter end consolidated cash was $55 million up $13 million from last year.
This is primarily attributable to improved operating performance and our decreased capital spend partially offset by share repurchases.
We have no borrowings on our credit facility.
During the first quarter we repurchased 154 000 shares of our common stock for $3 million which left approximately $7 million of availability under the current stock repurchase program.
Consolidated inventories at quarter-end totaled $51 million compared to $44 million last year.
The $7 million increase is primarily due to a combination of the impact of lower sales due to adverse weather in North America the timing of receipts and the arrival of new proprietary product stories to drive post Easter sales.
We feel good about the composition and quality of our inventory as we enter the second quarter.
Capital expenditures were $3 million in the first quarter.
For fiscal 2015 we continue to expect capital expenditures to be $20 million to $25 million.
These expenditures will support our previously discussed store refresh program and the ongoing investments in IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization is expected to be $16 million to $18 million.
In the quarter we delivered our ninth consecutive quarter of improved operating results based on our continued disciplined execution of our stated strategies.
I am pleased with these results in light of headwinds within the quarter including adverse weather impact in North America the one week calendar shift due to the addition of a 53rd week in fiscal 2014 and negative impact of foreign currency.
Looking forward the second quarter has historically been the smallest quarter of the year.
However we believe we are positioned to continue our improved operating performance for the balance of the year.
And now I would like to turn the call over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
We ask that all callers limit themselves to one question and one follow-up.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Steph Wissink with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a question for you Sharon and maybe Voin as a follow-up on the outlicensing opportunities.
As you said to evaluate some of those can you help us prioritize where we should start to look for some of those opportunities in the marketplace? And then separately with respect to the financial impact should we assume that there is some sort of upfront in cash received that is some sort of guarantee around the licenses or the royalty stream and then how should we think about that over time in terms of just the financial or the P&amp;L effect of outlicensing? Thank you.
We wanted to share today some of the things that we are doing on the outlicensing front; we do have some exciting news that we shared in the script about some key categories that we’re moving into.
We’ll share a little more detail at the end of second quarter.
A lot of these are actually verticals to sell if I share where they’re going to show up you’ll actually know who the deal is with and we’re not quite ready to express some of that so particularly on fashion.
A lot of the confections will begin to show up actually at Build-A-Bear which is pretty exciting as well; we also see some of the confection as an opportunity to enhance our party solution.
And then the non-competitive toy area will be a mass merch as a part of a bigger offering that a company has but we are just one SKU and a bigger sort of toy category that they have which is exciting.
And we’ll be sharing some more specifics again at the end of second quarter.
On the financial impact side there is not many material significant guarantees with these particular deals not that there couldn’t be in the future.
I would think about it as it flows from a normal royalty base where we get that income usually the quarter after you see the retail sales.
Our next question comes from Alex Fuhrman with Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed with your question.
I wanted to talk little bit about the international business and specifically your plan to look at bringing some more of your franchisee operated stores in-house.
I am curious of the 70 odd stores that are currently franchisee run how many of them are in locations that you would want; is it 10 or 20 that we might be talking about or potentially the whole lot their? And can you give us some insight into how the franchisees have been comping over the last year or so in 2014 and specifically that in Q4 and Q1 as they have been roughly comping in line with your international business or any insight there would be helpful? As we mentioned I believe last year we’ve been pretty consistent with it.
Our international franchise business just as it is in a lot of companies tend to follow what we sometime to refer to as the mother shift The North American business has – we’re now gone through the beginning and we are getting on the other side of a retail turnaround where we met from 22% of our doors being unprofitable to now less than 2% of our doors being unprofitable.
We have a very specific strategy that we follow to do that.
Now as we are on stable ground if you might say in the North American area the franchisees are following suite with a lot of this retail approach to the improvement of our profitability and their store health.
So we have worked very closely with them.
And you are going to see some churn in those doors as we start to stabilize and move them to more desirable locations.
That being said even though we do have some locations that are more tourist driven that’s not the overarching strategy; those are doors that tend to as we mentioned over-perform but the core of your business must remain.
And just like in the North American malls with our B malls and our A malls to do the everyday business that happens where people live and not just visit.
So there will be a balanced approach to the way we think about the real estate model in these franchises.
And we do expect after the stabilization occurs and we look at how we want to franchise we’re looking at a number of different strategic approaches as we mentioned and especially start to see some store growth in some of these markets as well as additional franchise partners being signed on over the next year or two.
On the comp same situation right? It varies by market because the ability in those -- economics in those market as well some of the ability of the franchise partners has varied over the course of time.
And as we mentioned last year during -- I believe it was the third quarter call we had we’d resigned a new partner in Germany for those very reasons and now we are with a best in class partner in Germany and we’re starting to see some improvements in those areas.
So it’s a market by market approach that we look at and we have some that are in negative comps and some that are in positive comps.
And we’re working to get us all moving in the right direction.
But I think that the model that we’ve created the successful model that we’ve created in North America now gives us franchise partners something to look at on how to move this business forward.
And we’re creating some pretty powerful relationships.
I’m excited about the international business frankly.
And can you give us an update on your New York City store in terms of the profitability there and your thoughts as that lease comes up for renewal? Well as I mentioned in the call the store does close in June.
So the Fifth Avenue store will be closed in June end of June first of July; we close at the last of June.
And in conjunction with that closure we’re opening a store in the Empire State Building on the ground floor and that’s going to be a percent deal.
The top line volumes will vary clearly.
The store on Fifth Avenue is a over 20 000 square foot store and the Empire State Building floor is much more traditional 3 000 square foot type location.
But we by definition I believe being a percent business will probably show the more profitability.
Our next question comes from Greg McKinley - Dougherty &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Sharon I wonder if you could talk to us a little bit about how your key brands performed.
I guess in the latter part of the quarter you mentioned some weather headwinds but anything notable around consumer response to your most important license brands.
And then Voin I think you had indicated your same store sales included a 9% dollar per transaction plus 3% units but then maybe some lower conversion which I guess you suggested has probably continued a little bit here in the second quarter.
Maybe just some color on why you think that’s occurring and the be extent you think that’s a concern or risk or how you feel about that? On the key brands we were -- from a balance perspective we were quite pleased with the first quarter sales in-house in terms of the balance between proprietary products and the license product including Frozen and Marvel.
On the license question specifically Frozen continued to perform; we anticipated that it would; we bought long into it but because we believed it was continuing to perform after the holiday season and we’ve been able to take advantage of that momentum.
Marvel also has been a nice movie for us as a new introduction.
In the first quarter of course it started it really gain momentum as the movie advertising and marketing started to hit and right the movie came out in May 1st as you know.
So we’re continuing to actually gaining momentum through the first part of the second quarter with the Marvel story.
But the key licenses that we had for the end of the fourth quarter inclusive of Frozen Toothless and Turtles continued to perform.
On the proprietary front the vast majority of what we sell through the Valentine’s time period which is a core holiday for us is our proprietary products; it’s all about our Valentine story.
And that Valentine story as I mentioned was about adding a build your own sound which really drove up our dollars per transaction and unit per transaction because all of the products -- many of the products went out would be with the sound.
And then our Easter product which is also a key holiday time period for us key sales period is proprietary.
So as well as our license business did our proprietary business did equally as well.
And when you look how the mix is compared to the fourth quarter we actually have an increase in proprietary products versus license product as a composition of the sales in the first quarter.
On your comp question I’ll let Voin answer the first part of that and then I’ll add some color to it.
Like as we mentioned we had some strong impact from the dollar per transactions 9%; our units per transaction were up 3% during the quarter.
We are seeing the similar results across all geographies.
What’s offsetting that is slower traffic compared to the last year as well as we are still having some conversion challenges.
And I’ll let Sharon speak about some of the more detail around the things that we are working on to really solve that challenge for us currently.
We started to see some slight conversion impact at the tail end of fourth quarter; I think we mentioned this and started to dig in.
And usually when you look at conversion situation where you have your DPTs and your UPTs going up some of the first hypotheses are as you’re pricing too high particularly since you’ve taken some recent pricing increases are you labor models right how’s your consumer satisfaction.
And so we’ve dug deep into those areas.
We actually did intercept interviews on the pricing question and now included that as a natural question in our research in our -- that we do with consumers on a regular basis.
And that is not the issue.
There are -- we do see immaterial impact on the fact that some of our pricing strategies have flowed through particularly on the license product are more high value proprietary products where we offer free app or even on increase from a price spending perspective the increase on entry level price point from $10 to $12 that has not been a negative consumer impact.
We on the labor model front we do feel like we have some opportunities to be a little bit more fine-tuned on labor model.
When you overlay our payroll and labor and stores with our sales we’re not exactly aligned; we believe that we’re probably leaving some unserviced opportunity particularly on the weekend and we are going to fine-tune those labor models using data as we move into the second quarter.
And clearly we want to have that mastered by the time we move into the high traffic sales period of the fourth quarter.
Interestingly what another thing that makes us feel like that that is definitely one of our opportunities is our consumer satisfaction CSAT scores also follow that same cadence.
They are less satisfied on the weekends than they are in middle of the week implying they might not be serviced as comprehensively.
And those are kind of the natural things you look at when you see some conversion impact.
One of the things that we had a hypothesis about that actually turned out to be true is as we mentioned we’ve had this much more robust segmentation strategy where we’re now targeting consumers that we hadn’t targeted in the past including the over 12 consumer being a little more assertive with the boy business and uses the pro and the con the marketing is working.
So we’re having consumers come in to Build-A-Bear that have not been into Build-A-Bear before.
And in many cases our bear builders which is what we call the people that service -- are really much more accustomed to servicing consumers that are very familiar with Build-A-Bear the repeat consumers.
We have to expand beyond the repeat consumers if we’re going to grow this business.
So we got one end of the equation really right and drove the -- created the product and drove the traffic and now we just have to push that all the way through to the service model on teaching our bear builders how to assess who is the new consumer and who the repeat guest and how you treat them differently.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question comes from James Fronda with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
I guess just on the revenue decline what’s causing such improvement on the gross margin side is that still streamlining efforts from you guys? So as we previously discussed we continue to see expansion in gross margins; we are seeing benefits of those pricing strategies and supply chain and value engineering that we started last year.
We expected to see some of those things throughout the year but again it’s going to be more of a modest improvement.
As we previously said first quarter is one that we are going to see a little bit more and it is going to scale down for the rest of the year.
Our next question comes from Greg McKinley with Dougherty &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Sorry I didn’t realize I was back in queue so quickly.
So could you give us a little more color on new franchised markets; when might we expect to see some of those surface and where? And then I’m wondering if you can talk a little bit about your point of sales system.
What the main initiatives with that system adoption is enabling ecommerce transactions from the store or maybe help us understand the benefits you expect to achieve with that? I’m actually glad that you are back in the queue because I wanted to just also mention on the last question that you had about conversion that it -- we’re really excited to have Chris Hurt on board who is our new head of -- our Chief Operating Officer.
He really is a master of the four levers.
He understands how to drive and build the business particularly on -- and dissect what some of our opportunities are.
And I think that that’s going to be a key part of us being able to get that conversion going in the right direction.
But on your second set of questions on the franchise market we have a number of franchise markets in the works; we are in negotiations and it would be really premature of me to mention those particular markets right now.
And we’re talking them as I’ve alluded to in a number of different ways one is more of the traditional franchise model; there is one that’s more of a shop in shop model in a market that’s more difficult to enter.
Just looking at the market specific dynamics understanding whether the consumer would be open to and ready for a Build-A-Bear recognizing our ability from a physicality perspective to move into those markets from a legal perspective so there is a lot of things that clearly would be the case in the number in any company looking at international franchises.
So we’re considering when we’re moving into these markets.
So I certainly hope to be able to share some news with you but for the end of the year and hopefully by the second quarter or third quarter call.
The PLS system the upgrades for 2015 the underlying driver for this upgrade is compliance with Chip and PIN but in the construct of that compliance we are also adding some capabilities that will improve our ability for us to have ecommerce transactions on-site.
Having ecommerce transactions and the ability on site at retail gives you a much more dynamic way to manage your inventory particularly -- but when you have let’s say there is not just the ability when you don’t have the product in store but you have in some stores our bigger stores we might set up a kiosk for example for the consumer who is interested in some of our sports licensing to find the exact license they want of a Chicago Club’s outfit when they are actually in Miami.
Of course we wouldn’t shift that to Miami from a physical perspective but we would have that capability with IL concept of ecommerce.
I had also mentioned when I first -- back in 2013 we have been resistant to be actively growing our ecommerce until we return to profitability and improve our fulfillment model.
So we have achieved those objectives and now we feel that we are ready to really provide the opportunity for the consumers to engage with us across the number of different interfaces and as we mentioned in the note moving one step closer to an omnichannel model which will be helpful for us as we drive that business with the collectible and infinity groups that we’ve identified.
And wondering if you could just help us understand as we go to your store opening plans; I know in your press release you commented on securing sites for four stores around outlet centers and your tourist destinations and you’ve got 10 to 15 remodels later this year.
When all is said and done how many store openings do you expect; how many closure might you expect so that we’re on the same page on square footage? So Greg as we look in the future there is going to be a lot of activity as we are starting to refresh our chain in the second half of the year.
As we get closer to the year-end our store count is going to be relatively flat maybe slightly up from where we were at the end of 2014.
So there is going to be some closures there is going to be some openings but our focus is going to be on refreshing our existing store fleet and in now tiers we are going to be expecting to further grow our store count.
[Operator Instructions].
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Sharon John for closing comments.
Thank you for joining us today.
We really appreciate your interest in Build-A-Bear and look forward to updating you on our progress when we report our second quarter 2015 results.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear 2015 Second Quarter Fiscal Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
The question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Sharon Price John CEO and Voin Todorovic CFO.
For today's call Sharon will begin with a discussion of our second quarter results and the performance against the key priorities we identified at the start of the year.
Voin will review the financials and then we will take your questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone's questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Members of the media who maybe on our call today should contact us after this conference call with your questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website and a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before I turn the call over to management I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Sharon John CEO.
Thanks Allison.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
The second quarter of fiscal 2015 marks our 10th consecutive quarter of improved operating results with an increase in consolidated comparable stores sales of 8.7% a 450 basis-point expansion in retail gross margin a pretax loss of $400 000 versus a pretax loss of $4 million last year a net loss of $0.04 per share compared to last year's net loss of $0.25 per share.
In the second quarter we had positive sales in all regions driven by an increase in dollars per transactions units per transaction and an uptick in traffic.
With consistent focus on our primary objective a sustained profitability we delivered pretax income of $6.6 million for the first half of the year compared to $1.3 million in 2014.
This is the highest pretax profit at the six month mark that we have reported since 2007.
We feel confident that these results are primarily due to our disciplined management of the business and the changes and upgrades that we have made across the company including organizational structure processes reporting systems and skill sets.
The evolution of our product development and planning processes exemplify the impact that strategic change can have.
As you may recall last year at this time we were experiencing stock shortages on important new product launches that were supported by elevated marketing program.
We had begun to demonstrate our potential to drive consumer awareness and demand for new launches.
However we underestimated our inventory needs and have not yet developed the ability to effectively chase hot products.
We made changes in our planning approach and preparation for fourth quarter 2014 which included increased initial purchase quantities for select key stories while improving methods to react to the best selling items.
We have continued to improve our processes which positioned us to optimize this quarters high impact launches such as Minions.
Also recall that in 2014 we restructured the product and marketing organizations into consumer segment teams to support our strategic focus on four main consumer groups; older girls younger girls boys and the over 12 gifting and affinity consumer.
We believe this integrated consumer centric approach to developing products enhanced by elevating story telling marketing is creating a more consistent pipeline of concepts.
With this approach the consumer is more inclined who want to experience the full offering of the marketing promise which has helped us deliver higher metrics such as units per transaction and drive retail prices at select proprietary products to be on parity with licensed properties.
As a reference point in the second quarter in North America our units per transaction reached their highest level since 2008 and our average unit retail reached its highest level ever.
The long-term objective in this integrated approach is to orchestrate a consistent cadence of new introductions for each of the consumer groups balanced with the combination of our own intellectual property and licensed partnership.
We work on a multi-year horizon to plan this cadence of launches based on seasonal events new film properties character events and the creation of new concepts.
Also we now assess the impact and value of an entire product story including accessory sounds and outfits not just the stuffed animals to measure our success.
With this in mind the key collections that drove our positive results in the second quarter by consumer segment were for a younger girl's segment we continue to provide and they continue to respond to our popular collection of Hasbro's MY LITTLE PONY products with the most recent introduction PRINCESS LUNA leading the way.
For our boy's segment Marvel's Avengers line continued to post strong results even after the Age of Ultron movie release.
We featured a team Avengers marketing message and offered a promotion and encouraged the purchase of multiple superheroes along with the line of must have costumes accessories and sounds achieving an average transaction value of over $70 which is significantly higher than our norms.
The most popular collection for older girls was our new proprietary property Promise Pets which was successfully introduced at the beginning of the quarter.
The product line is supported with the free mobile app that enhances engagement and provides play beyond the push.
The Pet's have an attachment rate with accessories or apparel of almost 90% and the users have engaged in over 350 000 play sessions on the approximately evidence that the marketing story is resonating with our target.
New puppies and kittens will be intermittently introduced through the balance of the year.
As mentioned our collections of Minions had a high impact on our sales in the period.
In advance of their release of Universal Studios film we launched the line in May and saw sales build throughout the balance of the quarter.
The Minions and their signature add-ons including [indiscernible] sounds delivered nearly five units per transactions approximately 20% higher than our second quarter average.
The products performed across geographies and appealed to all segments including the over 12 affinity consumer.
Additionally our basic furry friend offering which also appeals across our consumer segments continued to deliver the highest unit volumes of any stuffed animal category.
In fact because of the balance offering of basic proprietary and licensed products our analysis indicates that we would have achieved a positive consolidated comp in the quarter even without the Minions.
As we have stated during 2015 we intend to evolve from an objective of sustained profitability to sustained profitable growth.
As a part of this disciplined approach we have articulated our more time for business plans that specifies continues improvement in initiative as well as strategic expansion opportunities including one more places.
On the forefront of our continuous improvement efforts in real estate it's the introduction of two new store chart a break frame specialty store model we're calling the discovery design and the first ever true outlet concept for the brand.
In mid-July we opened the first store in our discovery format in Salt Lake City Utah.
The format was developed to increase productivity and optimize special planning while featuring our refreshed brand look.
The design provides the visual focal point highlighting one of our most unique selling proposition the stuffing process.
We have literally moved the stuffing experience which includes our signature heart ceremony frontend center with the development of an impactful 7-foot tall circular stuffer.
We will celebrate the opening of our first in place remodel in the new format on September 1 in our Malls Of America store one of our most popular tourist location.
This is our long overdue update of this flagship door.
We are value engineering component of the stores we move from concept stage to a standardized model.
We will use the cost-reduced version of the discovery format for new stores and to systematically update existing stores over the next few years since the majority of our doors have not being meaningfully touched in over a decade.
Separately as we have noted through our data driven cohort strategy we identified store groupings such as tourist and outlets that tend to over index on key metrics.
Therefore we developed a model to offer a true value oriented merchandise assortment initially targeting outlet centers located near kid centric tourist destinations.
Our first outlet format store opened in July in Rehoboth Beach Delaware and plan to open to six more stores in the back half of the year in North America and in the U.K.
In addition to driving incremental topline sales we expect this approach to form an important link in the management of our product life cycle.
Also note in light of our strategic exit from our Fifth Avenue location in New York City we recently opened a store on the ground floor at the Empire State Building in order to continue to serve our established clientele as well as the tourist in its high impact market.
Additionally due to the closure of FAO Schwarz where we had a shop-in-shop we partnered with Toys R Us Corporation to quickly relocate to the Times Square Store.
We are also pleased to announce that we will continue our shop-in-shop presence and select Macy stores during this holiday season.
This year we expect to open at least six locations versus five in 2014.
On the strategic expansion front we plan to leverage the improvement in our company owned stores to restructure and extend our international footprint.
Select franchisees has started to apply our successful real estate approach including opening pop-up stores to access long term potential and adding shopping shops with key partners.
For example in fall 2014 our franchisee in Mexico partnered with that country's largest high end department store Palacio de Hierro to open a shop-in-shop within one of their locations.
Since opening the store has exceeded expectations and we expect this franchise to open at least three additional Palacio de Hierro stores in the balance of the year.
Across all countries we expect our franchisees to open between 10 and 15 non-traditional stores in fiscal 2015.
Two more people.
In this category we are focused on driving continuous improvement in execution of our stated segmentation strategy to appeal to potential new consumers.
We have improved our delivery of integrated product and marketing stories and developed concepts that reach all four of our consumer segment on a simultaneous and more consistent basis.
With this in mind I want to share some highlights from several important introductions for the third quarter.
First on July 24 we launched our initial Star Wars classics collection which targets our boy consumer as well as a very passionate over 12 affinity segment.
We successfully built anticipation for this property with online exclusive pre sale of stuff Your Own Chewbacca and I am Your Father Father's Day promotion with solid sale ever since.
For a younger girl segment this week we introduced MGA's Lalaloopsy characters corresponding the Lala's fifth birthday celebration.
And for the older girl we will be continuing to drive awareness for a recent introduction of our own innovative Honey Girls collection that I will highlight in just a moment.
On the strategic expansion side this fall we expect to introduce Build-A-Bear Workshop's Sports Central a reimagined approach to optimizing our numerous sports license this will expand all major sports leagues and include many major universities.
We will create a branded destination within our stores targeting the over 12 affinity and collector segment.
IT system upgrades will enable us to offer an endless aisle e-commerce option allowing consumers to access and purchase any product while in any store.
For example a consumer will simply be able to purchase a New York Yankees bear even when actually shopping in one of our stores in New England.
Three more products.
One of the ways that we have focused on the continuous improvement of product offering is via the development of features that enhance our furry friend stories such as mobile apps designed to extend the play beyond the plush.
We believe this approach which couples the tech mind set of our core key consumer with elevated marketing is contributing to the increases in both our units and dollars per transaction as well as elevating engagement with our brand overall.
As an example as just noted we kicked off an integrated marketing campaign to watch our new older girl's property with an uniquely Build-A-Bear twist called Honey Girls.
This collection expands our play beyond the plush approach with a multimedia experience that includes an app music from Grammy award winning songwriter and high quality CGI videos.
The back story has a girl empowerment theme as the Honey Girls who share a common love of music discover that they are better together versus competing against each other in a talent show.
In less than a month there have already been a million views of the animated video of Honey Girls performing their theme song on YouTube which is an important platform to interact with our Older Girls segment.
We expect to drive our strategic expansion into products beyond the plush via an outbound licensing program designed to sell Build-A-Bear branding merchandise and complementary categories.
We've recently completed agreements in the confections snack food e-cards and premium children’s apparel categories.
An offering of brand dry costume is featured in the recently released catalogue from Chasing Fireflies a Company which designs and manufactures high-end clothing and novelties for children.
Four more profitability.
During the quarter as previously noted retail gross margin expanded 450 basis points and pretax profit improved by $3.5 million cutting our loss to $400 000 as we made continuous improvement in areas such as value engineering and supply chain management.
We are updating key systems including our merchandize planning tool which we expect to further improve our product planning and support the advancement of our consumer segment and store cohort strategies.
On the strategic expansion front we will be upgrading our POS system in the back half of the year and expect to realize enhanced capabilities moving us closer to an enterprise selling solution.
To date in the third quarter our comparable store sales are positive and while we will provide more detail on the fourth quarter on the next call I would like to share some of our exciting plans to give us confidence that we will be well positioned for the balance of the year.
First we will add a collection tie to Star Wars episode 7 The Force Awakens as well as a line of Frozen Fever products which will update its high successful Disney property.
We will also have a tie in with the upcoming film The Peanuts Movie that is being released in November.
We will bring back one of our perennial holiday favorites with the Grinch and his dog Max and we will introduce a new character to expand on the success of our proprietary Marry Mission Reindeer Story that was introduced in 2014.
We will also be featured in approximately 20 million McDonald's Happy Meals from November 27th to December 24th a highly popular promotion that historically has driven meaningful traffic to our stores.
In summary in many ways today we are a new organization with a new leadership team new structure new processes and a disciplined focus on our strategic plan.
The impact is evident in our results.
With our 10th consecutive quarter of improved operating performance our 10th consecutive quarter of enhanced retail gross margin our fourth consecutive quarter of consolidated comparable store sales growth and our highest level of profitability at the six-months mark since 2007 with the largest and typically most profitable half of the year still ahead of us.
We believe we are positioned to continue to deliver on our stated objective of sustained profitability or establishing the ground work to evolve to our goal as sustained profitable growth.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Voin to review our second quarter financials in more detail.
Thanks Sharon and good morning everyone.
For the second quarter net retail sales were $80 million compared to $75 million in the prior year driven by improved comparable store sales partially offset by $1.6 million negative foreign exchange impact that was not material to our bottom line.
Consolidated comparable store sales rose 8.7% driven by an 11.9% increase in dollars per transaction partially offset by a decrease in the number of transactions.
By geography comparable store sales rose 6.5% in North America and 18.2% in Europe.
Our comparable store sales were above the low single digit guidance we provided in early June as the month benefited from a stronger than expected reaction to some of our lead stories.
We also saw increased traffic partially driven by kids being out of school this year as opposed to last year when many schools lengthened the year to make up for snow days.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange e-commerce sales increased by 11.4%.
Retail gross margin increased by 450 basis points to 43.5%.
This was a result of a 240 basis point improvement in merchandise margin and distribution cost.
We also saw 210 basis points of leverage on fixed occupancy expenses.
SG&amp;A was $36million or 44.4% of total revenues compared to $34 million or 44.6% of total revenues last year.
SG&amp;A in the second quarter this year included a net $300 000 in Management transition cost and currency gain.
Last year SG&amp;A included Management transition cost and foreign currency losses of $300 000.
Adjusting for these items in both quarters SG&amp;A as the percent of total revenues was 44.7% compared to 44.3% last year.
Higher sales and expansion in gross margin offset the increase in SG&amp;A bringing net loss to $600 000 or $0.04 per share compared to a net loss of $4 million or $0.25 per share in the second quarter last year.
Adjusted net loss was $1 million or $0.05 per share an improvement from an adjusted net loss of $0.24 per share in the second quarter last year.
For the first six months net retail sales were flat at $172 million as improved comparable store sales were offset by the negative impact of the one weeks calendar shift due to the 53rd week in fiscal 2014 and $3.5 million negative foreign exchange impact that was not material to our bottom line.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange net retail sales increased 1.9% compared to the first six months of 2014.
Consolidated comparable store sales increased 5% and included increase of the 2.7% in North America and 15.7% in Europe.
E-commerce sales rose 9.9% excluding the impact of foreign exchange with continued improvement in profitability.
Retail gross margin was 45.2% an improvement of 360 basis points compared to last year.
This increase was driven by 320 basis point expansion in merchandise margin and reduction in distribution cost with a remaining improvement attributed to leverage on fixed occupancy expenses.
SG&amp;A was $73 million or 42% of total revenues including $1.5 million in Management transition cost and foreign exchange losses.
This compares to $72 million or 41.2% of total revenues including a net $300 000 of Management transition cost and foreign exchange gains.
Adjusting for these items SG&amp;A was 41.1% of total revenues in both periods.
Pretax income was $6.6 million compared to a pretax income of $1.3 million in the first six months of fiscal 2014.
Year-to-date income tax expense was $420 000 with an effective tax rate of 6.4% primarily comprised of foreign and state taxes as we still have a valuation allowance on our domestic deferred taxed assets.
We continue to expect to reverse the remaining U.S.
valuation allowance in fiscal 2015.
However for modeling purposes we suggest that you use no tax expense or benefit this year.
Adjusted net income improved to $0.41 per diluted share from $0.06 per diluted share last year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At quarter end consolidated cash was $42 million consistent with quarter end last year driven by net income improvement and offset by increased capital spending and share repurchase activity.
In the second quarter we utilized $6.2 million to repurchase 373 000 shares.
At quarter end we had $800 000 remaining on our initial $10 million authorization.
In July our Board authorized a new $10 million share repurchase program giving us $10.8 million of total availability.
In the second quarter we have no borrowings on our credit facility.
Consolidated inventories totaled $50 million compared to $43 million last year this represented an increase of 17.5% on the per square foot basis compared to a 6.7% decrease last year.
This year's increase was driven by a combination of factors including stronger inventory position on key product stories the timing of purchases to support third quarter product launches and the overall reduction in square footage.
Capital expenditures were $6 million primarily for IT infrastructure and store related capital.
Depreciation and amortization was $8 million.
For fiscal 2015 we continue to expect capital expenditures to be in the range of $20 million to $25 million to support store updates and openings as well as the ongoing investment in IT infrastructure.
We continue to expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $16 million to $18 million.
We currently expect to end the year with six more stores than last year finishing 2015 with approximately 330 stores which includes 11 stores operating in the discovery format by end of the year.
In summary by staying true to our stated strategies we delivered solid improvement in revenues gross margin and our bottom line results leading to our 10th consecutive quarter of improved performance.
Through the first half of 2015 our pretax profit of $6.6 million is an improvement of $5.3 million from last year.
This is the highest level of pretax profit that we have achieved at a halfway point in the year since 2007.
And now I would like to turn the call over to the Operator to begin the question and answer portion of the call.
Operator? Thank you good morning everyone.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
Sharon a question for you just on the store format it's a bit of a bigger picture question.
But can you talk a little bit about some of formal assumptions on the discovery store I know it’s new but you mentioned value engineering and this kind of move to standardizing that package as you roll across some of your other stores.
So if you can talk a little bit about that that would be helpful.
And then maybe the same question on the outlet I think your offer reference that this would be beneficial to your product lifecycle should we think about those stores as truly end of life product as well as some of your newer initiative.
And then I'm going to throw another one just sort of curiosity it sounds like your franchisees are adopting some of the strategies that you have been laying out I'm just curious if they’re going to change in terms of the corporate outreach and partnership with your franchisees over the last year to two years just trying to come into line with some other bigger challenges that you are putting in place.
Thank you.
Yes sure.
On the store format front whenever you redesign in a more comprehensive way this is really the first comprehensive redesign that we've had since the beginning.
There are some costs associated with that complete redesign.
And that’s going to show up in your first few doors particularly if you redesign something it’s fundamental as a stuffer.
We stored throughout the old box model and wanted to create some in-store theater as we believe that it would be beneficial in terms of just pulling people into the store there would be a tool for us not just the part of the process but a marketing tool for us.
So that's first few doors although comparatively expensive of where we’re going to be we still two year horizon on the payouts because they’re actually the first doors are about on par with where we ended up on the average doors at the stores of the future.
So we’re starting at a comparable point with where we were with the store of the future and we’re now starting the cost reduction process.
Some of the reasons why that was expensive is because the store of the future was based more on technology real a lot of high-tech under the surface that cost a lot of money and also have a lot of break fix on it that when we went back to the basics on how we thought the consumer wanted to interface basically the fact that we’re more tactile is one of the things they love about us.
So we expect to get that down pretty quickly.
I think we mentioned we would have 11 stores in the discovery format before the end of the year.
By the time we get to 2016 we should be in a pretty decent cost reduced version on two or three different formats and inclusive of a flagship format that you guys - some of you guys are going to see when you go up to the Mall Of America on September 1 it’s over the top with two stuffers all the way down to how do we just touch the door minimally so that it looks like it still in the concept and the format with new colors and some smaller version of stuffer.
So there will be a lot of different cost associated with that specifically associated to the potential volume of those stores.
On the outlet side it's - that’s a completely different look and feel it’s a much less expensive approach and a very fresh way on how we merchandise we actually change the store flow.
You don't go - you don’t pick your animal first and then go to the - through this process the same way with all the animals over the front we’ve merchandised in stories which is pretty interesting and it’s great to kind of watch the way the consumer shop through this.
It does give us the way we look the format away to use it as an end of lifecycle for a lot of the products that we have but we will also feature at full price big story that is the front of the store and what we call the rolling bear band up very close to the front of the store to attract consumers.
And the first and this is just one store right in the whole buzz but we’re seeing a lot of value purchases but Minions and Honey Girls are also being sold in these stores as well which is pretty exciting.
On the separate question on the franchise front we are approaching the franchisees in a different way.
We're rebuilding just like we are with a lot of our own processes here.
And internally we are rebuilding processes to be better partners with our franchisees.
And additionally it's very difficult when you have a franchise model if the mother ship is not performing well clearly the franchisees are going to do within the realm of the contract what they want to do because they don’t believe in that this strategy is working based on the experiences that they’re seeing in the mother ship.
But as we’ve turned the page and become now in our 10th consecutive quarter as noted our improved operating results there they're looking to us and we’ve had a lot of robust meetings a lot more I think productive processes put in place and of course they now want to participate and a lot of the choices that we’re making from a real estate strategy perspective all the way to a marketing strategy perspective and a way that isn’t just compliance but excited.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Yes thank you.
Well you introduced us to a number of what seemingly are important Q4 branded properties.
I wonder if you could just give us a little more color on them maybe help us better understand what you’re doing exactly with McDonalds? How broad of an assortment are we talking about when we're talking about Peanuts and Frozen Fever and Star Wars and Grinch? And then are there any unique costs associated with these launches that we should be aware of? Yes I shared basically what we were doing for the balance of the third quarter and then gave you guys some sneak peaks on some exciting news that we have for the fourth quarter.
Going from the third into the fourth is the Star Wars collection from the classics into the App 7 – App 7 is the big news for the fourth quarter.
We're really excited about that.
We expect that to span not only across our boys business but have a high appeal to the affinity consumer.
So that’s one of those that comes along every now and then in the toy industry and we generally forward to it and so we'll build a good in store presence for that and we already have a lot of good signals particularly from our Chewbacca sales that we have a good opportunity in front us.
On your second question about Frozen it’s the Frozen Fever update.
They dropped a kind of a mini film that provided new costume new look new story line and so we're building product that is reflective of that.
It will be about the same size in terms of the skew count as our previous Frozen line.
But we believe that -- and as our sales have continued to be robust on Frozen we believe there is still a lot of interest in the Frozen line and that a nice refresh during the fourth quarter could give us some uptick we are comping Frozen from last year.
So having something new to say to that consumer is an important part of the portfolio management.
The Peanuts film it’s a classic product again when you think about what the Peanuts people are doing in terms of reigniting this incredibly generational brand for little kids for the kid market it's right in our sweet spot when you think about it.
It will appeal to the affinity consumer the collector consumer and with the reintroduction of the film in its really precious CGI look we expect as they do that there will be some uptick of course with the sales against kid.And it’s a different type of consumer.
Again thinking from a portfolio management perspective from the other two properties.
So it gives us a nice array of products that appeal to any type of psychographic on top of all the different demographics of boys and girls and collector consumer.
We've done Grinch in the past.
He lends himself to a Build-A-Bear format he is big and furry and his heart grows three size is too big.
So the story line really fits with who we are and we're going to push into that into the heart ceremony in a way that we have in the past.
When was the last time you had Grinch? I can look by two or three years ago maybe four.
And it has -- when we bring it out it's successful people look for it.
They’re excited when it comes out.
One of the things that we're doing this year with Grinch that's different is we've always just offered Max the dog where he ties the antler to his head if you know Max.
He is going to be a stuff your own as well.
And in the past he's just been a side kick purchase.
So that’s pretty exciting news for us as well.
And then that we're actually most excited about the reintroduction of our own Merry Mission overall marketing story.
We use that Merry Mission story as an overlay to everything that’s happening in the store at the holiday all the marketing will be wrapped up in the Merry Mission story.
The reindeer were very successful last year.
If you recall you can pick you own reindeer name your reindeer one of the classic reindeer.
We're introducing an exciting new character that I’ll share with you with more details about that later on.
And all of this the Christmas story will be wrapped up into this McDonalds program as well.
Are there any unusual costs? No.
There are certainly royalties associated with the licensing programs but as we’ve discussed in the past we for the most part price that in and it makes -- now particularly that we're pricing on parity with a lot of our programs such as our Reindeer Program last year which priced parity with Frozen.
It’s not a margin story -- for ten consecutive quarters we've expanded our possibility.
So this is an end at the same time our license is a percentage of sales has grown slightly still in that 30s to 40s range but its bigger than it used to be.
And so that’s not -- we don’t look at licensing as margin de-gradating per se.
We look at it as a part of an active and successful portfolio managed approach to business.
But McDonald’s business not only do they bring marketing power to us because they advertise the fact that Build-A-Bear is going to be in the Happy Meal during this time frame.
The coupons have a long life.
We’ll continue to see benefit from that into the first quarter of 2016 based on previous years experiences with the McDonald’s coupon and interestingly Build-A-Bear has a very unique approach to driving the consumers right back to retail.
In fact what you get when you go get your Happy Meal is a little mini stuffed animal and a coupon not only for a marginal discount to come into Build-A-Bear but to get a T-shirt for your mini-bear So the kids come back in and once they are in with that other coupon burning a hole in their pocket there’s usually some transactions that go on.
Interesting okay.
Thank you.
Anything noteworthy to comment on regarding -- you seemed to have a lot of success late Q4 early Q1 on gift cards how long of a tale does that have and is that still impacting the traction you’re seeing in the business? Yes.
We use our gift card business as a strategic additive part of our total portfolio again.
We have a number of pricey gift cards there is a standard gift card of course the sales increased significantly during the fourth quarter.
Most of our gift cards are redeemed within 30 to 60 days almost 90% of them we have a very high usage rate for our gift cards.
The interesting piece about a gift cards and why they are valuable to us specifically is they're usually redeemed at about 60% higher than the face value of the gift card.
We also use gift cards in what we call the [indiscernible] upsell to drive subsequent traffic within a certain timeframe like in a high traffic time period lets say Easter we might bully with gift card knowing they'll probably come back in the next 30 days which is usually for example in Easter a window that can sometimes be a little more light on traffic.
Thank you.
Hi Sharon hi Voin great quarter.
Really impressed by what you guys put out this quarter.
I had a couple of questions with regard to Star Wars and what you're looking at there.
I saw the the Chewbacca kind of had a collectable field appealing to over 12s how much of the collection is going to be geared towards kids versus the over 12 category what kind of opportunity do you see especially on that collectable side.
And is there -- how inelastic do you see that market for over 12s? We really design our products with kids first in mind.
And the collectors are attracted to the fact that we do that.
So Chewbacca although readily appealing to people who remember the first Star Wars movie.
He's absolutely fantastic for a little kids.
He is bigger on scale than our other bears as I look it would be and he's just furry and fine and I think that he'll appeal across the Board.
We also have a e-card with Star Wars Bear with the Star Wars logo all over it they can dress in a number of different Star Wars costumes that will also appeal to both collectors and kids.
So in this particular case we're designing kids first but with a high appeal to the collector base keeping the collector in mind as a filter almost like not doing anything that would dissuade a collector versus designing for collector and with the kids second.
And that’s pretty exciting we are seeing a lot of activity both from the collector market as well as kids buying Chewbacca and the Star Wars there.
So we expect to see it appeal across the board.
For example two clips from How to Train Your Dragon last year also designed with kid in mind first that ended up 40% of its sales more to over 12 collector and Minions designed specifically with kids in first 30% as a sales than Minions were over 12.
So what's interesting about it is it brings new people into Build-A-Bear.
We believe that is additive traffic new consumers people that would otherwise not consider Build-A-Bear and that’s good for us.
That's really interesting.
Then just a little follow-up on your Empire State Building store what are the early results that you’re seeing if you can share anything with regard to how that is working out and what kind of - should we be thinking about in terms of the costs savings as opposed to the previous store there and I guess similar to the switch to toys that are from FAO Schwarz.
Yes.
We look at New York City given how important it is not just from it base population and opportunity but from immense traffic and tourist traffic they visit New York as a holistic market.
And for the last year and a half particularly since we knew we were going to step out of Fifth Avenue we have been looking at how to think about Manhattan particularly and provide the right amount of stores in the right places to meet the consumer demand in New York Empire State Building given that it is in tourist location and it’s like iconic building and this is a tourist location that kids happen to go to felt like a great place for us.
We’re very pleased with the early results even though it was opening before I could put this new round stuffer in there.
We may go back in metro city at some point but it’s gotten off to a fantastic start we’re very pleased.
But at the same time it’s not just about the Empire State Building it’s about a solution for Manhattan and that of course includes the uptown option of the Time Square option where we have now the location inside of Toys R Us.
Interestingly the Toys R Us location and this surprised us a bit is performing if we analyze it at a higher level than the FAO store then we were pleased with FAO.
So the traffic just the sheer numbers that walk through that Toys R Us and Time Square is driving measurable business.
And based on our experience with FAO and Time Square which were open at exactly the same time and you know that they are just few blocks away they both rose – FAO went up even after we closed Time Square and then FAO went up to shut the doors.
We although Herald Square at NYC it is so close to Empire we don’t expect to see any negative impact because of just the share population in tourist.
So we haven’t completely figured out what are upside opportunity in Manhattan is but it seems like every time we open a new door almost no matter how close it is to the other its additive business.
On the second part of that question well Fifth Avenue was not a profitable door.
So these are profitable doors so it’s going to be better.
That's great.
Thank you.
Could you just - I guess discuss a little more on that comp growth that you saw in Europe and what was the main factor.
was that Minions or was there something else involved in that that made it so large.
The mix of sales in the U.S.
and North America often not that different.
Consumers have a lot in common so that when we talk about our total business would have been positive even without Minions that's inclusive of the U.K.
What's driving the U.K.
a little bit on wider outpacing North America right now is many of these management and distribution and flow changes that were just now gaining attraction in the US.
we started in the fourth quarter and the second half of last year.
So we’re kind of ahead of the curve with the U.K.
on improvement and flow and merchandising and even service model.
So hopefully we will able to pick up some of the things best practices and moving them over to the U.S.
That’s one of the reasons why we now have a new COO Chris Hurt who started recently I'm very excited.
His job is to get the U.S.
and the North American market moving at similar pace hopefully as the U.K.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Is there any update you can provide us as it relates to new franchise markets that you’re looking at? We’re still in the early stages of reinventing our franchise business.
I think we've mentioned on the previous call that not only are we looking at different markets but we’re looking at different models.
So for example in Denmark since January that particular franchise we actually now own and operate.
The Tivoli Gardens location which is their flagship door in a major tourist location and it’s our store not a franchise store.
So it’s really a case-by-case basis on what we are doing but we think that there are possibly some new approaches creative approaches to how we expand internationally and what the format as a franchise business looks like and we certainly believe and had quite a few discussions on the fact that Maxine the founder said many times that A hug is understood in any language.
This brand this concept translates into almost every country and so we haven't optimized there.
So we will be sharing some stuff fairly soon.
Okay thank you.
And then you had made in you prepared comments outbound licensing.
Can you remind us which particular categories you've deals on and what are expectations financially for these types of things? Sure.
We have currently deals on confection snack food E cards children’s apparel and costumes and we are in the middle of a lot of other discussions.
So we are still in the early stages.
If you know the chasing fireflies catalogs it just dropped at premium children’s brand.
We have a really – it's an adorable package in there.
Build-A-Bear costumes for kids there are high end costumes for Halloween.
So that’s really the first thing that’s out there other than some confection that are available in our own stores.
And if you visit a Build-A-Bear encourage you to pick up a Build-A-Bear cookie they are awesome.
There are birthday cakes flavored for a reason.
It’s actually a great tool for us on creating a full solution for some of our birthday parties when moms want a snack as well as a bear.
But you’ll start to see some things that are little more material as we move forward but revenue for the license is usually a quarter lag from revenue for the live TV.
So even with some sales possibly the cookies and the chasing fireflies in the back half of this year we won’t see any of that and it will be pretty nominal until we gain some traffic and we won't see it until 16.
Thank you.
I just want to thank everyone for joining us today and we look forward to updating you on our third quarter results.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop Fourth Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Sharon Price John CEO and Voin Todorovic CFO.
For today's call Sharon will begin with a discussion of our fourth quarter and fiscal year results and highlight our priority as we begin fiscal 2016.
Voin will review the financials and guidance and then we will take your questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone's questions during this one-hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Members of the media who maybe on our call today should contact us after this conference call with your questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website and a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before I turn the call over to management I will remind everyone that Forward-Looking Statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Sharon Price John.
Thanks Allison.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
The fourth quarter represented a solid finish to another productive year.
Since my rival in 2013 the company has been keenly focused on achieving and sustaining profitability by driving operational improvement across a number of functional areas.
We are pleased to note that fiscal 2015 marks our third consecutive year of margin growth profit expansion and positive consolidated comparable sales.
Furthermore as our recent guidance suggests given the impact of the fundamental changes we have made from infrastructure to talent.
We expect to report our fourth consecutive year of consolidated comparable sales and profit improvement in fiscal 2016.
We believe this consistent performance demonstrates our ability and potential to increasingly monetize our powerful Build-A-Bear brand to the evolution of our business model.
The objective of this evolve model is to diversify and developed More Consumers categories and locations by leveraging a number of additive revenues streams that takes Build-A-Bear beyond its traditional mall retail focus.
Internally we simply refer to this effort as our More strategy as it reflects our goal to systematically and profitably build the business by appealing to More People with More Products made available through more places.
As noted over the past few years we've been in the process of improving both the effectiveness and efficiency of our infrastructure while securing a talented leadership team to execute our plans.
With many of these important initiatives behind us we believe our company is well positioned to begin generating sustained profitable growth.
Many thanks to our thousands of employees across multiple countries for their valued contributions through this transition period.
As we previously reported our fiscal 2015 fourth quarter results include a decline in consolidated comparable sales of 5.6% which follows a 9.8% increase in the fourth quarter of 2014 delivering a positive consolidated comp on a two year basis.
Merchandize margin expansion of 50 basis points and pretax income of $9.9 million as compared to $12.6 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.
The majority of the year-over-year decrease was due to widened less weaker sales compared to fiscal 2014 which included a 53 week that was reported in the last year's fourth quarter.
In the quarter and in a difficult macro retail environment our sales started slowly but gained momentum throughout the period culminating with our best sales occurring during the weeks of Christmas and New Year.
Top Stories included our proprietary Merry Mission offering which appealed to our broad consumer base during its limited eight weeks holiday periods.
As you may recall we had strong sales when we originally introduced Merry Mission in the fourth quarter 2014 as the first development of our own intellectual property that was supported with a downloadable app and game.
To build on an initial success we enhanced the story in 2015 adding our new snowy white Glisten character and launched the story with a fully integrated marketing program including in-store TV and direct mail similarly to our successful 2014 campaign.
This approach propelled Glisten to this particularly popular with girls to our number one selling items for the fourth quarter in both units and dollar volume.
And on the whitening theme front we successfully introduce our new Frozen Fever collection to continue to leverage the strength of the property to support our young girls business and to help offset the high impact in the initial Frozen launch in the fourth quarter of 2014.
To drive the boys business we introduce our Star Wars line we significantly gain momentum as the quarter progressed especially as excitement heightened for the December 18 movies release of the Force Awaken.
Star wars was our number one boy business and significantly contributed to our teen plush consumer sales as expected.
Ecommerce revenue including mobile grew double-digits in the quarter driven by an upgraded platform improvement in our online marketing precision and exclusive product offerings.
For example we developed merchandize to drive our teens plus gift giving infinity consumers including an online only gift box in a Pikachu bundle that including our own exclusive Pokémon collector card which launched in mid December and sold out in 10 days.
As a part of our real estate evolution we benefitted from the introduction of our new discovery store format that I will expand on in a moment and we also added sales to the continue diversification away from traditional mall by successfully opening six stores in our first ever value driven outlet concept in both the U.S.
and the UK.
Separately we once again extended our holiday presents with seven shop-in shops with key [90] (Ph) flagship doors.
As we established it we also established a relationship with Gaylord Hotel by opening our first seasonal store in their popular Ice Exhibition in Orlando.
As in 2014 these incremental revenues streams broaden our reach to a wide variety of holiday shoppers in large urban markets at this critical high traffic time period.
For the year we achieved consolidated comparable sales of 1% growth on top of 1.7% increase to prior year.
Merchandize margin improvement of 150 basis points which drove our gross margin to 47.1% our highest rate since 2006 and pre-tax income of $17.9 million up 11.7% from 2014.
From a strategic perspective in 2015 we successfully extended our for consumer engagement with a roster of relevant licenses and new intellectual properties such as Honey Girls and Promise Pets enhanced by Play Beyond The Plush related apps games music and videos drove ecommerce sales by expanding our teen plush segment by leveraging gifting licenses and collectable to appeal to this generally less price sensitive demographics.
That is more likely to purchase online and launched a number of outbound Build-a-Bear license program across a variety of categories while signing new agreements with partners like Spin Master a top-five global toy company and Frankford Candy the largest licensed candy manufacturers in the United States.
Additionally we deployed capital to further diversify our real estate portfolio with our compelling discovery format.
Opened new value outlet stores and increased shop-in shop presence with seasonal pop-up location to evolve our international strategy including the conversion of the franchise store in Denmark at Copenhagen popular Tivoli Garden’s tourist location to an owned and operated location.
To invest in updated and adding critical new IT systems including TST retail and end-to-end merchandise planning tools design to improve our ability to manage inventory which we expect to result in continued margin expansion and to repurchase 1.7 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate amount of $26 million.
All while posting our highest units per transaction since 2008 at almost four units and achieving the highest dollars per transaction in our history slightly over $44.
Overall we are pleased with this year’s accomplishment and believe that the disciplined approached to executing our More strategy has been instrumental to our delivery of three consecutive years of consolidating comparable sales and profit improvement and believe that the investments we have made will enable us to transition to sustain profitable growth.
With that in mind we intend to continue to focus on our More strategy in 2016 with specific objectives designed to deliver against our More Places More People and More Product platforms.
Including More Places the keystones to this initiative is the diversification expansion and upgrade of our real estate portfolio.
Since 2013 we have been in an active process of evolving our presence beyond traditional malls by closing unproductive stores and opening new permanent stores in a variety of locations as well as adding shop-in shops and pop-ups in high traffic seasonal and/or tourist site.
One of the most important efforts to-date in this comprehensive multiyear initiative has been the introduction of our new format called the Discovery Store.
If you may know we recently launched this new format in one of flagship doors in the Mall of America a highly popular tourist destination.
We ended the year with 11 locations representing a combination of in-place remodels remodels within the same mall but with an improved position and completely new stores.
In addition to refreshing our aging brand look our objective for the new design is to drive both overall sales and sales per square foot.
To do this we rethought practically aspects of the store from a consumer centric and business building perspective including the creation of a focal point using our most unique selling proposition the stuffing process and Heart Ceremony.
In fact the front and center placement of our new high impact stuffer versus the previous back of the store position at the low profile stuffer is creating least line theater and drawing in traffic while opening up valuable wall space for merchandize without the need for additional square footage.
As we have noted we're pleased with the performance of the remodeled doors which have delivered double-digit growth versus the norm driven by a substantial increase in traffic combined with above average dollars per transaction and unit for transaction.
Based on this initial positive result we have now aggressively value engineered the new format to create standardized build out models for a variety of store types and sizes including allowing us to accelerate our plans to open new Discovery Stores in 2016 and beyond.
With that in mind we plan to end the year with 45 to 55 newer remodeled discovery stores including flagships at Myrtle Beach Navy Pier in Chicago and the previously mentioned Denmark Store in Tivoli Garden all of which generate several million dollars in annual sales.
We also expect to open a new flagship stores in China this June in Disney Town at the Shanghai Disney Resort.
Importantly we expect to pay back for this new format to be less than two years and we have a four-wall contribution margin goal of over 20%.
This goal was above our current contribution margin which has already more than doubled the average of the fleet when our real estate initiative kicked off in 2013.
Consistent with our retail diversification strategy we expect to open additional stores in our outlet format in the year and offer a brand experience with Carnival Cruise Lines and the number of their ships starting in the second half of 2016 using a wholesale model.
Finally on the international front during 2015 we focused on evolving the overall franchise model while updating critical processes in system including the initiation of a new global product ordering tool.
As a result of these efforts and the initial results of the discovery format we expect the franchises to open an estimated 20 to 25 new royalty generating stores by the end of the year.
On the More People front we are focused on further enhancing our business with our key consumers segments including girls boys and our teens plush consumer.
Important efforts to deliver this goal in 2016 include driving our younger girls business with a continuation of important license property like Frozen while attracting older girls with the launches new concept tied to some exciting films that will be premiering later this year.
We will also build on our existing proprietary properties such as Honey Girls with a refreshed story line and new characters.
Strengthening our boys business by driving our key properties including Power Patrol and the Star Wars line with a introduction of new characters as well as launching a number of products associated with a variety of movie releases throughout the year and continuing to attract new teen plush consumers with our roster of best-in-class affinity and multi-generation license properties while appealing to the large gift market during the traditional high traffic seasonal timeframe of Valentines Easter and Christmas with our own proprietary product.
For example our recent Share Your Heart Valentines program offered a number of add-on for the gift giver including Build-A-Bear branded conversation heart candies with our licensed partner NECCO premium branded chocolates from PRAIM plush roses and our reported down stuffer that enabled consumers of all ages to create a one of a kind Valentine's gift with a personalized message straight from the hearts.
Concerning on More Products strategy we continue to expect to offer new and different ways for our consumers to engage with our brand through our Play Beyond the Plush program offered for existing intellectual properties such as Promise Pets Honey Girls and Merry Mission.
With the generation of approximately 10 million digital interfaces from these supporting apps games and music videos we clearly extended the lions share and consumer engagement with these popular collection and with our brand overall.
Separately as mentioned our outbound licensing program is in the marketplace across a number of categories and we are pleased to be working with Spin Master to make market and distribute a line of Build-A-Bear branded toys.
The new toy line is schedule to launch in mass-market retailers this fall and is expected to be both top line and margin accretive while significantly increasing our brand.
As it relates to our use of capital and align with our overall strategy we expect to focus on the following areas.
The continued the pacification and expansion of our real estate portfolio they continue to upgrade in addition of infrastructure and opportunistic repurchase of our stock.
Thus far in the first quarter we are posting positive consolidated comparable sales.
Significant contributors include the continued success of our key license products our slumber party offering which was introduced post Christmas and designed to appeal to the large number of girls that received gift cards in their holiday stocking as well as our previously mentioned valentine’s Share Your Heart campaign which include a successful cross marketing partnerships with Save The Children.
Separately we are excited about our new proprietary Easter offering that has an innovated advertiseable feature products fall Hide &amp; Go Beep.
Note that Easter falls on March 27 and will again be reported in our first quarter results.
Overall we now have a proven strategy in place that is driving results and the right team to execute our plans and deliver our revenue and profit goals in 2016.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Voin to review our fourth quarter and full-year financials in more detail.
Thanks Sharon.
And good morning to everyone.
We were pleased with our performance in the fiscal 2015.
While our fourth quarter results were impacted by headwinds including last year's additional week and the strong performance of our initial Frozen product line.
We advance our progress towards our strategic goals.
This is demonstrated by our positive early results of the new discovery format stores which so far delivered 10% higher comps than our heritage stores.
Contributing to our decision to accelerate the pace of openings and remodels in fiscal 2016.
Our 150 basis points gross margin expansion primarily generated from value engineering work and strategic pricing actions and with the increase in average four-wall contribution margins for our North American stores to 19.5%.
We remain confident in our strategy that has now delivered three consecutive years of positive comparable sales and profit improvement and expect to report our fourth consecutive year of comp sales and profit growth in fiscal 2016.
This morning's press release includes the details of our fourth quarter and full year financial performance.
So I'm just going to touch on a few highlights.
Consolidated comparable sales stores and ecommerce declined 5.6% following the 9.8% decrease in the fourth quarter last year.
Our comparable sales included a decrease of 11.6% in transactions partially offset by an increase in average transaction value.
Net retail sales declined $13.5 million or $11.6 million excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
This decline was driven by a decrease in comparable sales the benefit of the 53rd week last year permanent store closures and 1.3 million adjustment to differed revenue related to our loyalty program in 2014 that did not repeat in 2015.
Retail gross margin contracted 100 basis points to 51.2% as the 50 basis points expansion in merchandize margin was more than offset by the leverage of fixed occupancy cost due to the reduction in comparable sales as well as the benefit of the 53rd week in last year’s fourth quarter.
SG&amp;A was $50.6 million or 43% of total revenue compared to $56.4 million or 42.5% of total revenue last year.
The majority of the $5.7 million reduction in SG&amp;A was related to variable expenses including the 53rd week in the 2014 fourth quarter and management transition costs that did not repeated in 2015.
Fourth quarter pre-tax income was $9.9 million versus $12.6 million last year.
Adjusted pretax income for the quarter was $10.7 million compare to $14.6 million last year.
The tax benefit of $10.2 million in the fourth quarter reflects the final reversal of our tax valuation allowance.
Adjusted net income per diluted share was $0.62 compared to $0.74 per diluted share.
As a reminder adjusted net income per diluted share excludes currency management transition cost asset impairment charges and the reversal of the remaining valuation allowance on our U.S.
differed tax per asset.
After the adjustment our effective tax rate for the quarter was 1.3%.
Turning to fiscal year highlights.
Net retail sales were $372.7 million compared to $387.7 million last year.
A decrease of 1.9% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Again the 53rd week in fiscal 2014 impacted the comparison.
Our consolidated comparable sales rose 1% including an 11.8% increase in ecommerce sales.
This follows 1.7% consolidated comp increase in 2014.
Full-year gross margin of 47.1% represents an expansion of 150 basis points as we continue to benefit from our value engineering and strategic pricing actions.
SG&amp;A was $161.5 million or 42.7% of total revenues compared to $164.4 million or 41.89% last year.
The $3 million decrease was primarily attributable to lower variable costs related to the 53rd week in management transition expenses partially offset by investments to advance the company's stated long-term strategy.
Pre-tax income improved 11.7% to $17.9 million versus $16 million in the 53 weeks fiscal 2014.
Adjusted pre-tax income which excludes foreign exchange loses management transition cost and assets impairment charges rose to $21.1 million from $19.9 million in fiscal 2014.
Our tax benefit was $9.4 million driven by the reversal of the remaining U.S.
tax valuation allowance that I mentioned earlier.
Excluding the adjustments our fiscal 2015 effective tax rate was 4.7% driven by the impact of foreign and state taxes.
The tax benefit brought net income to $27.9 million or $1.59 per diluted share compared to $14.4 million or $.081 per diluted share last year.
Adjusted net income improved to $19.6 million or $1.14 per diluted share compared to last year's adjusted net income of $17.4 million or $0.98 per diluted share.
In 2016 with no tax valuation allowance remaining we anticipate returning to our normalized tax rate of approximately 30% derived from the expected mix of taxable income in different jurisdictions.
As a point of reference with a 30% tax rate 2015 net income per diluted share would have been $0.86.
At year-end cash and cash equivalent was $45.2 million and we had no borrowings under our revolving credit facility in 2015.
During the year we repurchased 1.7 million shares of our common stock for $25.9 million leaving $9.1 million of availability under the current stock repurchase program at year-end.
We finished the year with $53.9 million of consolidated inventories representing a 3.7% increase over prior year.
The inventory composition is in line with our expectations and we believe we are well positioned at the start of 2016.
For the 2015 fiscal year capital expenditures total $24.4 million primarily related to the re-price and opening of stores and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization was $16.4 million.
Our strong cash flow generation continues to enable us to invest in growth while keeping in mind our goals of ensuring flexibility in capital spending and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Aligned with our strategy for fiscal 2016 we expect capital expenditures to be in the range of $25 million to $30 million.
Approximately 75% of the 2016 capital expenditures is expected to be invested in further diversifying our real estate footprint with new stores and remodels.
As I mentioned we remain very excited about our new Discovery Store format with a targeted payback period of less than two years and four-wall contribution margins growth of over 20%.
We expect to invest the remaining 25% of our capital budget in IT and system upgrades as well as platforms for new revenue streams.
Included in our plans are an update to our POS system implementation of enterprise selling system enhancing TXT planning functionality and upgrading consumer facing store technology.
As a result of the increase in capital expenditures fiscal 2016 depreciation and amortization is expected to be between $17 million and $19 million.
Finally as we shared at the ICR conference in January our objective for 2016 is to transition from sustained profitability to sustained profitable growth.
With that in mind as you model 2016 for the full-year we expect to deliver total revenue growth in the low to mid single-digit range which assumes a low single-digit positive comp.
As it's relates to quarterly comparable sales for Q1 we expect positive comparable sales in the low single-digits for Q2 we expect comp sales to be down given the strength of the Minions product last year which helped us achieve a positive 9% comps into second quarter 2015.
And for both Q3 and Q4 we are currently planning positive comparable sales.
As it relates to expenses beginning with Q1 we will break our store preopening costs which are currently part of SG&amp;A we expect those costs to increase predominately in the first half of the year as we accelerate the remodels and openings of our Discovery Stores.
These expenses will likely have a greater impact as the forgone revenue from the temporary closures during the remodel period will decrease sales in our smallest revenue quarters.
We expect pre-tax income to grow 15% to 25% from our GAAP pre-tax income of $17.9 million in fiscal 2015.
We are forecasting an annual tax rate of approximately 30%.
Further we anticipate ending the year with 340 to 345 stores 45 to 55 of which are planned to be in our new Discovery format.
Thanks for your time this morning; we'll now turn the call back over to the operator to take some questions operator.
Thank you we will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
Due to time constraints we ask that all callers limit themselves to one question and one follow-up if you have additional questions if you may re-queue and those questions will be addressed if time permitting [Operator Instructions] Thank you our first question comes from the line of Rick Patel with Stephens.
Please proceed with your question.
Sharon can you talk to us about the health of your consumer and competition for wallet share as you think about 2016.
For much of last year there was a big tailwind from gas prices and a deflationary apparel environment which could have helped spending in your category.
So schematically speaking I'm curious did you expected those same drivers to be in place for this year? Thank you Rick and I appreciate the kind words as well.
The health of our consumers that's an interesting question I think there has been some overall positive economic impact to some degree.
However you have to remember that our consumers are 50 000 and plus on average college educated and not as impacted by fluctuating GAAP prices for example but sometimes more macro things.
So although we reached our highest dollars per transaction of $44.10 this year we do expect to see some ability for consumers to continue to come to Build-A-Bear and that $44.10 is an average of people coming in for birthday parties which is that's a big ticket.
Your everyday sort of Bear which is available for any consumers.
We start at $12 you can come in and buy Build-A-Bear.
But with some of our big licensed properties and all the add-on will get $1 per transaction of stuffing towards to $77 $80 a piece.
So we are available and have options for a wide variety of consumers so I can't say that - I think that it would be that negative.
That's great Sharon and can you also perhaps provide some details around your product pipeline.
I guess which product lines are you mostly excited about in 2016.
You mentioned in the remarks that 2Q is going to be tough given the success of Minions but as you think about this year do you see more opportunity on the proprietary product side on the license side and when should we expect those launches to be in the market? Yes we have a nice line up of licensed property for this year a balance between boy and girl some can't share.
The ones that I can is our continued relationship with Marvel for example we'll have our Civil War product out starting in second quarter which is exciting and we're also launching a new proprietary property for girls called Horses &amp; Hearts that will available in second quarter through the year.
So these are first time you have ever really other than some Unicorns where you've had a realistic opportunity to bring to the girls now.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Fuhrman from Craig Hallum.
Please proceed with your question Just with everything that's going on on the real estate fund with the different types of stores that you're opening and some high profile recent closers as well as the remodel what type of same- store sales rate looking at 2016 and beyond will be a decent leverage to your occupancy cost? So Alex as we talked in the past like we just expect we'll have low single-digit comps in order for us to leverage our occupancy cost.
But as also we talked in the past as we continue to remodel these stores and touch them in 2016 we are going to have some downtime as it relates to these story models.
And as we've mentioned previously we would expect to touch those stores during our lower volume quarters in particular Q2 and Q3.
So there is going to be some noise in those numbers and that's what we were trying to share with you guys in the guidance that I provided.
And then thinking about your entry in the time can you talk a little bit about how that investment will restructured and are there any other big market internationally where your franchisees don’t currently have a present that you have your sights on over the next couple of years.
Yes.
Entry into China is actually not a franchise relationship Alex it's an owned and operated store as its in a Disney location.
So that’s structured anything like our Denmark store.
We own it we operate it we do have the partnership - we have a relationship with William Fung who is helping us through some of that complexities of China but that’s a standard relationship standard store.
The other opportunity though we believe are there for us to look for the right types of relationship to expand our franchise footprint on a global basis.
From a strategic perspective the first thing that we've been doing on the international front is putting our processes in place getting our systems in place to work so that we can scale.
As part of that process we've also been as we've mentioned calling some of the relationships where we didn’t believe perhaps that this juncture that the operator was the partner that we wanted to move forward with.
Which is why for example we took ownership of the franchise store as a key flagship and Tivoli Garden.
So now that we have our side of the work done we believe that we do have some opportunities of scale and that scale doesn’t comes from just signing new franchises in different markets.
Although clearly that's a part of the overarching strategy on the horizon but first is to make sure that we have the health of our own and existing franchises like our big partners in Australia or Germany and you are starting to see that with the just mentioned 20 to 25 expected new royalty generating stores.
It's been a while since you have seen that kind of sort of dramatic increase in stores from our franchise partners and that's on a scaled back number of franchises.
So it's a two prong strategy that's first started with correcting our own issues which we've now done calling to get the best partners and in some cases upgrading the partners you might recall we upgraded our German partner two years ago and now we are ready to start moving forward at an accelerated pace.
Great thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Hamblin with Dougherty.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning and congratulations and thanks for taking my question.
I was wondering to just ask a follow-up on the Q1 same-store sales.
I think you said Voin that they were tracking up low single-digit at this point in timed quarter to-date.
Is that correct? Yes.
Sharon said that yes.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the store remodels in Q2 Q3 can you provide us with a little bit more detail in terms of the total sales impact that you expect to have by quarter? Do you have a better sense or a range on what we can expect from that? No.
We don’t have this specifics because we are working through some of this things Jeremy.
As you may think about we are trying to be very proactive and try to manage our top line as well as the bottom line.
In some of those instances depending on availability as a particular model we are remodeling the stores some of the temp store locations may or may not be available so that is going to impact us.
As well as when we talked about the downtime related to those remodels.
We are going to have some of those activities in every quarter of the year but we expect the biggest impact as you are going to see from the bottom line perspective is going to be in Q2 and Q3 as those are generally our smaller quarters of the year.
As we've shared before about from the capital perspective we are going to spend 75% of our capital on the stores about 60% of that capital is going to be related to the new stores and relocations.
In those particular cases you won't have as much downtime an impacts on the sales perspective and the remaining 40% that we are going to spend in capital and remodels that's going to be throughout the year but again Q2 and Q3 is going to be a bigger chunk.
Yes.
Jeremy and a little more color on our temporary stores when we are able to secure a temporary store within eye shot of our existing stores like we did but now Mall of America.
It can have quite an impact on preserving sales in fact it preservatives about 80% of our top line in that temporary store.
But recall even though that’s [indiscernible] is the right choice to make that actually adds expense in the quarter because I have to build and break down the temp store as well as building the which is more capital of building the permanent but of course there is expense related to that as well.
As we master this remodeling process we also believe that we can start to decreased our downtime and limit by learning the build factor learning to manage assist the process better.
So those two dynamics is what is keeping us from giving you a specific because sometime we don’t know we are going to get the temp store location until weeks before we actually shut that store down.
Okay so follow-up to that then do you have a sense for what in terms of what's possible in terms of temporary store locations for the total amount of remodels.
Do you think is that something that maybe 50% this year or do you have a kind of a sense on the range of how many you think are even possible because I would imagine with some it’s just not even a consideration? You are right and with thumb not only is not a consideration is not worth it.
in some cases particularity these bigger tourist location doors where 50% of our sales come from people 50 miles away or more like Myrtle Beach or the a Mall of America.
Having that temp store location preserves us from just lost sales.
In some of these more localized mall environment it’s just a delayed sales.
So we think through it that way as well.
But that’s Jeremy we don’t have the answer to that today but I think that’s a good challenge to try to provide to guys as we get closer to it with some sort of range.
But also Jeremy as a remainder for the year we are still expecting revenue to be up low to mid single-digit range.
So still you know… It's just a noise in the quarter that we have tried to help you manage.
Okay great.
And then one more item related to that in terms of Easter and the Easter shift this year can you give us a sense maybe a range on would that been pulled forward into Q1 what type of impact it would have Q1 versus Q2 just being an earlier date this year? Yes it's actually still in our Q1 because there are basically a calendar year.
We are not a normal -- I mean not an average retail year.
Right but last year was in Q2 correct? No it was Q1 as well.
No it was in Q1 as well.
Okay.
Yes.
Alright thanks I’ll hop back into the queue.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Tubin with Guggenheim.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi yes this is actually Paula calling in for Howard.
We are just wondering if you could just please elaborate a little bit on your outlook strategy just with regard to location and assortment.
Sure thanks.
Our outlook as we mentioned we started opening them 2015 we opened them in both the UK and the U.S.
and the strategy involved not only taking advantage of the fact that outlet as a category are tending to outperform traditional malls right now.
But that there are many outlets located in “terrific” destinations which is where we tend to over perform.
On top of that we saw this is an opportunity to create the first value focus model in the history of Build-a-Bear that at the end of the day should allow us to manage our inventory in a more profitable manner by flushing different product line to the system without taking up valuable stores space and slop space base in our hire-in location.
So we can hold it at the warehouse and move it to the outlet.
Some examples of those types of locations that we put and the outlets and are Hilton Head and Williamsburg and what we've seen because we are working through the first year of this experience and we are learning a lot about it by certainly over performing in the summers.
And we were actually pleasantly surprised how much they over performed during the holiday time period.
We didn’t really realize that some of the beach locations would do as well as they did like Delaware and Hilton Head doing that.
So we are getting a lot of learning under a belt but the process is a little bit different and it's simplified process it’s a bit of a service model like I’ll call it and the product is merchandized in collections so it's an easier faster shop.
The consumer move through the system in a little bit of different way but it's not as if its unfamiliar for them.
They can still in most of our outlets get our primary products that’s available and advertised at a time that will be at the very front of the store.
But if they choose to move through the back of the store they can find some pretty good values.
And thus far particularly in the UK it's been working very well.
Okay great and then I guess just one more question regarding promotion.
In this past fourth quarter did you stick to your plans with regards to your promotional cadence? And looking forward to the first quarter could you give us a little bit color in terms of what you are planning? Yes so when we move into every quarter in every year we have a solid plan that is also inclusive of a number of different options that we can pull triggers on given what might be going on in the environment or what we think to trend or whether a property is working.
In this past fourth quarter as we have mentioned before even on the last call we did get out of the gate pretty slowly with Star Wars and actually I think a lot of people did.
There wasn’t as much advertising for this film and I understand that because ultimately clearly with the Box-Office it was going to be necessary but at the end of the day that kept it from being introduce to some of the younger consumers.
So once the film hit we saw double-digit comping on Star Wars but up until that point we felt that we wanted to pull the trigger on some of our tried and true approaches to driving sales particularly one that is when you buy multiple units of a product it tends to drive our DPTs up in the 70s and 80s.
So you get the discount on the skin but you don't get the discount on the all accessories so we tend to try to create those promotions around product where you really wanted to have the add-ons whether it's the outfit or the music or any other element of it that might be helping you tell the story.
So all of this is really enabled by the fact that we now have some clear promotional process and cadence where we already have tested which we did this time as well in specific markets how the promotions going to respond ultimately we focus telling the stories which then drives the DPTs and the UPTs and at end of the day even with some promotions that we had in our back pocket that we wouldn't have used it we did need to preserve our profitability.
Okay so then for Star Wars promotion that you had used would have included by two units for a set price sorry I'm just unclear as to what? Yes that’s usually the way those are the types of promotions that we have done in the past that have worked well for us and as I said we tested that in some markets and saw the type of reaction that we would get and how you preserve the profit because ultimately they still would buy all of the same [Indiscernible] for example they would still get a forecaster and it sound.
Okay great.
But also the pricing that we have on those particular products is much higher than our typical pricing.
So from the initial margin perspective we're commanding higher price points in those and we do have more flexibility if we chose to run some of those promotions that Sharon is talking about.
Right and that feeds into being more conscious at a very front of the process of value engineering building in the margin thinking of things through a product lifecycle perspective which feeds right into your first question about what you are doing with outlets what's the strategy with outlet.
These are sort of macro long horizon constructs which is inclusive of the fact that occasionally you need to pull a promotion out of your back pocket.
The question on whether you are profitable or not is what promotion do you pull.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephanie Wissink with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi sorry about that this is actually Lauren Wolff going in for Step just a couple of questions I thought there was.
Just do you have any color to provide any additional color regarding your owned brand plan for Promise or Honey Girls or anything else in particular I know you mentioned a couple of items that with the Easter launch that may also be impactful? And then secondarily any partnership plan just around anybody like UBS content or [indiscernible] slated? Yes thanks and so for our owned and operated brands our proprietary brands our Play Beyond the Plush construct that we introduced in fall of 2014 has been working for us it creates a balanced offering for the consumers and we've also been able to successfully develop products and concepts against key consumer groups where we look at for example out on the horizon of our license properties.
Where there might be a whole in the offering Honey Girls was a great example of that.
We also want to create things that not only are long-term that have legs under them where we can take them into different directions if they get traction with our consumers but things that create more predictability in key timeframe like Merry Mission that's repeatable.
So that just decreases risk for us because I have a place to go back to each year by attempting up Glisten this year on top of sort of known entity at that juncture with Merry Mission.
Just we've started out in a great place because the consumer was already familiar with the basic concept and adding Glisten helped bowie that business as we mentioned Glisten became our number one units in dollars per transaction SKU for the year or for the fourth quarter rather.
So we will continue this and I did speak about that we have 10 million digital interfaces which it's hard that’s part of the challenge with some of these avenues.
But it's hard to directly link those to sales but when you look at it in macro that’s the three properties that we delivered thus far which is Merry Mission Honey Girls and Promise Pets has actually contributed the over $60 million of sales during their life time.
You have to believe that there is some correlation there.
Independently when we launched these products like a Promise Pets that we launched second quarter of last year it popped up to 10% of sales within a number of weeks and then they bowie back down but you can see that with these types of approaches we really are making it impact with the consumers in they are coming in to see what we're doing.
So we will continue to upgrade the play the Honey Girls will be out with a new character as well as a new music video and they are going to Paris now they are on tour it's exciting.
We will be out launching new characters for Merry Mission in the fourth quarter of next year and as I mentioned earlier and I'm very excited about this we are launching a property called Horses &amp; Hearts for our slightly older girl or equestrian girl which is a well more realistic than some of the things that we've had in the past that are horse like.
And we think that just given that overlap and interest for little girls with horses and just Build-A-Bear all of that but should have excused upon a lot of lags.
Okay thanks.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Greg Pendy with Sidoti.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my call.
My question just wondering on Spin Master if it’s fitting in the ball how we should think about 2016 and when that revenue will be hit because I believe it should be coming on a lagging basis so that can be more about 2017 of that.
Thank you.
It does lag you are exactly right it lagged.
And this is a holiday offering fourth quarter offering it's a classics fourth quarter set for the majors and the revenue will be lagging into the first quarter 2017.
Royalty fixed revenue yes.
Okay thank you.
Ms.
Sharon we have no further at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thanks again for joining us today.
And we look we look forward to speaking to you when we have our first quarter results in May.
Ladies and gentlemen this does concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Build-A-Bear Workshop Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2013 Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Allison Malkin of ICR.
Thank you you may begin.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
With me today are Sharon Price John CEO; and Tina Klocke COO and CFO.
Before I turn the call over to management I want to remind members of the media who may be on our call today to contact us after this conference call with your questions.
We ask that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up.
This way we can get to everyone's questions during this one hour call.
Feel free to re-queue if you have further questions.
Please note the call is being recorded and broadcast live via the Internet.
The earnings release is available on the Investor Relations portion of our corporate website.
And a replay of both our call and webcast will be available later today on the IR site.
Before we get started I will remind everyone that forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors including those set forth in the Risk Factors section in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Sharon John CEO.
Thanks Allison.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
On today's call I will provide an overview of our fourth quarter and full year results and discuss the strategic initiatives we have set forth in 2014.
Tina will follow with a more detailed review of our financials and then we will take your questions.
In the fourth quarter we demonstrated disciplined execution of our stated strategies resulting in improved overall profitability.
In a highly promotional retail environment and with fewer stores we increased gross margin and operating profit leading to a $4.3 million improvement in an adjusted net income compared to the fourth quarter last year.
In total for the quarter consolidated net retail sales were $106 million decline of $10 million from 2013 reflecting the impact of 28 fewer stores and gross margin expanded by 250 basis points and adjusted net income increased to $6.9 million from last year’s $2.6 million.
Our performance continues to demonstrate progress toward our turnaround plans and adjusted to achieve sustainable profitable growth.
Let me share some 2013 highlights with you.
First we increased comparable store sales by 5.1% on a consolidated basis.
This was led by a 5.7% increase in North America.
Key contributing factors were our elevated marketing efforts which focused on brand building our improved product offering for consumers of all ages and the integrated execution of our high touch retail service model.
We also reduced discounts in North America by 30% as we rebalanced our marketing efforts to emphasis brand versus price.
These initiatives drove 70% of the annual comparable store sales increase with the balance coming from our real estate optimization action.
Secondly we improved North American store productivity to $381 per square foot a 9% increase reversing a multiyear decline.
This was accomplished by closing 37 doors and transferring approximately 20% of sales from the closed stores to other locations and strategically refreshing and selectively downsizing ongoing stores as we renewed leases.
At year end over 90% of our North American stores were profitable on a four-wall basis compared to 78% at the start of the year.
Finally we reduced expenses leading to an improvement in SG&amp;A as a percent of total revenue and expanded our product margin.
This was driven by expense savings from closed stores continue renegotiation of terms with vendors and suppliers adjustments to our store labor models to better align with overall traffic pattern and the implementation of stringent expense controls throughout the organization particularly in the back half of the year.
On the product side we selectively increased prices throughout the line and began to see the early impacted value engineered designs.
We will continue to evolve our strategies as we move from a company in turnaround to one that delivers sustained profitability and growth.
Specifically in 2014 we are focused in four key areas.
First our real estate optimization efforts will continue with plans to close between 10 and 15 doors primarily in North America.
As in 2012 and 2013 we expect to transfer a portion of sales to other stores in the same markets.
We will also strategically refresh and upgrade stores with select key features from the new store design while driving down the cost of capital that is needed for these improvements.
Additionally we will selectively open new doors as opportunities arise.
Second we will continue to reposition our marketing programs to refine the consumer value equation.
We will expand our integrated and elevated brand building marketing programs and increase the impact of our loyalty program which currently has over 4 million active members.
Specifically we expect to refine our consumer segmentation model and develop programs to enhance the value of our Best Guest segment.
And to assist us in achieving our goals we hired Gina Collins as Chief Marketing and Brand Officer.
Gina was most recently with The Coca-Cola Company and is a seasoned Marketing Executive.
Third we are aggressively working on expense rationalization.
In addition to ongoing value engineering of product we have initiated an end-to-end review of our supply chain and have the gun to identify opportunities to further improve product margins and leverage our SG&amp;A expenses.
And fourth we will build on our core competencies as we make continual improvements to our high touch retail service model and customizable product offerings.
Additionally we will begin to lay the groundwork to further leverage the strength of the Build-A-Bear brand.
Let me update you on our – for 2014 first quarter.
We increased comparable store sales in January seeding on the momentum of a positive December and stronger holiday gift card sales.
Valentine's is an important holiday for us as families visit our stores for shared experience and teens and adults purchase personalized gifts with or for their loved ones.
Our Million Hearts Million Hugs Million Ways to Help campaign and the partnership with Make-A-Wish foundation is an example of elevated and integrated marketing programs that we will expand throughout the year.
For the remainder of the quarter we are excited about some product launches including Disney’s Palace Pets collection which will be supported by TV advertising.
We also have a Superhero offering and we will kick-off our Easter campaign Fun for Every Bunny in March supported by a compelling array of proprietary products.
While we feel good about the line-up the first two weeks of February have proven to be difficult and we want to remind you that Easter shift into the second quarter versus the first quarter for last year.
Separately I would like to note that Build-A-Bear Workshop is recently named Fortune 100 best places to work with for the sixth consecutive year a proud accomplishment for the company.
I would like to thank our thousands of associates and global partners for their passionate commitment to the Build-A-Bear brand and business.
In summary I’m encouraged by the progress that we have made last year and are positioned for 2014.
We have a strong emotional brand that has a broad demographic appeal when that is trusted by moms and loved by kids.
We are starting to see the results of our strong turnaround plan to return North American retail to sustainable long-term profitability.
And we are laying the groundwork for a strong future where we will leverage the strength of our core competencies to monetize the Build-A-Bear brand due to the creation of incremental profit and revenue stream.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Tina to review our financials in more detail.
Thanks Sharon and good morning everyone.
As noted for the fourth quarter net retail sales were up $106 million compared to $116 million in the fiscal 2012 fourth quarter.
Consolidated comparable store sales declined 2.2% driven by a 7.5% decrease in transactions partially offset by a 5.7% increase in transaction value.
By geography comparable store sales declined 2.8% in North America and were down 0.1% in Europe.
Our E-commerce business decreased by 4.8% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Retail gross margin improved by 250 basis points to 44.9% with the majority of the improvement coming from enhanced merchandise margin.
SG&amp;A was $44 million or 40.9% of total revenues including $1.5 million in management transition store closing and asset impairment expenses.
This compares to $52 million or 43.8% of total revenues last year which include $2.5 million of asset impairment and closing cost.
Excluding these costs SG&amp;A was 39.5% of total revenues in the fourth quarter of this year a 220 basis point improvement.
Adjusted net income for diluted share improved to $0.40 from $0.15 last year.
For the fiscal year net retail sales were $373 million with 28 fewer stores in operations at years end compared to $375 million last year.
To put this in perspective the 28 fewer stores led to a 7% decline in total operating weeks in the year while our net retail sales declined 0.5% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Our consolidated comparable store sales rose 5.1% primarily driven by a 4.8% increase in transaction value and included a 5.7% increase in North America and a 2.9% increase in Europe.
E-commerce sales increased 0.3% excluding the impact of foreign exchange while operating contribution improved by over 50%.
Retail gross margin was 41.1% compared to 38.9%.
The 220 basis point improvement was primarily driven by a 150 basis points of improved leverage and occupancy costs and a 60 basis point improvement in merchandise margin.
SG&amp;A was a $161 million or 42.4% of revenues including $5 million of management transition store closing and asset impairment expenses.
This compares to $166 million or 43.4% last year including $3 million of asset impairment and store closing cost.
Excluding these costs SG&amp;A was 41% a 170 basis point improvement versus last year.
Adjusted net income was $3 million or $0.17 per diluted share a solid improvement from last year's adjusted net loss of $10 million or loss of $0.61 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet at year end consolidated cash was $45 million down slightly from last year.
We had no borrowings on our credit facility at year end.
For the fiscal year capital expenditures were $19 million primarily for store related capital and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization was also $19 million down 10% from last year.
Consolidated inventories at quarter end totaled $50 million compared to $47 million last year.
The $3 million increase is due to a combination of timing of receipts and additional inventory to support our first quarter sales plan.
This represents an increase in inventory per square foot of 17% was previously noted our sales per square foot increased 9%.
For fiscal 2014 we expect capital expenditures to be in the range of $15 million to $18 million to support the continued refresh and repositioning of our stores and the ongoing investment in infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization is expected to be $17 million to $19 million.
And now I would like to turn the call over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Jack Ripsteen with Potrero Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the call.
In terms of the top can you think about or tell us what it would look like with pricing increase and how much came from pricing you talked about I think transactional volume going up even though or the value sorry versus maybe traffic? Yes thanks Jack.
Yes I think that we mentioned that our consolidated comp was 5.1 mainly driven by 4.8% increase in transactional value which we used to sort of proxy calculation which is the combination of our calculation of traffic and dollars per transaction.
So we did see the pricing increase as we said in a selective way but really the difference of the increase in transactional value was on the 30% discount reduction.
So it wasn't so much you guys took prices you stopped cutting price basically is that…  I want to be clear with the combination of both we had a 30% reduction in discounts year-on-year and we did take select pricing increases where on products that we’re selling at a velocity that we sell could – that the consumer felt that there was the value was there to take the price.
And as you get comfortable getting some of its data and not quite a full year under your belt how much room is there for more selective price increases across different parts of the line? Well there is kind of two ways that we look at that.
One is across the line in terms of – do we have the right pricing from a segmentation strategy perspective and we are actually looking at that right now.
What should be our entry-level price point? What’s a good mid-tier price point from our proprietary products? And you may see some easing up of prices across the line we really haven’t taken any segment pricing in quite sometime.
But the other side of that equation is on some of our hot products.
And those types of price increases come when you see the velocity moving at such a point that you feel like that you can move on the pricing which is easier to do when you’re a vertically integrated company to get the right ratio of sales.
So as an example we actually took some selective price increasing on one of our very popular lines this year My Little Pony we took it from $23 to $25 and didn’t see a velocity impact at all.
Gotcha.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Okay.
And it seems we have no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the floor back over for closing comments.
Thanks again for joining us I remain confident in our business prospects as we began 2014.
The strategies we’ve implemented have led to improvements in our comparable store sales margins and profitability and we expect to build upon our progress during the year.
We look forward to speaking with you when we report first quarter results in May.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.