Welcome to Stryker's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Vanessa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that the discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's first quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me is Dean Bergy our Interim CFO; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Also on the call today is Bill Jellison who joined Stryker this week as our Chief Financial Officer.
Dean will help support Bill during a transition period through Q2 and will continue in his capacity as our Corporate Secretary.
I'd like to both welcome Bill to our team and also thank Dean for his support during this period.
My executive leadership team is now fully staffed.
As you may recall David Floyd joined as Group President of Orthopedics last November and Scott Bruder was added as Chief Scientific and Medical Officer in January.
With respect to today's call I'll provide opening comments and then turn it over to Katherine for additional details and then Dean will cover the financials.
We will then open the call to your questions.
Looking at our Q1 results we achieved revenue and earnings growth in line with the targets we set out at the start of the year.
On a reported basis our first quarter sales increased 1.3% and excluding foreign exchange and acquisitions posted a gain of 2.5%.
However adjusting for less selling days in the quarter which reduced sales by approximately 2.5% top line growth was 5% with all 3 of our franchises Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotech and Spine achieving year-over-year gains.
The U.S.
had another strong showing with sales up 4% on a reported basis.
As anticipated our international results were negatively impacted by year-over-year declines in Europe which was partly offset by solid gains in emerging markets.
We continue to anticipate improving trends in our European business as 2013 unfolds reflecting the impact of a number of initiatives underway to better drive sales momentum.
Turning to our 3 franchises in more detail.
On a global basis Reconstructive sales were up roughly 1% on a reported basis reflecting another strong showing in the U.S.
which was up 6.5% reported.
And encouragingly adjusting for the selling days and currency growth for our international Reconstructive business was positive for all of the key businesses including hips knees and trauma and extremities.
In the U.S.
while knee momentum slowed modestly hips were strong and trauma and extremities grew at 26%.
Within extremities foot and ankle continued to roll growing at 50%.
And our joint preservation business which includes sports medicine implants and biologics grew over 50% behind its new all-suture anchor.
Worldwide MedSurg sales increased less than 1% on a reported basis but when adjusted for currency and selling days posted gains in both the U.S.
and international despite continued challenges related to the previously disclosed Neptune recall.
Lastly our Neurotech and Spine franchise continued to demonstrate strong momentum with global sales up 4% reported and 8% excluding currency and the impact of selling days.
With a relatively balanced growth geographically and powered by double-digit gains in neurovascular craniomaxillofacial and neuro Powered Instruments.
Moving down the P&amp;L a few highlights to note.
Gross margin excluding acquisition and restructuring charges declined 30 basis points year-over-year to 67.5%.
However this included a 100-basis-point impact from the medical device excise tax which totaled $23 million in Q1 and is captured in our cost of goods sold.
Importantly we continue to make significant investments in innovation as evidenced by the 15% increase in R&amp;D spending versus the prior year.
All told these results combined with the previously disclosed benefit from the tax extenders resulted in an adjusted diluted EPS of $1.03 up 4% year-over-year.
Looking ahead to the remainder of 2013 we remain focused on delivering on our financial targets which includes top line growth of 3% to 5.5% excluding foreign exchange and acquisitions and adjusted EPS of $4.25 to $4.40.
As in any year we are navigating challenges such as the timing of getting Neptune back on the market and more recently the impact of the rapidly weakened yen.
With respect to the latter compared to the start of the year when we set out guidance based on current exchange rates the total impact from foreign exchange is expected to adversely affect our per-share earnings for 2013 by roughly $0.15.
If exchange rates remain at current levels we would anticipate our full year EPS at the lower end of our targeted range.
With that I will turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
My comments on today's call will focus on providing our view as it relates to the reconstructive and capital markets.
With respect to the reconstructive market we continue to believe we are seeing an overall stabilization in the U.S.
hip and knee market and anticipate normalized revenue growth for the market to approximate the low- to mid-single-digit range.
As has occurred in prior years we believe Q4 Recon growth benefited modestly as more patients opted to use up flexible spending accounts prior to year-end expiration of those benefits.
Consequently elective procedures are somewhat stronger in Q4 versus Q1 and we suspect this trend continued in 2013 particularly as it relates to knees which tend to be a more deferrable procedure versus hips.
We continue to anticipate stable U.S.
recon market growth for the remainder of 2013 and believe we are well positioned given our product portfolio.
We continue to anticipate filing a 510(k) for our ShapeMatch custom cutting guides in the second quarter.
While there's been some impact on the knee sales post the recall of the guides in mid-Q4 we do not believe it's been significant.
We also continue to invest in our GetAroundKnee campaign which has proven to be effective in communicating to patients and doctors the unique aspects of our Triathlon knee which remains the only single-radius knee on the market.
And with 5 years of peer-reviewed clinical data demonstrating the knee design's efficacy we believe the Triathlon knee platform is well positioned in the market.
Turning to hospital capital expenditures.
The trend improved in Q1 although we are cognizant that these businesses are inherently more volatile.
And therefore we continue to anticipate greater quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our more capital-intensive franchises.
Nonetheless we're encouraged by the solid performance for medical which is the highest component of capital sales.
Looking at our endoscopy business we achieved double-digit camera growth in the quarter reflecting the impact from the continued ramp-up of our next-generation 1488 Camera.
However this was partially offset by softness in communications sales as this business is 100% capital and as such the timing of orders can vary quarter-to-quarter.
Finally as we've discussed previously we do not anticipate at this time a meaningful impact on either elective procedures or our capital businesses from the ACA although we will continue to monitor closely going forward.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dean.
Thanks Katherine.
Sales in the quarter were in line with our expectations which reflected a lower number of selling days compared to the prior year.
Sales grew 1.3% on a reported basis and 2.6% in constant currency with U.S.
sales growth leading the way.
With respect to earnings we delivered adjusted diluted net earnings per share of $1.03 representing growth of 4% when compared to the first quarter of 2012.
On a GAAP diluted -- on a GAAP basis diluted net earnings per share were $0.79 down 13.2% versus the prior year as a result of charges in the quarter to increase reserves related to the Rejuvenate and ABG II product recalls and certain regulatory matters as well as the cost of continued acquisition and restructuring-related activities.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP net earnings per share is provided in the tables accompanying today's press release.
In reviewing the quarter I will start with a discussion of the components of our revenue growth.
In the first quarter volume and mix contributed 3.8% to our top line growth and acquisitions added 0.2%.
Price changes reduced sales by 1.3%.
The price decline is in line with the decreases experienced in 2012.
Currency driven primarily by a significant weakening of the Japanese yen versus the U.S.
dollar negatively impacted our top line by approximately $28 million and decreased our overall reported sales growth by 1.3%.
We also had 1 or 2 fewer comparative selling days in the first quarter depending on geography.
This reduced sales by approximately 2.5% in the quarter.
Looking at our reporting segments.
I will start with the Reconstructive products which represented 44% of our sales in the quarter.
Reconstructive products include our hip knee trauma and other reconstructive lines.
Sales in the Reconstructive segment were up 1.2% as reported and 2.8% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
Reconstructive sales grew 6.5% in the quarter.
Trauma and extremities had another excellent quarter in the U.S.
posting 26% growth led by new products strong sales force execution and nice growth in foot and ankle.
Domestic hips grew at solid mid-single-digit levels in the quarter while knee growth softened as we saw some impact from the absence of our ShapeMatch cutting guides from the market.
Our international Reconstructive business was down 1.9% in constant currency but was also impacted by the lesser number of selling days.
The strongest performance overseas was in the emerging markets.
Next I will turn to the MedSurg product segment which represented approximately 38% of sales in the quarter.
For reporting purposes MedSurg is comprised of instruments endoscopy medical and the sustainability solutions business.
Total MedSurg sales increased 0.3% as reported and 1% on a constant currency basis.
These results were led by growth from our medical and sustainability solutions businesses.
Both medical and sustainability grew by mid-single digits in the U.S with medical benefiting from a soft comparable.
Instruments and endoscopy both posted mid-single-digit growth in constant currency internationally.
Instrument sales in the U.S.
were hindered by the impact of the Neptune Waste Management System recall which reduced sales by approximately $20 million in the quarter.
As a reminder we believe this recall will negatively impact sales by about $17 million to $20 million per quarter until we obtain regulatory clearance.
As we work with FDA to address the requirements for the Neptune 510(k) we don't think this regulatory clearance is likely to be achieved until late this year.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represented 18% of company sales had a very good quarter.
Sales increased 4% as reported and 5.7% on a constant currency basis.
Growth in this segment was led by our neuro Powered Instruments platform NSE which posted a growth about 20%; and our neurovascular and craniomaxillofacial franchises both of which generated high-single-digit constant currency growth.
Core spinal implant sales were flat in the U.S.
and down slightly overseas.
I will now turn to the income statement beginning with our gross margin performance.
On a reported basis gross margins in the first quarter finished at 67.4% while our gross -- adjusted gross margins finished at 67.5%.
These amounts include the impact of the medical device excise tax in 2013 which reduced gross margin by 100 basis points.
The prior year adjusted gross margin for the first quarter was 67.8%.
The current year gross margin was favorably impacted by lower inventory charges favorable mix and the continued benefit from cost-reduction efforts being driven by our global quality and operations group.
Research and development spending finished at 5.9% of sales compared to 5.2% in the prior year first quarter and up from 5.5% sequentially.
The 15% increase in R&amp;D spending over last year was primarily the result of increased investment in additional R&amp;D projects and innovation activities.
Selling general and administrative costs represented 41.8% of sales.
These costs include a $40 million pre-tax charge to increase the reserve related to the voluntary recall of our Rejuvenate and ABG II modular-neck hip stems a $40 million pre-tax charge to increase reserves associated with the U.S.
Department of Justice subpoena related to the OtisKnee device and an SEC inquiry regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The Rejuvenate recall is still at an early stage and will continue to be evaluated on a quarterly basis based on information we receive related to the status of the recall.
Adjusting for these charges as well as restructuring and acquisition-related charges SG&amp;A spending in the quarter finished at 37.2% of sales.
This compares to adjusted SG&amp;A at 37.5% of sales in the prior year which included approximately $8 million of CEO severance costs.
Reported operating income for the first quarter declined 18.9% compared to 2012 and was 17.6% of sales.
Adjusted first quarter operating income decreased 2.1% versus the prior year and the adjusted operating margin finished at 22.9% an 80-basis-point decline from the prior year primarily as a result of the added costs of the medical device tax and the increase in R&amp;D spending partially offset by the other factors that we previously described as providing additional gross margin.
Other income and expense reduced pre-tax income by $11 million in the quarter compared to an $8 million reduction in 2012.
Components of the current year's other income and expense included investment in interest income of $5 million offset by interest expense of $16 million.
The company's effective income tax rate was 18.9% for the first quarter of 2013 compared to 25.2% in the prior year.
The effective rate on earnings before adjustments approximated 20%.
The current year effective tax rate reflects the benefit of the adoption in January by the U.S.
Congress of a law to extend certain tax benefits applicable to the company for both 2012 and 2013.
The timing of the adoption required the entire amount of the 2012 tax year benefit to be recognized in the first quarter of 2013 for financial reporting purposes.
And as a result this year's first quarter includes 5 quarters of tax benefit related to the extenders and had a positive impact on net earnings per share of approximately $0.04.
The total year tax benefit of the extenders is expected to be approximately $0.07 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $4.5 billion of cash and marketable securities an increase of approximately $200 million compared to year-end 2012.
This includes additional borrowing of $1 billion added under the public debt offering we concluded in March with $600 million of 5-year borrowing and $400 million of 30-year debt.
We also used cash in the quarter for the acquisition of Trauson Holdings Limited which was successfully closed late in the first quarter.
We now have $2.77 billion of long-term debt on the balance sheet.
From an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended the quarter at 58 which was up 3 days from year end but down 3 days versus the prior year quarter.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 167 which was up 14 days sequentially and down 2 days when measured against the prior year quarter and the growth [indiscernible] partially reflects inventory added in the Trauson acquisition.
Turning to cash flow.
We had an excellent quarter generating cash from operations of $236 million compared to $35 million in the prior year.
With this start we expect 2013 to be another strong year for operating cash flow.
Finally regarding share repurchases we announced a $250 million accelerated share repurchase program on March 1 of this year.
Under this program we immediately reduced the company's outstanding share count by 3.6 million shares the minimum number of shares that would be repurchased.
The ASR program was completed in April and the final number of shares repurchased totals 3.8 million which will be fully effective in the second quarter.
Implementation of the program reduced the amount of open share repurchase authorizations to $750 million from $1 billion.
Turning to our outlook for the rest of the year we are projecting constant currency sales growth excluding acquisitions in the range of 3% to 5.5% for the year.
If foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels we anticipate net sales will be negatively impacted by approximately 1% to 2% in both the second quarter and for the full year of 2013.
As Kevin indicated previously while we have not changed our projection that 2013 adjusted diluted net earnings per share will be in a range of $4.25 to $4.40 we felt it was important to provide greater clarity regarding the potential impact of currency on the year which based on current FX rates we estimate to be approximately 15% -- or $0.15 per share.
With that we'll now open the call up to your questions.
And joining us for the Q&amp;A period will be our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Tony McKinney.
[qa/&gt; Research Division</strong> I thought we can just start on the -- within the large joint market.
Generally speaking just what are you seeing on the volume side of things? It seems like the quarter was solid but somewhat uninspiring with respect to volumes.
Are you seeing anything different than we've seen in the past several quarters? Yes it's Katherine.
I would just go back to some of the formal comments on the call.
The quarter nothing significantly out of expectations getting back to that normalized what we think is going to be low- to mid-single-digit market growth.
As we mentioned we think there was some modest seasonality as we've seen in prior years probably a little bit more so as it's been accelerating each year which made the fourth quarter a little bit stronger.
And that's very consistent with what we've commented previously.
That's probably a little bit more so in the case of knees.
It is a more deferrable procedural versus hips and that's partially why we think we saw a little bit stronger hip growth versus knee growth.
I would call that just kind of a normal Q4 to Q1 pattern versus any real deviation from what we believe to be normalized growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with respect to AAOS and I know it's still fairly early but there was a lot of noise made by a couple of your competitors on the knee side.
What have you heard so far back from the field as far as what they are thinking within their customer base in terms of some potential trialing of these new knee products versus just sticking with Triathlon? I think it was just similar to AAOS.
[indiscernible] to be that different.
We are still early on.
As you know when companies roll out new hip and knee systems there's a period of time of trialing getting their own sales force comfortable with it and then typically focusing on their existing customer base.
So I'm sure there'll be some impact out there.
We feel really well positioned with Triathlon as the only single-radius knee on the market.
That said we're obviously going to be cognizant of what the competitors are doing.
But it's probably Q3 to Q4 before we would really start to see any impact to the degree it occurs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
The R&amp;D I know you said it was up 15% on new plans.
It seemed higher than I thought for the start of the year.
Can you say if this run rate -- is this more of the new run rate for the year? And is there any particular area where the spend is higher whether it's say neuro? I wouldn't say there's any significant change.
We've talked about R&amp;D running between 5% to 6% of sales.
That continues to be our expectation.
It may be higher or lower in any given quarter.
And the year-over-year growth rate obviously can fluctuate the timing of investments and trials and the like.
But there's variability among all the different businesses.
But that said all of them are seeing increases in R&amp;D spending.
So for modeling I would continue to assume it's going to be somewhere to 5% 6% of sales.
Yes Matt this is Kevin.
What I'd just add is I had a chance to visit a number of the divisions and I could tell you we have exciting pipelines across multiple divisions.
I was at neurovascular endoscopy and just recently at instruments and we have really really exciting pipelines across the portfolio.
It's fair to say that as neuro becomes a bigger part of Stryker that clearly carries a little bit more R&amp;D.
But it -- as Katherine said between 5% to 6% is what you should be looking for.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one quick follow-up for ShapeMatch.
How big is the market do you think today in the U.S.
is custom cutting guides? It thought it was still pretty small so the impact wouldn't be that bad while you're off the market.
Is that fair? Yes.
Yes I think that's a fair comment Matt.
We've been off the market since the mid of Q4 and obviously we had pretty solid fourth quarter in knees.
Clearly we're not selling ShapeMatch.
So there's some revenue impact.
But it really is immaterial certainly to total Stryker but also to our knee business.
We estimate it's hard to get really good data but it's probably about 10% of knee procedures use some type of custom cutting guide.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I'm obsessed with the improving EU trends Kevin.
Can you give us a little more color on where you are now and you're continuing -- what's making you continue to feel encouraged there? Yes.
So the first thing I would say is the message I've delivered since the fourth quarter last year is still the same.
It's going to take multiple quarters before we start to see significant improvement.
We'll start to see that improvement in the second half of this year.
I believe and I'm feeling more confident because I'm doing monthly reviews with our European business.
They put all the new leaders in place at the country level.
We've just had our former Vice President of knees just take a new assignment in Europe leading the orthopedic franchise within Europe.
So the leadership team is very solid.
I've looked at detailed action plans country by country feeling very very good about the plans in place.
Certainly we're seeing good results in the U.K.
and France and some of the Northern Europe countries.
Certainly Southern Europe is still very challenging and will take time.
But I can see the momentum in terms of how the physicians are re-engaged with us how our employees are re-engaged.
So this is something that we've seen happen in other parts of the world.
It takes a little bit of time but we're on a very good trajectory.
And I would anticipate improvement in the second half of the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up in terms of getting Neptune back on the market can you give us any more sense of what has to be done to -- the process of making it happen or again any more color there and detail? Yes Rick.
And really we need to file the 510(k).
So that process is under way and that's the key milestone over the next few months is to file that.
And as Dean commented based on our expectation is it's going to be late this year when we anticipate getting 510(k) clearance.
We anniversary the impact after the second quarter since the recall occurred early in the third quarter.
And exact timing beyond that is just too difficult to predict but the key is obviously getting the 510(k) filed.
Research Division</strong> So one follow-up Katherine for you on the comments you made on the recon market.
I think the selling day impact is pretty well understood but the seasonality you mentioned was deeper here in the first quarter at least it looked that way from your business.
I appreciate the color for the sort of full year growth rate but as we're a couple of quarters away from the third quarter last year was a pretty big seasonal dip should we be thinking about just sort of like a little bit more of an up stronger Q2; down stronger Q3; up stronger Q4 kind of volatility given what you've seen in the last few quarters? And I have one follow up.
Yes.
I don't think we could be that specific Matt.
We obviously saw difference in selling days.
We had an extra selling day in the fourth quarter roughly 1 to 2 fewer selling days this quarter.
Trying to tease out exactly how many basis points seasonality was it's difficult.
But what I can tell you is as we've seen in the last 2 years with deductibles increasing with unemployment et cetera it does seem there's been a modestly and I would really stress modestly stronger seasonality impact in the fourth quarter and a corresponding modestly slower one in the first quarter.
Overall everything that we see points to a recon market that is stabilizing around that low- to mid-single-digit growth for the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the capital side understanding also the impact of Neptune I guess we saw a little bit of a reversal here in the first quarter where I think most folks were expecting bents [ph] to be down a little more and they were actually up.
And most folks were expecting endoscopy and instruments to be up maybe a little more and they were actually kind of flat or down.
Can you talk at all about any of the dynamics in the quarter that you're seeing there maybe your expectations for those trends going forward? Yes.
I think with medical it's -- well over 90% of that businesses is capital.
So it is inherently probably the most volatile.
And just given the timing of orders regardless of the market it can vary quarter to quarter.
So it's not surprising that we could be better or worse than expectations.
And I think that's just the reality of that business.
With respect to endoscopy as I mentioned double-digit camera growth.
That's obviously being powered and that's a U.S.
number by the launch of the 1488 Camera.
And we're pleased as that continues to ramp.
But the communications business which is dominated by our Endosuite is 100% capital.
And that businesses is also volatile so it can be stronger or weaker in any given quarter.
There's nothing there that alarms us.
It's just the nature of having a business that's got a significant capital component.
In terms of the outlook for the full year we haven't given granularity around the 3 key segments.
But with the growth that we saw this quarter particularly on an adjusted basis we feel very good about being able to deliver that underlying growth of 3% to 5.5% for the year.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly I was wondering on the ShapeMatch if you could give us some of the same color you did for Neptune.
Exactly what -- to that recall -- did you say you already submitted the 510(k) for that? Yes.
I said we anticipate filing the 510(k) in the coming months hopefully some time around the second quarter.
And we're looking to potentially receive 510(k) clearance late this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly we saw a recent NICE guideline and I know spine is a little flat for you in the quarter and maybe it decelerated a bit.
But would you be willing to give us any color on Cortoss from Orthovita how that's been? Is that a growth driver for you? Is it really just the Vitoss side? So Cortoss is obviously the smallest of the products that we acquired with the Orthovita acquisition and it's being sold today by our IVS business.
It had a kind of a slow year last year but had a -- actually a very strong first quarter.
And we report our IVS business as part of our Neurotechnology and Spine.
It was up very very strong double-digit growth and I think that's the product that is just gaining steam within the sales force.
It's clearly not on the scale of Vitoss but it's something that we feel very good about.
It's an excellent product and we had terrific results in the first quarter.
But it's very very small in the big scheme of things.
Research Division</strong> So first question I just wanted to come back to the EPS guidance for 2013 that you talked about.
And I was wondering if Dean or Katherine you could walk through the math on Japan and the currency hit there and just how that math works because again I thought you had some natural hedges that made it -- might have made it a little bit less than this.
So the first question is just walk through the math on Japan.
And also is there anything else that's causing you to suggest it will be at the bottom of the range? Or is this really all currency? So Bob yes we have talked in the past about kind of our FX situation.
Relative to Japan it is the one place where we don't have as many natural hedges.
The natural hedges really come from being able to manufacture in a jurisdiction.
So in Europe we obviously have a lot of manufacturing.
We really don't have any manufacturing in Japan.
So for that reason what we're seeing here is kind of an unprecedented change in this currency with it being devaluated 20% or so since the start of the year.
We're really seeing a more significant impact from that.
There's -- and there's straight translation impacts as well as impacts on our cost of goods sold as they come across to Japan and to some other jurisdictions.
So under normal times we would be able to manage pretty well on a lot of currency changes.
But Japan is one area where we get hit a little bit harder.
And there is nothing else that's really impacting what we're talking about relative to the guidance here.
It's just this really unprecedented change with the yen that's caused us to call this out and suggest that right now we'd be towards the lower end of the range if this continues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up obviously you guys have done really well in trauma.
Some of that because of your own launches some of that because of others being excluded from the market for awhile.
I was wondering given the really high-growth rates you're experiencing right now if you could give us any sense as we move forward what you think a sustainable growth rate in trauma might look like as we get to kind of more normalized growth rates if you will over the course of the rest of this year.
Yes.
Thanks Bob.
It's clear our trauma business is seeing a lot of momentum.
Similar to the fourth quarter some of that was the impact of a competitive recall in Q4 that we talked about.
About 1/3 of the growth was a result of that.
This quarter it was less than that although we did still see some benefit.
If you exclude that we did see an acceleration in our trauma growth.
And we feel really good about the momentum we're seeing there.
Part of that is just having the opportunity to present to customers the breadth of our product as it's evolved over the last few years.
And that's really helping us gain that competitive share.
I wouldn't want to predict the growth going forward.
We're seeing very strong momentum.
I'm not sure I would extrapolate that in the models.
That said right now there's a lot of momentum in that division and that group is really performing very very well.
And I'd highlight things like foot and ankle.
I mean that 50% growth for that segment is impressive and that's been an investment there in the product launches we've had and putting in place a dedicated selling effort.
Yes.
Bob it's Kevin.
I'd just add 2 other comments is that the trauma growth if you look back over the past few years has been really performing well.
So even last year the entire year of last year we had terrific results.
And that was absent the competitor recall.
So this has been sustained strong performance really over a number of years in the trauma business.
And on the foot and ankle you could expect certainly the second quarter will continue to be very robust.
And then we'll start to run against some comparatives that are a little strong given the robust performance we had in Q3 and Q4 of last year.
But certainly we feel very bullish.
It's a market expansion opportunity that's enormous plenty of room for growth.
Could you please give us an update on what percentage of your revenue is in the emerging markets? And how some of the most recent acquisition the integration has gone in that market? And then also given the ASR what is your guidance for average share count for the year? Yes.
Joanne I'll -- Dean can follow up on the share count question.
In terms of emerging markets it's bumped up by about 1% with the acquisition of Trauson.
It's still well below 10%.
Around that 6% or so vicinity of our revenue comes from emerging markets.
We did close the Trauson acquisition during the quarter.
It's early.
But today we're pleased with the integration progress so far.
But again we're early on.
It's an exciting opportunity for us to get into that value segment of the market and we expect it to help be a driver of expanding our presence in emerging markets.
And Joanne with the ASR in place right now we would expect the share count to be right in the range of 383 million.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify there Dean said it assumes no additional share buyback over the balance of the year? Yes.
I mean that assumes we don't do any additional buyback in those numbers.
So that's our guidance assuming we stay where we're at.
Obviously we still have $750 million outstanding.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me just ask kind of maybe 2 follow-ups.
So one if I look at the performance across your specialized sales forces if I look at the foot and ankle performance if I look at the sports medicine performance if I look at the CMF performance all very very strong.
And a lot of what -- particularly this quarter it is driving the company.
Can you just talk about how you think about that strategy in the context of your other businesses and whether there's an evolving distribution strategy here at Stryker that you potentially want to take advantage of because obviously the growth in all those businesses is above market? It's been aided by what you've done on the distribution side.
What is that -- where do you -- how do you run with that to make that a bigger opportunity for the company? And the second I just want to clarify in the endoscopy business which was light I think probably versus the street's expectations do you -- was that any -- was there a timing issue with any of that? And do you recapture some of that potentially in the second quarter or over the next couple of quarters? Why don't I take the second part and then Kevin can address the first part of your question.
There was some timing impact so yes we would expect momentum in endoscopy to improve as the year goes on.
The timing is related to that communications segment of our business.
Again that's primarily composed of products such as the Endosuite.
It's 100% capital.
Some quarters can be stronger or weaker just on the timing of orders.
So yes we would expect to recapture that.
Camera growth that we're very pleased mentioned the double-digit momentum there.
So it really is primarily related to that comm segment.
And with respect to your first question Mike I think it's a great observation.
We absolutely believe in dedicated sales forces where you have specialized surgeons and in some cases we call it specialists serving specialists.
And it's definitely paid for us and it's paid off for us with focus and in really truly understanding the customer.
The podiatric surgeon as an example was largely neglected by large device manufacturers.
And they feel really embraced by us.
And Stryker foot and ankle is actually now a strong brand.
Same -- I can say the same for sports medicine.
CMF was really the first pioneer for us in this area and what we've also found is these specialized sales forces actually operated with much lower inventory.
So they're actually profitable because they don't have the same requirements of the large joints which is the huge instrumentation sets and the accompanying instruments.
So they can actually hold their inventory in what we call a trunk-stock model.
So it's a very efficient model.
It's a model that works very very well.
Certainly we're looking at expanding this.
And in fact in Europe we're exploring some specialized sales forces.
I know it's a market that not everybody's excited about.
But if you have the right products and you have the right surgeons you can certainly pursue growth.
So the answer is yes we're looking.
But the product and the surgeon type really have to line up well.
And we took the learnings from CMF applied those learnings to our sports medicine business and to foot and ankle.
And obviously we're enjoying very good success thus far.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just on foot and ankle can you guys talk about your growth relative to the market? And what the components are there? I mean is this mostly your ability to capture price and mix? Or is anything underlying in the market that's driving that? So the market estimates are a little challenging to come by here but we estimate it's around 15%.
Certainly Wright Medical has historically been the largest company in foot and ankle.
And with our explosive growth over the last few quarters we're certainly close behind them.
But it's really more about market expansion.
The sheer number of procedures if you look at hammertoe procedures bunions implants weren't really used historically.
So this is really a mark -- more of a market expansion story than a market share story.
And I think the mark -- what we'll see is market growths are going to continue to climb.
But if you go by the latest estimates from both our company their company it's kind of in the 15 sort of percent range.
Our 50% [ph] clearly we had a bit of a softer comparable in the prior year.
And as I mentioned as the year unfolds I think we'll see that growth rates start to moderate a little bit but still a very very significant room to expand with procedural growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one follow-up on your knee business.
Can you just explain what -- does your Otis -- does the OtisMed being off the market does that disadvantage -- create any disadvantages for you while these competitive products begin to gain steam as you expect in the back half? And do you think you can offset that with enhanced or stepped-up DTC efforts in Triathlon? So we do plan to continue the DTC campaign but that's really not being driven in any way by whether or not OtisMed is on the market.
The revenue impact was immaterial in the quarter.
Obviously we did lose some ShapeMatch.
But given the relatively low penetration rate we don't think that's going to be a major challenge.
Obviously we want to get it back on the market and anticipate that happening.
But I don't think that's going to be a major rationale for customers in large numbers switching to competitive products.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is just on Trauson.
I was wondering if you could tell us what sort of growth that business saw in the first quarter and then what your expectations are for Trauson in the Chinese orthopedic market.
And then I have a follow-up question.
Yes.
The revenue contribution given the timing of when we closed it was really minimal in the quarter.
And just given the size of that division I don't think we're going to start to break out the growth rates for that.
Obviously we did comment on seeing double-digit growth for our emerging markets business overall but I don't think we're going to get down to the level of providing segment growth or -- for that business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in your neurovascular business on the TREVO product just wondering -- obviously there's a huge market opportunity there.
But some of the clinical data that's come out recently on the endovascular treatment hasn't looked so good in comparison to just the regular IV-tPA.
And it actually sounds like there could be some reimbursement pressure there.
So I was just wondering what your outlook is for that product right now.
Yes I think the studies you're referring to were really focused on the prior-generation or first-generation product and given this is a space where you see a lot of technological advancement in fairly short periods of time.
But that study was from a product that was on -- originally launched a number of years ago.
This is early on in these products' development.
And there's going to be work to do to develop the market.
But overall we continue to be very excited both for the prospects within hemorrhagic as well as our ischemic business in total for the neuro segment.
That's been a great addition to our portfolio getting into that space and expanding our presence there.
I think it is a fair comment about reimbursement.
We're going to have work to do as you would in any new space when you're developing a new treatment modality.
But I don't think that study changes the prospects we see for that market development.
And certainly our customers don't really seem fazed at all by the study given they're very very small sample sizes and it was really almost 3 generations ago.
It was very very old product and it's evolved very significantly since then.
So the promise for ischemic stroke is still very significant.
Research Division</strong> On the gross margin side excluding the medical device tax it sounds like there's a fairly decent underlying improvement year-over-year.
Can you just maybe help us think through the components of that? Because it sounded like I don't know if I misheard you Dean on the call there were some sort of maybe onetime-ish items in there that were a benefit.
But help -- can you maybe help us understand the underlying gross margin trend and the factors influencing that? Yes.
Again as we talked about the underlyings we talked about adjusted gross margins.
So for the current year it's 67.5%.
But that includes 100 basis points for a reduction for the medical device tax.
The prior year adjusted gross margin was 67.8%.
So the benefit that we got on the underlying has really come from 3 places.
We are managing our inventory better and that's resulted in lower inventory charges for things like excess and obsolete inventories.
We did get some favorable product mix in the quarter so that's the second component.
And then the third component which we've continued to talk about is this 5-year plan that we have or continuing plan to continue to take cost out with our global quality and operations group.
So that's really the third element.
So if -- again if you go through that math and take into account the fact that we did absorb the medical device tax -- excise tax this quarter you're right we did have those underlying factors that improved our margin year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe as a follow-up on the question on Trauson I think the last time I met with them they had quoted there [ph] the Chinese orthopedic market growing in the 30% range which at the time sort of dominated by local players.
Can you maybe just talk about your view of that market? And then what impact you and Medtronic owning some of the larger players might have on competitive position for multi-nationals versus locals? I would say if you're referring to the value segment of the market we do think it's probably growing somewhere in the 20% to 30% vicinity in China.
We do believe it's going to be the fastest-growing segment of that market and then will become a larger component going forward.
For us and I can't speak for Medtronic we really viewed the acquisition of Trauson it was a way to get some brand recognition.
It's now in the market for over 2 decades.
Obviously if we invested starting now we're not going to have that.
They've got a presence there and a capability in terms of their manufacturing expertise that was targeted at that value segment.
We like Medtronic and other multi-nationals tended to be more focused on the premium segment.
So for us it was a way to balance out our offering and expand into both the premium and more importantly longer term the value segment of the market.
Yes.
I'd just add I had a chance to visit Trauson last month and I'm very excited with the management team that's in place.
We have Aiguo Wang who is a longtime Stryker veteran who's the General Manager of that business and he is on the ground in China.
Our integration team is well under way.
And so far everything is going very very well.
So it's an acquisition we feel very excited about.
Again it's early in the process but certainly the kind of growth numbers you suggested are still in play.
And we feel that it's going to be very significant over time.
The last point I'd make is we are running Trauson very separately.
So we have the premium segment in China and Trauson.
The 2 General Managers are reporting up separately.
They don't report to each other.
So they're very very separate businesses.
If we -- and now that we've completed the acquisition we're able to look at all of the dealers.
And the distribution network is actually completely separate.
There really is no overlap because they're calling on different hospitals.
So again a very additive acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Dean just maybe a quick margin question.
If I look at the SG&amp;A leverage this particular quarter it was particularly strong as it was last quarter as well.
And you obviously talked about currency being a headwind.
But obviously the SG&amp;A leverage or improvement there is probably one of the factors that's offsetting the hits from currency.
So what is driving that underlying improvement the last couple of quarters? And now for 1.5 years we've talked about shared services and optimization.
Are we ahead of plan as it relates to that? And typically you see improvements at Stryker across the quarters if you start off strong? And is that the type of trend we should be expecting? Well I think we did a pretty good job with G&amp;A spending this quarter vis-à-vis the prior year.
But I would tell you that we've got a long ways to go.
There's still a lot of opportunity in G&amp;A specifically relative to some of the things that you mentioned shared services.
I mean frankly we're just at the nub of what we can do there.
Obviously Bill Jellison's here I think third day on the job here.
But I know he's done these kinds of things in the past.
And I think it's something that obviously he's going to be attacking as he comes on board here.
So I appreciate the compliment but I think there's a lot of real work to be done.
And I think the organization is committed to getting after it.
Research Division</strong> Is there something onetime in nature that explains the levers so we can assume this is good old-fashioned organic improvement? Yes.
I don't think there's anything that's specific.
We did have the prior year CEO severance cost which I mentioned there of $8 million.
So year-on-year that's obviously a factor in what you see here too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just maybe a quick follow-up for Katherine.
I know you talked about the strength in trauma just -- I didn't hear specifically what -- Katherine what do you think is driving that strength? Are we still seeing benefits from the nail recall -- competitor's nail recall? Or are we starting to see more strength in core trauma? I would say yes and yes.
So there was some benefit from the competitive recall.
It was about 1/3 in the fourth quarter.
It was somewhat less than that in the fourth -- in the first quarter.
It gets increasingly difficult to get really specific.
I would say underlying growth probably did accelerate for our trauma business heading into the first quarter.
I wouldn't point to any specific product.
I think we've had the opportunity to really get in front of customers.
And as Kevin has mentioned previously really show them how much we have expanded our product offering not just this year but over the last few years as we've invested.
And we are much more capable of going toe to toe with anybody in the market given the breadth of the bag.
So it was an opportunity that allowed us to really leverage that product offering.
So I don't think all of that business that we picked up will stick.
Less of it stuck in the first quarter.
But at the same time our core business is accelerating from the fourth quarter.
And candidly we'd rather see the growth that way.
Yes.
And what we're really seeing is full account conversion something that we were incapable of doing 3 or 4 years ago.
And that started really last year.
So if you look at our growth 26% is a pretty impressive growth given that the first quarter of last year we grew at about 13%.
So this has really been steady solid improvement a very stable management team and launching really a slew of products over the past 5 or 4 years that have filled up our bag that enable us to do full account conversions.
And that's where we're getting big chunks of growth.
And these are accounts obviously all across the United States.
We still have room to improve outside the U.S.
But in the U.S.
this has been a 4- or 5-year process.
And we still have a ways to go.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So your instrument sales growth decelerated in the quarter versus Q4.
And I understand that the Neptune recall impacted it but that was seen in both quarters.
And so my question was kind of if you could give some color as to that deceleration.
Would selling days have that much of an impact? I would have thought not so much.
So any help there would be appreciated.
You will see the selling day impact.
We had 1 extra in the fourth quarter and 2 fewer in the first quarter.
That's -- the straight math is 2.5%.
It probably impacts our capital businesses a little less so but that's tough to tease out with specificity.
So I wouldn't highlight anything in particular that we would view as issues.
We'll continue with the launch of our power tool.
Though obviously we're getting further into that launch now.
The biggest challenge right now that that division is facing is obviously the Neptune recall.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I contrast the CapEx spending in beds which came in pretty strong I think in line with expectations versus endoscopy where you called out kind of the communication side what's driving kind of the difference there? Is -- are you seeing stronger spend in one category than the other? Or can you kind of help contrast those 2 dynamics that we're seeing? Yes.
I mean it's not like every capital business all goes in the same direction in any given quarter.
For example medical had tougher comparisons -- or excuse me had easier comparisons versus a year ago.
And that's not necessarily true for our other capital businesses.
I would simply point to the fact that any of our capital businesses are going to be variable from quarter-to-quarter regardless of stability of the markets.
In general it's going to be more so for medical.
It just happens that this quarter they were benefiting more so from a comparison.
Whereas endoscopy the timing of some of the communications sales were such that it offset some very good growth that we saw with that double-digit gains for the camera segment which obviously speak to the receptivity of hospital customers for capital purchases.
Yes.
So you kind of sort of have to look at it over a series of quarters.
And really over a series of quarters you'll see that the endoscopy business will pick up.
We anticipate that through the course of this year.
Research Division</strong> So just a clarification on your prior comments.
Katherine you were talking about the normalized hip and knee growth.
I just wanted to confirm you're talking about volumes and not dollars.
Yes.
When we talked about the low- to mid-single-digit growth that's -- for us that's what we're kind of walking around what the market growth is for hips and knees.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Okay.
In the last quarter you had a pretty nice uptick in America's hip and knee sales and you attributed some of that to your DTC advertising.
I was just curious if you saw that again if you're continuing that program.
And any feedback on the success you're having there? Yes.
We feel really excited about the DTC program and we played around with the mix a little bit in terms of how much television we've done versus how much print and how much Internet.
In January we were a little bit quiet on television.
We resumed television in February and have seen the same kind of metrics in terms of surgeon locator searches clicks to the website.
And obviously after you have the TV ad it takes a couple of months 2 3 4 months before the patient actually will present for a surgery and where we'll see revenue.
But all of the indicators are still very very strong and we have a compelling concept.
It's working.
Certainly we had a terrific year in the knee business last year as you saw.
Obviously slightly moderated in the first quarter.
But it's nothing that causes us any alarm and we are going to continue to invest.
We are going to continue to play with the mix in order to really maximize the return on investment.
And as you'll see -- you'll see us sort of coming on and off but TV will remain part of our media mix throughout the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us some color behind your spine numbers in the quarter? They did come a little bit below our expectations and I know you did have a very strong 4Q.
So is it possible that 4Q stole some sales? Or is there any just slowdown in the market? Any color would be helpful.
Yes that -- I think it's fair that the seasonality comments we made for Recon are true for any of our implant businesses that have an elective component.
And certainly spine falls in that category.
First quarter it is in the U.S.
up against tougher comps versus a year ago.
There's nothing that we would call out.
That business is still finding its feet in terms of what the underlying market growth is going to be and candidly what our growth is going to be.
But we've got a good team in place there continuing to round out the bag and the product offering.
And I think you'll see some movement quarter-to-quarter but there's nothing in the first quarter that we would call out as a significant change in that outlook.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up pricing.
Most companies are commenting about U.S.
pricing being down mid-single digits.
Is that still a fair assumption? And have you seen any change in payer pushback this quarter? Most companies are saying there's no change year-over-year.
Yes.
I would say our pricing is -- mirrors the comments of the others.
LLC Research Division</strong> Katherine on sustainability solutions did I hear correctly that it grew mid-single digits this quarter? And if so it's a little bit below trend.
Could you talk a little bit about what's going on there and the outlook please? Yes your comments are correct.
I would say what we saw in the quarter was partly due to competitive product launch and that we're going to be filing a 510(k) for.
That's a phenomenon that you're going to see in this business.
We launch a product that we have clearance to re-process.
The competitor will launch a next-generation version of it.
And you can imagine we don't really get a heads up on that.
So there's typically a little bit of a lag time as we get the product and get the clearance for that.
So that was one of the key components that impacted that growth year-over-year.
We continue to feel really good about the momentum in that business though.
Yes.
And adjusted for days it was actually high-single-digit growth.
So Dean's commentary was all kind of on an as-reported basis.
And obviously with the selling days adjustment it was high-single digit a slight deceleration from where it's been in the past couple of quarters.
But again nothing that causes us any concern.
We still feel very bullish about that business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then your foot and ankle business is obviously doing very well.
But you haven't talked about another area of extremities that's also growing nicely the shoulder market.
Could you Kevin maybe give us a little bit of an update on what you're doing there? What you're seeing in your business? We've heard anecdotally that Stryker is putting more of an emphasis on the shoulder market.
So as you probably know last year we launched our total -- new total shoulder.
But we have not yet launched our reverse shoulder.
That's going to be launched a little bit later this year probably around the middle point of this year.
Once we have the reverse shoulder out in the market then we can really go after significant growth.
So shoulder is actually -- and if you look at the joint reconstruction it's actually not a very very big part of our portfolio something that will be a big growth driver in the future but thus far until we have the reverse on the market will not be a huge growth driver.
On the other hand if you look at the sports medicine implants the all-suture anchor certainly used for rotator cuff which is also used for hip FAI procedures.
But certainly the huge growth in the shoulder in our sports medicine business which you -- which I indicated grew over 50%.
So shoulder will be more and more important.
And as you know there are more and more specialist surgeons upper extremities or shoulder specialists.
We'll be calling on those much more aggressively after we have the reverse shoulder on the market.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could just take a step back.
I know Bill you've just joined for a couple of days now.
But maybe if you can just share your perspectives on what attracted you to join the Stryker management team and any kind of preliminary thoughts that you might have just in terms of company strategy your approach to capital allocation.
And just kind of what will be your priority here over the next 100 days or so outside of obviously just kind of ramping up on the orthopedic and MedSurg businesses? Sure.
I think from -- as far as a reason for joining I think it's -- there's a number of different ones that obviously came up and hit on a number of fronts.
Stryker is obviously one of the top 10 med tech companies in the world.
It's got a culture and a management team I think that seems to be a great fit.
Stryker also has a stellar kind of reputation for the growth over a long period of time.
It's well positioned within some I think very attractive markets with a vast portfolio of products.
As you mentioned the balance sheet is already extremely strong.
They've got fantastic cash flow.
And obviously that cash flow should be able to be used for additional growth opportunities both inside and outside of the organization.
And I think that it's pretty clear that there'll also be a component of that that allows for additional return of capital to shareholders.
On top of all that I'm actually originally -- our whole family is originally from Michigan so this is kind of a return home from that perspective.
So I think it's a real great fit overall and we're looking forward to it.
Research Division</strong> Welcome aboard.
And then just one other question I guess just kind of relating to the Boston Scientific or former Boston Scientific Neurovascular business can you just remind us where you are in terms of transitioning that business from a manufacturing perspective? And are we now separated completely from Boston? And are there any sort of restrictions that are out there that are in place that may be lifted over the next year or so that would allow you to get a little bit broader into areas within like peripheral vascular or anything kind of below the neck? Kristen let me take the first part of that.
We still have one piece to go in terms of the manufacturing transition and that is -- will happen this quarter.
We've got some Irish manufacturing to move over.
We anticipate -- the other moves have gone smoothly.
We anticipate we're well prepared for this.
And then we'll -- it will go smoothly as well.
So that's the one remaining piece and we anticipate that will be done in this quarter.
And Kristen with respect to your question about limitations there's nothing that I'm aware of that would prohibit us from going into other segments.
Research Division</strong> Kevin in Katherine's comments she stated that the ACA is unlikely to influence implant rates next year very much.
We kind of looked at it and it's clear that Medicaid-reimbursed patients consume less than commercial patients.
But there is likely to be a step-up among the people who are uninsured.
So I was just -- some clarity on that as to why you're pretty certain that you won't even see 0.5% or 1% in implant rate improvement.
And secondly just comment generally on the growth rate in the neurovascular segment this quarter.
So the first question I would say we're not saying we're not going to have a slight uptick.
It's either neutral or a modest positive is how I'd characterize it.
Very difficult to predict.
Today we see certainly in the orthopedic market if someone wants to get their joint replaced they tend to get it replaced.
And we as you know have a high Medicare Medicaid population as it is.
So for the vast majority of our businesses we don't see a big swelling of patients as you would in let's say if we were in chronic care or other parts of the health care system.
That said we think the medical business could be a beneficiary since patient satisfaction will become a much more important component given that it helps preserve with their Medicare reimbursement and a bed is a key component of the patient satisfaction.
But for planning purposes because it's so difficult to predict we're really assuming that it's not going to be a positive.
It may turn out to be a positive.
But if it is we believe it will be modest in nature.
And the second part of your question was Neurovascular.
We continue to have double-digit growth in Neurovascular and are very excited about the leadership there.
As I mentioned earlier on the call I had a chance to visit with the team recently just a fantastic management team that came over from Boston Scientific that stayed intact.
And certainly they're extremely excited because Stryker is investing significant -- as you saw we had 2 follow-on acquisitions following the initial acquisition of Boston Scientific.
They have an unbelievable R&amp;D team.
And getting a chance to look at their pipeline was absolutely exciting for me.
So it's a business that we feel very very good about.
Research Division</strong> Kevin I apologize.
I've been jumping between calls.
If I ask something that's already been asked just tell me.
I'll go back to the transcript.
But wanted to start with one bigger-picture question just as with Trauson now in the fold wondered how you feel about maybe a dual-branding strategy in some markets.
Would you ever think about taking some of those trauma products into some of your core markets and looking at a dual-branded strategy? Yes.
So I did mention earlier on the call that we have a separate management team for Trauson that's distinct from the premium brands.
And obviously within China we're going to maintain the Trauson brand.
Our intent is to export those products to other markets.
And we have significant room to grow -- to continue to grow within China.
And we also have significant room to grow in other emerging markets.
So our next initial expansion will be to places like India the public sector of Brazil certain countries where they already have a robust value segment.
Whether these kinds of products will then one day make themselves to more developed countries remains to be seen.
It's certainly not our first priority given the vast amount of growth that we can achieve first in China and then in other emerging market countries.
But our intent will be to maintain the Trauson brand with these products.
Research Division</strong> Right great.
That's helpful.
And then just a housekeeping question.
Katherine or -- could we just -- your selling days for the rest of the year? And then maybe on pricing as the Japanese price cuts anniversary here in the second quarter do we get an improvement in pricing next quarter? Or is that just a little cushion in case Europe gets worse and things like that? So Jeff this is Dean.
We -- right now there's one additional selling day in the second quarter and then pretty comparable year-over-year in the third and the fourth quarter.
And relative to the Japan pricing we do anniversary that in this quarter and incrementally that should help us.
Although obviously the sales in that market are going down by virtue of the currency impacts.
So -- but on the pricing front it should help us incrementally.
We don't anticipate that that won't be an assist.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the spine and then a question on the hip.
Just on the spine just -- I think last year and just correct me if I'm wrong that biologics was driving a lot of the growth.
So I wonder if you would be willing to cut the spread between the growth of the biologics and the metal as we went into the first quarter and then any pricing impact there? And then on the hip I think Accolade's been out about 18 months now roughly.
Just how long does a product cycle kind of last in this environment in contributing a little extra to growth? That's all I have.
Yes.
So regarding the first question we're not really going to get into spiking out all the different components of spine.
But I would tell you that in our first quarter Orthobiologics was not a disproportionate contributor to growth.
We actually did quite well in the metal business.
It's really starting to normalize.
But we're not going to really get that granular certainly not on this call.
Then what was the second question? Yes relative to Accolade and...
Yes.
So Accolade -- actually Accolade II was launched only in the second quarter of last year.
So it's still fairly early in its launch.
It's been wildly successful.
And that's really the biggest contributor to our growth within our hip franchise.
We've also launched a new hip at Academy a version of Secur-Fit Plus which is for fit and fill surgeons that prefer that type of a hip stem.
So the hip franchise frankly over the last 2 years as you've seen has been a very very strong performer and really on the back of terrific products with hip stems as well as the dual mobility cups.
We've had strong growth all through last year and that continued in the first quarter of this year.
Research Division</strong> My questions have been answered.
But Kevin in terms -- just going back to spine again.
Obviously you had bounced around here [Technical Difficulty] LLC Research Division</strong> Just quickly on the MedSurg business just now you have a quarter under your belt of results and 4 months of interacting with customers.
Can you give an updated view on expectations for U.S.
hospital capital equipment spending this year and then potentially whether or not you're seeing any benefit from any allocation away from IT? And any benefit there for Stryker in Q1 or any expectations for -- throughout the rest of the year? And I have one follow-up.
Yes.
As it relates to capital I would go back to some of our prepared comments where the market seems to be somewhat stable.
We're not seeing any significant departure.
We really -- we saw some of that IT impact during 2012.
But other than the normal variability you see quarter-to-quarter right now the market seems relatively stable.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would that include an expectation for modest improvement or growth in capital equipment spending in the U.S.? There may be a slight increase.
But overall we're not assuming big growth rates or big changes in capital spending.
Yes.
So just going back to our comments on the endoscopy business.
Certainly the capital component of that business we anticipate -- that's our own business where we sort of had a bit of a softer quarter.
This quarter we anticipate that that will improve.
But that's not a reflection of the market.
The market is pretty stable.
And our business obviously had some volatility from quarter-to-quarter.
But I wouldn't call out any kind of change in the market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just second -- secondarily in Europe Medtronic called out that they were seeing some weakness specifically in January.
And I know Stryker has their own company-specific headwinds in play.
But can you just comment on outside of those headwinds whether or not you saw any changes in Europe in Q1 and into April? No there's really no change to any of the commentary we've been making both in the first quarter and before that about Europe.
Nothing specific country versus what we've talked about previously.
Yes.
I think Medtronic clearly has a bit of a different business profile than we do.
And I believe that they're -- that they followed up on their comment really talking about the impact being more in the CRM or the cardiovascular space in specific countries where we currently don't compete.
So for us Europe is more of the same challenging market.
It hasn't changed at all in the first quarter versus last year.
So thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the second quarter 2013 results will be held on July 18.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Stryker Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions]  Now certain statements made in today's conference call may contain information that includes or is based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements.
Such factors include but are not limited to weakening of economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for the company's products; pricing pressures generally including cost containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for the company's products; changes in foreign exchange market; legislative and regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies and otherwise that affect U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval of new products; changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payers; a significant increase in product liability claims; unfavorable resolution of tax audits; changes in financial markets changes in the competitive environment; and the company's ability to integrate acquisitions.
Additionally information concerning these factors are contained in the company's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
At this time I would like to hand the call off to Mr.
Stephen MacMillan Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Thank you Jonathan and good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's first quarter 2011 earnings report.
With me today are Curt Hartman our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Consistent with prior calls I will make some summary comments regarding our quarterly results before passing the call over to Katherine and Curt to provide more specifics.
As most of you have seen by now we have provided a reclassification of our revenue in order to better convey the major sales drivers including MedSurg Reconstructive and Neurotechnology and Spine.
This was prompted in part by our recent Neurovascular acquisition which broadened our existing presence in the neurosurgery space.
With the reclassification you can now see the totality of our Neurotechnology sales which includes both Neurovascular and Neurosurgery revenue and topped $178 million in Q1 on top of $320 million of annual sales in 2010.
And for the total company sales exceeded $2 billion in the quarter for the first time ever.
Our Q1 results reinforced many of the key themes that we expressed at the start of the year including: one the strength of our balanced diversified revenue model; two the leverage provided by our capital allocation strategy which includes acquisitions buybacks and dividends; three our commitment to driving internal innovation as evidenced by the strong 23% increase in R&amp;D on top of a 17% increase for full year 2010.; four against all of this there remains our continued focus on driving quality first through our ongoing investments in quality and compliance.
As many of you on the call are aware we are highly committed to the business model that had fueled our company's growth from the start which is leveraging our core offering and expanding into select adjacent markets.
This has resulted in a balanced portfolio expanding number of important segments in medical technology and it's the diversity of this portfolio that allows for a consistency in our financial results both top and bottom even though certain portions of our business are inevitably more or less challenged in any given quarter.
Q1 was no exception with relative softness in our Reconstructive business more than offset by the strength across our key MedSurg franchises.
Additionally Stryker Neurovascular is off to a strong start in its first quarter as part of our company with the team reversing multiyear trends of sales declines and delivering positive year-over-year revenue growth in the United States.
Our first quarter results also continue to build on our strategy of optimizing our capital allocation which includes the benefit of a series of acquisitions we've completed over the last 12-plus months including the MEDPOR assets of Porex Surgical Gaymar Industries and as mentioned Neurovascular.
All three businesses are in line or above our initial expectations and reinforce our commitment to focusing our acquisition activities on enhancing our core franchises and expanding into key adjacent markets.
Beyond acquisitions our multi-pronged cash strategy also includes continued buybacks in the first quarter.
And as a reminder in our ongoing efforts to maximize shareholder return our most recent dividend represented a 20% year-over-year increase.
The strength of our balance sheet and continued robust cash generation allows us to pursue a multi-pronged approach to capital allocation while also making the critical investments in our business that will drive innovation.
We started the year with the expectation we would deliver adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $3.65 to $3.73 per share an increase to 10% to 13%.
With Q1 adjusted EPS of 12.5% to $0.90 we remain confident in our outlook for both sales and earnings in 2011.
In summary we view our Q1 results as compelling evidence of the benefits afforded by our unique sales footprint bolstered by a strong balance sheet that provides us with the flexibility that further augment both sales and earnings growth.
With that I'll turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Steve.
My comments today will focus on acquisitions as well as elected procedure trends and implant pricing.
As Steve mentioned in his comments we are pleased with the performance for Stryker Neurovascular in the first quarter as part of our company.
And although we don't typically provide quarterly updates regarding specific acquisitions given the relatively larger size of this deal we thought we'd offer some additional context.
Recall that just prior to announcement of the definitive agreement to acquire the business Neurovascular received a long-awaited FDA 510(k) clearance of its next generation Target coil a key milestone given coils represent roughly 50% of the billion-dollar worldwide Neurovascular market.
This was followed in late December with 510(k) clearance of the next generation coil detachment system that allows the coil detachment in less than 10 seconds which is the demonstrable improvement of the prior system that required upwards of one minute to detach the coil.
Throughout our due diligence we consistently heard from customers that the length of time required for coil detachment was the key competitive disadvantage for the Neurovascular system and we believe that's been addressed with these launches which helped drive positive growth in the U.S.
sales in Q1.
In addition to the positive trends in the Neurovascular business we are also pleased with the early performance for both Gaymar Industries within our Medical franchise and the MEDPOR assets of Porex Surgical which is part of our CMF division.
Both acquisitions are examples of transactions focused on strengthening our core product offering and the teams are off to a solid start integrating these businesses.
With respect to elective procedures and implant pricing many of the trends that developed during 2010 still remained headwinds at this point in 2011.
Although the market improved modestly in Q4 as we noted in last quarter's call we did not view the results as indicative of a major rebound.
Rather we were and remain cautious regarding the hip and knee market pending evidence of a sustained improvement in the economic environment.
We are highly encouraged by the acceptance in the market of our latest Hip offering ADM and MDM which position us well in the large bearing head segment of the reconstructive hip market and similar to Q4 are driving a favorable mix benefit that's partly offsetting the continued negative Reconstructive pricing trend.
There are no noteworthy developments with respect to Reconstructive pricing from what we've seen for a number of quarters.
Overall we believe procedure volumes in the hip and knee market are largely stable recognizing that the myriad macro issues are dampening elective procedures.
Given the degenerative nature of osteoarthritis and the progressively debilitating pain that result we firmly believe that patients currently deferring hip and knee replacement will represent at some point.
In the interim although the Recon market growth is below historic norms the collective strength of our broad-based product offering is driving total sales growth consistent with our expectations at the start of the year.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Curt.
Thanks Katherine.
I'll start my comments by first pointing to our press release and highlighting the information in our supplemental sales reporting.
We have made some notable changes to include new reporting segments as well as the addition of selected segment revenue disclosures.
We believe this reporting will aid investors in further understanding the reach of the Stryker business and the range of our products and services offering.
Looking at the first quarter total company sales increased 12% on a reported basis and 10.2% on a constant currency basis.
Strong core MedSurg product growth coupled with the acquisitions principally reflected in our new Neurotechnology segment paced our growth.
On a GAAP basis diluted net earnings per share were $0.78 a decrease of 2.5% versus Q1 of 2010.
We have noted the Neurovascular inventory step-up other acquisition and integration-related charges totaling $46 million net of tax as a non-GAAP adjusting item in our earnings release.
Excluding the charge increases are reported U.S.
GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.78 to $0.90 per share.
The U.S.
GAAP diluted net earnings per share declined up 3% then becomes growth of 13% when excluding the identified non-GAAP items.
In addition to revenue and earnings performance additional highlights include steady cash generation and the repurchase of 4 million shares totaling $250 million during the quarter.
Finally the integration activities for the MEDPOR Gaymar and Neurovascular acquisitions remain largely on track through the first quarter.
In reviewing the quarter in more detail I will start with a discussion of the components of our revenue growth.
In the first quarter volume and mix contributed 6% to the top line.
Acquisitions added 6% and currency contributed to an increase in top line sales by approximately $32 million and improved the company's overall reported sales growth by 2%.
Finally company-wide selling prices declined 2% on a worldwide basis.
The number of selling days was effectively equal with 2010 in most markets.
Looking at our reporting segments I will start with Reconstructive products which represented 45% of our sales in the quarter.
Reconstructive products include our Hip Knee Trauma and other Reconstructive lines.
Our CMF and Spine results are not included in the Reconstructive segment.
Reconstructive products increased 2% as reported and were flat on a constant currency basis.
Knee results were especially challenged driven in part by a softer market and our lack of a shape matching offering.
Our Hip line was slightly better both in the U.S.
and international markets and we remain encouraged by our offering and the early feedback from the roll-out of the MDM product.
Trauma posted solid U.S.
gains against slight declines in the international markets.
Next I will turn to the MedSurg product segment which represented 38% of sales in the quarter.
For reporting purposes MedSurg today is comprised of Instruments Endoscopy Medical and the Ascent Healthcare business.
The NSC and Interventional Spine offerings are no longer reported in the Instrument segment under MedSurg.
In total MedSurg sales increased a strong 13% as reported and 12% on a constant currency basis.
Acquisition added 2.3% to the reported increase.
For consistency if we back out the one-time Medical conversion sale we reported in the first quarter of 2010 MedSurg growth would've been a strong 14.7% on a constant currency basis.
Additional highlights in the quarter include both our Endoscopy and Instrument segments recording double-digit U.S.
and international growth and the Medical segment having a very solid U.S.
performance supplemented by the Gaymar offering.
Overall the results of MedSurg reflected continued strengthening of our core product offering which we have further augmented through selected acquisitions.
Finally I'll introduce our Neurotechnology and Spine product segment which represented 17% of company sales in the quarter.
For reporting purposes the Neurotechnology business is comprised of our CMF business previously reported under our Orthopaedic Implants segment the NSC business previously reported under our Instrument segment and our newly acquired Neurovascular business.
The Spine segment is made up of our Spinal Implant business previously reported under Orthopaedic Implants as well as our Interventional Spine business previously reported under the instrument segment.
We would note that the revamped reporting is intended to provide investors with better granularity regarding the scope of our product offering in these segments.
In the quarter the Neurotechnology and Spine product sales increased 48% as reported and 46% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for acquisitions and currency Neurotechnology and Spine sales recorded a 4% increase.
Highlights in the quarter include exceptionally strong organic growth from our Interventional Spine and NSC offerings as well as the positive influence of the MEDPOR and Neurovascular acquisitions.
Conversely Spine implant sales remain challenged both from a volume and price standpoint.
Regarding the Neurovascular business we are pleased with the first quarter results and are proud to report that this business delivered strong performance in the U.S.
market which has been the focus for the new Target coil launch.
Additionally results in key international markets are trending in a favorable direction.
Finally we continue to communicate and work closely with our new customer base and in general are finding a welcome reception to the Stryker acquisition of this important and innovative business.
I'll now turn to the income statement beginning with our gross margin performance.
On a reported basis gross margins declined 190 basis points to 65.8% as a result of the Neurovascular acquisition inventory step-up.
Excluding these charge margins remain steady at 68.5% in the first quarter inching down 20 basis points from fourth quarter levels while exceeding prior year by 80 basis points.
Also recall that in the first quarter of 2010 gross margins were suppressed by 30 basis points for the Ascent acquisition inventory step-up charge.
Overall the adjusted margins is a solid starting point for 2011 and is within our expected range.
Research and development continued as an area of investment priority moving to 5.5% of sales which is consistent with our investment level in the second half of 2010.
Absent the influence of the Neurovascular business total company R&amp;D spend still increased at double-digit levels.
Selling general and administrative costs represented 38% of sales.
Adjusting for acquisition and integration-related charges for the Neurovascular acquisition SG&amp;A finished at 37.3% of sales.
This is in line with our prior year levels.
We remain comfortable with the fluctuations in these categories as priorities materialize.
Reported operating income decreased 5% over prior year and moved to 21% of sales reflecting the impact of the Neurovascular inventory step-up and acquisition and integration-related charges.
Adjusted operating income increased 10% while the adjusted operating margin decreased 50 basis points versus prior year to 24.3% of sales.
Other income and expense reduced pretax income by $12 million in the quarter.
Components of this included investment income of $7 million offset by an FX transactional loss of $1 million and interest expense of $17 million.
The company's effective income tax rate was 25.4% for the first quarter of 2011.
Excluding the tax benefit associated with the Neurovascular acquisition-related charges our effective income tax rate would've been 26.2% for the first quarter.
Of note our tax rate reflects a tax credit to offset the Puerto Rico excise tax recorded in SG&amp;A.
This credit effectively decreased our rate by 50 basis points and will be recorded similarly in future periods.
As a result we are updating our 2011 tax rate expectations to a range of 26.0% to 26.8% from the previous range of 26.5% to 27.3% again keeping in mind the offsetting cost for this adjustment is recorded in SG&amp;A.
In terms of the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $2.9 billion of cash and marketable securities down $1.5 billion from year-end 2010.
Obviously this balance has been reduced given the January 3 closing of the NV transaction and the associated $1.45 billion payment.
As a reminder we have $1 billion of debt on the balance sheet associated with our January 2010 debt offering.
On the asset management side account receivable days ended the quarter at 59 which represented an increase of three days compared to the prior year and fourth quarter well within our normal range.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 161 which was up seven days sequentially versus year end and 10 days against the prior year level.
The impact of the Neurovascular acquisition and related inventory step-up impacting the P&amp;L netted a higher dollar amount running through the cost of goods an impact of the DII calculation by reducing days in inventory by 5 days.
On cash flow we continued to perform well with cash flow from operations of $205 million and free cash flow of $150 million.
Finally in the first quarter we repurchased 4 million shares for a total spend of $250 million.
We currently have open authorizations totaling approximately $575 million.
In summary the first quarter was a solid start though we still have plenty of opportunity for improvement along with our ongoing integration efforts in the quarters ahead.
Turning to our outlook our guidance as Steve noted remains unchanged.
Currency remains positive and if rates hold near current levels we would expect second quarter sales to be favorably impacted by approximately 3% to 4% when compared to 2010.
Using current rates the full year currency impact on top line sales would be an increase in the range of 1.5% to 2.5% when compared to 2010 up from the original expectation of 0.5% to 1.5%.
We are maintaining our outlook calling for net sales of 11% -- a net sales increase of 11% to 13% in constant currency.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency as well as acquisitions sales growth is projected to be 5% to 7% for the full year.
Adjusted diluted net earnings per share are anticipated to be in the $3.65 to $3.73 range representing an increase of 10% to 12% over 2010 adjusted diluted earnings per share.
We also now anticipate acquisition and integration-related charges associated with the recently completed Neurovascular business to reduce reported diluted net earnings per share by approximately $0.28 to $0.30 versus the previously noted $0.21 to $0.25 driven by higher costs associated with the inventory step-up while other integration costs remain on or ahead of plan.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Steve.
Thanks Curt.
In closing our Q1 results put us on track to deliver on the commitments we outlined at the start of the year.
Moreover the balance provided by our portfolio continues to reinforce the strength of our strategic focus on strengthening our core and broadening in the key adjacent markets.
We remain focused on maximizing shareholder return through a multi-pronged cash strategy that leverages our balance sheet as evidenced by our ongoing pursuit of acquisitions dividends and share repurchases.
We look forward to executing on our financial goals and delivering strong results that will continue to define Stryker as a leading player in the medical technology market.
With that we'll now open it up for Q&amp;A Jonathan.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Mr.
Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Maybe we can talk a little bit about -- start off with Recon talk with the market a little bit.
As you indicated it still sounds like market growth is challenged.
Can you talk on the Knee side a little bit Steve about OtisMed and where you stand in terms of getting the products you need? And maybe talk a little bit more flesh out your comments about the rollout of the new Hip products? And when -- I mean clearly it seems like you've outperformed but when do you expect that slow-moving train to pick up a little more steam? Sure Rick.
On OtisMed it is back with the FDA.
We got a 510(k) with them going through the review process.
I think just given where things are with FDA these days we're just leery of committing to when that might be.
We would certainly hope it will be before the end of the year but that one has clearly turned out to be a little more complicated for us than our initial expectations.
On the Hip business I think while the hip market looks soft we really like where we are and I think the rollout of MDM which is we launched kind of the academy and it's just in the early innings of getting the rollout we should start to see some pickup on that here in the second quarter but continuing to build through the year.
And we think that MDM all the surgeon feedback that I've picked up MDM ought to be a much bigger addition to our portfolio than the ADM was last year and it's a great build on that.
So I think we're a lot more excited about where that's going.
And just the follow-up maybe on earnings.
Clearly you've kept your guidance range stable but you are talking about lower tax rates and following first quarter results might should be a little bit more comfortable at the mid to upper end of that range given the way the acquisitions are performing et cetera? Rick I think what we wanted or what we tried to call out on the tax rate discussion is while we're adjusting that range a little bit lower keep in mind there's a comparable offset up in SG&amp;A as it directly relates to the Puerto Rico excise tax credit that we're able to take and that the IRS is opined upon.
And that's really where the tax rate adjustment comes into play.
So it's not necessarily an enhancement to earnings.
Overall we have one quarter under our belt.
We feel good about the results.
I think it would be premature to make a comment where we feel we're going to fall within the current range of $3.65 to $3.73.
Your next question is from the line of Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
So a question first on just the Knee side of the business.
Katherine you called out sort of there's much of the conditions in the market that have been with us for several quarters remained intact.
Knee so far even though it's kind of early in the reporting season the season is shaping up to be a little on the weak side.
Do you look at this as is it -- do you believe that it's a market softness in the first quarter? Is it comps? Or should we be concerned that there's any transfer of share [ph] here the first quarter? And then I have one follow-up.
I don't think we lost share Matt.
I think it's more of a softness in the market and it feels like to us the Knees have been a little bit more susceptible to the economic downturn.
Some of the patients tend to be a little younger as you know and probably have been slightly more deferred.
I Actually am very encouraged I think we're encouraged while we don't like the numbers the fact that we're probably the only company without a ShapeMatch technology out there I think speaks to the strength of Triathlon that when the dust settles here for the quarter we think our Knee numbers won't be that bad.
We probably did not lose share in the quarter.
Okay then one follow-up on Neurovascular.
Just from your comments it's hard to see given your new reporting lines but relative to where you started the year we're one quarter in I mean is it off to a slightly stronger start than you hoped for? Is it right in-line with your expectations? Any color on just how you think Neurovascular is tracking at this point? If I understood the scope of the question through one quarter we feel good about Neurovascular and there's two sides to that statement.
There's the integration and ongoing integration efforts.
Those are largely on track with our expectations.
On the commercial side of the business where I suspect the majority of your question is focused we're encouraged by the early results of the Target coil introduction which was principally focused in the U.S.
market and in select international markets we're very early there on the Target coil launch.
And so far so good; keeping in mind in both cases it's still only 90 days into the program underneath Stryker and with the new product.
So I would say quarter one is about in line with our expectations as we built our models and we're hopeful that we can continue on that path.
Your next question is from the line of Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
I actually have two.
One your 37% plus or minus SG&amp;A rate is sort of where you've been looking at for the last couple of quarters is this sort of a new go-forward rate that we should think about? It's a great question.
I've always tried to qualify that with a final statement saying we are comfortable with variations here because those are the areas where we elect to make investments in selling organizations marketing programs and we want to retain that flexibility and certainly we think that our P&amp;L allows us to retain that flexibility.
As of right now that flexibility has been deployed into R&amp;D as evidenced by the last say three or four quarters increase in R&amp;D.
As a matter of routine I think we said that in 2011 we thought that that broad SG&amp;A category would be in that 37% to 38% range and after one quarter we think we are on track with that always reserving the right to make select investments in various marketing or sales programs.
And then as a second question what surprised you positive or negative now that you've owned the Neuro division for 90 days? I heard you say the positive.
The real positive of that business is the team.
We absolutely love the leadership team and the quality of the team that came over.
I think to build on it from there Joanne we probably are very cautiously optimistic about the initial rollout of the Target coil particularly in the U.S.
and we just don't want to get ahead of ourselves here but it's off to a nice start.
Your next question is from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
A couple of questions.
Let me just start with kind of this big picture from the first quarter the Ortho business as you traditionally reported it doesn't grow this quarter in constant currency and MedSurg has had a very very strong quarter.
Does seeing this three months into the year change how you're budgeting for the year and your spending across various businesses? Not dramatically Mike.
We've always got a little bit of swings and roundabouts and I think the funny part as you well know over a number of years here our MedSurg business is probably consistently more on the upside and Recon's been a little slower.
I think you more than even some others had been predicting the first quarter was still going to be a challenging one in Ortho and I think your hypothesis there was accurate and I think it's all within our realm and it just speaks broadly to our broader strategy which is we're much more than a hip and a knee company.
We love our hip and knee franchises but like the overall piece and have enough flexibility in there to continue to deliver very good results even in a soft recon market much as we did for much of last year.
Curt can you just chime in on FX? I think most people view Stryker's having some natural hedges in place but not having an active synthetic strategy for translational risk and so the fact that you've had this incremental tailwind develop over the last three months to the top line people would like to get some view on the bottom line benefit over the balance of the year and why you didn't reflect that in your updated guidance? I think number one your opening statement is correct.
We don't have -- we view ourselves as having more natural hedges than we do any form of synthetic hedge; that's an accurate statement.
The top line and what we try to guide people to over the last couple of years is that it's not simply a straight drop through any top line impact of FX to the bottom line that was really I think reflected last year as you looked at the swings in the multi-currency payors from our manufacturing network to our distribution network and how that moved across the gross margins.
And therefore when we look at the FX potential impact that we've modeled based on current rates the drop-through that we're seeing right now is not meaningful from an EPS impact and therefore would not yield us to move the overall outlook.
And again probably be updating currency rates in 30 60 90 days depending on how faster or how volatile the global economy is.
If we go back to 2010 it seem like about once a month we are trying to make an adjustment on currency.
Your next question is from the line of Raj Denhoy from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Wonder if I could ask a little about -- you mentioned the MedSurg division continues to kind of defy some of the skeptics out there and again you put up a very strong quarter particularly it looks like in the international markets.
I was curious if you could comment just on what you're seeing on the demand side there.
There's obviously some concern about what might happen in Europe with some of the budgetary concerns there but maybe just option thoughts around the outlook.
I think the big issue that we would say with our MedSurg business is first and foremost we had said throughout 2010 we didn't think there's it was one-hit wonder '09 comps that was really more a little bit back to return it to historically strong business results.
The other piece that we said is relates particularly the international business is for both Instruments and Endoscopy.
They've been relatively underdeveloped outside the United States.
So we have seen even in a slow market the ability to gain market share for those franchises and I think that's what we're really seeing and we continue to feel great about those businesses.
Inc.</strong> And just on Japan and I don't think you mentioned in your prepared remarks.
Have you seen any impact and you're expecting to see any sort of lingering impacts of the events in Japan? We saw truthfully very little.
I mean it was marginal.
Certainly some hospitals some franchises experienced it.
I think the bigger concern for us frankly and it again and everything is manageable when you have multi-franchises.
Our Endoscopy division in the second and third quarters might experience some shipment delays from some of the products that we source out of Japan but again it'll be de minimis so nothing that we're particularly worried about.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Matson with Mizuho Securities.
Given the speculation out there about potential acquisition of Synthes by J&amp;J I was just wondering if you have any perspective on how that could potentially impact your Spine and Trauma businesses.
It seems like there might be an opportunity to pick up some market share there.
I was just wondering if you would agree with that.
Yes I think at this point given there's nothing been publicly announced we typically wouldn't comment.
I think as people seen in any acquisition particularly sizable ones there can be disruption and opportunities and challenges for the acquiring company but beyond that we wouldn't make any specific comments since it would truly be very speculative at this time.
Okay and then second question on the Spine business can you just remind us where you're at with your CerviCore cervical disc approval? Right now the status is we continue to work on the product in preparation for submission.
That's probably about the extent of information we would discuss on that.
Your next question is from the line of Jason Wittes with Caris &amp; Company.
First a follow-up from Raj's question about OUS growth.
As you guys may know I've been off the sale side for a little while and just came back but if I look back three years ago I remember that OUS was a pretty big opportunity in terms of under-penetration for you guys but as I come back and look at the numbers it's still not as present as I would have expected.
But now you're saying that you're starting to gain share.
Is there a change in strategy that's occurring right now? Yes it's a little more of a focus for our international division particularly on Instruments and Endoscopy but candidly we have not made the progress we'd like partially because particularly our MedSurg business has continued to grow pretty well in the U.S.
And so to balance it much differently it just hasn't really made a huge headway.
We still see bigger opportunities going forward Jason.
I think also Jason if you look over those last three years that you referenced a couple of those recovered by the economic contraction and like all companies we had to pull back on some of our investments and some of those new expansions were the subject to some of those reductions during that period of time.
Okay just one more if I look at what you're saying you're basically saying that price is pretty stable in terms of all your businesses.
Mix you sort of have -- I imagine you have some visibility on the volumes especially in the Orthopaedic business are not something you have a lot of visibility on.
Is that a fair characterization of the way things are right now? I mean obviously everything looks pretty stable but if I look at the three components the volume piece is sort of what you're waiting for and you don't really have sort of beyond maybe a quarter visibility.
Let's say on the Reconstructive Implant business where we've clearly seen a softening as the overall market seen that deferral of procedures.
It doesn't seem to be getting markedly worse but clearly there hasn't been a rebound and we would say that's probably tied more to visibility around just an overall improvement in the economic environment.
So basically you're looking to the economy as the driver there in terms -- as opposed to checks from your sales people and doctors in terms of what they're saying in terms of patient backlog et cetera.
No what we're saying is we think the input overseas from the various channels and market intelligence we do via talking to patients or doctors or our sales force or hospital administrators et cetera.
The input we received from that probably won't materially change as it relates to elective procedures until we see some improvement in the economic environment since there's a very clear tie into unemployment particularly as the average age of the implant recipient has been coming down and its been compounded by some of the extra pressures tied to increasing deductibles et cetera.
And I would acknowledge clearly Q1 is the hardest comp quarter and as the year unfolds we should see easing comps as well as the benefit from the uptake on MDMs specifically on the Hip side as well as the rollout of OtisMed ADM and MDM internationally.
Your next question is from the line of Mr.
David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Steve what is clear over the last few quarters and specifically this quarter is MedSurg is clearly accelerating.
I know you've tried to talk us away from thinking about your year-over-year comps but it does look like accelerating.
What's less clear to us is the pieces that are accelerating the pieces that are doing well.
There's actually a fair amount of sort of inorganic stuff in there now between Ascent as well as Gaymar.
Can you help us kind of draw a picture between the core Stryker and Endoscopy and beds and the more recent Stryker which is some of the new acquisitions? Yes take this really simply David.
Our Endoscopy and Instruments businesses both of which grew at double-digit rates in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
and therefore globally is virtually entirely organic if not completely organic growth.
The Medical business has Gaymar dropped in there which was worth a little bit of -- certainly some growth for them and then Ascent is caught in the total MedSurg and is growing.
But clearly the double-digit growth by Endo and Instruments is just very strong executional growth with product growth sales growth and a lot of the singles that we talk about all the time.
But make no mistake that's very clearly organic growth.
And then maybe another question on sort of organic trends R&amp;D elevated this quarter.
I think it's the second straight quarter you've talked about this increasing R&amp;D investment.
Obviously there's a step-up year-on-year because of Neurovasc.
But when you think about the organic R&amp;D being spent on the old Stryker could you help us understand what that is growing at and give us a sense of where that's being spent because obviously it seems to be either accelerating or in excess of your peers? Let me go back to last year which is a very clean year with 17% increase for the year and if you particularly saw it you saw a heavy increase in the second third and fourth quarters.
So I would say David as we made progress on our quality and compliance initiatives where we really had re-diverted so many of our R&amp;D resources for the previous few years as we've gotten our new systems in place we've gone back to starting to invest a little bit more in R&amp;D and it's across the board it's every division.
And again as you know our product line is deep and broad.
Not a lot of home runs in it.
It's spread across the board each division continuing to see opportunities for innovation and opportunities for new niches and new product upgrades and then we continued as Curt mentioned with double-digit increases even on the base business here in the first quarter.
So I think it's speaking to frankly as we look around we still think there's a great opportunity for innovation in every category that we're in.
Your next question comes from the line of Derrick Sung with Sanford and Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> On your Hip business while it looks like you may have grown in line this quarter -- last quarter you had a very strong above market growth rate that you put up in Hips.
So from a sequential basis it looks like there's kind of a substantial step-down.
Can you help us explain that? Was there something unique that happened last quarter that you're not seeing this quarter? Or what would you explain that sequential decrease? Derrick I'll take this.
What we tried to comment on in the fourth quarter and be fairly consistent on is it's very difficult to draw any major trends on a single quarter's results and particularly in the hip and knee market where share shifts fairly slowly reinforced by the fact that the rest of the market is a sizable chunk that hasn't yet reported so it's kind of hard to know where our numbers are going to shake out from a market share basis.
But you really need to look at rolling fourth quarter trends to get a sense of who's gaining and who's losing share and who's staying stable.
At this point although nobody is pleased from a macro standpoint with a relatively softness in the hip and knee market we feel very good particularly our products roll out on MDM and over the course of this year and the international rollout of those products from a competitive position that we're in very good shape.
I wouldn't point out anything that would say sequentially from Q4 to Q1 that there's a disconnect.
Q4 tends to be a seasonally stronger quarter and I think that's probably what partly drove a relatively stronger overall market in Q4 which is again why we've tried to be cautious because it's very difficult to draw any conclusions from just a sequential quarter comparison.
Inc.</strong> Okay In your Endoscopy business you saw very strong double-digit growth in the U.S.
How much of that is kind of a -- how much of that is from timing of shipments or sales that were pushed off from the prior quarter because I remember you mentioned that that was an issue for some of the weakness that you saw last quarter.
And how much of it is sort of organic? And can we expect it to see moving forward for the rest of the year? Derrick this is Curt.
If I'm understanding your question you're looking at our first quarter U.S.
shipments for Endoscopy and questioning how much of that came from delayed shipments in the fourth quarter? Inc.</strong> That's exactly right Curt.
Certainly a little bit of that happens over every year end as customers tend to get the end of their spending cycle and they put a whole bunch of orders in.
And then from a capacity standpoint our ability to ship all those gets stretched.
I don't think we're going to break that out as a percentage or a dollar basis.
It's part of the normal year end process anytime you have capital equipment involved.
So I think what you probably want to just look at is how those things have occurred year-over-year for a number of years perhaps absent 2009.
But certainly a little bit of that is influenced in the first quarter but it doesn't materially change the results.
Endoscopy had a good first quarter I think is the sound statement to make.
Your next question is from Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> My first question is on the Recon side.
From a share standpoint about 60% actually a little bit more of that of the hip and knee market has reported at this point.
Clearly volumes seem to be tracking below the expectation of some others who have been a bit more bullish on the Recon recovery.
Just to be clear have you heard anything that would suggest there was an impact on volumes during the quarter whether it was weather or flu or COBRA roll-offs? Or was Q1 really just a continuation of what we've seen over the last few quarters with some modest improvement in Q4? I think we'd agree with your latter comment.
A lot of the macro trends that we saw starting to emerge in Q2 last remain in effect but nothing different that we would call out.
LLC</strong> Okay and then just moving to the P&amp;L there's been some focus on the fact that the environment is becoming a bit more inflationary oil prices are up some other component prices seem to be rising.
Anything that we should be focused on specific to Stryker as we model out the rest of the year specifically at the gross margin line? Nothing that would be of a material nature that we would discuss.
Your next question is from Adam Feinstein with Barclays Capital.
Just wanted to just ask you guys about the components of your revenue guidance here.
And then certainly I know you don't give specific targets but just it seems like relative to most of the Street models and in the quarter Ortho was weak and MedSurg was stronger than expected so I mean as you guys think about it relative to what you were thinking for the quarter is that the right way to look at it? Was the question in reference to the first quarter or our outlook? Well I guess both.
But I guess should we think about once getting -- I know you guys didn't give specific guidance by segment but just relative to most of the models it seems like the MedSurg was stronger than expected and Ortho being weaker.
So I guess as you guys were thinking about coming into the quarter maybe that was the way you guys were thinking about it and the Street models were up.
But just curious or are you guys even though you're keeping your revenue guidance the same should we think about the growth drivers as being different? Yes I think it's a very good observation.
I'd say a lot of ways it probably paralleled last year as well.
If you look at your original budget for 2010 we would have forecasted better Recon and generally Orthopaedic Implant growth and lesser MedSurg and at the end of the year I think it speaks to the fact that how strong our total company is.
As you well know we exceeded our original guidance for last year even in a year when the Recon market did things that none of us anticipated.
I think certainly our Recon business was softer this quarter than we would've fully budgeted.
I would also tell you we're very much almost exactly on plan with what we planned for the year.
And every year we get there in different ways.
So I think you're spot on.
Great and just a quick follow-up.
Just with the M&amp;A environment heating up in recent days obviously  you guys just closed on a big deal but what is your appetite in terms of doing additional deals? And how are you thinking about utilizing your cash? I would say really no change to what we've been articulating and probably people are familiar with it.
It's a three-pronged cash strategy it's M&amp;A it's dividend and it's buybacks.
In M&amp;A we're going to be primarily focused on transactions in our core like the Gaymar like Porex as well as key adjacent markets like Neurovascular and that is the game plan and that's going to continue going forward.
Your next question is from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
So first question is on organic constant currency revenue growth.
I think you guys reported a little over 10% constant currency growth and then about 6% growth from deals which gets you to about 4% constant currency organic growth in the quarter which; one is my math right? And two if it is right that's a little bit below the 5% to 7% you forecast for the year.
So what do you expect to accelerate as we go forward here? Bob number one your math is right.
Number two and I hate to use comparables as the excuse but Q1 2010 is our toughest comparable when you look broadly at all the totality of the Stryker franchises.
So as we look forward we still think the 5% to 7% range is the right range based on what's being projected based on how we see the markets unfolding.
Anything product-related though sorry to follow up on that.
New product wise that will drive? Yes any major new product launches in the back three quarters that would drive acceleration? Well I think part of it is on the Reconstructive side the expectation of how MDM would be embraced by the market coming on the heels of ADM and the timing that it takes to roll sets out do surgeon training.
Some of that groundwork was laid with ADM so our expectation is that MDM will pick up.
We've got other franchises have what Steve refers to as singles and doubles that continue to rollout and those tend to build month-over-month as the year progresses.
So I wouldn't call out any one item.
I would just say it's a bunch of singles and doubles right now in the core business.
And then just follow up on the Knee side.
Everyone that's reported Knee numbers so far has reported sequential deceleration.
Everyone is reporting negative growth and I understand comps are a little bit tougher this quarter but do you really feel that the knee market is stable here? Everyone keeps using this word stable but it doesn't really seem to be that way when you just look at the numbers.
J&amp;J tried to point us to sequential growth trends.
So I was just wondering if I can get your comments on the knee market? Do you really think it's stable here and this is just tough comps in the quarter or has there been a little bit of a sequential deceleration in your view? I think stable is a fair characterization yes.
Clearly in the  second quarter last year things changed.
I think it's hit a new period but I don't think it's falling much further at this point.
Your next question is from the line of Rajeev Jashnani with UBS.
With respect to gross margin going forward I was just wondering if you could comment on with the mix of businesses how you see gross margin unfolding really not so much over the year but longer term.
Clearly we've tried over the last 18 to 24 months to take some steps organizationally to provide additional focus at the gross margin line the first being the appointment of an executive over our global quality and manufacturing.
Coming from a highly decentralized org structure we believe there are opportunities within our manufacturing network for things as simple as synergies across spend categories core competency manufacturing.
However each one of those initiatives is predicated on first making no dramatic change that impacts the hard work that many people in the company have done on the quality front.
So we've tried to signal that longer term we see opportunity in gross margin recognizing that it will be tempered a little bit with the first focus on quality and number two tempered in a fashion such that we may need every one of those gross margin dollars to offset other challenges that come into the business be they declines in price or commodity price changes labor rate changes in various markets.
So we think there's opportunity but it's not going to materialize three six nine 12 months.
It's going to materialize over time.
Your next question is from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Katherine I was wondering in the beginning of your remarks you had commented on pricing mix trends.
For the Recon business in the U.S.
was pricing and mix still negative? I recognize Hips is probably doing better with the rollouts but can you just maybe help us understanding in aggregate if it's still negative and maybe give us an update on what's going on in Europe? If I look at the businesses it looks like Europe is still obviously a bit of a problem spot.
It looks like Trauma and extremities was a bit soft this quarter.
So just any broad comments on Europe and when we might expect a recovery specific to the Recon business? All right on the pricing pricing as we try to kind of give some qualitative directionality around it if pricing in Hips and Knees is still negative it was marginally better sequentially and it is partly offset by mix with a little bit better contribution on the Hip side which you would probably expect given ADM and MDM.
But I wouldn't call it materially different but marginally better from a Q4 to Q1 basis.
And with respect to Europe there is nothing significant that we'd point out as a departure from prior trends.
We are working through some of the fallout as we talked about from the move we made over a year ago to discontinue certain products and terminate certain distributors which did upset certain customers and there's work to do to build those relationships back up.
On the positive side we are rolling out OtisMed internationally ADM and the MDM as well.
So there's some nice components coming on the new product side which will certainly help and in particularly as we get to the back half of the year because as you know with the Recon products it does take a little bit of time to get traction there.
Okay great.
And then on Ascent if I look at kind of the numbers reported it looks like that business was up only about 6%.
Can you just comment on trends there and can we expect I know this is being greedy but any historical restatements to help us kind of rebuilt models in the new reporting style? I'll take the second question first.
The restatement we've provided some detail that goes back through 2010 in the press release by the new reporting segments.
Your question relative to Ascent probably back into some rough estimates on how that business did in the first quarter.
As with any business that disrupts markets challenges competitors there's likely to be quarter-over-quarter disruptions but I think the broad story on Ascent is we feel very good about the direction of that business.
We think we're on the right side of the cost question as it relates to hospital supply and over the long term the thesis that we went into the Ascent acquisition with remains very much in place.
And we think over the long term this is going to be one of the great franchises for Stryker.
We're not too wrapped up in this sort of quarter-over-quarter variations right now.
But you are not going to give out like Hip numbers Knee numbers and that? I see that it's just about major divisions historically? This is the top segment.
You're correct.
We're not going to go back into the Hip Knee and restate that.
Your next question is from the line of Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Just a follow-up on Kristen's question a little bit.
On the mix side of things compared to historical levels are you still able to get the same type of pricing premium on new products that you're introducing? Or is that narrowing slightly on this environment? I think right now without getting into specifics we feel good about the ability of new technology to drive a price premium.
I think the question -- and I think we've talked about this a little bit on the last call was that that perhaps the tail on that price premium was a little bit shorter than it had historically been.
And that's probably direct outcome of better pricing transparency as comes about with better healthcare's IT systems and/or consultant groups out there that sell services around pricing.
But in general across the portfolio of Stryker products new innovation is still able to command a price premium.
Okay and then one quick follow-up.
As far as you made some comments on Interventional Spine being pretty strong and it looks like it was primarily internationally.
Can you just provide a little more color on what's driving that growth? The Interventional Spine business has a number of product platforms in it.
What I would probably point to as the segment or the franchise there is an item we introduced about a year ago called the iVAS balloon technology for vertebral compression fractures.
And as our selling organizations both in the U.S.
and globally have been able to introduce that technology to customers and show the totality of our portfolio we're the sole company who can do both vertebroplasty and khypoplasty approaches inclusive of not only the devices but also the cements.
We've had a wonderful customer reception with that and it's simply going through the training education and distribution pathways and we like the direction that that business is headed.
Just a real quick follow-up on that.
Are you seeing -- I know you're a smaller player there but are volumes improving? Or are they just strictly a share-taking event for you? Well it's probably a little of both.
Vertebral compression fractures aren't going away.
There is roughly 700 000 new ones a year.
There's been some reimbursement pushback based on different market segments but in studies that have come out but each of those has been disputed and you still have patients with pain and long term we still like the outlook for the market.
Your next question is from the line of Charles Chon with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Curt just a quick follow-up to a question that was asked before.
You discussed that even though organic growth came in at 4% for the quarter the 5% to 7% organic growth guidance is the right range for 2011.
Is that to suggest that based on what you're seeing in the second quarter thus far considering that year-over-year growth comparisons are easing from the first quarter to second quarter that all the businesses are trending better? We're not going to get into any comments relative to the second quarter.
We're not finished reporting the first one.
It's to suggest that number one; the first quarter is a tough year-over-year comparable when we look across our broad franchises; and number two we still like the product lineup in the core business across all of our franchises and how that plays out in the global markets.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay and just the other question on that is just is it possible that year-over-year seasonality could be -- or I'm sorry sequential seasonality could be changing in any way so whereas historically we would see decent growth through most of the year with the exception of the summer months that now in the post recession environment procedures are just now being more loaded into the back half of the year? I think there's certainly been a transition.
It's hard to quantify but I think you've seen volume increases in the fourth quarter.
And I think that coincides with higher deductible levels that people are experiencing.
And I think it probably has been influenced somewhat by the global environment.
So we have seen what we think are different patterns in the fourth quarter as compared to say years before '07 '08.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Right.
That's what I was thinking.
Just real question on Target coil.
Can you give us a status update on where the launch is? At the time of the International Stroke Conference it seemed that Stryker was conducting a very controlled launch with substantial case support and monitoring.
It seems that Neurovascular was selling out of all the Target coils that you were making.
Can you give us an idea of where we stand now with that launch? I think in my opening comments we said the focus of the Target coil launch had been the U.S.
market and we're starting the introduction of that in the international markets.
Obviously it's a very complex manufacturing process.
And we're pleased with the progress on the manufacturing side.
And to the extent that supply continues to increase at the rate it has we'll be able to further expand the selling marketing effort on a global basis.
So first 90 days really focused in the U.S.
market and continuing to roll across the various international markets and really trying to be mindful of the customer base here.
It's a small tightly knit society and we want to do our best to get the product in front of all of our clinicians.
That's really hard to do on a global basis in addition to working through all the regulatory approvals but that's the path we're on.
We're trying to stay in high touch with all of our customers communicate with them clear expectations and we hope that through the second quarter here we're able to continue on that path.
Your next question is from the line of Jeff Johnson with Robert W.
Baird.
Steve a couple of questions I guess.
Let me start on the Spine business.
Any comments you're going to make on your Spine results in the quarter? Any change maybe you're seeing in market dynamics whether it's pricing in the U.S.
or commercial payor approval rates anything along those lines? I don't think we saw much change really from second half of last year to be honest.
And obviously it looks like a very weak market right now.
I think the three companies that have reported last week have all been minus one in the U.S.
and we were right in that line.
None of us have that problem [ph].
And how would you Steve expect that to maybe trend over the next few quarters? Obviously involved in a legal dispute with one of your bigger competitors there? Should we think of legal expenses going up for that or potentially the Spine growth rate ticking down or is it too small to matter at this point? Too small to matter.
I think we're focused on getting our product flow improved out of that business as we've been talking about for some time.
We've got some new leadership in there and feeling good about where to go but as you well know any of the Implant businesses take some time to re-accelerate momentum.
I think that was the last call Jonathan? Yes sir.
That was the last question in queue sir.
Great.
Well thank you very much for joining us today and hopefully you'll see again.
We continue to deliver the strength of our broad-based model and our conference call for our second quarter operating results will be held on July 19 2011.
Thank you everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's call.
The presentation has now ended.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Stryker Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Derek and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to read the forward-looking statement.
Certain statements made in this presentation may contain information that includes or is based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements.
Such factors include but are not limited to weakening of the economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for the company's products; pricing pressures generally including cost containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for the company's products; changes in foreign exchange markets; legislative and regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies and otherwise that affect U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval of new products; changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payers; a significant increase in product liability claims; unfavorable resolution of tax audits; changes in financial markets; changes in competitive environment and the company's ability to integrate acquisitions.
Additionally information concerning these and other factors are contained in the company's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Stephen MacMillan Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed.
Thank you Derek.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Report.
With me today are Curt Hartman our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Consistent with prior calls I will make some summary comments regarding our quarterly results before passing the call over to Katherine and Curt to provide more specifics.
We'll start with a summary of some of the key accomplishments realized in the second quarter.
With sales coming in at over $2 billion we delivered a 16% increase with a 6% gain excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions representing a solid 2-point acceleration in our underlying organic growth from Q1.
And with double-digit constant currency growth for both our U.S.
and International businesses the top line performance was geographically balanced.
Two our Reconstructive businesses including Hips Knees and Trauma achieved stronger top line growth sequentially.
Three meanwhile our MedSurg franchises once again helped drive our double-digit top line with Medical the clear standout at 39% growth and our Neurotechnology business continued to build on the momentum achieved in Q1 due in large part to the ongoing rollout of the Neurovascular product offering while our Spine franchise also saw sequential improvement as well.
Four our solid sales growth contributed to a 13% increase in adjusted diluted net earnings per share to $0.90.
Five we also continue to strengthen our core product offering and utilize our cash flow with the announcement of 2 acquisitions during the quarter Orthovita and Memometal both of which have since closed.
We are excited about the opportunity to leverage each company's unique product offering through our considerable sales force to drive stronger top line growth.
As always given the considerable breadth and size of our myriad businesses each quarter presents us with some challenges.
Although we are pleased with the building momentum in our Hip business and the expectation from improving Knee growth given the recent FDA clearance of our customized cutting guides the overall macroenvironment remains difficult.
Nonetheless we believe we are well positioned to gain market share in both Hips and Knees on the heels of new product launches.
In summary our Q2 results underscore a recurring theme that many of you who have followed our company are familiar with the benefits provided by the balanced diversity of our businesses and our unique sales footprint that spans medical device implants as well as key operating room disposables and capital equipment.
This model provides tremendous overall consistency of our financial results and we believe will increasingly differentiate us with our hospital customers.
We started the year with the expectation we would deliver adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $3.65 to $3.73 an increase of 10% to 13%.
Given our solid performance through the first 6 months of 2011 we remain confident in our outlook for both sales and earnings.
We will continue to focus on leveraging our unique sales footprint to accelerate growth organically through internal R&amp;D along with supplemental acquisitions while maximizing shareholder returns through dividends and share buybacks.
With that I'll turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Steve.
Similar to prior quarters my comments today will focus on acquisitions elective procedure trends and implant pricing.
First on the acquisition front we continue to execute on our stated strategy of leveraging our balance sheet and cash flow to pursue M&amp;A.
As you are aware we completed the acquisition of Neurovascular in the first quarter and continue to be pleased with the market's reception to the new product offering that includes both the next generation coil as well as detachment system.
Turning to Q2 we announced 2 more acquisitions that are focused on strengthening our core product offering and leveraging our broad distribution channel and selling capabilities a key aspect of our M&amp;A strategy.
Specifically in late June we closed on the acquisition of Orthovita which competes in the $5 billion orthobiologics markets and is a global leader in synthetic bone grafts with its Vitoss product offering and also competes in vertebral augmentation with its CORTOSS product offering.
In addition the company's biosurgery business manufactures hemostasis product such as the Vitagel which are designed to control interoperative and postoperative bleeding.
We believe the collective talent of our sizable sales forces across multiple franchises positions us to build on Orthovita's success and accelerate sales growth.
In early July we closed on the acquisition of privately held Memometal which manufactures and markets products for extremity indication based on its proprietary methods for preparing and manufacturing a shape memory metal alloy.
Memometal is rapidly establishing its differentiated technology in the global extremity device market with a broad range of products for the foot and ankle as well as the hand and ribs.
With sales in 2010 of roughly $30 million Memometal's comprehensive and proprietary product portfolio allows us to gain broader access into the fast-growing extremities market.
We're excited about the prospects for both of these most recent acquisitions and similar to prior BD deals we look for them to help drive our long-term organic growth.
Shifting to elective procedures the macro backdrop and current challenges remains similar to that what we've experienced in recent quarters.
As most of you are aware the ongoing economic softness has been contributing to a slowdown in many elective procedures including hip and knee replacement.
However despite the current pressures on procedures we are pleased with the momentum we are seeing from both our new product offering particularly with hips as a combination of ADM and more recently MDM is helping drive accelerating sales growth.
Although our knee performance strengthened sequentially there's clearly room for improvement and we expect that Q2 510(k) clearance of our customized cutting guide to help drive share gains in the second half of 2011.
Lastly on the implant pricing front the trends are similar to prior quarters with continued but stable pricing pressure partly offset by mix particularly as it relates to Hips given the new product launches.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Curt.
Thanks Katherine.
I'll start by saying that at the halfway point our results and the corresponding financial performance are largely on track with goals we've stated at the beginning of the year.
Jumping into the second quarter company sales increased 16.3% on a reported basis and 11.9% on a constant currency basis.
The underlying core business growth excluding currency and acquisition impact improved 5.7% versus the 4% in the first quarter.
On a GAAP basis diluted net earnings per share were $0.79 a decrease of 1.3% versus Q2 of 2010.
Excluding acquisition-related charges increases are reported U.S.
GAAP diluted net earnings per share of $0.79 to $0.90 per share.
The U.S.
GAAP diluted net earnings per share decline of 1% then becomes growth of 12.5% when excluding the identified non-GAAP items.
Overall strong results from MedSurg and the Neurotechnology and Spine segments coupled with the improving results in Reconstructive supported top line growth.
In general we're pleased with the momentum we're seeing.
Further our acquisitions continue to perform as expected and our integration efforts remain largely on track.
With that said and as we discussed previously our investments and acquisition integration and the normal cycle of business have resulted in some variation in the presentation of the P&amp;L which I will discuss in further detail.
In reviewing the quarter I'll start with the discussion of the components of our revenue growth.
In the second quarter volume and mix contributed 7.2% to the top line while company-wide selling prices declined 1.5% improving from the first quarter's 2% decline but fundamentally in line with recent trends.
Acquisitions added 6.2% and currency contributed to an increase in top line sales by approximately $78 million and improve the company's overall reported sales growth by 4.4%.
Looking at our external reporting segments I'll start with Reconstructive products which represented 45% of our sales in the quarter.
Reconstructive products include our Hip Knee Trauma and other Reconstructive lines.
As noted in the press release Reconstructive products recorded a 7% increase as reported and a 2% increase on a constant currency basis.
This was up from the 2% reported in flat constant currency growth in the first quarter.
Knee sales remain challenging again influenced by a softer market and our lack of a commercial shape matching offering.
Our Hip line performed better and strengthened to 11% reported growth and 4% constant currency growth increasing from the 5% reported and 2% constant currency first quarter rates.
Globally Trauma posted decent results at 11% reported growth and 4% constant currency growth.
Overall we feel we are starting to see the early signs of the positive impact that our Hip lineup is having and remain encouraged on Knees given the recent OtisMed shape matching approval and its potential influence on the second half of 2011.
Next I'll turn to the MedSurg segment which represented 38% of sales in the quarter.
For reporting purposes MedSurg today is comprised of instruments endoscopy medical and the Ascent Healthcare business which we have renamed Stryker Sustainability Solutions.
MedSurg sales increased a strong 15% as reported and 12% on a constant currency basis.
Acquisition added 1.9% to the reported increase.
Overall the Medical segment was the star of the show delivering 39% reported growth or 27% excluding acquisition and currency.
From a market perspective sales remained strong in both our bed and stretcher offering fueled by the replacement and upgrade market.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represented 17% of company sales in the quarter increased 53% as reported and 49% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for acquisitions and currency Neurotechnology and Spine sales reported a 7% increase.
Highlights in the quarter include exceptionally strong organic growth from our Interventional Spine and NSE offerings as well as the positive influence of the MEDPOR and Neurovascular acquisitions.
Spine implant sales remain challenged but did record positive global constant currency growth in the quarter.
Finally the progress of the Neurovascular business both from a commercial and integration standpoint remains on track.
Quarterly results included continued strong performance in the U.S.
market as well as positive growth in the international market on the strength of the Target Coil rollout.
Now turning to the income statement beginning with our gross margin performance.
On a reported basis gross margins declined 410 basis points to 65.2% as a result of the Neurovascular acquisition inventory step-up which totaled approximately $55 million.
Excluding this charge margins were 67.8% in the second quarter which was lower than the prior year by 150 basis points.
I would remind everyone that as we discussed last year our second and third quarter 2010 gross margins were favorably impacted by currency.
This year the impact of the weaker dollar on purchases from our international manufacturing operations is putting pressure on margins.
Given first half results and current currency trends we now forecast margins for the year in the 68% to 68.5% range.
Research and development continued as an area of investment priority moving to 5.6% of sales an increase of 21% versus the second quarter of 2010.
Absent the influence of the Neurovascular business total company R&amp;D spend increased 9%.
Selling general and administrative costs represented 38.4% of sales adjusting for acquisition and integration-related charges for the Neurovascular and Orthovita acquisitions.
SG&amp;A finished at 38% of sales.
Of note we did settle an IP litigation issue in the quarter that drove G&amp;A higher.
Reported operating income decreased 11% over prior year and moved to 20% of sales reflecting the impact of the Neurovascular inventory step-up and other acquisition and integration-related charges.
Adjusted operating income increased 4% while the adjusted operating margin decreased 280 basis points versus prior year to 22.7% of sales.
Other income and expense increased pretax income by $10 million in the quarter.
Components of this included investment income of $9 million and a $1 million positive impact from interest expense.
This is a result of the reversal of tax interest from accruals following the effective closing of tax years 2007 and prior for U.S.
federal tax matters with the exception of the IRS cost-sharing controversy.
Overall the best way to think about this is that our legal settlement and G&amp;A was generally offset by the favorable interest in the interest expense line.
The company's effective income tax rate was 24.6% for the second quarter of 2011.
Excluding the tax benefit associated with the Neurovascular inventory step-up and other acquisition-related charges our effective income tax rate would have been 25.7% for the second quarter.
During the quarter we settled an open tax controversy with respect to our Puerto Rico subsidiary for years 2006 through 2009 and additionally as previously mentioned also effectively closed 2007 in prior years for federal U.S.
tax matters with the exception of our IRS cost-sharing matter.
Overall the net impact of these items on our tax expense was insignificant in the quarter.
For the year-to-date our tax rate excluding the acquisition-related charges is 25.9% and we are comfortable with this for the year although we know there is downward bias on the rate.
In terms of the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $2.7 billion of cash and marketable securities down $1.7 billion from year-end 2010.
This balance has been reduced by both the January 3 closing of the NV transaction and the associated $1.45 billion payment and the June 28 closing of the Orthovita transaction and the $0.33 billion cash payment.
As a reminder we have $1 billion of debt on the balance sheet associated with our January 2010 debt offering.
On the asset management side accounts receivable days ended the quarter at 59 which represented an increase of 2 days compared to the prior year.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 164 which was up 3 days sequentially versus the first quarter and 1 day against prior year level.
The impact of acquisition-related inventory step-up on the P&amp;L netted a higher dollar amount running [ph] through the cost of goods and impacted the DII calculation by reducing days in inventory by 10 days.
Keep in mind this includes both step-up for the Neurovascular and Orthovita acquisitions.
Turning to cash.
In the second quarter we generated cash flow from operations of $156 million and free cash flow of $106 million.
We expect to pick up the pace here in the second half.
Finally there were no share repurchases in the second quarter.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 4 million shares for a total spend of $250 million.
We currently have open authorizations totaling approximately $575 million.
In summary the second quarter was solid and through the first 6 months we are on track with our annual goals.
Key objectives in the second half include continued acquisition integration operational focus and a sharpened focus on cash generation.
Turning to our outlook our guidance as Steve noted remains unchanged.
Currency remains a positive and if rates hold near current levels we would expect third quarter sales to be favorably impacted by approximately 2.5% to 3.5% when compared to 2010.
Using current rates the full year currency impact on top line sales would be an increase in the range of 2% to 3% when compared to 2010 up from the original expectation of 0.5% to 1.5%.
We are maintaining our outlook calling for net sales increase of 11% to 13% in constant currency.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency as well as acquisitions sales growth is projected to be 5% to 7% for the full year.
Adjusted diluted net earnings per share are anticipated to be in the $3.65 to $3.73 range representing an increase of 10% to 12% over 2010 adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Finally we now anticipate acquisition and integration-related charges associated with the Neurovascular business and recently completed Orthovita business acquisition to reduce reported diluted net earnings per share by approximately $0.33 to $0.35 versus the previously noted $0.28 to $0.30 given the addition of the Orthovita and Memometal transactions.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Steve.
Thanks Curt.
In closing we're pleased with our performance through the first 6 months of 2011 which reinforces our conviction and our ability to deliver on both the top and bottom line targets we set out at the start of the year.
Importantly our top line momentum accelerated in Q2 with all Reconstructive businesses achieving stronger sequential sales growth globally while our MedSurg franchises remained a solid contributor to our top line growth targets and collectively delivered double-digit revenue gains.
Our newest franchise Neurotechnology is benefiting from key new product launches.
Combined these performances drove both the year-over-year and sequential uptick in our U.S.
international and global sales growth.
And we are making significant investments in R&amp;D as evidenced by the 22% increase year-to-date on top of the 17% uptick in 2010 resulting in a steady stream of new product launches across all our franchises many of which we highlighted at our recent May Analyst Meeting.
We are leveraging our balance sheet to augment our organic growth through selective acquisitions that strengthen our core and allow us to maximize the strength of our diverse sales footprint with its considerable distribution capabilities.
Along with buybacks and dividends we will continue to follow a 3-pronged cash strategy in order to maximize shareholder return.
With that we'll now open it up for Q&amp;A.
Back to you Derek.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is coming from the line of Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Let me ask couple of questions maybe Curt can start off.
The gross margin line is probably going to get the most attention coming out of the quarter because it was lower than people thought and you're adjusting your gross margin commentary for the year.
I guess the part that we'd like to spend more of the time on is just the FX impact because the dollar -- if we look at where the dollar was versus euro and yen at the time of your first quarter call to where it is now hasn't moved that much to maybe change how we would be thinking about the impact over the balance of the year.
So I was hoping you could spend a minute on that.
And then second maybe you can just talk about the impact of mix particularly the strength in the beds business with this quarter and how that might have impacted your mix? So 2 responses there Mike.
First of all it's really the currency movements from both the fourth quarter and the first quarter relative to the second quarter because it takes time for the inventory to move through our system especially when you look at the Reconstructive line which has most of its manufacturing in the European market euro-based and that has slower turns generally in a 7 to 9-month timeframe.
When you look at mix given that the Medical segment did have strong growth certainly that will contribute a little bit.
But I will tell you on a relative dollar basis the Medical segment as a percentage of total sales is probably not big enough to meaningfully move the gross margins on a full year basis.
Let me just follow up with one additional question and that's on MedSurg because people are going to look at the first quarter performance and this quarter's performance and see a fair amount of volatility between the different divisions within MedSurg.
So can you just talk about really all 3 and the way we sort of look at the instruments endo and beds? Beds had a phenomenal quarter this quarter but people always been nervous about that.
And then instruments and endo had great first quarters but slower this quarter so what do you think is a steady state growth profile of those 3 businesses? I don't think we're going to offer forward-looking comment on the growth profiles.
I think if you think about Stryker Medical I tried to include in my commentary that the replacement market is where we're seeing the biggest influence from a growth standpoint and that market feels pretty robust as evident by the trends we saw in the first half of the year.
I don't think we see anything that's going to meaningfully slow that down from a market standpoint.
Certainly our business has to execute on that front.
To your point the endoscopy and instruments segments did slow down second quarter versus first but I think we feel pretty good about both of those as we look through the second half of the year given product lineups given the introduction of new products into those businesses across multiple areas.
All of that said there are still capital businesses.
There are purchase cycles that we're working through.
And if you look specifically at MedSurg and the instrument segment the third quarter is their toughest comparable so that makes slowly year-over-year comparables just a little bit.
I think the fundamentals there are still pretty respectable and we feel good about MedSurg as a category in whole as we look at this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray.
Just following up on the topic you were just talking about MedSurg.
Curt or Steve if you could expand a little bit on -- you talk about replacements being the driver there.
How much of this is the ability for you to purchase market differently now that you have Gaymar on board? Is that having an impact? Or if you can maybe step back and give us a sense of -- if you're growing 27% x acquisitions and currency what do you think the market's growing? The market there is a tough one to predict until our other friends report.
But having said that I think we do -- we thought the Gaymar acquisition was a great acquisition right in our wheelhouse.
It does help us probably more on the margin Matt.
I would say probably the overall market is just a little more robust right now.
And any sense that this Q2 result is sort of -- are we pulling anything? You mentioned tougher comps in Q3 but are we pulling anything out of Q3? Is there any concern? No absolutely not.
That's helpful.
And then one follow-up on Spine just not -- 4% constant currency worldwide isn't I guess historically a phenomenal number but it's certainly better than we were expecting.
Just if you could talk about what's been working in Spine.
You gave us a sense of what some of the new products are that are coming maybe talk about what some of the drivers were in the quarter.
I think you characterized it well Matt.
I think we're seeing stability to gradual improvement.
So some of the trends that have turned negative very quickly 12 18 months ago have been stable and we've been retooling and refocusing that organization certainly not ready to jump up and say "We're back to where we want to be" but just modest sequential improvement driven by some of the new products and just learning how to better navigate through the current market challenges.
So not out of the woods yet but we do feel that we're clearly at a point of stability to a slightly improving backdrop.
And certainly the Orthovita acquisition will be a nice focus for that group given it's also very much in their core.
The next question comes from the line of Derrick Sung from Sanford and Bernstein (sic) [Sanford Bernstein].
Inc.</strong> I wanted to go back to guidance here.
So you talked -- you touched on gross margins.
It looks like though the tax rate that you sort of put forth is an improvement over -- so your thinking at the beginning of the year and then also constant currency -- also the currency benefited up.
So is the right way to think of this that the gross margin offsets the benefits that you're getting from both currency and the lower tax rate as we move forward? I think clearly when we -- if we go back to the beginning of the year and we put out some general guidance on where we thought various elements of the P&amp;L would be through 6 months gross margins a little bit lower which obviously is a negative impact.
But conversely the tax rate we believe has downward bias.
And that's probably driven by the mix of where products are manufactured and the geographic tax rate should apply in those markets.
I think what we've tried to imply over time on currency is that it's not as easy as looking at the top line currency influence as a straight one for one drop-through there just many elements in the P&amp;L for the currency and the top line and you also lose it when you convert those currencies into U.S.
dollars and look at the costs some of our U.S.
divisions take because of that currency conversion.
So I think I would just try to keep gross margin and tax rate as perhaps one offsetting the other to keep it as simple as possible.
Inc.</strong> Okay Curt.
And on pricing your overall pricing pressure with the company that the total was down 50 basis points as you pointed out.
You said that sort of the general trend still remain the same but I was wondering if you could give a little color as to where at least on a sequential basis we're seeing that improvement in pricing? And if your commentary implies that you think this is sort of a one-time issue or just any additional color on that pricing that you put out would be helpful.
I think you characterized it correctly.
It improved 50 basis points although still down 1.5% in the second quarter which we would characterize within the normal realm.
So I wouldn't point out and say we've seen some big reversal.
Hip and Knee pricing remains negative maybe modestly better sequentially and offset partly by mix with a little bit bigger on the mix side on the Hips given some of the launches.
But overall none of these trends we would call out as outside what we've been seeing.
So certainly better than it getting worse but within the norm that we have been modeling.
Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Curt not to have a whole run on MedSurg here this afternoon but going back to this issue of sustainability of that growth you're talking about the fundamentals and taking sort of the cap cycle recoveries out of the mix for a second I wonder if you could talk about specific emerging market trends impacting MedSurg? Or is this replacement cycle that you're seeing? Is this a frame cycle or is this a surface cycle? Because I'm wondering if perhaps actions to reduce hospital-acquired infections are driving an increase in demand for services and perhaps that is the way that we're seeing right now.
So maybe any other granularity you can provide on either surfaces versus frames or an emerging markets will be helpful.
Well I would -- probably I'm not going to get to quite to the level of detail you want me to go to David.
But I would certainly hope that any members of our selling organization that are listening would be willing to step up and say we're selling both surfaces and frames given the Gaymar acquisition.
In discussion in review of our business with the folks in our medical entity the replacement cycle they view as a function of two things: Number one selling organization focus on both the patient handling and patient transport but as well as on the pure bed side.
We've got selling organizations now very focused on those and I think you couple it with exactly what you said which is there are some drivers from a reimbursement standpoint that talk about never events be it hospital-acquired infection be it false that our technology facilitates very well the elimination of those never events.
So I think it's part of clinical story but it's also part of focus story.
And then certainly the fundamentals of the market are probably better today and have improved every quarter since the bottom in 2009.
So I think it's a combination of right product right selling organization and certainly some right market dynamics that are helping out here.
Okay.
And then Curt just one quick question on Knees.
Just in the interest of setting expectations sort of appropriately as it relates to custom needs coming back in the back half of the year.
Hips kind of performed as many would have expected this quarter Knees did not.
How important is getting customer in the back half going to be to performance? What I'm trying to drive it is which is challenging trying to separate out the external factors versus the internal factors and how we should be thinking about sizing the relative improvement with the new products on the market? David it's Steve here.
I would -- I tell you I think the shape fitting is a big deal to us.
Having said that in terms of its ramp the ramp will be a little slower obviously but we are rolling out OtisMed right now.
Cases are being held.
The sales force have been trained on proper labeling and all of that kind of stuff.
But I think it was starting to hurt us by not having a custom fit option.
And we were probably on the verge of frankly truthfully we were starting to lose some surgeons where they love to Triathlon but frankly just got finally tired of waiting for us.
And we were probably right at that breaking point here in the first and second quarter after the academy when we didn't have it.
A few docs I think have held on long enough and kind of say "Okay enough is enough.
I'm going to go use somebody else's product." So now it's a question of getting those back.
We feel good that we will.
But as you know in this business the docs don't come back to you day one but I think we will.
I would suspect we were going to be starting to see an uptick here in the third quarter absolutely but it'll be again probably a little bit more that freight train getting back in gear.
The next question comes from the line of Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital Markets.
Two questions.
One can you talk about the Trauma and Extremities market? It looks like you had a nice little pickup there in your sales.
And then second of all if my memory serves right you have a 3-year compliance program that's rolling off at the end of this year.
What is your current thinking about that? In Trauma we did see a little bit of a pickup.
I think it's part organizational focus and probably part organizational enthusiasm around the Extremities acquisition.
I don't think any of us are jumping up and down about our second quarter Trauma results.
We think there's better days ahead given the acquisition emphasis here on the Extremities piece and more work that's being done from an innovation standpoint.
So a nice a decent respectable quarter but we think there's more to do there.
Relative to the compliance and it really relates to the 3-year investment that we've laid out.
That starts rolling off in the second half of this year or the project the focus the journey whatever you want to call it formally comes to an end.
But the reality is when you look at the acquisition track we have been on and the facilities that that brings there's plenty of acquisition integration from a quality compliance system standpoint to keep us very busy.
And there's the one-time events in the quality journey that probably come and gone.
But there is a new level of base spend that is in our cost structure.
And really what we hope to see in the years ahead is the benefit of that quality infrastructure starting to play out in terms of lower scrap rates lower labor variants lower warranty return rates.
It's far too soon to see any of that showing up in the P&amp;L right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Wittes from Caris &amp; Company.
So just some follow-up question.
First off in terms of OtisMed you're obviously implying that this has become a lot more important in the last say 6 months since the market has sort of gotten used to the contest with some of your competitors out there.
I guess I want to know your opinion in terms of what percentage of the market is really going to think to use it right now.
And I think what's the ultimate potential because the way you're talking it sounds like the majority of doctors are thinking about converting over to this type of approach? Jason I'll take the first question.
It's tough to know obviously ultimately how much penetration shape matching will have.
Some of the data we've seen is maybe around 10% of Knees.
We think it has the potential to go higher but a lot of that will be longer-term multiyear in nature as there's more clinical data produced that validates many of the benefits that clinicians believe they're seeing: Shorter procedure time better consistency improved outcomes.
But that there is not yet a pool of data to support definitively.
And that's probably what will be needed over the next few years to really drive the broader market acceptance.
So we think the trend is going to continue upwards over what time frame and to what magnitude probably it's too speculative to call out but we do think there's a nice opportunity for clinical data to help drive some of that adoption.
Okay.
And similarly if I look at your Hip number you did provide some color but I'm curious is most of the growth that we saw mix-related? Or do you think you're winning back competitive accounts this quarter? A little tough to know until we see everybody's new numbers come in.
But we do feel that having a product that -- the combined offering ADM and MDM in the large head segment in the market is -- it's a nice alternative and it obviously gets us into a segment of the market that we weren't in previously.
So obviously the hope would be we gain market share.
That's the expectation with the product launches but really couldn't say definitively until we see everybody's numbers coming in.
The next question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Just 2 quick ones.
First on the OtisMed side other companies have suggested that their products of a similar look are able to gather maybe $1 000 to $1 500 price tag per procedure.
And I was just wondering is there any reason why pricing of your shape fitting technology would be materially different from what we're seeing in the marketplace from other competitors? I don't think so.
Okay.
And then on the bed side I'm having a hard time wrapping my head around a 27% growth rate for that business x FX and M&amp;A.
And I know you're in the sweet spot of a lot of nice trends here.
But just from a big picture perspective are you guys confident that this is a cycle with real legs here? Is this something that you think can continue for a while? I just would love some big picture thoughts on that division.
I know we've talked about it a lot already but just want some big picture thoughts.
Sure Bob.
To get your head around the number you just have to meet our sales force.
Come to one of our sales meetings so that wouldn't quite work but that would give you the confidence as to how they're doing it.
Having said that this number we have to tell you it shocked us too.
Let's be honest we don't have quarters like this very often but we do think a sustainable rate -- right now medical's in a pretty good cycle.
Is it going to be another 27% 37% kind of quarter? We don't -- can't possibly forecast anything like that.
But the order's trends have been pretty good right now.
And I think we feel over the course of this year medical's going to be one of those businesses that delivers more revenue in 2011 than we expected at the start of the year to offset some of the others that won't.
But we'll have to kind of continue to see where it goes.
But we still feel good about the long-term fundamentals of that business.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Two questions.
First on the revenue guidance.
You maintained organic constant currency of 5% to 7% but you actually had a better-than-expected underlying quarter and we're now adding Orthovita and Memometal into the numbers.
So I'm curious why you didn't take that number up a little bit? Is it just conservatism? Or is there's something other than the macro that you're concerned about? And that's question one.
And then Curt just one question on the gross margin.
We've talked about it on the call but down 100 basis points.
Can you quantify or elaborate what part of that down 100 basis points relative to consensus was FX? I'll take the first part of the question.
A couple of points.
I think most of you on the call know us well enough we tend to outline commitments that we're fully committed to hitting on at the start of the year.
We are midway through the year.
It's still some markets are challenging and although those acquisitions obviously are additive they'll have a 6-month contribution also keep in size to the relative side.
So it's still is consistent with the addition of those into our total targeted range.
To be fair it does obviously increase our conviction in the higher end to the degree that those are additive.
But overall the range -- it doesn't materially impact that range.
Glenn on the second question probably I'm not going to get into the minutia there and break down the decrease relative to people's model.
Suffice it to say it's a combination of pricing currency that all influenced the ultimate gross margin and they all contributed in the quarter.
So hopefully what we've tried to do here is restate our outlook for the second half to get people a sense of where we think things are going to finish as we look at what's in front of us.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Matson from Mizuho Securities USA.
I was just wondering with regard to Orthovita where that revenue will be recorded.
Is it going to be split kind of between Spine and I guess Instruments for the vertebroplasty portion? And are you maintaining their sales force that they had? So a couple of questions there.
The revenue will be split.
You'll have the Vitoss product which is carried principally by our Spine-selling organization.
You have the Vitagel product which will be carried by a combination of selling organizations both part of our Reconstructive group and part of our MedSurg Group and then the CORTOSS item will be carried by our Interventional Spine group which as a reminder is now reported publicly in the Spine and Neurotech segment.
So if you divide all that up you'll see the biggest segment of it in the Spine and Neurotech public reporting and then a smaller slice in both MedSurg and Reconstructive.
And obviously we're just 2 days remaining in the second quarter we closed a transaction.
We're in the process of integrating that organization and that's inclusive of their U.S.
selling effort.
Okay.
And then I just have a second question.
In your Hip business I remember maybe it was a year or 2 ago you launched a modular stem I believe it's called Rejuvenate.
I haven't heard you all talk a lot about that really recently.
Is modular net stem still an opportunity for you guys? And how is that particular product doing? I would say it's part of that portfolio of Hip products.
I wouldn't call it out specifically as having a major impact but then again as you know that's generally true for the entirety of our portfolio more kind of in net singles and doubles.
So it's just a part of the product offering to be able to have a comprehensive portfolio for those doctors that want a modular offering.
But beyond that I wouldn't get into any specifics about how that individual product was faring.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Curt I was hoping you could just clarify from your prepared remarks you mentioned that there was the moving parts with respect to where certain items were accounted for in the P&amp;L.
Can you just remind us of what those were? And also can you quantify the impact of some of the charges that increased G&amp;A in the quarter? So David the first thing I'd probably do is correct the statement.
There is no question in my mind whatsoever.
We have accounted for everything in our P&amp;L exactly the way it should be accounted for.
What my comments were is that in the presentation of the second quarter P&amp;L I think it's a fair statement to say it probably doesn't line up with any of the models that anybody created.
And that starts at the gross margin level and probably goes all the way down to the tax rate inclusive of G&amp;A being higher than people probably model because of the IP legal settlement that we settled in the quarter.
And then you had some tax controversy that settled and part of the settlement of tax controversy is you unwind accruals and all the interest that built up on those accruals can come back through the interest expense line.
And that's where you saw interest expense actually be a positive this quarter versus the traditional negative that interest expense is.
So I think the way I would summarize is we had lower gross margin really attributable to some of the manufacturing and how currency moves through there.
We had higher G&amp;A associated with an IP settlement.
We had better than probably modeled interest and other income because of that reversal of tax interest.
And then we had a lower tax rate which is really driven by the mix of products and where they're geographically manufactured.
So that's how I would package all of that.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Steve maybe a follow-up on your comment regarding the OtisMed rollout.
And obviously we understand that there's a training element with surgeons and I think other products that peers have launched have taken anywhere from 6 to 12 months before you started to see a material impact.
Have you seen accounts where custom cutting blocks have been adopted? Have you lost just certain business in those accounts? Or there -- have you lost full accounts? And this is really an effort to regain those lost accounts or is this more gaining back parts of accounts that you might have lost certain pieces of business in? In most cases it's gaining back parts.
So it's a doctor might have been using both hips and knees and got tired and wanted to use somebody else's knee.
And I would say that was really just starting to happen in the second quarter.
So it'll be more I think bringing -- turbocharging a lot of our existing surgeons and then inching away and getting some competitive ones along the way.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Taylor from Barclays Capital.
I just wanted to tick and tie a couple of smaller points here.
If you can comment a little bit on the Ascent acquisition how that's trending.
I don't think we've talked about that yet.
Second quarter Stryker Sustainability Solutions business had a better quarter than the first quarter.
I think we commented after the first quarter or some competitive markets responses not surprisingly.
But directionally we feel good about the trend that we saw in the second quarter relative to the first quarter.
And I think overall we remain very high in our conviction that this is the right business for Stryker and for the market and that longer term we see very favorable trends here.
Further you think about these smaller businesses that are acquired there is a period of integration and every time you go through integration there are stumbles or challenges that perhaps disrupt the business model.
And we've got to work our way to the other side and we feel good about the progress we're making there.
So directionally better second quarter than we saw in the first quarter.
Back kind of got the nose of the plane pointed up and going in the right direction at this point and it was a positive contributor so we feel good about it.
Okay.
And then I guess looking for a similar update on the Neurovascular acquisition you had stated previously a goal to get to market growth.
You're probably still a little bit below that but new products could help.
Can you give us an update there? We feel very good about where the Neurovascular business is at the halfway mark.
We commented in the first quarter that we saw positive growth in the U.S.
market.
That remains true in the second quarter and through the first half of the year.
And sequentially it built on the first quarter and then in my prepared comments I noted that in the international markets based on the strength of the target rollout that we had recorded a positive quarter.
So all in the business on a global basis was positive.
We like where the new products are taking us.
We like the stickiness with customers who have used the products.
All of that said there are some market challenges in the Neurovascular space today given things like Brazil and reimbursement cut that I mentioned in the first quarter.
That's still to be sorted out hopefully some time in the second half of this year.
So like any business it has its headwind but generally on track with the direction and pleased with it through the first 6 months.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew O'Brien from William Blair.
I was just hoping that you could talk a little bit about the Extremities market there with your acquisition of Memometal.
What are your plans as far as expanding your sales force there or potentially breaking out and having a focused sales group focus primarily on that segment of the market? And then are there other products that you're planning to bring through potentially a new shoulder system to augment your portfolio at this time? Yes.
I guess a couple of comments.
Very excited about this product offering because it really gives us access to a specialty customer and with a lot of the podiatric surgeons performing these foot and ankle procedures.
You combine that with their proprietary technology and manufacturing know-how.
We think it's a very nice fit.
We will be able to make investments in the sales force to a much greater degree than they were given just the relative size and so it will be an area of investment.
We think there are opportunities to pull through other products nothing that we would speak to specifically.
Part of what we liked here was what we have on the market and part of what we liked was the pipeline of products that's generally consistent with what you've seen in our other businesses singles and doubles that in totality really worked to move the needle.
So it's an exciting market given the growth potential.
And we think this acquisition specifically helped us tap into a customer segment that is really not an area we have historically called on.
Okay.
And then the second question on the biologic side with the Orthovita acquisition.
Can you just talk a little bit about where your utilization was with your biologic portfolio before the Orthovita deal in terms of all the spine cases spinal fusion cases you were involved with? And then where you think that may go over the next 6 months or a couple of years even with that broad portfolio available to you now? I would view that the acquisition is very similar in that if we're going to leverage the product offering that we got with the Orthovita deal through our much broader distribution channels in both inpatient and outpatient and across multiple divisions Instruments Spine as was mentioned earlier.
I wouldn't view this as leveraging the revenue that we were generating within our biotech specifically.
This is where we're rounding out our product portfolio where there was a gap and again focusing on our core and leveraging the distribution capability that we have.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Just a couple actually probably short ones.
Just looking at the organic growth rate this quarter versus last it picked up.
I'm just interested if there's any differences in selling days this quarter relative to what we saw in 1Q on a year-to-year basis? The pricing dynamics overall looked better.
How much of that was just anniversarying of Japan? Was that most of the difference if we look at 1Q versus 2Q? And then any additional color just kind of on the incremental acquisition and integration charges and should we expect those to continue as we just look ahead or will those just be a 2011 phenomenon? Kristen on the days the days were effectively the same as they were in the prior quarter a year ago.
On the pricing do not have anything material coming out of the sunsetting of Japan that influenced the general pricing in the quarter.
Certainly the sunsetting helps a little bit in the Japan market but total company influence was insignificant there.
And your last question I believe was on the acquisition charges.
We updated -- I tried to update at the end of my prepared comments the full year expectation for acquisition and integration-related charges given the addition of new Orthovita closing here at the last couple days of the second quarter.
So I may not be fully understanding that question.
I guess just what -- is it just all inventory step-up charges? And it's a pretty big number and should we continue to expect that there'll be some residual integration related to all these deals flowing into next year? Okay.
So the first half of the year the biggest component of the number was Neurovascular inventory step-up charges.
That is far and away the lion's share of the number.
Other charges related to acquisition and integration are truly those one-time costs anything from perhaps banker fees to the use of consultants as you're going through the integration from a systems approach things like that.
So if you take what we said the charge would be for the full year subtract what we've already recorded that kind of gives you the idea of what's left.
As we head into 2012 I would expect the call outs here would be minimal at best.
And then I guess everyone's kind of been asking in a different way but can you specifically break out the litigation that was in the SG&amp;A line just so people can get a -- so we can all understand a little bit better what the ongoing kind of number was and to what degree there was that impact just related to tax and other? I'm not going to give you a specific number.
I would just refer people to look at the prepared comments.
The -- I believe I said that in the Other income and expense that change effectively equalized the IP settlement.
And I think if you look at the charges we usually record in Other income you'll be able to back your way into what that relative number may have been.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Wise from Leerink Swann.
Back to Hips briefly Steve you highlighted seeing the sort of early signs of the positive impact of the new product launches.
And I think you saw another one to launch maybe the Accolade II maybe this year or early next year.
You've talked about the sort of the train and the slow-moving momentum.
Is the momentum here now? And we should expect that year-over-year rate of growth to continue to pick up from here based on what we know about the markets how you're thinking about that? Yes I think Rick clearly the MDM is getting some nice momentum and I think it's building I mean frankly we've been almost a little bit of supply-constrained on this one because we didn't overbuild inventory on this one.
But it is building nicely.
And I think it's going to be -- it is that train building.
Accolade probably by the way we're going to -- even though we mentioned it at the Analyst Meeting we'll probably end up pushing it back into next year just to time [ph] the expectation because frankly with OtisMed approval and all the momentum on MDM we feel so good about the second half of this year.
But that'll be -- that'll give us more news for next year.
So I think that's why we feel really good as we look at the Hip pipeline over the next 18 24 months.
I agree we feel very good about seeing sequential build not just this year but through next year as well.
But it's not a ramp like our Medical business as you know.
Great.
But maybe back to the mid- to upper single digits in the second half it doesn't sound unreasonable.
A lot of that -- we're still leered at over communicate numbers given we're not sure exactly what the total volume of the market will be.
I think we'll be taking share and feel good about that.
Okay.
And maybe just lastly a couple of bigger picture questions just one any updated thoughts on your European business just given the debt crisis and various concerns there? And last you've had a very rapid pace of acquisitions over the last 12 months or so.
Should we expect that same -- that pace to continue? I appreciate all subject to negotiation but are you as intensively at work on adding the portfolio now as you were a year ago or say? We are probably going to refrain from any specifics about whether the acquisition activity is going to be at the same pace higher or lower.
It's just the very nature of BD is such that it's going to ebb and flow and maybe following a period of a lot of activity it ebbs a little bit more.
But you never know in terms of -- there could be a strategic decision to make an acquisition and wouldn't want to have comments that could prove to be correct or incorrect down the road -- prove to be incorrect down the road.
So a long winded way of saying probably not going to make a comment beyond reiterating.
We've got a strategy for the 3-pronged use of cash and M&amp;A is part of that but it will be more or less active at different periods of time.
And on the Europe piece Rick I think we feel really good about the -- our leadership over there right now.
We've been reining in a lot of old product lines and dealing with a lot of things in fighting through a pretty tough market.
I think we look at Europe right now and say it's a very low-growth market.
And we're slugging it out and fighting through it.
So I think we've stopped the bleeding there and on the way back but we've also still got some stuff we can do better.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Lichtman from Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Just on gross margin we've gone through the near-term movements with currency.
I was wondering if you could talk to the progress you're seeing being made by Lonny Carpenter in his efforts to streamline the manufacturing process overall? Certainly a big area of focus for the company and a lot of work going on I think you have to keep in mind that anything revolving around manufacturing product changes product consolidations the first approach is understanding what it does or how it influences the quality system that we worked so hard as a company to build and instill.
So there -- almost in a sense first do no harm as we look at the opportunities.
These opportunities are evident.
There are project teams lining up and they are sorting through the priorities.
And keep it in mind that some of these projects the majority of the projects will take an investment to get them off the ground and get the long-term leverage.
I would however as an early indicator point to perhaps our tax rate as an indicator of some of the changes.
As we've moved some of our manufacturing it does have influence across the entirety of the P&amp;L including the tax rate.
And just as a reminder we made some changes with some of our Europe -- with one of our Europe plants last year move some of that production into a different geography that has a better tax rate.
Okay Curt.
And just on Japan were there any surprises in terms of the impact of the earthquake and tsunami as you went through 2Q? I'm guessing it wasn't material overall but were any segments impacted more than others and have things sort of normalized at this point? Yes.
Actually Japan was probably one of our bigger upside surprises in the quarter.
Our Japan business did very very well and pretty much across the board but especially the Reconstructive.
Hips and Knees were very healthy there.
It's probably one of our believe it or not best regions in the world.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Plovanic from Canaccord.
Just 2 clarification questions.
One I think for gross margin you said there's about a one-time charge of about $55 million pretax.
What was that number for SG&amp;A? And then also as you look at Q3 and Q4 for the one-time charges I know you gave us an earnings impact but how much of that do you think will fall in Q3 how much in Q4? And then I think you said that most of it will flow through the G&amp;A and I just want to get clarification there.
In the quarter it was about $9 million rough numbers.
And then we didn't break it out between third and fourth quarter.
And honestly Bill I don't have that in front of me right now off the top of my head.
Okay.
And then lastly just on the Orthovita I think you said that -- when you said CORTOSS is in Neurotech and Spine is that more of the Neuro piece or the Spine piece? No.
What I said is CORTOSS is distributed by our Interventional Spine organization which from a public reporting standpoint used to be included in the Instruments segment.
And beginning this year when we created the new segments we moved that over to report it under the Neurotech and Spine segment.
It would be specifically in the Spine of the Neurotech and Spine.
Sorry specifically within Spine of the Neurotech.
Your next question comes from the line of Rajeev Jashnani from UBS.
Just maybe a quick one R&amp;D.
The company has aggressively increased R&amp;D investment in recent quarters including this one.
I'm just wondering if you could comment on what you might see as a sustainable steady-state level of spending given the current mix of businesses and given the regulatory environment? We haven't called out long-term targets specifically.
We have said to assume that R&amp;D is generally in that 5% to 6% range of sales and you've seen it trend upward this year.
So I think for near-term modeling 2011 that remains a big assumption.
If I could just follow-up do you see this as a line that's going to consistently grow faster than revs? Or is this potentially going to moderate understanding there is an impact of an acquisition in there currently obviously? Clearly it's a little bit inflated this year by the acquisition.
Having said that as we said we grew R&amp;D 17% last year.
I think as long as we continue to feel good about the products in the pipeline that line may grow faster than sales.
And your final question is coming from the line of Jeff Johnson from Robert Baird.
Curt I'm wondering if I could just ask one last clarifying question around gross margin.
And maybe I missed it last quarter but I remember on the fourth quarter call you talked about gross margins expecting them to be up a little bit from the 2010 level of 68.8%.
Did you formally update that last quarter? Is the next formal update just coming this quarter? No this quarter is the update.
Okay and so I guess I understand what you're saying the U.S.
dollar obviously has been weaker since the fourth quarter when you really last addressed that and that all makes sense.
Obviously orthopedic implants probably a little softer here than any of us would have thought in the second half.
Recovery maybe not going to be as robust and MedSurg has been stronger.
Is there anything else going on besides those 3 things? Any of the deals you've done now maybe being more margin dilutive gross margin dilutive than any of us might realize or anything else in there? Is it really just those 3 factors changing from the fourth quarter guidance [indiscernible] ? There are no other factors.
I think I understand the confusion.
It's just part of the complexity of the manufacturing network.
When currency moves it's not only the cost of the underlying currency.
It's the inventory excess and obsolete charges and how those dollars are restated in the U.S.-based P&amp;L.
So there's -- you got to think about it in broad terms of how these currency movements impact the entirety of the P&amp;L and they're not insignificant movements.
So that said we do have some things that helped hedge that a little bit with the way we're set up.
But it's not appropriate model by any stretch and there's going to be movements as currency and as inventory turns change.
Yes.
No I understood.
There's just nothing else hanging out in there I guess is all I'm trying to confirm here.
No Jeff.
And I want to clarify that as well because clearly it's not anything from the acquisitions.
What I'd also say is Curt and his team are really doing a much better job I'd say than what we had historically in terms of understanding swings in gross margin because of all the various lag effects in the inventory.
And when you go back and look historically I think second and third quarters last year we probably got even more of a benefit from the FX than we had fully maybe grasped at the time.
If you recall we were surprised by the gross margin.
And I think it probably was more driven FX and it's a bigger headwind this year than what we had fully grasped.
All right and thank you Derek.
I think we'll wrap up on that and so that everybody knows the conference call for our third quarter results will be held on exactly 3 months from today October 19 2011.
Thank you everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Stryker Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Keisha and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
Certain statements made in today's conference call may contain information that includes or is based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements.
Such factors include but are not limited to: weakening of economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for the company's products; pricing pressures generally including cost containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for the company's products; changes in foreign exchange markets; legislative and regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies and otherwise that affect U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval of new products; changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payers; a significant increase in product liability claims; resolution of tax audits; changes in financial markets; changes in the competitive environment and the company's ability to integrate acquisitions.
Additional information concerning these and other factors are contained in the company's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Steve MacMillan Chairman President and CEO.
Please proceed.
Thank you Keisha.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's third quarter 2011 earnings report.
With me today are Curt Hartman our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Before passing the call over to Katherine and Curt to provide more specifics we know there have been some investor concerns that we'd like to address including the slowdown in elective procedures capital budgets and gross margin.
First with respect to elective procedures.
The Recon market continued the softness that began last year in the second quarter.
While we look forward to the day the market picks back up we feel good about our Recon portfolio and our ability to deliver even in a slower environment.
Second turning to capital budgets and the potential impact of Medicare spending.
We believe there has been an understandable but misplaced overreaction.
While the current economic environment remains challenged hospitals do have access to credit a clear difference versus the 2008-2009 downturn.
Our own third quarter MedSurg results especially our Medical business are evidence that these markets remain solid.
It's also important to note that since late 2008 we have significantly changed the composition of our MedSurg businesses including expanding our disposables product offering with the Ascent SONOPET and Gaymar acquisitions.
Our MedSurg businesses are better positioned now than at any point in our history to drive share gains engage with hospital customers leverage new product offerings and expand geographically a fact that we believe will remain clearly the case in the fourth quarter in 2012 and beyond.
On the gross margin front we have been negatively impacted in 2011 by a greater-than-expected degree from swings in foreign exchange rates.
Although these same swings inflated our gross margin in Q2 and Q3 of 2010 the reverse has been true this year.
Beyond FX we are making the necessary investments to help unlock decentralized inefficiencies that represent a clear long-term leverage opportunity.
With Lonny Carpenter now overseeing global manufacturing since the start of this year we are investing in various aspects of this multiyear initiative including our IT infrastructure procurement vendor consolidation and numerous other aspects all also absorbing the various acquisitions.
Ironically it's the strength of our P&amp;L that's enabling us to make these investments that will yield dividends longer term while not deviating from the earnings targets we've provided at the start of the year.
Looked at somewhat more succinctly our underlying P&amp;L performance is enabling us to manage through some unexpected pressures as well as M&amp;A costs that often result in companies trimming guidance.
You're not one of them.
It's also worth highlighting the fact that over the past 24 months we have bolstered our core franchises by leveraging the tremendous strength afforded by our solid cash flow and strong balance sheet via acquisitions.
We have entered into key adjacent markets that are on track to help accelerate our organic growth in 2012 and beyond.
With 10 acquisitions completed in the past 2 years and 4 in 2011 alone we are committed to further broadening our sales footprint with M&amp;A targets.
And it's important to note that we are not just buying one-off growth.
Every one of these acquisitions is a platform that we fully expect to grow above the rate of our core markets or the foreseeable future.
Our sales mix is also strengthened considerably within our MedSurg businesses particularly through Stryker Sustainability Solutions and more recently Gaymar.
These moves have provided our sales team with a stronger product offering and a greater ability to gain market share despite some ongoing challenges in underlying elective procedure growth.
We also remain highly focused on ensuring we are investing in internally driven innovation as evidenced by the 23% increase in R&amp;D in the quarter and year-to-date on top of a 17% increase in 2010.
Investments in R&amp;D are balanced throughout our portfolio of businesses and include the necessary incremental innovation that's driving our ongoing market share gains in many of our businesses while also making longer term investments in both product procedural and service offerings.
This level of R&amp;D is a clear reflection of our confidence and the opportunities we still see for innovation in our markets.
Our commitment to a three-pronged strategy relates to cash deployment is reflected in our Q3 results as we further leveraged our P&amp;L via buybacks that totaled $289 million in the quarter and our quarterly dividend represented a 20% increase year-over-year.
We believe this balanced approach will drive maximum shareholder return both the short and long term as we look to accelerate organic growth while also driving greater P&amp;L leverage.
Overall looking back on our Q3 results and our financial performance to date in 2011 we are pleased with the unique strength of our company both our products and our people.
Although the global economic environment has proven to be more challenging than anticipated at the start of the year it's clear that our unique business model is enabling us to navigate the challenges while further building on our strengths.
Expansion of our sales footprint through our focused M&amp;A activity will be an important driver of our revenue and earnings growth long term.
Near term our strength is allowing us to modestly raise our EPS target for the year while simultaneously absorbing a series of key strategic acquisitions and making meaningful investments in R&amp;D.
We believe this combination of funding our innovation pipeline augmenting our business with higher -- with additional higher-growth franchises and achieving consistent double-digit earnings growth will ensure we are able to maximize shareholder returns in both the near and long term.
Net -- although there are always challenges and there will inevitably be things we don't like in any given quarter we feel good about our ability to deliver and see lots of opportunity for growth in all of our businesses.
With that I'll turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Steve.
In light of the relatively high level of M&amp;A activity that's occurred with us in recent quarters my comments today will focus on some additional granularity around these transactions.
As many of you on today's call are aware our cash deployment strategy has focused on acquisitions along with buybacks and dividends.
Our cash flow capabilities we believe that the ability to execute on all 3 is an important competitive advantage that positions us well to deliver on both our short- and long-term financial targets.
From a scorecard perspective we are pleased with the performance to date of the various acquisitions.
Although retrospectively the 510(k) clearance of our shape-fitting technology obtained by the OtisMed acquisition took longer than anticipated early read on the rollout is positive and we view the product as the key offering in our Recon sales force's portfolio.
We are also pleased by the reacceleration in Stryker Sustainability Solutions which delivered strong double-digit top line growth in the quarter.
We completed a number of deals focused on our core markets in 2010 including SONOPET Gaymar and MEDPOR all of which are tracking at or ahead of our expectations.
Although clearly still early we're excited about the opportunity for us to leverage our considerable sales and distribution capabilities by adding the terrific product portfolios provided by both Orthovita and Memometal.
Overall we look for the totality of our M&amp;A activity to help us to generate solid top line growth despite the softer-than-expected orthopedic implant markets.
Turning to the most significant acquisition we have completed recently.
Neurovascular continues to execute on the launch of its new products including the next generation coil and detachment system.
We view the long-term growth potential in the treatment of stroke that represent one of the most exciting segments within medical technology reflecting both the tremendous unmet need and opportunities for device space innovation.
This was a key factor behind our move to further expand our market-leading presence in the interventional stroke market with the recent acquisition of Concentric Medical which allows us access to the ischemic stroke segment.
Although today the vast majority nearly 90% of neurovascular stroke sales are from devices to treat hemorrhagic stroke this population represents just 13% of stroke patients.
Over 80% of 85% of stroke incidents are from ischemic and we're excited about the opportunity to leverage our core platform in neurovascular via the addition of Concentric with its long history of device-based innovation and a truly exciting product pipeline.
It's a latest generation stent retriever device designed specifically for the removal of ischemic stroke is CE approved.
And Concentric is currently one of just 2 companies with an FDA-approved IDE trial underway in the stent retriever category.
We are targeting a late 2012 2013 510(k) clearance and believe this technology will represent an important long-term growth driver for our Neurotechnology franchise.
In sum a recent series of M&amp;A transactions reflect our stated strategy of both leveraging our core in order to drive sales and cost synergies while also entering key adjacent markets that can help improve our long-term organic growth rates.
With that I'll turn the call over to Curt.
Thanks Katherine.
I'll start by saying we again delivered solid financial results based on the inherent strength of our evolving business mix financial discipline in a diverse and expanding base of recurring revenue all of which positions us well in today's challenging global economy and changing medtech landscape.
Overall in the third quarter company sales increased 14.9% on a reported basis 11.7% in constant currency in line with the second quarter.
Essentially core growth excluding currency and acquisitions slowed in the quarter but was consistent with levels achieved in Q1 pushing it at 4.1%.
Despite the lack of any meaningful recovery in elective procedures we are encouraged by our ability to sustain mid-single digit organic growth which we are augmenting through our strategic business development activities.
Drivers of growth in the quarter included solid MedSurg results reflecting both continued strength in our medical instrument segments and an acceleration in our Sustainability Solutions business.
Additionally we saw continued incremental quarter-over-quarter gains in our core Reconstructive business.
Although majority of our Neurotechnology and Spine franchises achieved solid growth this was offset by sequential slowdown in our spinal implants.
Looking at earnings we delivered encouraging results with adjusted diluted EPS before nonrecurring charges of $0.91 representing growth of 13.8% over Q3 of 2010.
On a GAAP basis diluted net earnings per share were $0.84 a decrease of 1.2% versus Q3 of 2010.
Overall our 2011 acquisitions as well as those completed in recent years are performing as or better than expected and our integration efforts remain on track.
The P&amp;L continues to reflect our investment in systems to support acquisition integration R&amp;D expansion and the tax benefit driven from our focus on optimizing our operational footprint.
Other factors in the quarter include the now typical movement associated with currency on a per share gain of over $0.01 associated with share repurchases and a favorable tax election.
Finally in the quarter we generated $446 million of cash from operations.
Reviewing the quarter I'll start with the discussion of the components of our revenue growth.
In the third quarter revenue growth was driven by volume mix which contributed 6.1% to our top line growth.
Company-wide selling prices declined 2%.
Overall pricing remained consistent and in line with recent quarters.
Acquisitions added 7.6%.
Currency contributed approximately $57 million and improved the company's overall reported sales growth by 3.2%.
Looking at our external reporting segments.
Reconstructive products which represented 44% of our sales in the quarter and include our Hip Knee Trauma and other reconstructive lines recorded an 8% increase as reported and a 4% increase on a constant currency basis.
The acquisition added 1.7% to the constant currency increase.
This represents another sequential improvement in our Reconstructive segment while acknowledging that gains have been marginal and the market remains challenging.
At the segment level hip sales continue to perform well according to 10% reported gain and a 5% increase in constant currency.
International markets accelerated in the quarter delivering our best hip results since Q1 of 2009.
Emerging markets and Japan pace the gains.
In the U.S.
market hip sales continue to benefit from our MDM offering and recorded 5% growth.
Conversely new sales remained weak in the quarter with reported growth of 3% and down 50 basis points on a constant currency basis.
International markets recorded 2% constant currency growth mid-single to low double-digit gains in other international markets offset by softness in Europe.
U.S.
market remains difficult as evidenced by the 2% decline in the quarter.
However the commercial launch of our ShapeMatching offering is going well and we expect it to contribute to modest sequential improvement in the quarters ahead resulting in tougher fourth quarter comparisons.
Globally Trauma posted 17% reported growth 12% constant currency growth.
Acquisitions added 6% to the top line.
Domestic Trauma results recorded a 20% gain while in international markets Trauma recorded 5% growth on a constant currency basis.
Overall we feel good about our Reconstructive results in a challenged market.
We remain optimistic regarding our hip lineup the OtisMed ShapeMatching solution MMI acquisition and its influence on our broader trauma offering.
Next I'll turn to MedSurg which represented 38% of sales in the quarter and is comprised of our instruments endoscopy medical and Stryker Sustainability Solutions segments.
MedSurg has delivered another solid sales quarter increasing 12% as reported and 10% on a constant currency basis with acquisitions adding 2.2%.
Once again the medical segment was the star of the show delivering 31% reported growth 20% excluding acquisitions and currency.
From a market perspective the bed and stretcher offering continues to perform well in a market fueled by the replacement and upgrade cycle as well as hospitals' increasing focus and the ability of certain capital purchases to improve efficiencies and facilitate better patient outcomes.
Finally our Sustainability Solutions business returned to mid- high-teens growth and this remains our expectation given all the opportunity we first identified in this market over 2 years ago.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represented 18% of the company's sales in the quarter increased 46% as reported and 43% on a constant currency basis.
Acquisitions added 42.5% to the constant currency increase.
Highlights in the quarter include strong organic growth from our Interventional Spine and NSE offerings as well as a positive influence of the MEDPOR in neurovascular acquisitions.
Obviously continued pressure on the spinal implant market in terms of both volumes and price influenced core growth in the quarter.
Finally on a positive note our Spine business did begin its initial launch with lateral access fusion system.
I'll now turn to the income statement beginning with gross margin performance.
Gross margins finished at 67.1% as a result of acquisition charges totaling approximately $18 million.
Excluding these charges gross margins were 68.0% in the quarter which was lower than the prior year by 140 basis points which represented a 20 basis point improvement over Q2.
Also recall 2010 third quarter gross margins were favorably impacted by currency.
These comments aside given our management and operational structure our efforts remain focused on reducing our material and conversion costs in support of our long-term growth strategy which we believe will drive operating margin expansion despite the potential for greater pricing pressure as the healthcare environment continues to evolve.
Research and development continued as an area of investment priority moving to 6% of sales an increase of 23% versus the third quarter of 2010.
In the first 3 quarters R&amp;D spend is up 23% influenced by our commitments to increased innovation and the dollars now in the R&amp;D category associated with acquisitions.
Stated more succinctly we believe innovation still matters as a catalyst of long-term growth and we're excited about the current and future flow of new products across our various divisions.
Selling general and administrative costs represented 37.7% of sales.
Adjusting for acquisition and integration-related charges SG&amp;A finished at 36.6% of sales a decline of 120 basis points versus prior year.
Intangible amortization in the quarter was $31 million and represented 1.5% of sales versus the $14 million and 80 basis point of sales in the prior year quarter.
Year-to-date intangible amortization is $90 million and 1.5% of sales versus $42 million 80 basis points of sales in 2010.
Clearly the acquisition influence on this line is deleveraging our P&amp;L and the EBIT margin this year.
But we expect to see benefit here in the years ahead.
Reported operating income decreased 5.7% over prior year and moved to 21.9% of sales reflecting the impact of the inventory step-up in other acquisition and integration-related charges.
Adjusted operating income increased 8% while the adjusted operating margin decreased 150 basis points versus the prior year to 23.8% of sales.
Other income and expense decreased pretax income by $13 million in the quarter.
Components of this included investment income of $9 million offset by $21 million of interest expense.
The company's effective income tax rate was 24.1% for the third quarter.
Excluding the tax benefit associated with acquisition-related charges our effective income tax rate would have been 25% for the quarter.
For the year-to-date our tax rate excluding the acquisition-related charges is 25.6% and we are comfortable with this for the year.
In terms of the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $3.2 billion of cash and marketable securities $500 million from the $2.7 billion at the end of the second quarter.
We supplemented this balance on September 12 with a $750 million 5-year 2% coupon debt offering and offset the increase with working capital expansion acquisitions and share repurchases.
As a reminder we now have $1.75 billion of debt on the balance sheet associated with our January 2010 $1 billion debt offering and our September 2011 $750 million debt offering.
On the asset management side.
Accounts receivable days ended the quarter at 58 which represented a decrease of 1 day compared to the prior quarter and prior year.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 176 which was an increase of 12 days sequentially versus the second quarter and 2 days against prior year level.
Turning to cash.
In the third quarter we generated cash flow from operations of $446 million and free cash flow of $389 million.
Finally in the quarter market volatility created a buy-in opportunity.
We repurchased 5.9 million shares totaling $289 million.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 9.9 million shares for a total spend of $539 million.
We currently have open authorizations totaling approximately $286 million.
In summary we delivered a positive third quarter and in general are on track with our annual earnings goal.
The objectives remain driving core business growth continued acquisition integration operational focus and a sharpened focus on cash generation.
Turning to our outlook.
Our guidance as Steve noted has been adjusted in a couple of areas.
Starting with currency.
If rates hold in their current levels we would expect fourth quarter sales to be favorably impacted by approximately 0% to 1% when compared to 2010.
Using current rates the full year currency impact on top line sales will be an increase in the range of 2% to 3% when compared to 2010.
From a revenue standpoint we are now calling for a net sales increase of 11% to 12% in constant currency.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency as well as acquisitions our sales growth is now projected to be 4% to 5% for the full year.
Adjusted diluted net earnings per share range has been raised and is now anticipated to be in the $3.70 to $3.74 range representing an increase of 11% to 12% for 2010 adjusted diluted earnings per share and comparing favorably to our prior $3.65 to $3.73 target.
We anticipate acquisition and integration-related charges to reduce reported diluted net earnings per share by approximately $0.33 to $0.35.
Overall we think the year is largely in line with our expectations.
With our continued actions to both leverage and further diversify our revenue base coupled with our ongoing investment in quality significant uptick in R&amp;D investment and more recently our efforts around operational simplification and alignment we are highly encouraged regarding our near- and long-term top and bottom line growth prospects.
Additionally we've been supporting these efforts with disciplined capital deployment through share buybacks dividend expansion and strategic acquisitions.
We believe we are well positioned to maximize shareholder returns with a highly focused and balanced approach.
With that we'll now open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Steve maybe as a starting point would like to focus on MedSurg.
And given the concerns out there I'd be interested in your comments in which you made earlier about the health of the various end markets.
I'm thinking geographically I'm thinking Europe and the U.S.
as you look at the fourth quarter.
And then the second part I'd like you to comment on is where you are in the product cycle for your various businesses.
I think our understanding is that you have a new product cycle coming on the endoscopy side of the business in cameras in 2012.
So any additional insights there will be appreciated.
Sure Mike.
I think we do continue to feel very good about our MedSurg businesses both in the U.S.
and particularly outside of the U.S.
I will tell you Europe was a little rougher in the third quarter and that was probably our little spot of weakness for our MedSurg businesses in the third quarter.
We think that's just a little bit of a market issue nothing that's had us too concerned.
And the bigger issue probably is our product cycle particularly as it does relate to both endo and to some degree our instruments businesses.
But we've got some very good things coming and particularly on the endo side as you said things in the pipeline there that we may be a little softer here in the next quarter or so.
I'm feeling very good about what's in the lineup.
And I would say probably feeling really good about what we have coming in 2012 across all 3 of the big MedSurg franchises.
Research Division</strong> And the visibility on that for the street would that have to wait for AAOS? Yes in terms of...
In the pipeline.
It probably  depends [ph] on the product.
It's probably as we get in -- Mike as you know historically we haven't gone into a whole lot of specificity around exact timing of those launches both for competitive reasons as well as sales force focus.
So these are 2012 rollouts.
The exact timing probably not going to be too specific on right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Steve just to think strategically we've seen medical device at markets become increasingly challenged this year or the last few years and so it's hard to find end markets that are at this point at least showing meaningful growth.
With that reality how do we think about your further appetite for M&amp;A given how aggressive you've been over the last 24 36 months? Sure.
I think what we've clearly tried to do Mike as you know is find additional growth opportunities within any overall market that you've got packets of strength and things like extremities things like orthobiologics things like surfaces in our medical business or SONOPET which was great for our NSE our Neurospine franchise.
And I think we've been very active and opportunistic in what's going on there.
So that really the way we look at it is those markets should grow faster than the overall markets.
And continue to look for those -- dare we call it niches or smaller pieces and then look at the big things like the neurovascular that we feel we'll have a very good growth profile.
Going forward would you expect the same pace of acquisition? I'd tell you truthfully we're probably largely focusing right now on integrating what we've taken.
We've taken a lot on over the last 12 to 18 months.
And I think you would probably see a slowdown.
We're not going to be serial acquirers but we are going to take advantage when the opportunities pop up.
Katherine I don't know if you want to add to that.
No.
I think as BD engine flows and right now we want to make sure that we leverage the opportunity we've had and not muck it up on the integration side.
So it's not an on and off switch but probably one right now little bit more focused on innovation and execution.
Yes.
Mike to have one other comment to that I think as a CEO you have to be careful that you're paying attention to truly the organizational abilities to digest so many things.
And we're probably I don't want to say maxed out but we're stretched and I think love what we've done but would want to be careful not to take so much more on at this point.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Steve or Curt just thinking about the quarter margins came in actually better than we thought and actually sort of revenue in many respects.
So just thinking about the fourth quarter change to the top line constant currency number can you just talk about some of the factors in the fourth quarter that are resulting in incremental pressure? Is it orthopedics? Is it the international market? David the second part of your question was the fourth quarter change.
Our outlook was the full year.
Research Division</strong> Agreed.
So I'm just assuming given this third quarter performance is actually in line a little better than we were looking for I'm just wondering what the specific slowdowns would be in the fourth quarter.
I think our overall full year guidance -- I can't overlay my guidance on your model but I think our overall guidance is a statement of not seeing any meaningful recovery in the Reconstructive business but we are personally incrementally making gains as you look at our Reconstructive business Hips Knees Trauma.
That core business has improved each at the past 3 quarters albeit very incrementally by our historical standards.
But certainly that market has not recovered in a way that I think a lot of people would have assumed as we entered this year.
And I don't think in the large European broad European market we've seen any meaningful recovery as well.
So those are probably the 2 #1 #2 areas that are driving a little bit of core business pullback and overall outlook pullback.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then Steve you made some comments and I appreciate Katherine's comments giving us more detail about many of the acquisitions and the growth platform going forward.
You talked about beginning to see the evidence of acceleration in the core business in the '12 and '13 timeframe.
As you think about sort of mid-single digit organic constant currency guidance for this year is it too early to think about acceleration from those levels heading into '12? I think David we want to stay away from getting too far in the guidance for 2012.
But I think that you should expect that -- and we feel good about the way we've been reshaping the portfolio this year.
But the big question really is going to be do the markets come back much or not? But I think we're trying to position ourselves to have solid organic growth despite -- even if the markets continue right where they are.
And we'll obviously come back with more specific guidance in January.
All right.
Sorry I can't give you more at that point -- at this point.
Next question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So 2 things I wanted to cover.
One I was wondering if you could give a little bit more color on the endo business because that seems to be the one within MedSurg that declined in terms of its growth rate the most from the trends you've seen over the last few quarters.
So if you could talk about that a little bit.
And then I wanted to ask a question on operating margins but I'll save that for the follow-up.
Yes.
On endo I think it's really product life cycle related.
And I would tell you Katherine Curt and I were actually out for that business last week and feel really good about where they'll be headed next year.
Research Division</strong> Steve did I hear you correctly when you said you should expect incremental softness in the fourth quarter? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the operating margin side either Steve or Curt this year we've seen declines in operating margin.
We obviously all understand the R&amp;D piece.
But in terms of gross margin and SG&amp;A can you just talk from a top down perspective about the pressures on those business or on those line items this year? And as we look forward and then again I'm not asking for 2012 guidance but can we get -- at what point can those turn and what allows it to turn the operating margin back up again? It's obviously a hot topic here in the last couple of quarters Bob specifically as it relates to gross margins.
Clearly currency movement does impact gross margins.
But I think in addition to that when we look at our business we really start with what's the revenue outlook and what's the earnings target that we're going for.
And all the levers in between those 2 are at our discretion to use to run our business in a way that we think will best help us in the given quarter the given year also as we look to the future and where we think the business needs to be.
So as you look at gross margins specifically there's clearly been currency influence there this year.
And in addition and Steve mentioned this in his opening comments we now have a global executive who is focused on our global operations.
Any time you do that any time you align an operations team a lot of projects come forward.
Those projects all come with a price and you have to make those investments before you see the return.
In addition the M&amp;A that's been discussed also brings cost that hit gross margin.
Not all of those cost get called out as acquisition and integration-related charges because some of those costs are investments that we'll use across the company for further leverage in the out-year specifically as it relates to SG&amp;A.
I honestly feel decent about where SG&amp;A is right now.
We've had some ups and downs over the last 3 quarters.
But in general I feel pretty good about what we're doing there.
I think everybody in the med device base is looking at distribution-related cost and trying to figure out where those are going to move over what period of time and that includes Stryker.
But in general  I think we've got the right approach and the right focus on those right now.
If I could just add one other thing.
I think we clarified when we did Boston Neurovascular acquisition.
What we're doing is there absorbing a division from a company that was structured very differently than ours.
And again one of the things we've had to do this year is invest in some of the back-office support areas as well to absorb that acquisition and let them focus on what they do well which is drive the top line drive the innovation.
So there has been additional cost in the SG&amp;A line supporting that this year that we should start to see leverage in the future as well.
And just from a metric standpoint year-to-date adjusted SG&amp;A is identical to what it was a year ago.
So that my comment about I think we're doing okay given everything we put in through the P&amp;L this year to be equal to where we were as a ratio 37.3% of sales actually feel okay and think about that in the future periods how we can leverage that as we expand the sales base.
Next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Just wanted to go over I guess the reduction in underlying sales growth.
Curt I think you'd said the new guidance assumes 4% to 5%.
I think the old guidance was 5% to 7%.
Just want to kind of clarify that.
Yes.
We started the year with core business growth of 5% to 7%.
We're moving that to 4% to 5% and I would just tell you it's a reflection of where we are in the year through the first 3 quarters and the size of core growth we have to deliver in the fourth quarter to stay within our 5% to 7% range.
Number one it doesn't feel realistic after 3 quarters being under our belt.
Number two we think the 4% to 5% is a realistic reflection that some of the core markets i.e.
reconstructive have not returned to a level that we had originally assumed as we started this year.
We're as optimistic as anyone and we want to continue to drive our teams to higher growth levels.
I think the 4% to 5% more accurately reflects the first 3 quarters and where we see the year finishing up.
Okay.
And then I guess just kind of the changes mostly you would say is attributable to the slower performance within Recon mainly Hip and Knee? Yes and Spine.
Spine is recorded in our Neurotech and Spine segment.
And as I mentioned in my comments we did not have a good spinal implant quarter.
It was frankly disappointing.
And I think it just reflects the broad pressure in the overall reconstructive market even though we report those in a different segment than our Reconstructive business.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the slightly better performance in Hips and sort of acceleration in the second quarter in the U.S.
Is this -- the new product you've launched? Is that the primary driver? And should we expect a continued gradual step-up as you've talked about the freight train image in the past? Should we expect that gradual increase going forward despite the tough market? Yes I think the freight train analogy is a very good one Rick.
We're seeing MDM take off.
I would just remind you we're going against a tough fourth quarter comp.
But overall the trend here is looking up.
And I think we're feeling -- we're hearing very good stuff out of the field and out of the surgeon community on MDM.
I think we're in the right place at the right time with that product.
Research Division</strong> So it's all about the new products? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Ascent Kathy if I heard you correctly did I hear you say strong double-digit growth? Or I think it's your exact language if I understood you correctly.
J&amp;J has now bought SterilMed.
Maybe Steve or Katherine you could talk about the dynamics of that business.
And is this going to be a more important growth driver small still but going forward as we're processing gains more traction? Yes.
Rick to clarify we did have double-digit growth.
It was a clear step-up in the quarter business bouncing back very nicely and we feel we've got that back on track continue to feel great about the fundamentals.
And frankly we think J&amp;J's entry into it is going to a further validate this is a market.
To an enormous degree I think it's wonderful when you have Stryker and J&amp;J both as now the #1 and 2 players in the market.
And I think the underlying fundamentals and healthcare cost and everything else we continue to feel really good about having identified this one a couple of years ago and picked up the market leader with big growth potential in a market that's probably going to become more validated now than ever.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up on an earlier question on strategic interest.
I know you had taken on a lot recently in your organizations integrating those acquisitions.
But one of the questions on the call earlier today raised a question in my mind about your business.
You're pretty much fully exposed across your business lines and sort of government and private pay reimbursed products maybe with the exception of hospital equipment.
And I'm wondering if you've contemplated if you would contemplate diversifying that especially given the regulatory and payer environment that we're in to include something that's a little bit more patient pay commercial pay self-pay-oriented.
And then I have one follow-up.
Matt I wouldn't say that that's got to be a strategic driver.
We do talk about that a lot and I would tell you we have looked at some markets that are more exposed to a bigger private paying component.
But we feel good still about the markets we're in.
And I think over time ultimately we would also believe there may become more of a private pay component even to some of the businesses that we're in and ultimately where innovation will continue to drive the business.
We think about it but wouldn't expect a big move.
We're pretty good sticking close to our core as you know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up was on Recon and some of your launches there.
Even though you're not calling here for a recovery in orthopedics or reconstructive it does -- halfway through the reporting cycle it does seem like you're coming up kind of in the top quartiles of performance this quarter.
And I'm wondering with respect...
As we should.
Research Division</strong> Pardon? As we should.
Research Division</strong> As you should that's what I like to see.
But in these new product launches just to set the right expectation used to be that it would take a good solid couple of years to be into the meat of a new rollout.
Given the environment -- I guess what we're hearing is maybe even those timelines had become more a little bit stretched out in the way that you deploy instruments the way that you train and roll these things out just maybe because of the market's capacity to absorb new products has changed.
Any color on that? Is that something -- should we think about these products that way? Matt I think you have to -- it's going to be difficult to make a blanket statement.
So if you look traditionally in Hips and Knees those are typically longer couple years as you fully rollout.
And not just the instruments but you train the sales force train the surgeons.
But if you take for instance right now MDM which is our key Hip product launch.
It really benefited from a lot of the heavy lifting that went on around both the philosophy and the instrumentation et cetera from ADM.
So that's probably had a little bit better of initial uptake than you'd see with a traditional Recon product.
And also OtisMed there was familiarity with that shape-fitting technology as it was on the market a few years ago.
And there's general familiarity with it.
So I don't think you can make a blanket statement.
It's going to depend on the type of product and the type of launch but I wouldn't say from a macro-environment we're seeing stretched-out product uptakes.
Your next question comes from the line of Tao Levy with Collins Stewart.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the 1% to 2% your change in sort of the core growth is that something that you kind of realized throughout the quarter you looked into Q4? Or it's been a little bit light throughout the year and there's been some sort of expectation that things would get better and now you kind of just need to readjust expectations? I'd consider the borderline adjustment at the end of the day when you look at it 4% to 5% versus the low end of 5%.
We're seeing how the year is playing out clearly the markets have not materialized but it's a very modest incremental adjustment.
Research Division</strong> What I'm trying to I guess figure out is that are things appearing worse than they had in the Hip and Knee market? Or they're just not getting as good? It's really seeing where things shook out in the third quarter.
And being this close to the end of the year we've got obviously more data at this point and just recognizing the comps for the fourth quarter and product life cycles and everything else.
So do not read it at all as a signal that we're concerned about where we're headed.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Turkaly with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I know you mentioned the pricing was down 2% in the quarter.
And just curious as you updated the guidance how is that relative to your expectations? And is that kind of what we should be expecting us we look forward for the company ahead? Pricing this year has been in the 1% to 2% down range.
So it somewhat fits right in with where pricing trends have been in the last couple of quarters.
And I think we're comfortable saying that it will remain in that category that range as we look forward.
I think it's kind of the same old same old.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you mentioned OtisMed and having to customize the product coming.
Can you tell us what you think with the size of that market is or what the opportunity might be for you? How big that is as a percent of kind of the overall knee market? So what kind of opportunity you have ahead as you launch that? Yes.
It's tough to get really firm data on penetration rate.
Some of the numbers hover around 10% of knee procedures using customized shape fitting.
But we obviously think there's opportunity for further inroads.
And longer term some of that may be required to have clinical data that really demonstrate some of the benefits that we believe exists as it relates to higher throughput et cetera.
So no specific target we would put out there but clearly we think it's going to be an important part of the sales forces' arsenal of offerings in the  knee side.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Topher Orr in for David.
Just a follow-up on some earlier questions.
I was looking at acquisitions over the past year and I was hoping you could just give us an update on which of those acquisitions have kind of the biggest overhang on gross margins currently? And over the next few quarters how you see further integration of these acquisitions kind of shaking out from a gross perspective? I don't know if we're going to go acquisition by acquisition here and evaluate gross margins.
But I think the key focus here on all the acquisitions is executing well defined integration plan.
And as we said in our commentary we feel good about acquisition integration plans as it relates to most recently Orthovita Memometal Neurovascular business at the beginning of the year and going back into last year the acquisitions that we completed then.
We feel good about our integration plans don't want to overburden the organization with additional integration.
So that's a key focus is a focus on the integration so we don't run into problems and then do image to the revenue outlook which is really where you bring the P&amp;L pressure.
So I think being focused on integrating.
Doing it right and doing it in a comprehensive fashion is where our focus is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Another for Neurovascular specifically could you provide an update on where you guys stand now and maybe not gross margin specifically but just kind of overall where you see the timelines for that? As Steve said it's a complicated integration because you're going from a culture that was highly centralized in terms of the back-office support.
With company and Stryker that's a little more decentralized in some of the back-office support.
It's got 3 facilities that have to be brought over from Boston Scientific to Stryker and I think we originally stated this would be a 2- to 2.5-year acquisition integration and we're pretty much right on track with that.
Now obviously as we go country by country there's different regulatory approval pathways.
Some of those are online some of those stretch out.
Those don't materially impact selling revenue.
What they do impact is employees who are waking up every day saying; "At some point I'd become a Stryker employee." And so we're very sensitive to that.
The business we feel very good about the business.
The Target Coil a detachment system rolled out early in the year.
We've effectively got a global launch at this point.
We recently introduced that to the Japanese market which was really our final core market there.
So I think we feel really good about the team at NV and what they're doing on a global basis and now they're both playing out and winning in the commercial market while dealing with challenges that are inherent with every integration.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Matson with Mizuho Securities USA.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I have a question just regarding the ischemic stroke market and the Concentric Medical acquisition.
I understand that they're studying their new Trevo product.
But I'm just wondering what's really kind of held that market back because their sales so far have been somewhat disappointing.
I guess a couple of comments.
So a big part of the rationale behind that acquisition was their excitement around the ischemic market.
The use of device-based innovation for ischemic is in the very very early stages.
And so they have launched in some markets outside the U.S.
But candidly part of the rationale for becoming part of Stryker is to have the considerable benefit we bring from sales and distribution capabilities that they were not able to tap into just given their size.
And we're really excited about the pipeline there and the potential we see and the early adoption quite frankly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one question on the share count.
I'm sorry if you've already given this but given the buyback what share count should we be modeling for the fourth quarter and the full year? Let me get back to you on that one.
I don't have that right in front of me.
Your next question comes from the line of Derrick Sung with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Starting with a higher-level strategic question.
The markets are clearly slowing you're facing an environment of increasing cost pressures.
Some of it may be cyclical but I think no one would argue that a good portion of it is secular in nature.
Given that context have you thought about -- or what are the opportunities to further reduce your cost structure and in particular I'm thinking about your selling cost by perhaps altering your selling model here in the U.S.
to something more similar to that in -- like what you're doing in Europe? Is that possible at all? Or is that just kind of out of the realm of possibility for this point in time? You should assume we are constantly looking at all kinds of options and we operate with different models within our company.
Our MedSurg businesses are different than the orthopedic implant businesses and they give us some different avenues to call upon.
And I think it actually creates a competitive strength for us to think about some different models.
We've got some lower gross margin businesses with lower SG&amp;A but still deliver very good operating margins and we kind of know how to play different ways and you should be assured we're thinking along those lines as we head forward.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess turning to your international markets it sounded like what's kind of keeping some of that growth going right now is your Asian sales and your emerging markets there and you're seeing the continued weakness in Europe.
I guess could you kind of split each of those 2 apart and how much of the emerging markets benefit that you're seeing or the Asian markets benefit that you're seeing how much of that is transient versus sustainable? And then if you can give us a little bit more detail on how bad is Europe really? Is it getting worse? And maybe some examples of you what you're seeing there.
I'll take it on a big picture basis.
We've got a lot of really good things going on in our international markets beyond emerging markets.
Our Japan business Australia Canada a lot of our businesses are really performing very very nicely right now.
And I'd say as you think about our international business we got to think about is Europe from both a market standpoint as well as some of our own issues.
We can do a little bit better and that's a clear focal point and emerging markets from a growth standpoint that we're focused on sustainable growth as we go into those markets.
And we've probably been a little more cautious.
Again trying to build for the long term not just going in and grabbing tenders or this or that in certain markets.
So we're very much building to the long haul as we always do within this company.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivian Cervantes with Kaufman Bros.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to drill down a little bit more on beds and the performance in medical.
Understanding the move towards increased efficiencies and the hospitals wanting to invest in that can you drill down a little bit on what the minutia might be? Is it helping nurses out a little bit? Is it reimbursement-related? Is a quality compliance? Anything that will give us something to bite onto on what increased efficiency means.
Really a combination of all of Vivian.
Certainly some of the -- the way we put some of the software into the beds there's great opportunity for nurses to operate the things more efficiently but also the never events.
We are helping reduce never events which from a reimbursement standpoint as you know under the new healthcare laws and everything else the hospitals are a big deal.
And there's still a lot of hospitals with very outdated beds and stretchers that we are clearly capitalizing on.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And my last question heading into North American Spine Society you do have that new lateral product.
Wondering what else we should keep an eye out for particularly from the orthopedic side with some of the new products I think that may have recently introduced or even pipeline products that may be coming out? I think you want to see it there.
But in the meantime obviously the lateral in Orthovita a couple of our big things.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Wittes with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I actually wanted to tack onto the medical question about bed.
Is that specifically new products that you're offering? Or is it the new sales approach where you're basically going in there and doing an economic calculation to take advantage of new reimbursement rules? It's primarily product.
And I would say the '08 '09 downturn taught us how to probably sell better and sell value.
So it's a bit of both Jason as well as frankly Gaymar and selling surfaces along with our frames now.
We used to sell the frames without really the surface revenue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the Ascent which is also part of that segment I believe are you focused on reprocessing your own products? Or have you sort of opened it up for pretty much anything that you can handle? Remember Jason that the time of that acquisition the vast majority over -- well over 95% of the revenue that they were achieving was from products that had nothing to do with Stryker.
So there are some Stryker reprocessed products.
And we do think longer term there's opportunity to leverage our MedSurg offering.
But the bulk the vast majority of what they reprocess is not Stryker.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Chon with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question is just a follow-up on pricing.
So I can appreciate that there are some moving parts as the company plans 2012 and while you wouldn't wanted to provide a glimpse into next year but the things that we do know can you verify for me whether the biennial reimbursement cuts in Japan are expected to take effect in 2012? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now is it coming in the April timeframe? Usually yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is I'd like to dig a little more into the performance in Spine.
We were expecting a significant contribution from just the Orthovita acquisition.
Maybe you could just give us a little bit more color as to what exactly happened during the quarter there? Well I think the Orthovita acquisition performed as we expected my comments were more specific.
Spine as it relates to Memometal the implant piece of that business.
So I think we feel very good about Orthovita broadly speaking because as we said in our acquisition announcement that product offering will be sold by multiple parts of Stryker selling organization be it CORTOSS Vitoss Vitagel.
And we've in fact done that and feel very good about the distribution patterns right now across all of those franchises.
Because it relates specifically to the Spine business and our hardware franchise it's a little tougher going in the third quarter than what we had anticipated and it's probably a combination of both some market dynamics and perhaps some self-induced factors.
So disappointed with that growth rate overall.
Excited about lateral access fusion product and reenergizing that organization.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just curious on the Trauma business.
It was again pretty strong on an organic basis in the quarter.
I know you said last quarter that there was some exuberance around Memometal really driving that performance are we seeing a carryover of that effect? Or are you seeing some benefit from the proposed this J&amp;J deal? Just some more granularity on the performance will be helpful.
I think it's actually neither.
I think it's just the core blocking and tackling still of our Trauma franchise.
That I think that team has been winning really frankly for 5 or 6 years now and continuing to have good momentum there.
There is some excitement around the Memometal acquisition and that helped the overall numbers.
But the core Trauma business still posted some good growth.
And I think the Memometal is a nice certainly a nice add-on and we're excited about where that will be going for us.
And on the J&amp;J seeing this thing I think it's still too early to really tell and we know they're going to be a formidable force.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up question I had.
Steve 6 7 straight quarters now some pretty accelerated R&amp;D spending when should we start to see some more of these new product flow out I don't know if you want to call it bolus but new product is coming out.
But when should we start to see more and more of those products coming in? How would you characterize them? Would you say they're more product iterations.
I know there are some M&amp;A additional spend associated with the deals that you've been doing but would it be more product iterations or additive new products adding to the bag? It'll be a bit of both.
And I think obviously as we commended 2012 you'll see some new things coming.
But a lot of that -- we talk a lot about hitting a lot of singles and doubles.
We're certainly making some other investments but it should be the stuff that we've been really good at.
Your next question comes from the line of Rajeev Jashnani with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just on gross margin is 68% about the way we should be thinking about it for the fourth quarter? And then in the past I think you've talked about gradually increasing gross margins over time and I was just wondering if that was contingent on "normalized" Recon growth? Or is there an opportunity in near to intermediate term to see gross margin expansion based on mix or perhaps other in this -- excuse me efficiency initiatives that might be underway? So the gross margin in the third quarter was 68% adjusting for all the acquisition-related costs.
And I think going back to the second quarter at the end of that call or somewhere during that call we said that we anticipated gross margins to be in the 68% to 68.5% range as it relates to the full year and I think we're still comfortable with that guidance.
As it relates to gross margins longer term -- my commentary in the gross margin discussion was around our operational focus and looking at everything from procurement cost material cost manufacturing cost independent of which franchise the product falls into.
And really as a company this is our first time taking a hard look broadly speaking at our manufacturing operations.
So that's what gives us confidence that there's a lot of opportunity in the years ahead.
Again keeping in mind as the business expands be it in the emerging markets or there's additional cost pressures which everybody likes to talk about you may need those gross margin points to offset that.
You may want to fuel those gross margin gains into R&amp;D or other areas of investment for the business.
So I think our walking around sense is gross margin expansion remains an opportunity in the quarters and years ahead.
Keep it in mind we have areas of investment within manufacturing that do influence gross margin.
So I don't want to lock people into this steady stairstep.
We're going to manage the business across the entirety of the P&amp;L.
We strategically make investments where we believe there are most important at a given point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And if I can follow up on SG&amp;A.
It's sort of a similar question but SG&amp;A margins held flat year-to-date inclusive of a lot of things going on at the company.
Would you expect to see some leverage there going forward I guess particularly in '12? I think we're very focused broadly speaking on financial disciple across the company.
And whether that's in SG&amp;A or gross margins we're taking a hard look at every dollar we spend and how we spend it and whether there's leverage opportunities across multiple parts of the company or a shared services opportunity things of that nature.
So we continue to look and be very diligent ensuring that we don't disrupt the culture of this company that's made us so great over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Lichtman with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First is the company taking advantage of your diversity versus some of your peers in terms of getting more hospital business and certainly more -- talk about approaching the C-Suite more broadly? Can you talk about how you guys are getting synergy across your business line? And I have a follow-up.
I'd say we're still at the very early innings to that.
I think we've been building the capabilities to do that.
But there's still -- a lot of our businesses are still hand-to-hand combat down in the operating rooms.
So I think what you should think is we're positioning ourselves for when that day really comes.
I think we're well poised to capitalize on that.
We're having some discussions with the certain hospital systems on that but I would call it very early innings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on MedSurg the EU markets obviously soft today and your exposure there in MedSurg is just small which is good today.
But when should we think about the international expansion for MedSurg being a growth driver for Stryker in the coming years? I think it has been -- really for the last couple of years our endo and instruments business has been growing pretty nicely outside the U.S.
and they continue to win a lot of the market.
So I think you should expect those to grow pretty nicely here and probably be growing faster than some of the domestic markets for a good period.
There's always going to be some quarterly bounces as you well know on our MedSurg business as well over the years.
And your final question will come from the line of Jeff Johnson with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Curt just wanted to follow up on maybe Charles' question on the spinal implant side.
You described that as maybe some self-induced issues as well as market-driven.
Do you feel like that there's a step-up at all in payer pushback issues and some of the commercial payer issues on the self-induced side? Was it product-driven? I know you've lost some sales reps there over the last few quarters any more color you could provide there? I don't think we saw a meaningful change in payer pushback.
I think that's been tough going back to the fourth quarter of 2009.
So there's not a new dynamic there.
I think again the self-induced challenges are more than right products the organization waiting for products and we're getting encouraged by our lateral access to buy skidding out.
But self-induced stuff is probably internal execution.
And before we wrap up I do want to get back on the share count question.
We finished the quarter at 386 million shares so I think people from a modeling purpose should use that for the fourth quarter and then again heading into 2012.
Research Division</strong> And then can I ask my follow-up question there? Steve just for you on organic growth.
I know you don't want to get into 2012 guidance understandable at this point.
But is it fair to think as target in some of this roll-off from being acquisition to then in your organic growth number even if your end market especially ortho implants don't really change at this point.
I think I understand that low single-digit growth range.
Your natural company-wide organic growth maybe picks up 0.5 to 1 point maybe even a little more than that next year just based on some of these higher growth areas now layering into the organic side? I think we will probably hope that Jeff.
And again we will give that guidance in early January.
And to that end we want to thank everybody for joining us today and we will report our fourth quarter results and talk about 2012 on January 24.
So thank you everybody for joining us today.
Thank you for your participation on today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Stryker Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Today's event is being recorded for replay purposes.
Certain statements made in this presentation may contain information that includes or is based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements.
Such factors include but are not limited to weakening of economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for the company's products; pricing pressures generally including cost containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for the company's products; changes in foreign exchange markets legislative and regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with the clinical studies and otherwise that affect U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval of new products; changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payers; a significant increase in product liability claims; resolution of tax audits; changes in financial markets; changes in the competitive environment; the company's ability to integrate acquisitions; and the company's ability to realize anticipated cost savings as a result of workforce reductions and other restructuring activities.
Additional information concerning these and other factors are contained in the company's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Stephen MacMillan Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Regina.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's fourth quarter 2011 earnings report.
With me today are Curt Hartman our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Similar to prior calls I will make some comments before turning the call over to Katherine and Curt for more details before opening up the call to your questions.
As we look back on our financial results for 2011 both for fourth quarter and the year we were encouraged on multiple fronts while remaining cognizant of the current economic environment.
Our results again demonstrate that our balanced diversification uniquely positions us to steadily deliver top-tier results.
Against that backdrop we would like to touch on several key highlights from the quarter and the year.
We completed 2011 with over $8.3 billion in sales up 13% on a reported basis and reflecting mid-single digit organic growth augmented by the benefit from a series of key strategic acquisitions as well as a currency tailwind.
Our adjusted EPS came in at $3.72 up 12% and at the high end of the guidance we put forth at the start of the year or adjusted per-share earnings of $3.65 to $3.73.
This came despite absorbing additional dilution associated with several acquisitions and the recently announced Biotech settlement.
With 11% constant currency sales growth our MedSurg segment once again demonstrated the tremendous strength of their product portfolio customer relationships and ability to drive ongoing market share gains.
We head into 2012 with strong momentum a compelling lineup of new products and a high degree of conviction regarding our ability to continue to deliver strong growth in these businesses.
Shifting to Neurotechnology and Spine although challenges remain within our Spine franchise the new product launches for our Neurovascular segment continue to gain traction resulting in better-than-expected results for a business that we acquired at the start of 2011.
And with the acquisition of Concentric in early Q4 we have expanded our stroke presence into the ischemic segment allowing Stryker to be uniquely positioned with a market-leading total stroke product offering in this high growth and highly innovative segment of med tech.
In addition to Neurovascular and Concentric we utilized our strong cash flow to execute on our strategy of strengthening our core businesses via targeted acquisitions.
This was evident with the acquisition of Memometal which broadens our offering in the high-growth extremities space as well as Orthovita which we are leveraging across multiple Stryker franchises.
Similar to the Gaymar and Sonopet deals that we did in 2010 we are pleased with the performance of all these targets and excited about their ability to both drive stronger core sales growth going forward while also providing important operating leverage as we drive greater sales through our existing teams.
During 2011 we further clarified and strengthened our capital allocation strategy and view it as an important competitive strength to continue to maximize shareholder value.
While we believe highly focused acquisitions are the best use of our cash flow we remain committed to our three-pronged cash strategy which also includes dividends and share repurchases.
Despite our robust activity over the last couple of years we enter 2012 with a net cash position of over $1.6 billion so our balance sheet remains an important competitive strength for 2012 and beyond.
Although our Reconstructive implant growth slowed sequentially reflecting the anticipated impact of difficult year-over-year comparisons and one less selling day we are encouraged by the ramp in our MDM large head hip offering as well as the traction that our customized cutting guides are now seeing within knees.
While we conservatively assume no improvement in elective procedure trends in 2012 we believe that share gains in hips and knees are achievable.
And if the economic environment and/or the degenerative nature of osteoarthritis results in a stronger rebounded implant procedures we are well positioned to capitalize on the volumes.
On a geographic basis we achieved balanced growth with our U.S.
sales up 9% in the quarter and constant currency international gains coming in at 13%.
Although challenges remain within our European business we are seeing strong double-digit growth in other geographies including Canada as well as emerging markets which is contributing to our overall strength.
Finally while we are highly focused on delivering on our financial commitments and quarterly results we did take actions in the fourth quarter that both strengthen our organization as well as position us for sustained longer-term growth.
Specifically during Q4 we announced a restructuring initiative which is centered on quality innovation and cost and reflects proactive actions to address the reality of our evolving healthcare markets.
These moves are expected to reduce pretax operating costs by over $100 million starting in 2013 by providing efficiencies and realigning resources.
We also expect the savings to help address the impact of the 2013 medical device excise tax while supporting our commitment to delivering 10% or better EPS growth in 2012 and beyond.
Simply put 2011 was an extraordinarily busy year for both acquisitions and internal strengthening which positions us well for 2012 and beyond while delivering in 2011.
We believe the myriad actions undertaken over the past few years have positioned us to not only navigate the challenges but also maximize the opportunities.
Today no single franchise represents more than 16% of our total sales which affords us the ability to offset weakness in some areas while capitalizing on the better-than-anticipated momentum in other segments.
We are committed to delivering organic sales growth at a minimum of 2% to 5% in 2012 which atop the contribution from acquisitions positions us to achieve constant currency revenue gains of 3.5% to 6.5%.
And while we continue to invest in internal innovation sales and marketing as well as our ongoing quality initiatives there's ample P&amp;L leverage that will drive our stated goal of 10% or better EPS growth.
With that I'll turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Steve.
With the sluggish pace of the economic recovery continued high unemployment and the lack of visibility surrounding a re-acceleration in elective surgeries we have opted to assume a relatively conservative stance with respect to our 2012 top line growth targets.
Against that backdrop my comments today will focus on providing greater granularity regarding the key assumptions behind our targeted 2% to 5% sales growth excluding acquisitions and currencies and our outlook for the various markets.
Curt will then provide specific details regarding some of the key assumptions in our 2012 EPS targets.
Starting with Reconstructive.
We approached our outlook for 2012 with the assumption that market growth rates for hip and knee implants remain sluggish and consistent with levels achieved in 2011.
Although the degenerative nature of OA underscores our conviction that the current slowdown is a function of a temporary deferral in surgery it is difficult to predict the timing as to when these patients will re-present.
With respect to decrease in unemployment rates coupled with an acceleration in the pain associated with OA's downward disease cascade will be necessary to reverse these trends.
In the interim we are excited about the uptake of our recent hip launches including our ADM and MDM large head offering which continued to see quarter-over-quarter sequential acceleration and position adoption.
On the knee front our shape cutting technology is also gaining traction and we believe will help drive knee share gains in 2012.
Turning to MedSurg.
Our sales guidance for 2012 assumes at least 5% revenue gains for this segment.
Driving growth will be a combination of new product launches and the associated expected share gains.
Specifically our instrument segment initiated the early launch of its next-generation System 7 power tool in late 2011 with the full launch slated to get underway in 2012.
As the market leader in power tools with a history of launching innovative next-generation products System 7 underscores our commitment to leveraging our considerable R&amp;D investments.
System 7 which will be highlighted at the upcoming AAOS meeting incorporates a number of key features and benefits including the smaller lighter design with the torque speed and power equivalent to the System 6.
Coupled with an improved handpiece shape and grip as well as corrosion resistant coating we are excited about its expected impact to our instruments division in 2012.
Shifting to endoscopy.
In the second half of 2012 we will launch our next-generation 1488 camera which will offer improved visualization and enhanced image clarity key components of ensuring optimal outcomes during smaller incision surgery.
Medical which continues to see solid market adoption of its expanded product offering and services by the 2010 Gaymar acquisition will be introducing new products in 2012 within both the structures and cut [ph] segments.
Finally Stryker Sustainability Solutions which was established by our 2009 acquisition of Ascent has benefited from accelerating top line growth a trend that we expect will continue into 2012 and is being fueled by strengthening of a leadership team additional product clearances as well as a continued recognition by the market of the economic and environmental merits associated with medical device reprocessing.
And lastly Neurotechnology and Spine is also expected to deliver a minimum of 5% growth in 2012.
Although the market backdrop in Spine remains challenging and our own segment has struggled in recent quarters the introduction of new products including the 2011 rollout of a lateral fusion offering should help to stabilize the business.
And with Orthovita contributing to core growth in H2 of this year the Spine segment has expanded its portfolio into higher growth segments where our considerably expanded sales and distribution capabilities are being leveraged.
Looking at the Neurotechnology segment which is dominated by our Neurovascular products this segment will continue to benefit from product introductions in 2011 as well as additional offerings to be rolled out this year.
The early Q4 2011 acquisition of Concentric expands our stroke franchise to include both hemorrhagic as well as the considerably larger ischemic segment and we continue to anticipate a late 2012 or 2013 FDA clearance of Concentric's next-generation Trevo device.
As we stated at the time of the acquisition of Neurovascular in late 2010 we believe we are well positioned to return at least to market growth rates in 2012 which we peg in the high single digits.
In summary although there are some challenges the balanced diversification of our product portfolio coupled with our expanded presence in higher growth segments of med tech via acquisitions and an attractive temple of new products we believe we will be able to deliver a minimum of 2% to 5% sales growth in 2012.
With that I'll turn the call over to Curt.
Thanks Katherine.
In exiting 2011 we are pleased with our fourth quarter and full year performance and encouraged by the momentum we carry into the new year.
Our financial discipline coupled with our expanding business mix operational execution and continued focus on capital allocation have us well positioned.
In 2011 we again delivered adjusted per-share earnings at the high end of our original range and absent the recent Biotech settlement a subsequent event by accounting standards we would have achieved at least $3.74 on an adjusted basis a $0.01 above our original guidance.
Additionally 2011 has been another year of selective acquisitions that both increased our footprint and broadened our offering while simultaneously we have focused on total shareholder returns through an increasing dividend yield and continued share repurchases.
Moving to the fourth quarter sales increased 11% on a reported basis and 10.7% in constant currency.
Growth excluding acquisitions and currency was 4%.
On the earnings side in the quarter we generated adjusted diluted net earnings per share of $1.02 an increase of 9.7% over Q4 of 2010.
On a GAAP basis diluted net earnings per share were $1.05 an increase of 41.9% versus Q4 of 2010.
Reconciliation I would point you to our press release as we have provided a table that reconciles reported diluted net earnings and reported diluted net earnings per share to adjusted non-GAAP amounts.
In reviewing the quarter I'll start with the discussion of the components of our revenue growth.
In the fourth quarter reported revenue growth of 11% was driven by volume and mix which contributed 5.7% to our top line while company-wide selling prices declined 1.7% which is consistent with the trend we have seen in recent quarters.
Acquisitions added 6.7% and currency contributed approximately $7 million and improved the company's overall reported sales growth by approximately 30 basis points.
For the year the 13.5% reported gain was comprised of volume and mix which contributed 6.1% to our top line growth while company-wide selling prices declined 1.8%.
Acquisitions added 6.8% and currency contributed approximately $172 million and improved the company's reported 2011 sales growth by 2.3%.
Looking at our reporting segments.
Reconstructive products which represented 44% of our sales in the quarter and includes our hip knee trauma and other reconstructive lines recorded a 1.3% increase as reported and a 70 basis point increase in constant currency.
Acquisition added 1.6%.
Nice gains in our trauma business were not enough to offset slower performances in hips and knees.
At the segment level hip sales recorded a 1% reported gain and increased 40 basis points in constant currency.
Knee sales remained weak in the quarter reporting a decline of roughly 2% both as reported and in constant currency.
Globally trauma had another nice quarter delivering 9.1% reported growth and 8.2% growth in constant currency.
Acquisitions added 5% to the trauma top line.
Overall we entered 2011 recognizing that Q4 would likely be the toughest quarter for our hip and knee franchises given difficult year-over-year comparisons and the impact of one less selling day.
That said with the benefits from the organizational changes implemented during the year as well as the continued positive market reaction to our new hip and knee product offerings we feel good about our Reconstructive opportunities in 2012 in a market that remains challenged.
Next I'll turn to MedSurg which represented 39% of sales in the quarter and is comprised of instruments endoscopy medical and the sustainability solutions segments.
MedSurg delivered another strong quarter.
Sales increased 11.2% as reported and 11.1% on a constant currency basis.
Solid gains were recorded in all segments in both the U.S.
and international markets.
Acquisition impact in the quarter was immaterial to top line results.
Once again the medical segment was very strong delivering 17% reported growth 17.4% in constant currency.
The U.S.
medical results at almost 16% in the quarter remain impressive and make it 7 of the last 8 quarters recording over double-digit growth.
While on the international markets we are pleased to see our second consecutive double-digit quarter.
Instruments also performed well in the quarter and we are encouraged by the earlier release and favorable uptake of our next-generation System 7 power tool platform which represents an important new product offering for the division.
Endoscopy reported a nice uptick in the quarter but will likely face headwinds in the first half of 2012 as we go against the tough Q1 comparable and work through the timing associated with new product introduction cycles.
Finally our sustainability solutions segment delivered a second straight high-growth quarter with our team really performing well in the second half of 2011.
All in it was a great quarter and year for MedSurg.
We are highly encouraged by the momentum they carry into 2012.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represented 17% of company sales in the quarter increased 47.3% as reported and 46.8% on a constant currency basis.
Acquisitions added 45.1% to the constant currency increase.
While we experienced strong organic growth from our Interventional Spine and NSE offerings as well as the positive influence of the various acquisitions this was largely offset by continued pressure on the spinal implant market in terms of both price and volumes.
I will now turn to income statement beginning with our gross margin performance.
Gross margins as reported finished at 66.6%.
On an adjusted basis gross margins excluding acquisition-related charges were 67.3% in the quarter down 140 basis points versus prior year.
Factors influencing margins in the quarter included a 50 basis point hit associated with the previously mentioned pricing pressure and approximately 70 basis points of erosion associated with our quarterly sales mix and the decision to slow our manufacturing plants to better align inventory levels.
Investments directed and initiated in our global manufacturing alignment also suppressed margin performance.
Finally while still negative the influence of currency moderated in the quarter relative to the prior year.
For the full year adjusted gross margins finished at 67.9% down 90 basis points from last year's total.
Key factors influencing our gross margins include the cost associated with aligning 7 new facilities into the Stryker network as a result of acquisitions the shift and mix for the year that favored more of our lower margin segments and geographies and the influence of currency on margins based on our manufacturing footprint.
Overall our efforts remain focused on reducing our material and conversion cost in support of our long-term growth strategy which we believe will drive operating margin expansion.
We believe this approach will give us additional flexibility to pursue market expansion and penetration adjust pricing pressures and make strategic investments and overall deal with an evolving healthcare environment.
Research and development finished at 5.2% of sales in the quarter an increase of 4% versus 2010.
The story behind the slowing growth rate versus previous quarters is that several projects moved into the launch phase and we completed our OA OP-1 molecule Phase II study investments.
R&amp;D finished the year up 17.3% over 2010 representing 5.6% of sales.
Selling general and administrative costs as reported represented 37.7% of sales in the quarter.
Adjusting for acquisition and integration-related charges SG&amp;A finished at 36.6% of sales a decline of 20 basis points versus the prior year.
For the year adjusted SG&amp;A finished at 37.1% a decrease of 20 basis points versus 2010.
Intangible amortization in the quarter was $32 million and represented 1.4% of sales versus the $16 million and 80 basis points of sales in the prior year.
Absent additional acquisitions the relatively fixed nature of this line provides leverage as we enter 2012.
Reported operating income increased 8.3% over prior year and was 18.9% of sales reflecting the impact of the acquisition-related and restructuring charges.
Adjusted operating income increased 4.6% while the adjusted operating margin of 24.1% of sales decreased 150 basis points versus prior year.
70 basis points of this decline is attributable to the Biotech settlement.
Other income and expense as reported increased pretax income by $15 million in the quarter.
Excluding the benefit to interest expense related to the Irish cost-sharing arrangement the remaining components included investment income of $10 million offset by $21 million of interest expense and a negligible FX loss.
The company's effective income tax rate as reported was 7.4% for the quarter driven primarily by the settlement of the Irish cost-sharing arrangement as well as tax benefits associated with inventory step up and higher tax rate jurisdictions.
Excluding these items our adjusted rate finished at 25.4% in the quarter.
For the full year our tax rate excluding the adjusted items was 25.6%.
In terms of the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $3.4 billion of cash and marketable securities up $200 million from the $3.2 billion at the end of the third quarter and a decrease of $1 billion versus December of 2010.
The decrease is primarily driven by the $1.5 billion Neurovascular acquisition we completed at the beginning of the year.
As a reminder we now have $1.75 billion of long-term debt on the balance sheet associated with our January 2010 debt offering and our September 2011 debt offering.
On the asset management side accounts receivable days ended the quarter at 58 which represented an increase of 2 days compared to the prior year but was consistent with the third quarter finish.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 158 which was a decrease of 18 days sequentially versus the third quarter.
Days finished 4 higher against the prior-year level.
Turning to cash.
In the fourth quarter we generated cash flow from operations of $627 million and free cash flow of $563 million.
For the quarter strong gains and working capital coupled with solid earnings drove what was clearly our best performance for the year.
Finally in the fourth quarter we repurchased 1.8 million shares totaling $83 million.
For the year we repurchased 11.8 million shares for a total spend of $622 million.
We currently have open authorizations totaling approximately $700 million and finished the year with a diluted share count of approximately 383 million shares.
In summary we delivered a solid quarter and completed our year with adjusted per-share earnings at the high end of our initial range.
With that said our focus remains on driving core business growth continued acquisition integration operating leverage and a sharpened focus on cash generation.
Turning to our outlook.
The financial forecast for 2012 begins with the projected net sales increase excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions of 2% to 5%.
If foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels we anticipate reported net sales will be negatively impacted by approximately 0.5% to 1.5% for the full year of 2012.
At current rates the impact in the first quarter of currency will be negligible.
Completed acquisitions are anticipated to add approximately 1.5% to full year reported sales keeping in mind the influence will be greater in the first half.
Turning to the P&amp;L.
Our expectations for key areas of the income statement subject to the normal variations that occur in any given year in the business of our size and complexity are as follows.
For gross margins we are calling for the underlying range to remain steady with a subtle favorable bias subject to the variations driven by currency business mix and global operations investments.
With respect to R&amp;D on an absolute basis the dollar level will increase in 2012 while the year-over-year growth rate will decrease as will R&amp;D as a percentage of sales.
This is driven by 2 factors: one is the anniversary of our acquisition R&amp;D influence on the investment growth rate; and two most significantly our completion of the Phase II OA study for the OP-1 molecule.
With respect to the OA opportunity based on the results of the Phase II data we have terminated all Stryker efforts as it relates to the OP-1 molecule.
Reallocating these funds into our core business segments and factoring this into our 2012 assumptions our core R&amp;D spending is expected to increase in the 8% to 10% range and will again be over our projected rate of sales growth.
In SG&amp;A we see ongoing opportunities for leverage as a percentage of sales as we look to remain disciplined with respect to discretionary spending and leverage our back office investments across our growing commercial organization.
The other income and expense line will turn to more of a headwind in 2012 as we take on the full year expense of the September debt offering.
As we look at our expected income tax rate in 2012 we expect the continued downward bias and would not be surprised by a rate closer to 25% on an adjusted pretax earnings.
Given all of the above and in combination with our commercial plans we expect adjusted diluted net earnings per share for 2012 will result in not less than a double-digit increase over the $3.72 adjusted diluted net earnings we reported in 2012.
Considering all the factors involved in our 2011 performance we are comfortable with first call consensus estimates for both the quarter and the year at this time.
Finally we anticipate acquisition and integration related charges to reduce reported diluted net earnings per share by approximately $0.22.
With that we'll now open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question today comes from the line of Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So first maybe for Curt you talked about the impact in the quarter of gross margins mix across some of your businesses and geographies.
Could you give us a sense of maybe how that and when over the next several quarters front half or back half or any kind of color you can provide as to how that improves and what maybe drives that over the next several quarters? Matt I think I'd answer that first by taking a macro look.
When we set out our guidance on gross margins for the full year it was based on the budgeted growth rates that we had assumed for all of our businesses.
And clearly when you look at our full year results on the implant side of our business whether its hips knees or spinal implants those arguably carry much higher gross margins than the core MedSurg offering.
So as the year unfolded and frankly the mix of business the growing -- higher growth segments were more in MedSurg and in some of the geographies that Steve called out in his opening comments be it emerging markets which arguably has lower gross margins as well that ultimately is going to play a big factor in driving the end reported gross margins.
And clearly if you take that down to the fourth quarter you see a similar type scenario where MedSurg in an absolute basis was a big driver of growth.
And while we don't provide the geographic breakout for everybody to see I can tell you that our emerging markets business with lower grow margins also was a big driver of growth in the quarter.
So as we look at 2012 we start kind of in the same fashion.
We have business models for growth on our hips and knees or spinal business just like we do in all of our segments and we base our assumptions on those original plans.
And as the year unfolds we're hopeful that they stay on track.
But we also want to be cautious knowing that it's really difficult to predict a forecasted recovery in the Reconstructive market at this time for all the factors that everybody's pretty well aware of at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's understandable.
And one follow up on maybe specifically on knees.
It's been kind of lagging.
Our expectation is a little -- for lots of reasons that we talked about throughout 2011.
Could you give us a sense of maybe what's the catalyst or the driver that you look to get that business back to market growth back to maybe better-than-market growth rate? Sure Matt.
I think in 2012 I would expect we'll be certainly back to market growth with especially the shape fitting guides really catching traction now.
I mean they took up a while to get launched ramping up certainly month-over-month in the fourth quarter.
And I think we feel very good that we'll be at least back at market growth for knees in the year.
And frankly in hips we hope to be above market growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Kim here for Mike.
So I guess a couple of questions starting on the MedSurg business.
You guys had a great quarter there in the beds and stretchers and came in a little bit better than your competitor [Audio Gap] weeks ago.
Wondering if you can give us a little bit of color on that business how much visibility you feel like you have going forward and any commentary around order rates in backlog in that business.
Sure Kim.
We typically don't want to get too much into orders.
But suffice it to say the business ended the year with some very good momentum.
And certainly the medical business we do have more visibility than probably any other business that we have and feel very good about the outlook coming off a great year still feel very good about the outlook here for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And maybe before I drop we can just touch on the Ascent business and that business has rebounded a bit in the last 2 quarters.
You had some remarks in your prepared commentary.
But how should we think about the market growth rate for reprocessing? And how to think about Ascent I guess competitively? I'll make a couple of comments.
I think we still as was the case at the time of the acquisition given the relatively low penetration rate still for reprocessing coupled with the obvious economic and environmental benefits we think a double-digit growth rate is reasonable for this market.
As you probably know Ascent now Sustainability Solutions is by far the market leader in that segment.
And we really have a great new leadership team in there and they're focused on driving penetration in existing accounts where they already have a presence but perhaps not in the entire hospital while also going in and converting hospitals that have not yet adopted reprocessing.
And as they continue to expand their product offering and they have roughly 2x the number of 510(k) clearances as their nearest competitor the economic argument only gets more compelling as you continue to lay more of those clearances into the business and that's going to be their focus going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Matson with Mizuho Securities USA.
Research Division</strong> You walk through the products that you're planning to launch and some of the MedSurg businesses instruments in endoscopy.
And historically we've seen a pretty big impact when you've launched the new Powered Instruments platforms and the new camera system.
So I guess I'm just wondering why your guidance is only sort of baking in 5% growth for MedSurg overall.
Are you concerned about any kind of a slowdown in capital spending or anything out there? Mike I have 2 responses to that.
Number one it's 5% plus.
Number 2 I think we'd be foolish to not consider the potential for a capital slowdown whether it's in the U.S.
market or whether it's in some of the international specifically European markets.
Clearly our penetration there is much lower than in the U.S.
But given our footprint in the U.S.
market what's going on in the last couple of years I think we do have to be very sensitive to the economic uncertainty that to me is still very much present in our environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- there was a little bit of commentary around the Spine market but I was wondering the fundamentals in that market that you saw sort of consistent with the earlier part of the year.
Did things seem to get worse at all in the fourth quarter? I don't think the market fundamentals got any worse no.
Your next question is from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Steve I wonder if you could talk us through guidance a little bit here.
I think the guidance is set conservative and appropriately which I think investors appreciate.
But if we look at organic growth in 2011 we kind of have here roughly around 4% and that's kind of flattish at the midpoint of your guidance which as we said was appropriate.
But if you think about organic acceleration as sort of the top end of that guidance and you kind of want to point us to the guidepost we should be looking for if things were to go your way the factors that could contribute to the upper end of guidance and drive organic acceleration what would some of those things be here for 2012? Sure.
The factors that would drive upside would be a re-acceleration of the orthopedic implant market and we'd say both certainly Recon as well as Spine or our ability to start to maybe take a little more market share in those markets.
So I think those would be a clear one.
I think the other piece is to pick up on Curt's comments answering the previous question if the capital spending is fine in hospitals we are coming into a very nice product cycle at MedSurg.
And so I think there's some upside there.
Again given the last few years where every year plays out a little differently we wanted to be appropriately cautious coming into the year but I think feel pretty good.
And then businesses like Sustainability Solutions have some real momentum but they're still very small in the grand scheme.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And Steve maybe another one for you.
10% earnings growth that commitment is becoming increasingly rare among some of your peers.
So I guess the question we get a lot from investors lately is why now? Why go forward with that restructuring initiative today? Was it more of a factor of the medical device tax? Was it where you saw your operating performance on the revenue side coming in for 2012? Was it your gross margin dynamics? Just help us understand sort of why today or heading into '12 is the right time.
Was it commitment to 10% or a variety of other factors you were seeing? As everything we do is probably multifactorial David but let's try to prioritize it.
First off I would say it underscores our longer-term look at where the markets are going and particularly trying to recognize that we are staring at a huge tax coming in in 2013 and we weren't going to just duck that.
So in so doing looking at what can we be thinking about in some [indiscernible] efforts combined frankly with some of the acquisitions that we'd done in certainly the 2010 time frame and relooking at some of the facilities that we picked up there as well as some of the fundamentals in both Europe and even say our orthopedics division in the United States with some slowdowns frankly just trying to be realistic and say what can we do to be planning for the future.
So I would say that is much more a 2013 and beyond play and so that we can power through for years ahead with double-digit earnings growth.
And we are very focused on that and think that that will be increasingly a differentiator particularly as people start to look from 2012 to 2013.
Your next question is from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just one on Spine and then one on guidance.
Just to start on Spine if we exclude acquisitions and look at just kind of your core Spine growth is it safe to say it's still in that negative mid single-digit territory? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And about a similar growth rate to what you saw last quarter? Yes I think so right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the guidance could you just give a little more color what kind of operating margin -- adjusted operating margin improvement are you assuming in your guidance? And if you would also what kind of buyback or share count reduction are you assuming in that guidance as well? I'll start with the second one first Bob.
Right now we do have an outstanding share repurchase authorization that could take us up to about $700 million.
Our current guidance assumes no influence from buybacks.
And again you don't do buybacks just as a matter of routine and you can see that through the last couple of years that we've been fairly judicious and when we executed on the open buyback authorization.
So right now our guidance does not assume any influence from buybacks.
Second I probably not going to give any real specific numbers here on operating margin leverage.
But I think when you look at the totality of what we put in to our guidance number one we have a good range on the revenue side and I think it really reflects some of the steps we've taken the last couple of years to strengthen the core businesses as well as add things like Sustainability Solutions and Neurovascular.
With that those -- as everybody on the call well knows they bring intangible amortization.
And with increasing sales year-over-year there's very implied leverage on that.
There's also when you do acquisitions there's acquisition charges that you call out and then there are other just inherent charges or expenses that the company takes as you try to put these businesses into the mainstream of your broader organization.
And as we get further downstream from these acquisitions those expenses should be dropping off.
So there's leverage that we start to see and start -- comes to the benefit of the company.
So I just -- I still remain confident that there's leverage in our overall operations on a global basis and that gives me confidence in our outlook.
Bob if I could just pile on there.
If you think about the earnings power that we generated both in the fourth quarter but even for the full year on what is probably some slightly lower gross margins then people would have expected at the start of the year the earnings power is there through the P&amp;L.
Your next question is from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Curt your guidance includes a slight improvement in gross margins is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And what sort of pricing are you assuming for 2012 given that we'll presumably see Japan start to have their price cuts beginning in April? Our pricing outlook is consistent really with what we've seen over the last 2 years arguably understanding that the Japan price cuts are on the horizon.
However those are factored into our outlook as well.
Now we're not 100% certain exactly what those rates are going to be.
We have some best estimates.
So to the extent that they are materially worse than what we've planned we'll have to find a way to absorb those through other parts of the business.
But right now last 2 years price has been down 1.7% 1.8% and our outlook calls for a continued trend in that direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the restructuring.
I know you guys announced the program in November and then obviously you've had the operations journey you talked about last May.
When -- I guess are those 2 separate events? And then when might we get some more details on operations journey just in terms of longer term how much cost can come out of the system? Those are very appropriate questions Kristen.
On the restructuring that we announced which just going back to Steve's earlier comment a lot of that was directed towards continuing to evolve the business be it through the acquisition side or through the internal restructurings that we announced in the fourth quarter.
And as you can see from our press release we took about $76 million of actual charges in the quarter against that restructuring which the original plan called for around $150 million to $175 million.
So we've taken about half of it.
The rest of it will flow through throughout the course of 2012.
And the benefits as we said at the outset would principally accrue as we hit 2013 and that remains the way we're rolling this program out.
As far -- and I want to make sure that we talk about the efforts on global manufacturing.
Some of the restructuring does involve some of the global manufacturing work.
However I would say in general on global manufacturing people ask "What inning are you in?" And I would tell you we're still in the batters box.
We've got the team lined up.
They fundamentally all work for Lonny now starting January 1.
We've got a lot of programs lined up.
But as everybody knows when you start getting into global manufacturing you've got lots of constituents that you have to satisfy from a regulatory standpoint.
And given our recent history on the quality journey we're not going to move so quick that we stub our toe and get back in the penalty box on the quality standpoint with any regulatory body around the world.
So it's probably a little premature to talk about benefits from anything that comes out of our global manufacturing network.
Though I would tell you part of our plan does assume a slightly better cost reduction drive out of our manufacturing network in 2012 than what the company has historically seen and I'm confident saying that and that with the efforts that we have right now we should achieve that.
Your next question is from the line of Tao Levy with Collins Stewart.
Research Division</strong> On the Neurovascular business you indicated that you started to get back to sort of market growth rates I think upper single digits.
Where does that stand now? And is that -- do you as you exit 2012 you expect to get to those rates or it's beginning here in Q1? I think what we're trying to discuss there when we announced the deal back in 2010 2011 was about stability new product launches folding as much of the organization into Stryker as we could and I think we've been successful in all fronts.
We've had a very successful global launch of the new coil.
Obviously when we enter 2011 we didn't anticipate the Concentric acquisition but it clearly became apparent to us that there was a great opportunity here and we're excited to have that onboard.
And so as we hit 2012 our goal is to be back at market growth rates.
So you should assume that that means day one of 2012 we're back at market growth rates.
Getting into the specifics of how you define the market there's obviously been a lot of new technologies that have come into that market that have slowed some segments down and increased growth in other segments.
So it's a blended number and as Katherine said it's kind of in the high-single digits that we're looking at as the number we have to achieve or beat to call ourselves successful this year.
Research Division</strong> And sorry if I missed this earlier on.
You're heading into AAOS next month.
Any new big products that you're expecting to be talking more about? We highlighted a couple of them on the call as it relates to the next-generation power tool.
And similar to prior years we'll have a smattering of new products mostly as you know tend to be singles and doubles as you think about the company in totality with respect to revenue contribution.
So we'll have booth tours where folks can come around and see the products.
But beyond that probably wait for The Academy to really walk through in detail.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Feinstein with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask just in terms of -- everyone's been trying to figure out when is the market going to rebound here.
And clearly it's been difficult making any sort of call there and you guys have a lot of flexibility and just a great balance sheet in terms of the ability to take one more leverage.
So I guess just as in the past you guys have talked about acquisition opportunities and you've done a great job in terms of finding those acquisitions and getting better than industry average growth as a result.
But I guess how do you contemplate in terms of thinking about running the balance sheet 2x leverage which would be very comfortable and just buying back -- I mean you once again you guys have been buying back a lot of stock but you could buy back significantly more and generate a lot of earnings growth from that.
And then when the ortho rebound does come you could certainly contemplate capital structure in the future.
But just curious as you weigh the acquisitions against doing something like that? Well I think it's one strategy Adam.
I don't think it's our strategy.
We've laid out that our strategy for the balance sheet is really 3 avenues.
First and foremost we're all in it for the long term and that implies that we want to go out and do acquisitions of platforms that provide long-term growth.
And that's I think arguably what people would say if they look back over the last 3 years that we've done as a first priority.
With that said we do recognize the strength of our balance sheet and the ability of our organization to generate a lot of cash.
And that gives us the flexibility to be opportunistic as it relates to share buybacks which I think we've also demonstrated over the last couple of years.
And then also at the same time we've tried to embark on a more consistent approach to the dividend yield and trying to move the dividend to where it's a more meaningful contribution for shareholder return.
We have not yet identified an exact percentage of cash that we're going to put into these efforts and I'm hesitant to do that in the near term because I think we're still evolving the company's use of its balance sheet.
But right now I will tell you we're not going to run out and do a great big massive share buyback.
That's just not our stated strategy.
Not saying it's a bad strategy.
It's not just ours.
Research Division</strong> Definitely.
I understand that.
But at some point do you feel like the balance sheet's under levered? I mean I guess in a difficult market environment I know people like balance sheets that don't have much much leverage.
So certainly you guys benefit from that but then at the same time it's just once again you can run the company very well at 2x leverage and have more ability to either buy back stock or pay a bigger dividend and still do the acquisitions? Adam we like where we are in terms of leverage.
We sleep really well at night with conservatism.
And frankly go back to the summer of '08 where we were criticized quite highly I think for having so much cash on our balance sheet.
And that cash came in real handy during the downturn.
We've been able to scoop up a lot of assets $2.5 billion plus of acquisitions over the last 25-ish months and still have a net position.
So I think we like it.
We don't feel a need to be over levered as it is.
It could be more efficient but we like where we are.
Your next question comes from the line of Raj Denhoy with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if I could ask I know it's a difficult question but you look at the orthopedic growth rates now and it's been I think 7 quarters where things have kind of been running below what we would expect to be trend.
And there's been several companies including your own kind of saying that things are not getting much worse but we're still waiting for things to improve.
I guess I know it's a very difficult question but 7 quarters is a long time particularly given some of the trends that you've mentioned in terms of people being unable to withstand the pain for long periods of time and just the natural demographic trends here.
So when do you contemplate we'll see something? I think what we've learned is trying to predict when you see a re-acceleration of these patients is extremely hard to predict.
We haven't seen this magnitude of a slowdown in elective procedures in past economic recessions to use as a reference point.
I would go back to our initial comments; it's clearly a function of unemployment rates.
They need to come down.
What the magic number is we don't know.
But at some point as those unemployment rates come down there is a lag effect where people either get healthcare coverage with their new job or they're comfortable taking the time off.
And then there's the natural disease progression which underscores our conviction that you just simply can't defer it permanently.
But in order to make sure that we delivered on our top and bottom line targets for the year we're going to go with the assumption that there's no change from 2011 rates and that they may remain fairly consistent with those levels.
Also Raj we love our diverse footprint probably liking our cash and leverage position feeling really good that the percentage of business that's associated that way.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
Just as sort of follow-up kind of the Recon market.
I know you gave overall corporate-wide pricing of negative 1.7%.
But when you look specifically at Recon within orthopedics have you seen any change in the pricing in those particular markets hips and knees? No.
Very consistent with prior quarters.
Your next question is from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Curt I just wanted to clarify something on the P&amp;L guidance with respect to R&amp;D.
I believe you said it will be up in absolute dollars but then down as a percentage of sales.
And I think you also made a reference to it being up in the 8% to 10% range.
Did I mix that all up? Yes -- no it's a fair question David.
The R&amp;D guidance for next year is that in absolute dollars it will be bigger than this year.
As a percentage of sales it will probably be a little bit below where we finished this year.
And my reference to 8% to 10% is that given our decision to terminate anything related to the OA program or our Biotech business the decision was made to reallocate those dollars into the core of the business and on an apples-to-apples basis it implies an 8% to 10% increase for the broad business R&amp;D increase.
You will not see an 8% to 10% increase in our reported numbers.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
Then in a commentary surrounding gross margins being about flattish or slightly up for 2012 it sounds that there are some factors that are transient such as manufacturing variances on lower volumes and some that may just be a reflection of the changing mix of your business as it relates to the MedSurg business growing faster than the Reconstructive business.
Can you maybe help us think about the gross margin dynamic on a longer-term basis and then also how new products fit into the trajectory for gross margins? It's a great question.
And clearly when you look at MedSurg when you look at expansion in emerging markets and everybody's talking about that those businesses are on the lower side of our company gross margin.
And we're okay with that.
We know how to operate lower gross margin businesses and still generate a lot of profit and a lot of cash.
So that movement does not concern us and does not inhibit our thoughts that we can still generate double-digit earnings growth.
And so longer term and especially when you consider all the things that are evolving in healthcare on a global basis you may be looking at healthcare that has a lower overall gross margin.
And I think what I would tell you and others may tell you is we're comfortable with that trend.
That said all of our efforts from a global manufacturing standpoint a plant network simplification standpoint a vendor simplification standpoint a harmonization of quality systems are all geared at driving higher gross margins across the business.
So we're not afraid of it going in one direction but we're also lining up a number of initiatives today tomorrow next 5 or 10 years that are geared at driving higher gross margins.
Your next question is from the line of Vivian Cervantes with Kaufman Bros.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate your comments on gross margins and the different factors that are driving it.
With 7 acquisition facilities being ingrained to slowing down utilization to absorb and come up with appropriate inventory levels and then having a lineup of initiatives that would improve gross margins over time.
If we were to sort of wrap this together and try and come up with a takeaway can you say that maybe some of the heavy lifting may be behind us now and that what we're looking for going forward would be more refinements? No.
I don't want anybody to think that at all.
I think our simplification of the plant network is very much in front of us.
And as I said we're just getting started with those efforts.
They are long-term efforts.
They are complicated efforts.
I'd noted 7 facilities.
Keep in mind the Neurovascular acquisition brings 3 facilities none of which have yet transferred to Stryker.
So we have 3 more facilities coming into our network.
So the thought about simplifying the business plant network while at the same time absorbing 3 new facilities still sits in the very near-term horizon nevermind the long-term opportunity to consolidate core competencies into different manufacturing campuses and simplify the business.
So there is a journey there and it's a long journey.
And frankly when I look at it I get excited because I can see what the potential is and I can see how it can benefit the company over the long term.
But again we're going to move cautiously because any time you move a product you open up a whole can of quality potential issues.
And we are going to do everything we can to avoid that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So then...
And to pile of there Vivian.
I think at the end of the day what you should be taking away certainly from Curt's comments is we see significant cost improvement abilities over probably the next decade.
We're probably still in the early -- the very early stages of cost savings opportunities.
Where that plays out in gross margin based on business mix pricing everything else who knows exactly.
But I think there's also a tremendous confidence that we have that frankly whether gross margins improve by 10 30 50 basis points in a year or decline by that same amount we're actually in great shape to be able to deliver on the operating line.
So again we think it's going to modestly improve next year as we've said very modestly but we're prepared and can deliver in different scenarios.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And as a follow-up there was a comment made that there is earnings power despite the gross margin performance.
Is this where we see SG&amp;A leverage coming in from the volume of products that you're able to put in front of customers with not just Recon but MedSurg? Is that how we really should think about the sustainability of your operating leverage going forward just more SG&amp;A leverage as gross margin works itself out through the journey over time? Very much so Vivian.
And again let's take some specific examples.
As we -- I think the hidden part and the hidden magic of a lot of the acquisition work we've done over the last few years of product tuck-ins have been we're putting more volume through our existing sales channels.
So the Gaymar acquisition now gives our same medical sales force the ability to sell surfaces in addition to frames.
Orthovita drops in and we have existing selling organizations that are now able to sell that in addition to hardware.
So a lot of what we're doing on the acquisition fronts are giving our salespeople more to put through the same amount of people.
And there is a hidden leverage there that will be coming and again frankly because a lot of these are just recent that will be coming in the years ahead as well.
And I think just to pile on that and to kind of emphasize a long-term view here in 2008 our adjusted gross margins were 68.3%.
This year we finished at 67.9% 40 basis points lower.
If I would have told everybody that in 2008 they'd only be down 40 basis points in 3 years I think everybody would have doubted me.
And then the other factor is SG&amp;A in 2008 was 39.1% of sales.
This year adjusted SG&amp;A will finish at 37.1% so 200 basis point improvement.
So I call those out because I want to underscore our commitment to the longer-term outlook and I'm not tracking this quarter-over-quarter because none of these projects are quarter-over-quarter.
They're long-term projects that we commit our organization to our resources our people and it gives me great confidence that we'll achieve the leverage we need to get to make the earnings hang together.
Your next question comes from the line of Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
I have 2 questions.
One do I understand you right that you expect your SG&amp;A management to offset all of the med tech tax 2013 so you can deliver double-digit EPS growth? We expect to be able to deliver double digit or greater growth in 2013 inclusive of absorbing the med device tax.
So if you do a fast-forward math on that it implies we have to grow earnings about 17% give or take depending on how the med device tax spills out and what our U.S.
sales are.
But Joanne that will come from a combination of cost of goods SG&amp;A maybe a little bit tax rate just kind of everything.
The restructuring that we announced so it will be in various buckets on the P&amp;L.
Yes.
It's not just SG&amp;A leverage.
That's very helpful.
My second question is I think if I heard you correctly you gave 5%-type plus of revenue growth rate for MedSurg and Neuro but didn't comment on Recon for 2012 or maybe I missed it.
Yes Recon we said it's going to be up to 3% growth in terms of the assumptions behind the 2% to 5% growth x acquisitions and currency.
And then MedSurg and the Neurotech segment 5% or better.
Your next caller is Jason Wittes with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If you could just help me out on how to understand some of the product launches in MedSurg.
I know that you just -- it sounds like in the fourth quarter some of the upside was due to the launch of the new series 7 tool set.
Is that -- when you launch these new tool sets do you normally get a replacement cycle sort of precipitated? Or are there other factors that can kind of lead to that? And related to that are these generally long cycles in terms of upgrades when you have a new product? Is this something that can generally run a year or more in terms of seeing those upgrades occur in the market place? And likewise for endoscopy too with your new cameras.
Jason on System 7 that's a Stryker instrument's product and the last new power tool the previous generation was introduced in 2006.
So the answer is yes they have long cycles number one.
Number two I would not read into the fourth quarter for instruments as benefiting substantially from the System 7 introduction.
It was a limited introduction.
We more fully launched it at their National Sales Meeting in January and we'll show it broadly to customers at AAOS.
So I think what you're just seeing there is a good performance overall by the instrument segment on a global basis.
On the endoscopy side it's very much a similar approach.
The cycle is a little bit shorter.
Cameras -- the last camera we introduced was January of '09.
You could argue that our timing was not great but those cycles are little bit quicker than on the power tool side.
And there is a natural uptick because the technology makes the procedure more efficient to staff more efficient and obviously we're putting both incremental and real innovation into those products to drive customer and patient benefit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up I don't want to put words in your mouth but I think I heard you say that you're anticipating some share gains in hips this year based on some new products.
Did I hear that correctly? And if that's the case is that -- would that also be something that would be more back-end loaded in terms of seeing a share gain? You heard us correctly that we expect share gains in hips not necessarily linked to new products.
It's the growth of MDM really particularly getting and I think we gained share here in 2011 and it will be a continuation.
Hopefully we'll have some things.
We probably got Accolade coming later in the year as well but I think it's the ramp from MDM right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But not necessarily the case for knees I assume at this point based on what you're saying? That really is shape fitting the growth of shape fitting coming on.
But we're not expecting to necessarily be taking share but at least be at market.
Your next question is from the line of Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question on Europe.
I was hoping you could provide a little bit more color for us on Europe.
We read about the potential for recession and austerity.
And I'm wondering if we go into a recession in Europe does it hurt your ortho more or your MedSurg business more? And then maybe provide us some color with how you expect both ortho and MedSurg to grow in 2012 and does it assume a recession.
We're assuming continued softness in Europe.
I think the positive for us is frankly on both our Recon and our MedSurg businesses we're significantly below our standard market shares in Europe.
So that even if it slows down we still have share gain opportunities frankly among our implant businesses and our MedSurg businesses.
So we don't see it having a material impact even if Europe slows further.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is your share -- the percentage of your business in Europe on average the group is about 25%.
Are you at that level? No.
We are below that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if Europe goes into a recession you think there's areas outside the U.S.
that can pick up.
Is that correct? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then one last question just on CapEx spending.
Do you expect CapEx in Europe to be stable worse? And perhaps any thoughts on U.S.
CapEx spending for 2012.
Europe we're certainly not anticipating an increase and again our MedSurg businesses are underdeveloped there.
So we see opportunity even in a lower CapEx environment.
I think in the U.S.
we're assuming things are reasonably fine but again being cautious in our outlook as we start the year.
Your next question is from the line of Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> But just thinking about extremities a little bit with your Memometal acquisition last year is there any thought -- and I know you have a shoulder system already but any thought to really increasing your presence in what's the larger of the 2 extremity markets? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And is that a 2012 or later time frame? We've got a shoulder now and obviously the extremities piece we'll continue to refine and expand that offering over time.
I would just recognize that as a percent of our total business and even as a percent of our Recon when you look at the shoulders and that extremity segment it's really not that material at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just any kind of update on Orthovita uptake among your sales reps.
I mean are you starting to benefit somewhat from the dynamics that are playing out in the biologics market in Spine? Yes we really -- VITA's line has been a tremendous addition.
Certainly some opportunities to restart CORTOSS and Vitagel is a nice little gem in that bag as well.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer portion of today's conference.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for some closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you.
We certainly appreciate your time today and hopefully you feel good about where we're headed here in 2012.
We certainly do.
And the conference call for our first quarter 2012 operating results will be held on April 17 of this year.
So we'll talk to you in a few months time but we'll see a lot of you at The Academy in a couple of weeks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you so much for your participation in today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Stryker Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Derek and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to take the time and read the Safe Harbor statement.
Certain statements made in this presentation may contain information that includes or is based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements.
Such factors include but are not limited to weakening of economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for the company's products; pricing pressures generally including cost containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for the company's products; changes in foreign exchange markets; legislative and regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies and otherwise that affect U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval of new products;   changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payers; a significant increase in product liability claims; resolution of tax audits; changes in financial markets; changes in the competitive environment; the company's ability to integrate acquisitions; and the company's ability to realize anticipated cost savings as a result of workforce reductions and other restructuring activities.
Additional information concerning these and other factors are contained in the company filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Curt Hartman interim Chief Executive Officer and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Derek.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's first quarter 2012 earnings report.
Joining me on the call is Katherine Owen Vice President Strategy and Investor Relations.
In terms of the format for today's call I will provide opening comments and then turn the call over to Katherine for an update on several key focus items.
I will then cover the financials before opening the call up to your questions.
Consistent with previous quarters our press release contains additional detail that we encourage you to review relating to our quarterly performance.
On that note first quarter sales finished at $2.16 billion up 7.2% as reported and 7.4% in constant currency.
As shown in the supplemental sales chart in the press release it is clear that our revenue growth was balanced both by segment and geography.
The quarterly and year-over-year increase in our Reconstructive segment sales augmented continued strength in MedSurg and a solid showing from Neurotechnology and Spine.
The balanced revenue growth reinforces our conviction in the benefits provided by our diverse offering supported by a strategy of internal innovation and focused acquisition.
More specifically our Reconstructive results were led by a solid sequential and year-over-year acceleration in both hip and knee implants.
Within MedSurg instruments delivered strong growth of over 10% fueled by the launch of our System 7 power tools and our Sustainability Solutions business delivered another solid high-growth quarter.
Finally within Neurotechnology and Spine solid gains from Interventional Spine Neurovascular and Neuro Spine and ENT were partially offset by continued challenge in our spinal hardware segment.
Overall sales excluding currency and acquisitions posted an increase of 5.2% in Q1 versus our 2% to 5% expectation for the full year.
With these sales results our adjusted per-share earnings increased 10% to $0.99.
The 10% adjusted earnings per share increase is in line with our target for double-digit per-share earnings growth.
Additionally this performance includes absorbing roughly $0.015 per share of onetime SG&amp;A expense associated with the previously disclosed separation agreement.
Finally I'll provide an update regarding the board's search for a permanent CEO.
As stated previously the board in conjunction with an outside search firm is conducting a comprehensive and thorough search of both internal and external candidates.
That process is ongoing and although the timing of an announcement is impossible to predict the board is comfortable with the pace of the review.
In the interim as our Q1 results reflect we remain focused on executing our strategic objectives and delivering on our financial commitments.
The results of these efforts underscore the collective strength of this company which includes our global offering of products and services our dedicated employees and the strength we have built with our customers and markets.
With that I'll turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Curt.
There are 4 key topics where I will try and provide some additional details including hip and knee pricing and elective procedure trends an acquisition integration update our Global Quality and Operations initiatives and an update regarding key new product launches.
Starting with pricing.
In an attempt to provide greater granularity by our key segments and to help facilitate your modeling the press release includes a breakdown of our sales growth by volume mix and price for our 3 key business segments: reunion -- excuse me Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine.
As it relates to our hip and knee pricing trend during Q1 U.S.
pricing remained negative in the low single-digits and was largely offset by favorable mix particularly within our hip segment.
Although the overall trend improved again this quarter our forecasts do not assume a meaningful change in the pricing environment and we continue to assume pricing as modestly negative and partly offset by mix.
Turning to elective procedure trends.
We did not see any meaningful re-acceleration in volumes during the quarter.
Rather the environment appeared stable.
Recall that our assumptions for full year Reconstructive sales growth excluding currency and acquisitions of less than 3% are predicated on the assumption that there's no notable change in elective procedure trends.
Given the progressive nature of OA combined with the fact that we are essentially entering year 2 of the recession-induced slowdown in elective procedures an uptick is possible but as yet is not evident.
We are comfortable with the assumptions we outlined at the start of the year and believe we are appropriately resourced to execute on the financial targets for our Reconstructive segment in 2012.
Shifting to the acquisitions update.
As many of you are aware we completed a series of acquisitions in the 2010 and 2011 time frame.
With respect to the deals completed in 2011 in total they contributed over 2 percentage points of sales growth in Q1.
And while recognizing there are always challenges with any M&amp;A activity overall we are generally pleased with the integration progress and the financial results achieved to date.
With respect to our most recent acquisition we continue to target 510(k) clearance of Concentric's  stent retriever device in 2012 or possibly 2013 and look forward to the opportunity to further leverage our market-leading presence in stroke care with this next-generation device targeted at the ischemic segment.
Going forward our BD activity remains focused on targets that both leverage our existing sales footprint while also elevating key adjacent market segments.
Next an update on our Global Quality and Operations or GQO initiatives which are part of our previously discussed efforts to drive greater efficiencies within our decentralized model while maintaining our focus on quality.
We are now starting to see the initial signs of the leverage we are targeting from these efforts as 2012 will be the second consecutive year of favorable standard cost improvements following years of standard cost increases.
As we look ahead to 2013 we expect to see continued improvements with incrementally higher standard cost reductions year-over-year.
More specifically we expect to deliver a minimum 2% reduction in standard costs in 2013 which represents another sequential year-over-year improvement.
We are also working to improve the efficiency of our global plant infrastructure which includes the closing and divestiture of 2 facilities which is currently under way while we are consolidating a third facility into an existing plant.
In addition we are in the process of consolidating a portion of our U.S.
distribution to one facility which should be largely complete by year end.
The benefit of this initiative will include lower freight costs within SG&amp;A and to a lesser degree leverage of the fixed and variable cost lines.
Finally we are starting to see the benefit from our ongoing investments in quality such as improved reliability of new product launches which is the obvious benefit to our customers while also helping to lower warranty expense within SG&amp;A.
By way of example looking at our System 7 next-generation power tool the customer complaint rate is less than 1% which compares favorably with the prior generation System 6.
While we have highlighted some clear positive steps on our journey to drive greater efficiencies we have also seen some challenges.
Of note given the heightened level of M&amp;A activity we have added meaningfully to our manufacturing footprint with 11 additional plants only partly offset by the aforementioned closing divestiture and consolidation.
Integrating these facilities has resulted in some margin pressure which will continue during 2012.
And as we take a more comprehensive look at our manufacturing footprint we are focused on reducing inventory in certain areas which also adds pressure to the P&amp;L near term.
All told we believe the myriad initiatives under way within GQ and O are having a positive impact recognizing we are still in the relatively early stages but with the benefits that will be evident in our P&amp;L on a long-term basis.
The acceleration in this contribution is one component behind our conviction in our ability to deliver on our stated goal of double-digit per-share adjusted earnings growth including in 2013 when we will also be absorbing the impact of the medical device excise tax.
Finally a few comments regarding key new products within our major business segments.
Starting with the Reconstruct our hip sales continue to see the benefit from the uptick of both the ADM and MDM mobile bearing systems that allow for a large hip head without the need for a metal-on-metal component.
Combined ADM and ADM (sic) [MDM] represented approximately 21% of our U.S.
hip cup procedures exiting the quarter up from 17% at the end of 2011 underscoring the market's receptivity to an ultimate large-head implant system.
The launch of Accolade 2 our next-generation version of the highly successful Accolade primary hip system is now under way.
Accolade 2 offers a better implant fit for a wider range of patients and given surgeons' familiarity with the existing Accolade platform we anticipate a relatively faster rollout than the normal timing for a new hip or knee system recognizing it will cannibalize existing Accolades sales to some degree but we also expect to see competitive surgeon conversions.
Within our MedSurg segment we are pleased with the market acceptance of our System 7 power tool which helped drive over a 20% increase in U.S.
heavy-duty sales in the quarter.
We're expecting both customer upgrades and competitive conversions.
And Stryker Sustainability Solutions delivered its fifth quarter of sequentially higher sales with over 20% year-over-year growth owing to additional 510(k) clearances of products that can be reprocessed as well as a more favorable competitive environment.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Curt.
Thanks Katherine.
As noted positive growth across our 3 segments coupled with acquisition growth principally in Neurotech and Spine increased company sales 7.2% on a reported basis and 7.4% on a constant currency basis.
With respect to earnings we delivered encouraging results with adjusted diluted net earnings per share of $0.99 representing growth of 10% over Q1 of 2011.
On a GAAP basis diluted net earnings per share were $0.91 an increase of 16.7% versus Q1 of 2011.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP EPS is provided in the tables accompanying today's press release.
In reviewing the quarter I'll start with a discussion of the components of our revenue growth.
In the quarter volume and mix contributed 6.9% to our top line growth acquisitions added 2.3% and currency decreased top line sales by approximately $4 million and decreased the company's overall reported sales growth by 20 basis points.
Company-wide selling prices declined 1.7% on a worldwide basis.
We did have an additional selling day versus 2011.
The calculation would compute a 1.6% favorable impact to growth rates.
We would note however that the extra day principally benefits our procedure-driven business to include Reconstructive and other implant lines while capital sales are not materially impacted by variations in selling days.
Finally by way of providing additional information the details regarding the components of revenue growth for each of the 3 reporting segments are provided in today's press release.
Looking at our reporting segments I'll start with Reconstructive products which represented 44% of our sales in the quarter.
Reconstructive products include our hip knee trauma and other Reconstructive lines.
Our Reconstructive segment had a solid quarter with sales up 5.2% both as reported and on a constant currency basis.
First quarter growth in hips knees and trauma and extremities improved sequentially from fourth quarter results.
Acquisitions added 6% to the Trauma top line.
Overall it was a nice performance for our hip and knee implants which posted both sequential and year-over-year revenue growth.
Importantly our results included positive growth in the Reconstructive lines across our European market.
Next I'll turn to the MedSurg product segment which represented 38% of sales in the quarter.
For reporting purposes MedSurg is comprised of instruments Endoscopy Medical and the Sustainability Solutions business.
In total MedSurg sales increased 7.5% as reported and 7.9% on a constant currency basis.
Results were paced by a strong performance from instruments and another quarter of solid performance by our Sustainability Solutions business.
We expect instruments and Sustainability Solutions will remain growth drivers for the quarters ahead.
Internationally our Medical and Endoscopy segments recorded strong performance.
However in the U.S.
market Medical was disappointing after 8 quarters of solid results and Endoscopy as previously mentioned is looking toward a strong second half product introduction cycle.
Overall the results for MedSurg reflect continued strength and we remain encouraged by the new product plans and look forward to a solid 2012 from MedSurg.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represented 18% of company sales in the quarter increased 12.4% as reported and 12.3% on a constant currency basis.
As noted in the press release acquisitions added 8% to the constant currency gain reflecting the performance of the Orthovita and Concentric acquisitions.
We continued to generate strong high-teen growth from our Interventional Spine and NSE offerings as well as the positive influence of the NV business which is now part of the underlying growth.
Finally Spine results while greatly benefiting from the Orthovita acquisition and new product introductions remain under continued pressure in the spinal implant category in terms of both price and volumes.
I'll now turn to income statement beginning with our gross margin performance.
On a reported basis gross margin finished at 67.2%.
This included $14 million of inventory step-up and other restructuring-related charges.
Excluding the charges margins finished at 67.8% which is down 70 basis points from last year but up 50 basis points from the fourth quarter.
Factors influencing margins in the quarter relative to the prior year included a 50-basis-point decline associated with the previously mentioned pricing pressure.
Additionally margins were negatively impacted from higher inventory charges while the impact of currency in our quarterly sales mix were not meaningful in the quarter.
Overall we expect gross margin in Q2 to be generally consistent with Q1 with modest year-over-year improvement anticipated in half 2 and full year levels trending slightly above 2011.
Research and development finished at 5.2% of sales.
Overall the absolute dollar spend was consistent with anticipated levels as noted in the January call.
SG&amp;A costs represented 37.9% of sales.
And adjusting for restructuring and acquisition-related charges SG&amp;A finished at 37.5% of sales.
This is slightly higher than our prior year levels although represents leverage after considering the impact of the separation agreement in the first quarter which is recorded in G&amp;A.
Reported operating income increased 12.5% over prior year and was 22% of sales.
Adjusted operating income increased 4.7% while the adjusted operating margin decreased to 23.7% as a result of the previously mentioned items.
Other income and expense reduced pretax income by $8 million in the quarter but was $4 million favorable versus prior year.
Components of this included investment income and interest of $12 million offset by interest expense of $20 million.
And finally the company's effective income tax rate was 25.2% for the first quarter of the 2012.
This was in line with our expectations and was 20 basis points lower than Q4 after excluding the impact of tax settlements and inventory step-up.
In terms of the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $3.3 billion of cash and marketable securities which was a decrease of approximately $100 million from year-end 2011.
As a reminder we have $1.75 billion of long-term debt on the balance sheet associated with our January 2010 $1 billion debt offering and our September 2011 $750 million debt offering.
On the asset management side accounts receivable days ended the quarter at 61 which represented an increase of 3 days compared to year end.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 169 which was up 11 days sequentially versus year-end and 8 days against the prior year level partially reflecting investments in new product introduction cycles.
Turning to cash.
In the first quarter we generated cash flow from operations of $35 million.
Overall we're not pleased with that performance.
Finally in the first quarter we repurchased approximately 1 million shares for a total spend of $50 million.
We currently have open authorizations totaling approximately $653 million.
In summary the first quarter was a solid start and we remain comfortable with our initial sales and earnings targets that we provided at the start of the year.
Specifically we anticipate sales growth at 2% to 5% for the full year excluding the impact from currency and acquisitions and we'll deliver not less than double-digit adjusted per-share earnings growth.
Currency remains a slight headwind and if rates hold near current levels we would expect second quarter sales to be negatively impacted by approximately 1% to 2% when compared to 2011.
Using current rates the full year currency impact on top line sales would be negative in a range of 0.5% to 1.5% when compared to 2011 which is consistent with our original expectations.
In closing we look forward to building on the strength of our first quarter results.
Maximizing the performance of the various acquisitions we're continuing to launch new products resulting from our ongoing investments and internal innovation.
With that we'll now open the call up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is coming from the line of Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So this quarter from a hip and knee perspective you've got an extra selling day and you've got some easier comps and we're all going to be busy trying to adjust for those items.
But I was wondering if you could help us in that regard.
When you look at your hip and knee sales rates on kind of a same-day sales basis in Q1 versus Q4 do you think that the volume of procedures is roughly flat in terms of the level of Q4? Or was there an uptick sequentially? Bob it's Katherine.
It's probably closer to flat stable as we mentioned in our prepared comments.
It feels like the environment may be getting a little bit better but with just one quarter and some of the seasonality seasonal anomalies that happen between Q4 and Q1 it's probably too soon to say if we've seen a real change in the trend.
But it certainly feels very stable at the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Curt on the operating margin side in 2012 when you net out all the comments that you made how much operating margin leverage should we expect in 2012? And then if you could also just comment on the cash flow generation in the quarter that would be helpful as well.
Sure Bob.
I think when we look at the operating margins we started the year with an assumption that it would -- we would roll through the year and finish somewhere a little bit north of 68%.
I think we remain committed to that.
I would point back however to some of Katherine's comments in her prepared comments relative to the integration of the facilities and the investments that those require to bring quality systems on par with what we have across our global network at this point in time.
In addition to somehow align these efforts in GQ and O do acquire upfront investments before you see the long-term benefit of those.
And as Katherine tried to comment we are seeing some of that benefit starting to show up in standard costs that impact future periods.
So we're encouraged though acknowledge it certainly.
On cash as I said very briefly in my comments it was not our best day.
There's not one particular area that really stands out in terms of driving the performance though I would note we did have some legal settlements previously disclosed that were paid in the quarter like the Biotech settlement.
We also had some larger-than-anticipated tax payments that impacted cash in the quarter as well.
But when you look at all the other categories working capital inventory increased DSO increased accounts payable actually decreased which was a negative as well so it just -- frankly if I summed it up it was not our best performance and I think it's something that we've reinvigorated our focus on here starting in the second quarter.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from the line of Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to -- I guess Bob had asked about operating margins and one of the things in the quarter that would have expected to see a little bit more on would have been SG&amp;A leverage.
You did kind of talk a little bit about the separation agreement.
Was that something that was maybe already anticipated by you guys? Or was it incremental to your expectations? Or was it just kind of the Street model that may be a little bit wrong? No it's entirely incremental.
The resignation occurred.
You can't time resignations or build those into plans.
It's entirely incremental cost in the quarter and it was previously disclosed.
So it hits G&amp;A.
And when you do the math on the previously disclosed it's about 40 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
I wasn't sure if that was acquisition-related or -- obviously [indiscernible].
That's helpful.
And then just on MedSurg can you maybe just give us an update on what you're seeing for hospital CapEx trends? You had commented that the U.S.
medical beds business was a little bit softer that what you were anticipating.
Is that something you think will persist? It's a very fair question and I probably should have provided a little color around that.
U.S.
medical results were disappointing obviously as you can look at our press release.
I think it's more owing to internal issues than it is to external market issues.
We had -- as Katherine commented we've had some plant transitions going on.
One of those involves production associated with our Medical business.
In addition we had some regulatory approvals and product launches that were a bit delayed beyond what we had anticipated and that has also impacted our ability to ship and hit the desired levels in the first quarter.
So as we enter the second quarter we have higher expectations though it does take time to recover some of those shipment delays and get production ramped back up when you're talking about something as complex as our medical bed franchise.
So we have higher expectations as we enter the second quarter.
And Kristen one follow-up I would make.
Although Medical is the most -- the business most dominated by capital there is significant capital component to both our instruments and Endoscopy businesses and particularly with instruments and power tools which is clearly capital we're seeing very good growth.
So it doesn't feel like there's any real issue from hospital capital budgets versus what might be more Stryker-specific issues in the short term.
Your next question is coming from the line of Michael Matson from Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Based on what we've heard from some of the other larger med tech companies it sounds like there has been a little bit of an uptick in accounts receivable particularly in some of the European countries.
So I was wondering if any of that increase of it we saw there was due to what's going on in Europe particularly around the periphery.
Yes similar to some of the other comments that we've heard from companies some of the Southern European areas have been a little bit more challenged and it's contributed to our higher DSOs by about 3 days from the end of 2011.
It doesn't feel like anything that isn't manageable right now but it is part of what -- where the pressure is coming from.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you all have said that you expect to offset the medical device tax in 2013.
It sounds like that's mainly based on the restructuring programs you already have in place.
But I guess I'm wondering why we're not sort of seeing the benefits of some of those things this year.
And I'm also wondering if there's going to be additional restructuring required to hit that kind of 17% underlying earnings growth number that you need to offset the tax.
I think there's a couple of answers to that question.
Number one part of the offset to the med device tax will come from the restructuring initiatives that were announced in November of 2011.
So that was 4 months ago.
So I wouldn't anticipate that those restructuring efforts would be materially impacting our results at this point in time.
It is possible that we will see some of that benefit as we get into the second -- later half of this year.
Other components that we're counting on are the GQO initiatives which Katherine started to provide a little more detail on in this call.
And then finally we are certainly banking on all the acquisition activity and new product innovation introduction being contributors to top line growth to also help offset that.
So our model is not solely based on a restructuring action that's been announced as the thing that gets us over this hurdle.
It's a combination of all of the above and then probably some other things that will happen just within the overall normal operations of our business at the -- as we unfold our plans heading into 2013.
Your next question is coming from the line of Derrick Sung from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could comment on what your underlying growth in your core Spine business is.
And any color there in terms of pricing and procedure volume trends? Yes the environment in the spine market remains challenging.
It is one of the areas where we're seeing continued pricing pressure.
I wouldn't say it's materially different from what we've seen previously.
It is being offset by better gains for Interventional Spine business but the traditional core Spine business remains under pressure when you ...
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So what was -- go ahead.
Sorry.
I was going to say when you ex out the benefit they're seeing from the addition of the product offering from Orthovita.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- I mean are we still sort of -- in terms of organic underlying Spine growth ex-ing out acquisition are we still sort of looking at sort of negative mid-single-digit declines? Is that kind of a fair assessment? It's negative.
I don't know if it's mid-single-digit negative.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up you talked about driving some mix benefit on your hip side of the business and I'm assuming that that's coming from your ADM and MDM offerings.
I was wondering on the knee side.
How is mix looking there? We heard some commentary from a few other -- a couple of other companies that talked about revision procedures driving some mix in knees.
Are you seeing any of that? Or any comment there would be helpful.
To your first comment not in total.
But certainly ADM and MDM are a driver of that mix benefit.
And just as we would expect Accolade to help going forward we are seeing a mix benefit in knees but not to the same degree that the hip segment is seeing.
And I wouldn't point to anything specific as it relates to revisions.
That's just kind of the normal offering helping.
And I would say Derrick we are -- continue to be encouraged by the rollout of OtisMed.
And that trend continues to increase month over month and is being with some level of enthusiasm at this point as we get more of the imaging centers up and installed and get to that further comprehensive approach out across the market.
Your next question is coming from the line of Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Katherine just make sure I understand what your -- the message you're trying to send across on the improvement in Recon performance.
So your view is that the underlying market hasn't changed much it's relatively stable 4Q to 1Q.
But the improvement in your own business is a function of easier comparisons and an improvement in mix.
Is that the message? I would say we're cautiously optimistic but too soon to say that we've seen a meaningful improvement or even a modest improvement in volume trends right now.
And partly it's because of the historic Q4 to Q1 seasonality anomaly that it's just -- it's tough to know.
It certainly feels very stable from a volumes perspective and perhaps the trend arrow is pointing upward.
But we'll feel better when we see how the results in the next quarter and how they play out for the year.
I think it's certainly benefiting from easier comps as well as the momentum now that we're kind of in that full rollout ADM MDM getting traction with OtisMed.
So the product traction is helping.
It's helping with some competitive conversions.
And it's helping on the mix side.
So we're having a little bit less of a negative impact from a price-mix perspective as it relates to hips and knees particularly on the hip side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I had 2 launch/mix questions.
So one you made some comments with regard to the mobile bearings the mobile bearings systems that you guys now have out there.
I think you said they were in total 21% of your U.S.
hip cup mix during the quarter.
Where do you think that can go? Hopefully higher.
It's trending nicely.
It's up 4 percentage points sequentially and we're still out there pretty aggressively promoting the benefits of that.
It's tough to know if you look at metal-on-metal.
And the benefits were certainly in large part driven by the large head design and the desire for that hasn't gone away.
That peaked at 30% 35%.
Whether that gets to that degree with our business it's kind of tough to know but I would say that it's continuing to trend upward at this point.
So I don't think it's flattened out yet at 21%.
Your next question is coming from the line of Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Katherine the Concentric launch is that slightly delayed? When you said earlier 2012 2013 is that -- does that represent a slight delay? And the TREVO 2 data when should we should see that? No it's no change from the time when we acquired Concentric back in late Q3 I believe where we said we were hopeful of a 2012 2013 FDA clearance.
So no change at all in the time frame there.
Some of the Trevo device was released at one of the recent neuro meetings.
But I'll -- Larry I have to follow up with you offline to get more specifics around it because I don't have that in front of me.
LLC Research Division</strong> No problem.
And Curt just one for you.
Just basically in this interim period are you approaching anything differently from your predecessor? No I think going back to our original commentary we're satisfied with the strategy that we have in place and the company continues to execute on that strategy both as it relates to our markets but also as it relates to our internal areas of focus be it GQO or other shared service categories that we've been looking at or operational efficiencies.
So I think the game plan remains very much sustained.
Now with that said there's always tweaks and adjustments but we were making tweaks and adjustments quarter-on-quarter anyway.
So we'll continue to run the offense and as appropriate adjust our plans where we see fit to take advantage of opportunities that may be presented.
Your next question is coming from the line of Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question on Japanese pricing.
Can you discuss with us the biannual pricing or price declines that you're going to see in knees hip and Spine? And I'm assuming that that's in your guidance for the rest of the year.
Yes.
Glenn I would qualify the answer a couple of ways.
Number one the pricing cuts were a little bit larger than we had originally anticipated so somewhere in the aggregate around 4% -- a little more than 4%.
But overall to the expectations for our business it's immaterial and our full year guidance factors all that in.
So I don't think we see it as a major event at this point in time.
It certainly is for our Japan business as they adjust to a slightly larger cut than they originally planned for but the breadth of the portfolio over there should give them opportunities to absorb that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is that 4% to 5% cut that's across everything you sell there? Or is that just predominantly knees and hips? I'm giving you one aggregated number for the Japan price cuts.
Different segments have different price cuts and I again I don't have that in front of me.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Matthew O'Brien from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to see if I'm looking at this correctly.
From the press release it looked like Recon pricing was down about 2.6% in the quarter.
Is that a modest acceleration compared to the last couple of quarters? And what is driving that? Are you saying that the global Recon pricing down 2.6%? Research Division</strong> Yes out of your release.
I looked in the previous releases and I didn't see it.
But if memory serves I think it was negative 1.7% or 1.8%.
No that's a new level of detail that we included in the press release by segment just to give you guys a little bit more granularity.
So it's not a number we released previously.
The number you're referencing is total company price which we've always reported.
It's just you're getting more segment detail.
So no there's no material change.
And as I mentioned it's actually a little bit more favorable when you factor in mix for hips and knees.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question on the neuro side specifically hemorrhagic stroke.
How is that business trending? What kind of growth did you see in the quarter? And then I can't see what it actually was but how does that compare versus what you were thinking when you've initially acquired the business? Well keep in mind 65% of that -- of the Neurovascular business is outside the U.S.
And so we look at the revenue breakdown between international and U.S.
and we start looking at product rollouts the Target Coil is the key innovation that that business has been rolling through and we feel very good about that.
And internationally in the quarter we had a very good quarter which I think does directly reflect the success and acceptance of the Target Coil.
In the U.S.
our results were probably a little bit muted for our original expectations and I think that's a reflection of the fact that we do not have a flow-diverting stent at this point in time.
And customers are evaluating that technology and that comes directly at the expense of coiling.
That said we still feel very good about our innovation pipeline in that business and feel very good about the Target Coil franchise.
And we've got great customer relationships and great market shares across all the segments there.
So as the year unfolds we don't see any real material change in that business and we do have some new products that are scheduled to be released here shortly that we're encouraged about how they will further impact that business this year.
Your next question will be coming from the line of David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's Steve Beuchaw here for David.
I wonder if you could speak to some of the levers in the thinking in the revenue guidance.
As we look at the results for the quarter and how the cadence -- the cost trend over the course of the year with this quarter around 5% growth in the top line excluding the acquisitions and currency it seems that guidance is at least reasonably conservative.
Now could you give us an update on what you're looking as the key levers in this -- at this point in the year driving expectations toward the higher or lower end of the range? Yes.
I guess first thing I would point to is we did have an extra selling day in the quarter which would take that 5.2% down as we said on an absolute basis to 3.6%.
So that's not 100% accurate because capital businesses are not as subject to the day variations that the procedure-based businesses are.
So if you take the 3.6% it's comfortably inside the 2% to 5% range we gave maybe a little bias to the high end.
And number one it's one quarter.
So if we're sitting here at the midyear and we've got a quarter that's outside or -- to the upside of the range maybe we'll reflect a little deeper on our business segments and look at our guidance.
Right now I think with one quarter under our belt no material change in what we would refer to as elective procedure volumes.
We're comfortable with our range and the assumptions that go into it.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
I wonder then if you could touch briefly on the operating environment in Europe.
Is it any tougher or easier in your mind than it was a quarter ago? And is that any more true on either direction either in the capital or implant markets? I don't think that from a Stryker perspective we have found the commercial operating environment to be materially different in the first quarter than what we saw last year.
Clearly on the asset management side we have seen a little bit of holdback on the payable side in Southern Europe.
However there are some things being tossed around in some of the Southern European countries around payment schedule in some of the markets for the midyear point and we hope that that materializes and we're obviously very involved in that.
Overall the market remains pretty stable.
And I did comment that at least within Stryker in our hip knee and in other Reconstructive segments we did have positive growth in the quarter which we view as a good sign for our business and a good sign for the stability that we're starting to get in that business.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I had one area to follow up on on recon.
And I did have a follow-up on Spine.
I'm wondering if you could give us any color Katherine or Curt as to what within Spine is it product lines the launches introductions that you're looking to to improve that product line over the next several quarters? And then -- or maybe what some of the weak spots have been? And then I have one follow-up.
I think it's been probably just the market.
The overall spine market has seen lower volumes and some of that is the recession-induced slowdown in elective procedures but it's also payer pushback.
So that is probably the overriding biggest factor.
Layer on top of that ongoing pricing pressure.
Certainly the comps help and -- but that's hardly we want to be banking on.
And we haven't done as well but better more recently on some of the new products that fill gaps.
So I wouldn't view them as game-changers but necessarily to make sure we've got a competitive product offering.
So it's first and foremost just a challenged market but an area that we continue to believe has a lot of opportunity for innovation.
So it's a segment we're committed to just recognizing it is going to be one of the more challenged businesses that we have right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I had one follow-up then on the Medical business line.
You mentioned sort of some of that might have been self-inflicted.
Any color -- I guess similar question -- color within that business line? Neptune? Stent? Anything you could tell us that could maybe help us understand that a little bit better? I think within Medical what we're really looking at is more self-induced damage in the first quarter than anything else.
And that comes from some of our transition plans that always seem to have more difficulty in them than one would like to assume.
And then on the regulatory front we had some new products that didn't quite get where we needed them to in the first quarter.
But we still feel very encouraged about those and how they'll influence this year.
And so I don't look at our Medical results in the first quarter with great alarm.
I'm disappointed clearly and I think that the team over at Medical is disappointed because they've been on an 8-quarter run and this is not how they wanted to start their first quarter.
And I have it on good authority from that leadership team that they have much different plans for the rest of this year.
So I'm cautiously optimistic that the rest of the year will unfold in a much different fashion.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Bruce Nudell from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Curt now that you're at the helm where do you see kind of net of price in the U.S.
Recon as kind of the steady state that's achievable given the price pressures offset by the innovation ability? So Bruce when I -- I'm still the CFO and when I get price questions I usually deferred those to Katherine.
So I don't know.
You're kind of bumping that up to the interim CEO which I know [ph].
But my view on price net of mix is probably no different than Katherine's.
It's probably no different today than what it was 3 or 6 months ago.
Innovation still matters.
Our organizations are focused on innovation be it internally developed or externally acquired.
And I think to the extent that we keep the innovation focus on that can benefit and offset some of the price pressure.
There's nobody in our business walking around saying pricing pressure is going to change any time soon.
We recognize that's part of the current day environment.
We're not forecasting that to go away any time soon.
And would we love price to change? Absolutely.
But that's not what we're walking around thinking and what we are thinking is that innovation still matters.
We're seeing this in things like ADM and MDM System 7 other products that we've introduced the lateral approach out at our Spine organization.
Innovation still pays.
Customers still pay for great innovation.
That remains somewhat the marching orders here.
Research Division</strong> And Katherine just a follow-up for you.
You -- reading between the lines it almost sounded like you're -- you think you might have seen some green shoots with regards to volume.
Is there anything substantive that you can comment on? No and it really wasn't my intent.
I certainly feel very good that the market is stable.
But as we've tried to say in the past with our implant business in particular and given the vagaries of the market right now you really have to look at more than one quarter to get a true sense if there's been a change in the trend.
So what -- are we hopeful that maybe trends get better? Absolutely.
But at this point it would just be too early a call to say anything other than certainly stable and hopefully we're not going to go into an environment where we see any type of worsening in elective procedure trends that occurred as everybody knows in some of the prior quarters.
So a high degree of conviction in stability but not ready to say anything stronger than that at this point.
I think we've just overall found that we need to let the numbers do the talking versus us projecting because it's just far too difficult to estimate where the markets are going.
Every day there's a new headline that seems to shake things up.
And we've got a highly engaged selling organization great product innovation.
And we're just going to keep pushing on that and let -- ultimately let the numbers materialize.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Richard Newitter from Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I could just start off on the -- both the hip and the knee side.
I -- you've talked about positive mix shift opportunities.
Within hips Accolade is coming up.
Should we expect this to be as big of an incremental contributor as kind of the MDM ADM launch? And in knees just where are we in OtisMed? And how much kind of is there to go as we move forward? I think it's probably too early.
Literally the Accolade 2 launch is getting under way right now.
And unlike ADM and MDM it will cannibalize some of the original or first-generation Accolade sales.
But obviously our -- that group is focused on competitive conversions.
And I think the uptake will be a bit quicker for the reasons we've pointed to and the familiarity with the Accolade platform.
So certainly -- it's correct that we can't control the markets but giving sales reps new products to sell is a big motivator in any environment.
And OtisMed continues to see sequential growth and very pleased with the ability to offer what is increasingly becoming an important product offering to have in that knee portfolio.
Research Division</strong> And just maybe to follow up on that.
Is OtisMed a mix driver for you in knees going forward? Is that one of the positive mix opportunities? Or is that more of a I don't know a market share gain potential driver? I think it's more in the market share side of things than anything else.
We do charge for it but it's -- I would view that more as a driver of market share.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Rajeev Jashnani from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could go back to excuse me Bob's question regarding operating margins.
And I guess if you kind of take out the 40 basis points this quarter out of SG&amp;A you were still down year-over-year albeit on a tough gross margin comp on the year-over period.
But I was just wondering if could kind of talk about operating margin outlook for the entire year and whether -- I guess how we should be thinking about that on a year-over-year basis.
Certainly.
Starting any year the goals are to improve the ratio.
So as we begin 2012 we're looking at every ratio looking for opportunities of improvement.
With that said at the end of the day we have an earnings target that we're trying to move towards.
And we reserve that right to invest in the areas of opportunity whether they be in Global Quality and Ops or whether they're in the operating expense category.
So if the top line is improving you should probably anticipate we're going to make greater investments in the selling expense line which is going to therefore impact the operating margin.
So we try to keep the absolute amount of flexibility that we can while continuing to move the business ratios forward in a responsible way.
As we look at this year I go back to my very first comment.
We're looking for improvement in all of our ratios.
We do believe in letting the business roll up their results and make the appropriate investments locally because they tend to make the best decisions.
And as of right now we still feel that there's opportunity and we're still going to drive forward toward some improvement in the operating margin.
I'm not going to give you a specific number on what we're targeting specific percentage improvement or things of that nature.
And then keep it in mind some of this is also impacted again by acquisition work that does hit operating expenses.
As it's first time in this year it doesn't have a prior-year comparable.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Adam Feinstein from Barclays -- Research Division</strong> It's Matt for Adam.
I just wanted to touch on some of these other questions that have been asked.
But on this operating market target issue you bought back some shares this quarter but it really seems like you're just offsetting dilution.
And it feels like you're comfortable with your level of investment.
I guess can you talk a little bit about the investment strategy and how you may be looking at it differently when your customer's focused on reducing costs and health care reform? So on the first part of that we did buy a few shares back.
And it was a little bit later in the quarter so they don't really materially impact the quarter.
And frankly it was intended to offset some of the dilution.
So that's a fair and accurate statement.
As it relates to our investments and trying to align those with our customers it's absolutely spot on.
The customer is evolving.
They don't all evolve at the same point in time.
You have some highly sophisticated customers who have a much different attitude and appetite in terms of the approach by companies like Stryker and we're having to make some investments to ensure we align with their expectations.
On the other side there's a lot of health care systems that like the same approach they've always had and we're not going to run away from that either.
So we're making the investments where we see the opportunity to move with our changing customer while at the same time ensuring that we don't leave any customers behind.
And so I guess I'd just put that in the "Do we retain flexibility to make the investments to address where our customers are going and recognizing along the way we may have to change some approaches and we may have to make some strategic investments to get our customers attention?" And that's fine too because again if you've got -- if you have the right innovation walking in the door if you have the right commercial approach walking in the door there's generally a favorable reception.
And we're doing those experiments to ensure we're on track with where our customers are heading.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow up.
I know you typically don't break out emerging markets.
But can you talk a little bit about the difference in growth between developed and emerging markets o U.S.
and what you're doing there? Sure.
The emerging markets we believe are an important part of this company's future.
And we have a new group president within the last 6 months who's responsible for international and one of his first homework/assignments along with his team was to really dive in and evaluate what our current approach was versus what it may need to evolve to.
And we're very encouraged by that work and what he and the team are doing.
Today when I look at emerging markets you can come up with a long laundry list of countries.
But I think places like China India Brazil maybe you throw Russia Turkey and a few others in the mix a little bit later but if you start with China and India we have a presence there.
We've had a presence there for a long period of time.
And our growth in those market is above the company average and we anticipate that it should stay there.
The real question is is it growing fast enough given the rapid evolution of those markets? And that's what we're evaluating.
Do we have the right products? Do we have the right structure? Do we have the right approach? So I think our strategy here is to do a comprehensive review take a hard look at what our investments are lined up to support make adjustments where appropriate and ensure that at some point out in the future we can really point to success in those markets and Stryker evolving and emerging to be a key market share leader in that space.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Josh Jennings from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just quickly on the Neurovascular side.
Can you just give us an update in terms of whether you're on track for transferring manufacturing responsibilities over from Boston Scientific? And just some directional color on -- in terms of how impactful that will be to gross margins for that unit? Yes the Boston Scientific Neurovascular integration to Stryker is obviously then and continues to be a very complex transaction.
But I think in the best spirits both the Boston Scientific side and the Stryker side have put highly dedicated high-performance teams on this and we remain very much on track with the transition service agreements and the transfer.
Keep in mind there's the manufacturing in Cork Ireland; there's manufacturing in West Valley Utah; and a small bit of manufacturing out in Fremont California.
All of those platforms remain on track and those will continue in the integration transaction.
We'll probably not be complete until midyear 2013 based on latest plans and estimates.
Obviously that fluctuates and moves somewhat because these are big projects that do have some variability.
I'm probably not going to get into any of the color commentary around impact on gross margins.
It's a little premature to talk about that right now given that we have not yet officially transitioned any of the manufacturing to Stryker.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just a follow-up on the Spine business.
I know it's been a short time since AAOS but any color on your lateral fusion platform launch and traction there in the millions of invasive surgery market? We're excited by the lateral system that we developed and are launching.
We've -- it's been met with good enthusiasm both from the selling organization and from customers.
But to your point it's very early so I wouldn't say it's had a substantially meaningful impact on our Spine business at this point in time.
But from a feedback and enthusiasm standpoint I think our selling organization is engaged and I think our customers who are getting exposure to it are finding that we have a nice offering.
So we're encouraged.
I'll leave it at that.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Jason Wittes from Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of product-related questions.
First off for the Concentric acquisition I assume most of those revenues that you have at this point are coming from Trevo not from the Merci product? Yes.
No it's the other way around.
Merci is the original device and Merci has the broadest regulatory approval inclusive of Japan.
And in addition  Concentric also brought some access products and balloon catheter-related items that compromise sales.
The Trevo device has CE Mark and is in sale in limited form in the European market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I misheard you.
I thought you had said that most of your revenues were coming from Europe at this point.
No 65% of revenues comes from outside the U.S.
which is inclusive of Japan China Latin American countries.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there a -- sorry go ahead.
For total Neurovascular not Concentric.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there a timeline expected for a Trevo approval in the U.S.? Yes that's late 2012 early 2013 that Katherine mentioned in her opening comments.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Jeff Johnson from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Curt Katherine just 2 quick questions here.
As for the components of guidance are you still expecting less than 3% growth in OI and -- or in orthopedic implants and 5%-plus in MedSurg Neurotech at this point? I think at this point in time we're sticking with our original guidance.
I think it's the responsible thing to do.
There's -- we all want to be optimistic that elective procedures will rebound will return at some level.
But again we -- we'd rather have our numbers tell the story.
And based on those numbers if there are adjustments to be made from guidance we would move in that direction.
But we're not seeing that right now and therefore we're comfortable with the original guidance we've put out across the segments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the pricing front I know Japan was asked about.
But now that you're breaking out ortho pricing and with the 4% 5% cuts there simple math would say next quarter maybe sequentially pricing gets down to -- down 3% or so in ortho.
Would that be your expectation? Or is there anything maybe offsetting that? Are there ways to get some improvements elsewhere to offset that Japanese impact starting in April? The Japanese impact will start in April.
But again the 4% to 5% comment was across all Japan products that are impacted by the price cut.
And so when you look at our Japan revenue a segment of that is hip a segment is knees a segment is trauma right on down the line.
So I don't think it's not going to have a super-material impact on overall hip or knee total company pricing.
Certainly it is dilutive to the overall pricing right now but I don't think it's going to be material to the overall company's price to the extent that we need to make massive changes.
Your next question will be coming from the line of William Plovanic from Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
First just on the Medical.
You talked about some of the issues being internal and that being new products and supply.
I was just curious if there's new products that you were expecting had gained approval and if those supply issues had been resolved.
The new products are approved and we're very excited about those.
And the supply issues the majority have been resolved and we are working forward on ramping up supply.
It's one thing to get the process in place.
It's another to ramp the capacity up.
But we feel good about the future periods here.
Research Division</strong> And of the challenges you faced was it more supply-focused or product issue? I don't have the document in front of me but I think it was a little bit of both.
It was fairly equal contributions.
That business has a couple of different components into it so there was some supply in some components.
There were some regulatory approvals in others.
Your next question will be coming from the line of David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask a follow-up question on Neurovascular.
I think Curt in your prepared remarks or a response to one of the questions you talked about competitive trialing of flow diverters having an impact on your business.
Maybe just talk about where we are in the goal that you had lined -- outlined when you did the acquisition to get this business back toward end market growth.
And where do you see end market growth right now? We still feel good about our progress towards that goal and feel good about not only the early innovation that was released there in the Target Coil but follow-on innovation that's coming.
And I feel pretty high degree of resolve that we're on track with our acquisition goals that we stated when we first announced the deal.
And we -- I think similar to what I said in January we see that overall market probably growing in the 7% to 9%.
Obviously you're doing a little bit of estimating because a lot of the numbers are not publicly disclosed.
But as we try to roll things up we see it in that 7% to 9% 6% to 8%.
And again the acute ischemic side is where the -- where we see the higher growth rates coming from.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe as a follow-up on the P&amp;L I know in the last quarter you had talked about R&amp;D as obviously somewhat cyclical based in where you are in certain projects but a very good R&amp;D spending.
Last quarter you think it grew kind of in the 4% range.
In this quarter up 1% in dollars after I think what was 8 quarters of teens or 20%-type increase.
Tell us where are we in the R&amp;D spending cycle and how should we think about that on a go-forward basis? David your comments are accurate.
I would just remind you the other thing I talked about in the first quarter was that all of the R&amp;D spending related to the Phase II trials for the OA product out of Biotech which had previously been included in R&amp;D had been turned completely off and those dollars had been reallocated across the core business franchises.
So on an absolute basis dollar for dollar it looks very similar but we've actually put more dollars into our core R&amp;D platforms because of the shutdown of the OA Phase II trial.
So I think the dollars that you see are going to be -- it's going to be in that range on a quarter-on-quarter basis.
Net result the growth rate will be slower.
And potentially as a percentage of sale it drops down.
But it does not signal by any stretch a slowdown in our investments in innovation.
It signals more a re-prioritization of some dollars that were in a Phase II trial for OA that are now part of our core growth platforms R&amp;D.
Your next question is coming from the line of Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital Markets.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But I want to just focus on 2 things.
Can you remind us how many manufacturing plants you currently have? Because the number that you talked about in terms of adding new plants was a bit higher than I had calculated.
It's 31.
31 in total? And you added 14 I think you said with acquisitions? No 11.
We've added 11.
Included in those 11 are the 3 that are still yet to come over from Neurovascular.
And when you've finished I would assume consolidation is part of the SG&amp;A gross margin program here.
What do you think this looks like in 24 months? I don't think we're ready to go there.
I think Katherine commented that we have 3 of them in process for closure...
Consolidation.
Consolidation et cetera.
Again there's a bandwidth issue here.
We're doing on one side absorbing acquisitions at the same side trying to simplify our global manufacturing network while both have an overriding priority of doing absolutely nothing to disrupt the quality systems that we have in place and in fact continuing to try to elevate our quality systems each and every day.
I would just add that I'd be surprised if over the next 24 months there wasn't more acquisition activity.
So it's -- there's going to be a push-pull here.
Your next question will be coming from the line of Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Curt I just wanted to ask on buybacks just kind of general.
Is that -- is any acceleration in buybacks included in your guidance at this stage? No our guidance does not include any additional buyback information or any acceleration which is exactly how we started the year.
And hopefully as we now enter what I would call the third year of more consistent approach to buybacks you understand that we try to be fairly opportunistic with where the market is and where we see the stock price and where we finally have the opportunity based on our U.S.
cash position.
And so you've got to have an authorization in place you've got to have the market opportunity and you've got to have U.S.
cash available to make it all come together.
And we did what we thought was appropriate in the first quarter given all of those factors.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to go back on the extra selling day you said 1.6% mathematically but it sounds like it's probably a little bit less than that because you mentioned the capital business.
So maybe think about it as skewing more Recon and then obviously a little bit more in the Neuro and Spine side too right? Yes it's a -- those are very fair comments.
At this time I'm showing no further questions in queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Curt Hartman for any closing remarks.
Thank you Derek and thank you everybody for your time with us this evening and your questions.
That concludes our first quarter call.
We're very excited about our first quarter results and we'll continue on the strategic objectives that we have laid out and that we've been committed to now for a number of years.
I'd just like to remind everybody before closing that the conference call for our second quarter 2012 operating results will be held on July 18 2012.
I would note that that is a Wednesday.
Our calls are typically held on Tuesday.
We're doing that because there's actually calendars with holidays.
Take one day out of the closing process.
So we want to make sure we give our teams around the globe appropriate time to reconcile all of our global results.
So thank you everybody.
Have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen we'd like to thank you for joining today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that the discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is in the exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Stryker Company's Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chanel and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Curt Hartman Interim Chief Executive Officer and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you Chanel and good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's second quarter 2012 earnings report.
Joining me on the call is Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
In terms of the format for today's call I will provide opening comments and then turn the call over to Katherine for an update on several key focus items.
I will then cover the financials before opening the call up to your questions.
Turning to our second quarter results sales finished at $2.1 billion up 3% as reported and 5% in constant currency with the U.S.
market increasing 7.7% while the international market was up 3.3% excluding currency.
Acquisitions contributed 2 percentage points to our top line yielding 3% underlying business growth.
Importantly across all 3 of our key segments Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotech and Spine there were drivers of the sales gains.
Specifically U.S.
Reconstructive delivered underlying growth of 7% reflecting a 6% and 4% increase in hips and knees respectively.
While Trauma and Extremities advanced by 11% absent the influence of acquisitions.
Within MedSurg instruments had another strong quarter with global constant currency growth of 11% and U.S.
growth of 13% underscoring the accelerating momentum from our fourth quarter 2011 launch of our System 7 platform.
Finally Stryker Sustainability Solutions posted a third quarter in a row of over 20% growth.
Turning to Neurotech and Spine solid growth across all the Neurotech segments coupled with the Orthovita acquisition influence in Spine helped to offset the continued downward pressure in the core Spine segment.
Overall we are pleased with the general performance across the numerous segments.
However as we have previously communicated we did experience weaker results in certain geographies particularly Europe and to a lesser degree Japan as well as a decline in our U.S.
medical results.
With respect to the weakness we saw in Europe it remains consistent with our expectations that we discussed earlier in the quarter.
Looking ahead we believe the outlook for our European business is aligned with current market realities.
All told collectively the strength of our broad-based and geographically diverse revenue model was evident as we remain on track to deliver on our full year financial targets.
Overall our top line growth combined with gross margin expansion and ongoing cost controls translated into adjusted per share earnings of $0.98 up 9%.
Encouragingly our gross margin reflects a traction we are starting to see from our focus on global quality and operations.
Recognizing these efforts are still in the early stages but nonetheless underscore longer-term potential.
And our increased focus on cash generation was also evident with Q2 cash from operations totaling $457 million a marked improvement over Q1.
With respect to the CEO search the board continues its efforts which as discussed previously include reviewing both internal and external candidates.
Although not possible to predict the exact timing the board does anticipate a decision regarding a permanent CEO during 2012.
As we look ahead to the second half of 2012 we are positioned to deliver on both our sales and EPS commitments reflecting the collective benefit of a number of key new products across our various businesses.
This coupled with an ongoing focus on driving operating margin expansion through improved efficiency and cost controls is expected to result in 10% or better per share earnings gains in 2012.
With that I'll turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Curt.
There are 2 topics where I will try and provide some details including hip and knee pricing and elective procedure trends and an update regarding key new product launches.
Starting with pricing please note that the press release includes a breakdown of our sales growth by volume mix and price for our 3 key business segments: Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine.
As it relates to our U.S.
hip and knee pricing the overall trend improved again this quarter with mix largely offsetting some pricing pressure.
Although difficult to demystify we view Reconstructive trends as stable to modestly improving as the market appears to be moving toward more normalized rates that are likely in the low-to-mid single digits.
Our assumption for underlying full year global reconstructive growth of not more than 3% we believe remains reasonable with the U.S.
likely to continue to track north of these levels partly offset by some softness in certain geographies such as Europe.
Turning to the new product front late in Q2 our Endoscopy division launched its latest-generation 1488 High-Definition Camera.
The 1488 leverages its premium optics technology to deliver an image that is 52% brighter than the prior generation 1288 with 33% more lines of visible resolution.
Combined these attributes allow for significantly greater picture clarity which given the nature of minimally invasive surgery is a meaningful benefit for surgeons.
Beyond the image the 1488 was designed with cross-specialty standardization which allows for use in 9 surgical specialties by addressing the specific color and lighting needs of individual surgical procedures.
As our sales force expectations surrounding the imminent launch of the 1488 strengthened during the quarter we experienced a slowing of endoscopy sales which is a typical pattern when we are very late in the product cycle.
Given the considerable advantages and technological enhancements of the new camera a deferral of purchases in Q2 was not surprising and reinforces our expectations for accelerating second half sales for Endo.
Switching to instruments with over 25% growth in U.S.
heavy-duty power tools in Q2 we are clearly building momentum fueled by the launch of our latest-generation System 7.
2012 represents our 30th year of innovation in power tools and with 3 decades of experience the institutional knowledge and expertise is evident in our market-leading product offering that addresses a broad spectrum of surgical needs including reconstructive hips and knees Trauma and sports medicine CMF and Extremities as well as Spine and Neuro.
With a large dedicated U.S.
sales force we are well positioned to build on the product enhancements offered by System 7.
We are highly encouraged by our performance against recent competitive offerings as evidenced by the sequential acceleration in U.S.
heavy-duty power sales.
And during Q2 we expanded our System 7 offering with the launch of our next-generation high-speed Precision Oscillating Saw that runs significantly faster than the prior generation while providing both increased cutting speed and accuracy.
All told we are uniquely positioned with the broadest offering of dedicated power tools and accessories in the market.
Looking at our Reconstructive franchise following the launch of ADM and MDM mobile bearing hip systems during Q2 we rolled out our next-generation Accolade Primary Hip Stem.
Building on the success of Accolade which is our #1 cement-less stem globally Accolade II offers an alternative stem design targeted at a broader range of anatomies that are increasingly evident as the average age of the implantation has declined.
The launch although in the early stages is tracking ahead of our expectations and positions our Reconstructive sales force with another new product offering.
On the knee side we are roughly 2 months into the start of our direct-to-consumer advertising campaign focused on the unique single radius design of our Triathlon Knee.
Specifically the Get Around Knee campaign highlights the fact that we are the only company with a knee system based on a circular point of rotation which is the construct of a natural knee and we believe its more natural feel has helped drive the success of Triathlon.
We started the campaign in May and based on the normal time frame from when a patient first presents to actual reconstructive surgery it's typically about 3 months.
As such we would expect to have a sense of a DTC impact on our knee business and market share starting in Q3.
That said based on some of the metrics we are tracking including web visits and hits to the Surgeon Locator the Get Around Knee campaign messaging is clearly resonating and we are encouraged about this activity.
At the end of the day it needs to translate into Knee market share gains and it's too early to make that call.
Separately to be fully transparent early in Q3 we did voluntarily recall globally our Rejuvenate and ABG II Modular hip stem given the potential for fretting and corrosion at the modular-neck junction which may lead to adverse local tissue reactions.
As of June 2012 the reported rate of ALTR is less than 0.5% of patients with these modular-neck hip stems.
And while the rates are low under our quality system the decision was made to voluntarily recall the product.
With 30 000 units implanted globally since launch in 2007 the revenue impact is not material but we thought it was important to communicate the specifics surrounding the recall.
Lastly on the new product front building on the success of a delayed 2010 Target Coil launch our Neurovascular group has launched a new line of its smallest coil to-date targeted at the hemorrhagic stroke segment.
The Target nano Detachable Coil is the industry's first 1-millimeter coil and the only 1-millimeter and 1.5-millimeter complex-shaped coil.
The small size combined with its softness and shapes allows physicians to treat patients with smaller aneurysms that were previously untreatable with conventional coiling techniques and to be used in all coiling procedures as a finishing coil.
Given that physicians tend to prefer greater coiling density since it allows for greater occlusion of the aneurysm a small coil is an important competitive offering.
With the strength of its broad-based hemorrhagic and ischemic product portfolio combined with the recent additional product launches such as the Target nano Neurovascular achieved another quarterly sales record.
Finally we continue to anticipate 510(NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) clearance of our next-generation stent retriever for the treatment of ischemic stroke potentially in the second half of 2012.
Hopefully these comments provide a greater perspective on our commitment to delivering continued innovation fueled by our ongoing investments in R&amp;D as well as highly focused M&amp;A.
And while not practical to detail all the products of the various divisions the collective impact is a major contributing factor behind our ability to deliver on our commitment of 2% to 5% underlying revenue growth in 2012.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Curt.
Thanks Katherine.
As noted positive growth across our 3 segments underscored by stronger U.S.
market performance delivered 2.9% sales growth on a reported basis and 5% constant currency.
With respect to earnings we delivered adjusted diluted net earnings per share of $0.98 representing growth of 8.9% over Q2 of 2011.
On a GAAP basis diluted net earnings per share were $0.85 an increase of 8% versus Q2 of 2011.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP EPS is provided in the tables accompanying today's press release.
In reviewing the quarter I'll start with a discussion of the components of our revenue growth.
In the second quarter volume and mix contributed 4.4% to our top line growth.
Acquisitions added 2.2% and currency decreased top line sales by approximately $41 million and decreased the company's overall reported sales growth by 2%.
Company-wide selling prices declined 1.6% on a worldwide basis.
Looking at our reporting segments I will start with Reconstructive products which represented 44% of our sales in the quarter.
Reconstructive products include our Hip Knee Trauma and other Reconstructive lines.
Our Reconstructive segment increased sales by 1.2% as reported and 3.5% on a constant-currency basis.
Domestic sales drove our growth with hips knees and Trauma and Extremities all recording solid gains.
Acquisitions added 11% to the U.S.
Trauma top line.
Overall it's a nice performance for our U.S.
Hip Knee and Trauma and Extremities implant lines.
Conversely our international Reconstructive results were down 3.6% in constant currency with Europe and Japan experiencing softness that reflects both the macroeconomic environment and the need for us to execute at a higher level.
Next I will turn to the MedSurg product segment which represented 37% of sales in the quarter.
For reporting purposes MedSurg is comprised of instruments endoscopy medical and the sustainability solutions business.
In total MedSurg sales increased 1.7% as reported and 3.3% on a constant-currency basis.
Results were led by a strong performance from instruments and another quarter of over 20% growth for our Sustainability Solutions business.
However in the U.S.
market medical was disappointing as predicted and Endoscopy initiated its new camera launch which as previously mentioned should set them up for strong second half.
Looking at the second half and the full year with continued momentum for instruments and sustainability solutions and an expected acceleration in Endoscopy we think we have the parts in place to return to higher growth rates and achieve our full year goal of 5%-plus growth.
Our final segment Neurotech and Spine which represented 19% of the company's sales had a very nice quarter.
Sales increased 10.1% as reported and 12.4% on a constant-currency basis.
Acquisitions added 7.2% to the constant-currency gain reflecting the performance of the Orthovita and Concentric acquisitions.
Our Neuro Spine ENT Interventional Spine and CMF platforms all generated double-digit constant-currency growth while Neurovascular recorded better-than-market growth on record-setting coil sales.
Finally core spinal implant sales remain challenge while we continue to benefit from the Orthovita acquisition.
I'll now turn to the income statement beginning with our gross margin performance.
On a reported basis gross margins finished at 68.1% while adjusted gross margin finished at 68.2%.
This represents a 40-basis-point improvement both on a year-over-year and sequential basis.
The improvement reflects the positive influence of continued focus by our GQO organization changes in sales mix and the weaker euro partly offset by the previously mentioned price pressure and the impact from higher inventory charges.
Individually none of these items had a positive or negative influence of more than 50 basis points.
Research and development finished at 5.5% of sales.
Overall the absolute dollar spend was consistent with anticipated levels as noted on our January call.
Selling general and administrative costs represented 39.1% of sales.
Adjusting for restructuring and acquisition-related charges as well as a $33 million OtisKnee charge SG&amp;A finished at 37.1% of sales.
This represents a decrease of 90 basis points versus prior-year levels.
Reported operating income increased 11% over prior year and was 21.1% of sales.
Adjusted operating income increased 9% while the adjusted operating margin improved to 24.1% representing an increase of 140 basis points versus the prior year and 40 basis points on a sequential basis.
Other income and expense reduced pretax income by $10 million in the quarter in line with the first quarter.
Components of this included investment income and interest of $13 million offset by interest expense of $22 million.
The company's effective income tax rate was 25.3% for the first -- for the second quarter of 2012 and this was in line with our expectations.
In terms of the balance sheet we ended the quarter with just under $3.5 billion of cash and marketable securities which was an increase of approximately $40 million from year-end 2011.
As a reminder we have $1.75 billion of long-term debt on the balance sheet.
On the asset management side account receivable days ended the quarter at 58 which represented a decrease of 1 day compared to prior year.
Key activity included the receipt of payment for the majority of pre-2012 Spain public debt.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 174 which was up 5 days sequentially versus the first quarter and 10 days against the prior year.
Turning to cash in the quarter we generated cash flow from operations of $457 million.
Overall it was a nice turnaround from our first quarter performance and we expect to see continued performance throughout the remainder of 2012.
Finally in the second quarter we repurchased 700 000 shares for a total spend of $39 million.
This brings our year-to-date total to 1.7 million shares and a total spend of $89 million.
We currently have open authorizations totaling approximately $614 million.
Overall our second quarter has kept us on track with our full year goals and we remain comfortable with our initial sales and earning targets that we provided at the start of the year.
Specifically we anticipate sales growth of 2% to 5% for the full year excluding the impact from currency and acquisitions and we'll deliver not less than double-digit adjusted per share earnings growth.
To facilitate your modeling as it currently stands we view consensus Q3 adjusted per share EPS as slightly aggressive while Q4 appears somewhat conservative.
Currency remains a headwind and if rates hold near current levels we would expect third quarter sales to be negatively impacted by approximately 2% to 3% when compared to 2011.
Using current rates the full year currency impact on top line sales would be negative in a range of 1% to 2% when compared to 2011 consistent with our original expectations.
In closing we expect to build on the results in the first half maximizing the performance of the various acquisitions and continuing to launch new products resulting from our ongoing investments and internal innovation.
With that we'll now open up the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Rich Newitter from Leerink.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to maybe start off on the MedSurg division.
I appreciate that you -- it sounds like you have a number of growth acceleration drivers into the back half particularly in instruments and endoscopy.
But can you just talk about the expectation that you're going to return to at least 5% growth? Can you talk about what the assumption is there for the Medical division? Is that assuming a status quo or is there improvement embedded there as well? Yes.
Thanks Rich and by the way congratulations.
So we'll get you off the call quickly.
If you look back to what we talked about in the second quarter we did see some reprioritization of hospital capital spending and a lot of that was around some of the requirements associated with the Affordable Care Act and I think we signaled that starting back in the May time frame.
That obviously doesn't impact all capital purchases equally if you look at some of the trends that we're seeing certainly in instruments and based on some of the early read for Endoscopy.
Our full year assumptions right now do assume we get back to relatively flat maybe up slightly medical growth on a global basis that would imply that Q2 kind of bottomed.
And based on everything we're hearing from our customers that seems a reasonable assumption.
If you combine that with the expected acceleration in Endoscopy in the second half of the year as well as the continued momentum in instruments and obviously very strong growth for Stryker Sustainability Solutions we're comfortable with that 5%-or-greater underlying growth for MedSurg in total.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just maybe on your comments around Europe and Japan I believe that was mostly on the Ortho Recon side can you just talk about the nonmacro-related issues that you referenced? You said execution may be -- have driven the weakness there.
What are you doing internally? What initiatives are in place to improve execution there? Thanks for being on the call Rich and again congratulations.
But relative to Europe we've had a number of ongoing organizational changes that we are working our way through the right changes and the right structure moves to address where we see the European market moving to.
And it's been a bit of a moving target over the last couple of years for us and part of that is external environment focus.
But we have to be intellectually honest.
Part of that is our failure to execute and we're still a little bit playing catch-up to where the market is going and where we think we need to be.
And that was my reference to being better at executing.
So we have a number of things that we're looking at relative to distribution channels relative to the way we're organized relative to the way we get new products through the regulatory process in a faster fashion.
And no single one of those is going to change our outlook but it's combination of all of those that we have to stay on top of and execute.
And I feel that we have the right things in place and we're moving quickly to do that.
There's no quick solution here.
We've been working on this for far too long frankly and we just got to pay more attention to it.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Mike Weinstein JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Curt just -- maybe let's just spend 1 minute on OUS Recon because the performance really changed from the first quarter to the second quarter.
That's -- that probably other than the bed business which you had already highlighted is what stands out here.
So can we spend 1 minute on what you think changed from first quarter to second quarter where I think first quarter you're up 2.5% and constant currency in this quarter you were down 3.5%? Sure.
I think pointing to the earlier comments Southern Europe specifically was very very slow for us in the Reconstructive segment hips and knees specifically.
And I don't think that's unique to us.
I think perhaps the way we were approaching the market and what we were doing with that organization as we were fairly inward-focused we probably took our eye off the ball.
And I think for us in the quarter one of the surprises was Japan.
We had a very tough year-over-year comparable but I never want to use that as an excuse.
We saw some -- pricing pressure hit in the second quarter in Japan but we also saw some slowing in that market for us.
That was probably the one that we didn't quite have our eye on was Japan slowing.
So Europe again it would be more Southern Europe.
We saw good performance out of places like the U.K.
But Southern Europe we really had a shortcoming.
And it gets back to my commentary about executing a lot better because I think certainly we lost market share in Southern Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if we characterize the tone maybe over the course of the quarter do you feel like it got worse? Do you have that insight into either Europe or Japan whether the business was healthy in the first half weaker in the second half or is that being too granular? That'd be a pretty granular comment but I would go back to our -- some conferences early in the quarter where both Katherine and I talked about seeing a softness in Europe.
And I think that initially was driven more from a macro perspective and things we were hearing from people on the ground.
And then I think you couple that up with some of our own internal shortcomings we probably fell a little further than we originally anticipated.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Michael Matson Mizuho Securities U.S.A.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just had a question about your commentary around pricing in Recon.
I just wanted to make sure that I heard you correctly.
Did you say that your -- you had mix shifts that fully offset peer pricing declines is that correct? Yes.
If you go back to the prepared comments what we've said was as it relates to U.S.
Hip and Knee pricing the overall trend did improve again this quarter with mix largely offsetting some price pressure.
And that was probably a little bit stronger on the Hip side versus knees.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in your European business for the portion of the slower growth that was driven by macro factors was that pricing volume or a combination of both? Or do you have any sense for that? I would say the macro factors were more volume as it relates to Southern Europe specifically.
The broad European community is certainly a publicly funded health care system and there's a lot of overall funding pressure in general which has the potential to translate into further pricing pressure.
But I think as we look at this quarter it was more volume-driven as some of the Southern European markets really pulled back on procedure volumes at least to the information that we had in hand.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So just back on Europe a little bit as it relates to hips and knees.
Obviously we've seen J&amp;J and BioMed and there wasn't much commentary around significant weakness in Southern Europe.
And so is it fair to characterize this shortfall in Europe from your perspective as the large majority of it being share loss by Stryker rather than a market issue given what we've seen from J&amp;J and BioMed? Not everybody has reported but at this point in time I think I'd be hard-pressed to say we didn't lose share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 2 other quick things.
I just wanted to talk a little bit more about the bed business and your confidence in the guidance for the back half of the year.
Because the comps don't get a lot easier in the near term and so I'm just wondering at this point given how much volatility there's been in that business what specifically gives you that confidence that you'll see the kind of rebound that you're projecting? Yes.
Thanks Bob it's Katherine.
I think a couple of things.
We've obviously gotten a lot closer to our customers and really making sure we're listening to what we're hearing looking at some of the trends on some of the products and also some of the comments we get back in terms of where they're at in their reprioritization and some of the investments they've had to make.
So when you total that all up and we adjust that against our forecasting that's where we get to a comfort level.
You can never take the risk of a capital slowdown off the table but I think we're much better attuned to staying closer to our customer certainly since '08 and even more so since the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And is core Spine still down mid-single digits? I'm sorry Bob is the...
Research Division</strong> Was the core Spine business the metal business is that still down roughly mid-single digits? Yes that's a good approximation.
Our next question comes from Ms.
Kristen Stewart Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of on the cash improvements that you had in the quarter I was just a little surprised that you didn't buy back more stock.
Can you just maybe remind us your view on just kind of why you're not repurchasing more shares? And then also would you be -- I guess would the board consider also increasing the dividend as well? So 2 questions there Kristen.
We didn't want to get too far out in front of ourself given our lack of cash generation in the first quarter.
And when we budget our uses of cash over the course of the year we look at our dividend increase we look at our other allocations that go into our annual plan.
We first and foremost try to keep those in mind.
We look at share repurchase as the combination of events: what is the market opportunity; what do we feel or how do we feel about our current cash generation in future periods; and what other potential applications do we have for cash.
So again in our priority it's M&amp;A first and then cash and -- repurchases and dividends.
We came into the year with a dividend increase of 18%.
We tend to look at our dividend on an annual cycle so I doubt you would see any movement in our dividend rate during the course of the year that tends to be an annual event.
And we still have a very large open authorization on share repurchase and it's just a matter of balancing all the different things that we're pursuing.
The stock was pretty stable in the second quarter and really didn't fit in what I would call the window of what we saw as the right opportunity more than anything.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then gross margins it was the first quarter in a while that we've seen some level of expansion.
Can you -- I guess how sustainable should we look at kind of gross margins from this level or can we expect to see additional improvements? I know currency does tend to impact that line.
Maybe just kind of give us a sense on where we should expect margins gross margins for the rest of the year to trend? It's a great question and a fair question.
I think going back to the beginning of the year we said gross margins would in the year finish right around that 68% a little bit north.
And I think we still feel very confident that in spite of some of these different movements -- tried to highlight all of the different things that moved in the quarter and the fact that no single one of them had more than 50 basis points of influence on gross margins.
And I do think we get more stability in gross margins with each passing day under the global quality and ops organization as they get their arms further around all of the different pieces and continue to work on a consolidations of vendor management the cost reduction activities all of that plays into more stability in our gross margin outlook.
And so nice to see the 68.2%.
I think as we look to the future periods this year we should be hovering right around that range and we'll see what other things may come up to move that one way or another but we certainly have a lot of focus on it right now.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Jason Wittes of Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask again about Europe and Japan.
Can we assume that -- you talked about execution you've given us some color.
But has there also been some changes in distribution? Have you lost some distributors to competitors things like that that occurred during the quarter? There were no changes in -- no material changes in any distribution path in Europe for Stryker during the quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So strictly execution as you said originally okay.
One last follow-up question.
And that is looking at the bed business looking at your Endo suite business some of the hospital administrators that I spoke to seemed to be delaying some purchasing and waiting to see what SCOTUS' final opinion was going to be.
Now that that's come do you -- has there been any change in purchasing or is that just something that hasn't really impacted at least your outlook for the year at this point? I think certainly in the short term in the second quarter it may have had perhaps a little more influence on the medical side.
Those are generally Jason very large purchases because of the cost point.
On the Endoscopy side I certainly could not tell that by the incoming order trend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But then just a follow-up though.
So part of the reason you think the bed business should improve would be at least -- at least part of the reason for the slowdown in bed this quarter is at least partially due potentially to SCOTUS is that a fair characterization? That's a really granular characterization so I don't want to put too much weight on that.
I think it's a combination of factors.
It was partially driven by the implementation of IT systems that they were getting reimbursed for based on implementation and effectivity.
And they had some hard deadlines that I believe hit the first week in July.
And those system implementations require the same people that work on big bed installs.
So it was a matter of priorities.
I think there was potentially some hesitation because of expected reimbursement that hospitals were supposed to get out of the Affordable Care Act and if that went away they may have to rethink some of their priorities and limit some of their investments.
So it potentially has good news now that we're past that point.
But I think we'd rather see that play out in the quarters ahead than make a proclamation that that's going to be what materially happens.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Bruce Nudell of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Matt in for Bruce.
First on -- you said Neurovascular grew ahead of the market in the quarter and I was just curious if that's something you think is sustainable going forward? We had set out when we announced the transaction that in year 2 we intended to get to market level or above growth rates.
We have had a very good new product cycle since day 1 and that was further supplemented in the second quarter with the nano coil that Katherine mentioned as well as a few other products that are very beneficial to that organization.
In addition we just hit the 18-month mark of the integration so a lot of the work is getting pretty long in the tube.
And so all of those things line up to provide an opportunity for better performance.
So as I look at the NV business in the second half of this year all of that plus other things that we're focused on potentially the approval of the stent retriever device things of that nature give me confidence that we can continue to grow at or above the market here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just changing course can you maybe talk a little bit about your emerging markets exposure in Recon and what the opportunities are there to increase your exposure in that business? I think -- you've got a lot of background noise.
I think in general -- can we ask you to put your phone on mute? So the question was relative to emerging market in Recon what's our exposure.
I think just very high level if you look at the company our percentage of revenue that's outside the U.S.
is out of line with broader medtech.
So number one it implies that our international opportunity is larger than the majority of medtech and certainly as you cascade that through the various key growth drivers in the international markets like India like China we have a large opportunity there.
We will be deliberate in our movements there.
We will ensure that we have the right products and that we have the right structure to advance and get our share of that market.
And it certainly is an area of focus for the company.
It's -- it is one area of focus.
There are many areas of focus.
But certainly emerging markets needs to play a bigger role in this company's future in the years ahead.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Matthew Taylor of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a bigger picture question.
Could you give us an update? You talked a little bit in the past about your plans for offsetting device tax next year with the restructuring and still being able to hit those double-digit EPS growth targets.
Can you give us kind of an update on that and bigger picture thoughts about what you'll be able to do there to get some leverage to offset that pressure? Sure.
Great question.
We're about 80% through the restructuring that we announced in late 2011.
And as some of the original plans across our various businesses have been continued to be evaluated given where those businesses are we're slowing some of those down.
And as we look at some of the changes on a macro picture there are other areas where we're increasing and doing more to reflect the new reality so to speak.
So we're about 80% through the restructurings that we had announced in terms of plans being actionable and moving forward.
We certainly have not received the benefit to that extent in the P&amp;L.
So I think we're in pretty decent shape relative to the original restructurings we laid out.
The other parts of our ability to address the med device tax were continued innovation the accretion that we expect to receive in most of our deals beginning in year 2 and year 3 and we're now getting to year 2 and year 3 on most of those deals.
I think we'll have one deal outstanding after the end of the third quarter and that would be Concentric which closed in October of last year.
So we'll start to get most of our deals into the year 2 year 3 period where they add more value to the earnings line.
And ongoing focus on internal innovation and internal efficiency through things like the work of a global quality and ops group.
We believe all of those still put us in a good position to achieve the goals that we said we were going to achieve in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on Endo could you give us a sense of size for that -- the launch in terms of your ability to reaccelerate growth there? When you say the sense of size what do you mean? Research Division</strong> I just -- as the percentage of sales or I guess how much order flow was held back in the quarter in anticipation of the launch? Sure.
I may not get into real specifics here but if you think about the Stryker Endoscopy business the 3-Chip Camera is the engine that pulls that train.
And it not only has the ability to be sold as standalone camera system but it's integral to the Endo suite concept which is the bigger ticket item out of that business.
So when that selling organization that customer base are aware that there's new substantially improved technology coming that business slows down dramatically because number one we don't want to sell our customers yesterday's technology and we're in this for the long-haul.
So we're patient with our customers and we'll wait to get that new technology out.
And now that we have that out and really started that late in the second quarter we feel very good about how that will help reaccelerate that business not only in terms of direct selling of the camera but items that are related to the camera broader Endo suite sales light sources the SDC3I solution for data management all of those products that go around that should benefit from the introduction of that new camera.
Our next question comes from Ms.
Joanne Wuensch BMO Capital market.
Tax rate for the year can you give us an idea of how to look at that? It looks like your tax rate was a little bit lower during the second quarter which may have helped you out by a bit a $0.01 or $0.02 by our calculation? I think we said the tax rate for the year we thought would be 25% with a little bit of downward bias perhaps.
You've got to keep in mind a lot of the different things that are not in that tax rate right now like the tax extenders.
Every company is dealing with that so that's an upward bias on the tax rate.
And the company continues to execute on projects and programs that should lower the tax rate so we're trying to neutralize some of those things.
But I think we still see our tax rate being in the 25% with a little bit of downward bias.
Okay.
And then are there any new products that we should be looking at in Trauma and Extremities? The Memometal forgive me if I mispronounced that transaction closed last July.
Memory is that you had some products in there that were coming on schedule this year.
Yes it's the Memometal or MMI transaction that closed and that's really focused on the extremities markets specifically the podiatry market.
They had a very nice product offering to add to acquisition and they had a host of other items in the pipeline.
I would tell you that business is still relatively small and is probably not going to move the needle overall on Stryker but it's certainly a key strategy of building our extremities markets.
And we like the traction we have with that and how it's introduced to a new customer.
They have been introducing some new products this year and we'll continue to put emphasis on innovation there because we think there's a lot we can do with the technology and in the hands of a much larger selling organization at Stryker.
No specific product line introduction that I would point you to but more of a Stryker focus on the extremities market.
Our next question comes from Mr.
David Roman Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Curt I was hoping you could maybe help us out as we think about the P&amp;L.
When I -- when we sort of take a look at operating leverage this quarter you generated 5% constant-currency growth and 9% earning -- adjusted earnings growth.
Is that sort of the right type of earnings leverage to top line growth we should think about? Or is it really to think about the 2-ish percent organic growth leveraging to 9% earnings? How do you think about the differences in there kind of ability to generate earnings leverage? I would definitely be looking at the 5% to 9% and I would tell you that historically speaking over time the higher we can drive that 5% the more leverage and space that we can get.
We have a pretty good track record of doing that.
And from an opportunity within the company and all the global quality and ops opportunity and even some of the back-office harmonization the company is trying to work its way through that should increase our capabilities there at least keep them sustained and allow us to make other investment decisions in other emerging areas.
So I view this quarter as the 5% and 9%.
And benefiting from some of the work that we've been focused on now for several quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was just hoping you could clarify one thing on gross margins.
I think in your prepared remarks you said you gave 4 factors that influenced gross margins: 2 positive a weaker euro and sales mix; 2 negative higher inventory and pricing pressure none of which had more than a 50-basis-point impact on the GM [ph] line.
Of those 4 which of those are sort of this quarter phenomena and which of those do you kind of view as kind of part of the business on an ongoing basis? And then how would that influence the long-term gross margin trajectory? Well certainly you could argue that the sales price issue has been an ongoing issue now for many quarters so you could call that kind of part of the norm kind of the underlying.
I would say in the quarter the inventory charge was probably a little bit out of sorts given the recall information that Katherine talked about.
Because when you pull products from the market you're taking an inventory charge associated with that.
So that one was probably not in the original plan but we were able to deal with that.
So those are the type of things that are -- it'd be improper to call it a one-timer but it's just the reality of running the business.
And you have to be able to adjust and absorb those type of things.
The GQO benefits we expect to see those continue to materialize but again a lot of the GQO work is predicated on the right quality systems steps and those generally take investments before the benefit materializes.
So they're not necessarily quite as smooth quarter-over-quarter-over-quarter.
We'll tend to get some good news make some more investments based on that good news little bit period drags on get some more good news.
And that's the offense we're trying to run there.
Our next question comes from Mr.
David Lewis Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Curt just kind of a more macro wrap-up question here.
If you think about this quarter and so far this year you've got gross margins now trending in the right direction maintaining guidance kind of top and bottom.
Historically you've been willing to provide sort of the Stryker outlook for the future which I think was your comfort with double-digit growth heading into next year even with the tax.
I mean if you think about kind of where you stand 6 months into the year is that still an outlook that you're comfortable with? Yes we're absolutely comfortable with the outlook that calls for not less than double-digit earnings growth both this year and into next year and until we state otherwise probably future periods.
The macroenvironment certainly continues to be very dynamic.
I think everybody if we look back over various scripts from not only Stryker but other companies we would have assumed that 2009 2010 how much worse can Europe get and here we are in 2012 and it continues to get worse.
There hasn't been a headline -- or there's been more headlines in the last month about slowing GDP in places like China where 2 years ago nobody thought China could slow down.
So I think it's a very dynamic global market.
And as long as we feel like we have the opportunity to continue to maneuver and deliver on that double-digit earnings we're going to continue to make that claim.
If that changes you will hear it first from us because we want to be as in front of these things as we possibly can.
Research Division</strong> Very good it's very clear.
And then Katherine just a very quick one.
If you think about pricing we've heard most of the Recon players talk about a slightly improving pricing environment so far this year or at least first quarter to second.
Do you think the pricing that you saw slightly improve do you think that's coming from more price stabilization or just your improving cadence and mix? Well the pure price we talked about seeing modestly improving or continued improvement in that trend so that's pure price although just -- I would keep in mind we're not talking hundreds of basis points here.
The mix contribution has gotten more significant and I would point to particularly in our Hip side some of the new products that we've talked about like ADM MDM and more recently Accolade II.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Mr.
Matt Miksic of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So just to follow up on this -- the question that we've gotten so far on price you entered this year I guess with more concerns at least in the investor community around pricing trends in ortho and it now sounds like for whatever reason that is not quite as bad as most people feared and maybe in some cases getting just a touch better.
I'd love to understand what you think is happening just sort of facilitate that and then I have one follow-up.
Matt I think there are a couple of things.
I would not want to send the message to anybody that there's not price pressure in ortho because there is.
I think one of the differences now versus say 2008 2009 is companies have a much different innovation pipeline because recall we had a big issue across the industry with the DOJ investigations.
Stryker specifically had a big issue from an R&amp;D standpoint related to our quality remediation period.
And I think our ability to get back on offense with innovation has helped drive price or at least to offset some of the bigger headwinds of price.
So I think that's a change for us.
I can't comment on our competitors and what they're doing.
I just think our position might be slightly improving though it's still a negative price environment because of some of the innovation and other solutions that we are offering as a company today versus 24 36 months ago.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then you talked a fair amount I appreciate the color on what has been happening in Europe and in certain geographies.
But in Southern Europe for example where you think that you have lost some share can you give us a sense of how long it takes -- we should think about that taking you to get back on track there? Is this just a couple of quarters is this 3 or 4 quarters? Is this a quarter? Any kind of color as to what you think we can expect would be helpful.
It's a great question.
I wish I could definitively pin it down.
I would tell you we feel good about what the leadership team is doing.
The proof will be when we deliver the results.
We have taken a pretty harsh view of our expectations here and tried to set the bar really low to make sure we don't provide any negative surprises.
And I would hope that by the end of this year we've found stability and that we have found a way to get back on offense.
Could it happen quicker? Absolutely but I think we need to be conservative here because the reality is there's still a lot of macro issues in Europe that are going to change that environment.
And we have to be prepared to address those while setting our business approach to meet that new reality.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Derrick Sung Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to turn attention to the -- your U.S.
performance in hips and knees for a moment.
Both J&amp;J and BioMed had reported their quarters and I think that their results showed a bit of an acceleration relative to where they were in Q1 and their commentary suggested maybe improving utilization trends.
Wanted to get your color commentary on kind of what you're seeing in utilization? And also the fact that your sales were sort of stable relative to Q1 might you be losing some share there or what are your thoughts on that? Yes a few thoughts.
Again we've all got different year-over-year comps and so that's going to obviously influence the growth rates.
And I would point again to some of the comments we made on the call in terms of the utilization trends appearing to be stable to modestly improving and moving towards more normalized rates that are likely in the low-to-mid single digits.
So we feel pretty comfortable that we're building on the momentum particularly on hips from a new product standpoint.
And then knees we'll wait and see how much impact the Get Around campaign has but as we talked about we're pretty happy with the initial read.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess turning to your more CapEx-oriented businesses obviously bed's but a little bit of the other MedSurg businesses.
I guess thinking forward a little bit forward to 2013 and the 2% sequester cuts that are going to be happening then has that issue come up as a discussion point with any of your customers? Do you think that that is going to impact hospital CapEx spending either pulling forward or affecting CapEx budgets next year? I wouldn't want to make a political statement but would certainly hope that folks in Washington D.C.
can find a way to resolve a number of the looming budget issues that are out there.
And whether that happens pre- or post-election we'd like to see some movement there to get a little more predictability and certainty into the market.
We've not had a lot of feedback on sequestration and cuts related to investments in health care.
In all candor I think the 2% is somewhat in line with historical cuts so it's not like it's 2% historically going to 5% 6% 8% or 10%.
So I don't think we've seen a lot on that side.
And then keep in mind Derrick a lot of our capital outside of beds is really what I would call essential operating capital.
You don't do hip or nee surgery without a power tool.
You don't do general surgery without a camera.
They're not million-dollar investments.
These are 5s and 10s of thousands of dollars so they're very different category of capital.
Our next question comes from Rajeev Jashnani of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on Derrick's question and I was just wondering if you could expand on -- I know Stryker typically when things are good you'll attribute it to the market and when things are bad you'll attribute it to share given you don't have full visibility at the time you report.
But maybe just a little bit of color on the U.S.
whether you think you gained share update of new products that would be helpful.
Again it's a little bit difficult because everybody hasn't reported yet.
I think based on where our U.S.
numbers are it's 6 and 4 and then our expectation that the total market's probably growing somewhere in the mid-single digits we feel pretty comfortable about where we're trending.
I would on the Hip side again point to ADM and MDM.
And the most recent one Accolade II with some of the key product highlights that we're seeing there and then really leveraging the unique characteristics of the Triathlon Knee as it relates to the DTC campaign we discussed.
So as we've said before whether you're gaining a market -- or gaining or losing share in Recon you really need to look at a few quarters of trends to get a full read and we feel pretty comfortable with where our position is on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I have one follow-up just on the P&amp;L specifically on the SG&amp;A.
I was just wondering going forward out to 2013 is negative SG&amp;A something that's reasonable for a company like Stryker? Or given the dynamics of your business is that not really a thing that you're able to do? Well I think certainly companies can do -- you control your discretionary spending of which the majority of SG&amp;A is discretionary outside of employee compensation.
And even to some extent that's discretionary to the extent you control your headcount.
Our single biggest line in SG&amp;A tends to fall in the selling category which is a host of things.
It's not simply selling compensation.
And to the extent that we get more efficient in our organization we ought to be able to reduce or put controls around our SG&amp;A expansion.
But I would also tell you that some of that change in SG&amp;A may go into feeding other categories like more R&amp;D or selling organization expansion into different markets like Trauma and Extremities or expansions of some of our existing organizations that have new product portfolios.
So is it a realistic expectation? I think people can do it if they want to and need to.
I think we tend to look at the totality of our P&amp;L and say where do we want to expand and what areas do we need to cut to make that expansion possible? Our next question comes from Mr.
Glenn Novarro RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question on the modular neck recall.
Katherine you said it was not material.
Are you saying this because it's your expectation that surgeons move to your more standard necks and not move away from Stryker to a competitor.
So in other words no loss of business? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes Glenn I'm really saying it more from the standpoint if you look at global sales since we launched 5 years ago it's about 30 000 units.
About 20 000 of those are in the U.S.
You take that relative to the size of our total Reconstructive business it's just not financially material either to the Recon business or certainly to total Stryker.
And then yes we've got some products that we're getting good momentum on like Accolade II.
So there's obviously options not modular but other options available.
So it's really just from the standpoint of how much the overall revenue contribution had been.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on the modular market.
Our due diligence tells us at least in the U.S.
maybe modular necks are 15% 20% of the market.
Can you confirm this? And then I'm wondering do you think the modular market declines dramatically now similar to what we saw from metal-on-metal when we had those issues years ago? Yes and I think it's fair to point out particularly from the patient perspective the issues with the modular recall are really around fretting and corrosion and they're different from the metal-on-metal.
So I would hate to put the 2 in the same category.
I don't think we can speak to the total revenue because there's other players in this market where we don't have granularity around their numbers.
Clearly for us it's nowhere near that percent of revenue for our business.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Larry Biegelsen Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just let me start with a question on Spine.
Your comment earlier core Spine being mid-single digits.
Can you give us a little bit of color on what you're seeing in the Spine market? Has there been any improvement? I think it was a one -- your Neurotech and Spine business is one area where pricing did get worse.
Was that primarily Spine? And kind of what are your expectations for your own Spine business? And I just had one quick follow-up after that.
I think in the core Spine market we continue to struggle and some other large established players continue to struggle.
But clearly there are some folks in the core Spine market who are growing their business.
So it's a combination of a little bit tougher market and we need to do a little better job on the innovation side.
I like where our leadership team is taking the business.
I'm encouraging them to move quicker and faster and we need to get back on a growth track with this franchise.
And we have a long history of growth here and I think we have the wherewithal to get back on a growth track.
Pricing in that segment was principally driven out of the core Spine business.
So I think that kind of covers your question there Larry.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And Curt just quickly on the P&amp;L do you guys have an active hedging or is it just passive hedging? Just -- could you remind us what you said about kind of the FX impact on earnings? So we do not have a total P&amp;L hedge program in place.
We hedged certain preestablished obligations and we do a net hedging program across the company on a monthly basis.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Jeff Johnson Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Curt wondering if I can go back on your U.S.
Hip and Knee business.
In one of the questions you stated maybe that your Hip and Knee business in the U.S.
was stable this quarter.
It looks to me if I adjust for the extra selling day from last quarter and that had actually may -- might have picked up 100 or 200 basis points.
And I don't want to parse numbers too much but just on a day selling rate did you feel like things got better in the second quarter versus the first quarter? Jeff we feel good about what's going on in our Hip and Knee business right now and it's a combination of things that we've talked about.
The innovation that the selling organization has in terms of hips OtisMed on the Knee side the DTC campaign the organization is clearly back on offense.
We've got a lot of items to talk to our customers about and that all points in a very favorable direction.
Now at the end of the day the numbers are going to tell the story and we've made some investments here in DTC.
And to Katherine's earlier comments we'll hope to see that materialize starting in the third quarter.
But we're excited about the new product offering on the Hip side with Accolade II.
The fact that the dual mobility solutions have now been out for a while customers are getting comfortable with those.
And we like the leadership team and we like what that organization is doing right now and it's great to see.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then just a follow-up question on the modular side.
And I know it's a small issue for you guys but do you feel it was a product design-specific issue with your Rejuvenate maybe DII or -- as we look at things it really looks like the whole class of dual taper anyway not necessarily all modular stems but the dual taper designs may be at risk of those fretting and corrosion issues.
I mean any thoughts there? Yes Jeff I don't think it would be appropriate for us to comment on a whole class.
All we can speak to is what we've seen.
The rates are very low at 0.5%.
But as we mentioned under our quality system we thought it was reasonable to have a voluntary recall.
We're still evaluating what the factors are around the adverse local tissue reaction.
It would be premature at this stage to say we've figured out all the variables with any specificity so we'll continue to work with leaders in the medical community and track it.
But I certainly want -- wouldn't want to make a comment anything beyond what we're seeing here at Stryker.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Steven Lichtman Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Curt and Katherine on M&amp;A potential just given your strong balance sheet I was wondering has enough time passed since the bolus of acquisitions that you guys did over the past 2 years that you feel you can be more aggressive on deals and be able to digest them? Obviously the right deals have to be there but is it fair to say maybe you guys cooled off a little bit after a lot of deal flow in '09 through '11? Yes I would point to our prior comments.
Obviously BD isn't linear.
We commented before that we had a pretty hefty pace and we wanted to make sure we were integrating and executing on those to maximize the returns of those deals.
Obviously though with our balance sheet and size of our organization we are able and capable to do additional acquisition.
Timing is always difficult to predict so we remain busy on that front evaluating and looking at different options.
Whether or not that translates into executing on the deal really isn't possible or obviously appropriate to predict right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just on Accolade II obviously you hope to take unit share.
But should we be thinking of it at a minimum as a potential mix driver is it priced at a premium and did it have any impact yet in that second quarter? We did launch it during the second quarter.
As we mentioned we saw more of a mix benefit in our hips business offsetting the pricing pressure and that would be one -- just one of the components.
Our final question comes from Mr.
Bill Plovanic Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> So just -- it's just one more question on the Rejuvenate if I may.
If you look at this hip recall I think 0.5% is 150 out of 30 000.
And I guess so that's a small number so even if there is something major it's still a small number.
One have you taken the charges that go along with that for any future liabilities? And two have the sales force have they spent the time and kind of gotten all the inventory out of that field or is that something that'll occur in the third quarter? And that's it.
So second question first I think we feel very good about our execution of the recall and don't view it at this point as anything that will materially impact our selling organization's efficiency.
As it relates to potential future liabilities we have not booked any reserves for those and it would be inappropriate to do so under the accounting rules until something is presented.
And we do appreciate the reference because it is a very conservative position we've taken but under our quality systems we view it as the right position to take out of a long-term respect for the market and our position in the market.
And there are no further questions.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to management.
Okay.
Thank you Chanel.
And in closing we want to remind everyone of our Analyst Day which will be held on September 5 and 6 at the Homer Stryker Center in Mahwah New Jersey.
Formal invitations and details are forthcoming.
Finally the conference call for our third quarter 2012 operating results will be held on October 17 of 2012.
We thank everybody for your participation tonight and we look forward to talking to you soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Stryker Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Derek and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
And before we begin I would like to remind you that the discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I will now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's third quarter 2012 earnings report.
Joining me on the call is Dean Bergy who many of you may recall served for many years as Stryker's CFO and has assumed the position of Interim CFO over the next few months.
Also joining me is Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
In terms of the format for today's call I'll provide opening comments and then turn the call over to Katherine for details regarding our recently announced planned acquisition of Surpass Medical.
And then Dean will cover the financials.
We will then open the call to your questions where we will be joined by Tony McKinney Stryker's Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we go into the specifics as it relates to our third quarter results I first wanted to make some comments following my move into the role of President and CEO.
Having joined Stryker roughly 18 months ago I have had the privilege of connecting with many of our 20 000-plus employees around the globe.
Those experiences have underscored the pride and dedication we all have in doing the very best for our customers through innovative and value-added products and services.
This has been and will remain at the very core of Stryker's culture as we go forward.
Our focus will continue to center on quality innovation and cost.
We have a broad and diverse footprint of products and services that span many of the fastest-growing segments of medical technology.
We have a strong balance sheet that allows us to augment our internal investments through selective M&amp;A in addition to buybacks and dividends all 3 of which will continue to be a key part of our capital allocation strategy.
As we look ahead to the completion of 2012 and prepare for 2013 we remain focused on delivering solid revenue growth and leveraged earning gains.
Turning to the third quarter results.
Although our underlying core growth after adjusting for currency acquisitions and one less selling day of 3.9% was solid it was nonetheless below our targeted expectations particularly as it relates to our international and capital equipment sales.
The resulting earnings shortfall is disappointing and masks positive performances in many of our U.S.
businesses which posted sales gains of 4.7% on a reported basis and 5.7% on an average daily sales basis.
And with the exception of Medical all of our U.S.
franchises posted year-over-year revenue gains.
Additionally we realized solid cash flow generation during Q3.
However in the month of September we did not see the expected acceleration in growth in sales outside the U.S.
as well as with our capital businesses resulting in a misalignment between our top line and spending.
As it relates to our International segments our top priority is turning around our business in Europe.
New leadership is focused on accelerating actions aligned with the structural changes we see in the marketplace.
Additional areas of focus include strengthening our distribution especially in Southern Europe and optimizing the breadth of our product portfolio.
You will also note that we did benefit from a lower tax rate in the quarter which helped to offset some of the impact of the earnings shortfall.
Combined with a roughly 1.5% decline in the share count versus a year ago adjusted per share earnings came in at $0.97 or up 7% year-over-year.
With respect to guidance for 2012 we are narrowing our sales range from 2% to 5% to 2.5% to 4% underlying revenue growth excluding the impact of foreign currency and acquisitions.
And we are now projecting full year adjusted per share earnings in a range of $4.04 to $4.07 up approximately 9% versus our prior target of double-digit year-over-year earnings growth.
The revised outlook takes into account the weaker-than-expected Q3 results and lower Q4 revenue versus our prior expectations due to the continued challenges in international markets and greater pressure on hospital capital budgets.
Based on the combined impact we are taking a more conservative stance which reflects the current uncertainties and mitigates the risk of a shortfall relative to expectations.
Looking ahead to 2013 we are no longer assuming we can fully offset the impact from the medical device excise tax and still deliver double-digit EPS growth and now target adjusted per share EPS in a range of $4.25 to $4.40 up approximately 5% to 8% which includes an estimated $100 million impact from the medical device excise tax.
Excluding the tax we are targeting 9% to 12% EPS growth.
This guidance does not assume any significant increase in share buybacks.
The one question you may have is how do we reconcile the downward revision to 2013 guidance in light of our recent Analyst Meeting where we provided additional details around the drivers of our EPS target.
The deciding factor behind our new target was not a function of whether or not we could deliver 10-plus percent EPS growth in 2013 but rather in light of the current environment particularly as it relates to Europe and capital globally what impact would such a degree of leverage have on our future growth prospects.
Against that backdrop a decision was made to revise downward with a range which we believe allows for meaningful earnings leverage particularly after factoring in the excise tax but still enables us to make the necessary investments to drive our performance long term.
In closing Q3 presented challenges while also underscoring the potential we have to deliver solid underlying revenue growth.
Although the issues impacting our International businesses will not be resolved in a single quarter I'm confident that we will be taking the necessary measures to ensure we first get back to market growth while also ensuring we are realizing the leverage in the P&amp;L.
We have a number of important product launches underway throughout the company coupled with a focus on driving greater operating efficiencies through our global quality and operations teams which will drive $500 million of cost savings over the next 5 years.
In summary with our revised guidance we are well positioned to deliver on our expectations and build upon our leadership position.
With that I'll turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
My comments on today's call will focus on our planned acquisition of Surpass Medical which further broadens our presence in the neurovascular market and reflects our commitment to delivering complete stroke care.
Specifically yesterday we announced the definitive agreement to acquire privately held Surpass in an all-cash transaction for $100 million and up to an additional $35 million of milestone payments.
By way of background Surpass was founded in 2005 with a focus on developing and commercializing next-generation flow diversion stent technology to treat brain aneurysms.
Surpass' key product the NeuroEndoGraft family of flow diverters is designed to redirect blood flow away from an aneurysm using a unique mesh design and delivery system allowing a stable clot to be formed within the aneurysm pouch.
With this acquisition we are continuing with our M&amp;A strategy which is focused on our core and key adjacent markets.
Recall that in early 2011 we acquired Boston Scientific's market-leading Neurovascular business which significantly broadened our limited presence on the neurosurgery market with a focus on the hemorrhagic stroke segment.
In October of last year we entered the ischemic stroke segment with the acquisition of Concentric Medical which in August received 510(NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) clearance of its latest generation Trevo stent retriever system with commercial launch now well underway.
Surpass should enable us to further build on our global product offering and leverage our considerable sales and distribution infrastructure.
We believe gaining access to the fast-growing and highly innovative flow-diverting stent market is an important component in our strategy to offer our customers complete stroke care.
With the NeuroEndoGraft we will be able to treat large and giant unruptured intracranial aneurysms and provide physicians with another option to complement our market-leading portfolio of coils.
The NeuroEndoGraft is CE Marked with a limited launch underway outside U.S.
In addition Surpass will begin enrolling patients in an IDE clinical trial in the fourth quarter of this year.
Overall we are excited about the opportunity to use the strength of our balance sheet to continue to make targeted acquisitions that we believe will help drive accelerating core revenue growth.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dean.
Thanks Katherine.
As noted solid sales growth in the U.S.
anchored our 3.9% core average daily sales growth in the quarter which compares to 2.7% in quarter 2.
With one less comparable selling day in the current quarter the company posted sales growth of 1% on a reported basis and 2.9% in constant currency.
With regard to earnings we delivered adjusted diluted net earnings per share of 97% -- or $0.97 excuse me representing growth of 6.6% over Q3 2011.
On a GAAP basis diluted net earnings per share were $0.92 an increase of 9.5% versus Q3 2011.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP EPS was provided in the tables accompanying today's press release.
In reviewing the quarter I will start with a discussion of the components of our revenue growth.
In the third quarter volume and mix contributed 3.4% to our top line growth acquisitions added 0.4% and currency decreased top line sales by approximately $38 million and decreased our overall reported sales growth by 1.9%.
Pricing pressure remained stable with companywide selling prices down 0.9% globally.
Looking at our reporting segments I will start with the Reconstructive products which represented 43% of our sales in the quarter.
Reconstructive products include our hip knee trauma and other reconstructive lines.
Our Reconstructive segment saw sales decrease by 1.1% as reported and increased by 1.1% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
sales led constant currency growth with Knees up in the mid-single-digits reflecting the early impact from our GetAroundKnee direct-to-consumer campaign.
And our U.S.
Trauma sales posted an impressive increase of roughly 11% in the quarter.
Turning to Hips the approximate 2% increase reflects tougher year-over-year comparisons and a modest impact from the Rejuvenate recall.
These gains were partly offset by weakness in our International Reconstructive business where sales declined 4.1% in constant currency with Europe experiencing continued softness and Japan negatively impacted by the April 2012 reimbursement of price reduction on implants.
Next I will turn to the MedSurg product segment which represented 38% of sales in the quarter.
For reporting purposes MedSurg is comprised of Instruments Endoscopy Medical and the Sustainability Solutions business.
In total MedSurg sales increased 1.7% as reported and 3.1% on a constant currency basis.
These results were led by growth from our Instruments and Sustainability Solutions businesses.
Instrument sales growth was hindered by the Neptune Waste Management System recall which adversely impacted sales by approximately $8 million in the quarter.
We expect the recall to negatively impact sales by about $16 million in the fourth quarter.
As we work with FDA to address the requirements for the Neptune 510(<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) we anticipate regulatory clearance is unlikely prior to sometime in 2013.
Medical sales were strong on a small base overseas while the U.S.
was down modestly due in part to challenges with hospital capital budgets.
Endoscopy posted a small sales gain in the quarter as the full benefit of the new 1488 camera launch is not yet been realized given the late second quarter launch coupled with some minor product issues that are being addressed in the field.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represented 19% of company sales had a very solid quarter.
Sales increased 4.7% as reported and 6.9% on a constant currency basis.
Acquisitions added 2.1% to the constant currency gain reflecting the performance of the Concentric acquisition.
Our Neurovascular NSE and Interventional Spine platforms all generated double-digit constant currency growth.
As it relates to Neurovascular we would highlight that Q3 saw a continued strong uptake for the Target Coil while the early launch of the Trevo stent retriever is off to a solid start.
Core spinal implant sales were down slightly on a constant currency basis.
I will now turn to the income statement beginning with our gross margin performance.
On a reported basis gross margins finished at 68.1% while adjusted gross margin finished at 68.2%.
The adjusted gross margin represents a 20 basis point improvement on a year-over-year basis almost flat sequentially.
Research and Development finished at 5.6% of sales consistent with the prior quarter and our overall expectations.
Selling general and administrative costs represented 38.5% of sales.
Adjusting for restructuring- and acquisition-related charges SG&amp;A finished at 38.2% of sales.
The unfavorable year-over-year comparison results primarily from a favorable resolution of a value-added tax issue in 2011.
Reported operating income increased 1.4% over the prior year and was 21.9% of sales.
Adjusted operating income decreased 2.6% and the adjusted operating margin finished at 22.9% primarily as a result of the relative increase in selling general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales.
Other income and expense reduced pretax income by $6 million in the quarter down from $10 million in the second quarter.
Components of this included investment in interest income of $12 million offset by interest expense of $16 million and a foreign exchange transaction loss of $2 million.
The company's effective income tax rate was 20.5% for the third quarter of 2012 compared to 24.1% in the prior year.
The lower effective tax rate in the current year results primarily from favorable tax adjustments as well as the finalization of our 2011 U.S.
income tax return.
We expect the effects of the tax rate for the fourth quarter to return closer to the rate experienced in the first 2 quarters of the year but with a downward bias.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $3.9 billion of cash and marketable securities an increase of approximately $450 million from year-end 2011.
As a reminder we have $1.75 billion of long-term debt on the balance sheet.
On the asset management side accounts receivable days ended the quarter at 59 which represented an increase of 1 day compared to both the prior year and last quarter.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 183 which was up 9 days sequentially versus the second quarter and up 7 days when measured against the prior year.
Inventory days traditionally spike up a bit in the third quarter due to slightly lower seasonal sales.
In addition we are building inventory in preparation for the upcoming manufacturing plant transfers associated with the neurovascular acquisition integration.
Turning to cash flow.
In the quarter we generated cash flow from operations of $569 million up significantly versus last year.
Year-to-date we have passed $1 billion in operating cash flow an increase of 31% versus 2011.
And finally in the third quarter we repurchased approximately 350 000 shares of stock at a cost of $19 million.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 2.1 million shares and have spent $108 million to do so.
We currently have open share repurchase authorizations totaling $595 million.
And with that we will now open the call up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Unfortunately it's not the quarter you probably wanted to start off on.
Let me ask you first just on the capital equipment side and really I think if we're -- if we're saying we're surprised by one side of the business it's going to be more the U.S.
Instruments and Endoscopy even obviously backing out the Neptune impact.
So can you separate your view of what's going on in the U.S.
versus what's going on in Europe? I think we've heard a number of reports this week and I think we'll hear more about Europe but it seems like both markets are weak not just Europe.
Mike I'm going to assume it's good to hear my voice too but I’ll just -- maybe I'll just start with a couple of specifics and then I'll hand it over -- Kevin can take the European component.
The Instruments piece I would highlight we're continuing to see really nice growth for our System 7 heavy-duty power tool.
The capital component there was a trend similar to the second quarter it was up over 25% but we were impacted by Neptune in the quarter which reduced revenues associated with that recall by about $8 million in the third quarter and we'll see another impact again here in the fourth quarter.
And then on the endo piece which also has about 40% of their revenue tied to capital there wasn't -- we did launch the 1488 Camera late in the third quarter.
That launch is underway.
We did have some I would call it relatively minor technical issues that we typically see manifest as volumes start to ramp.
Those have been resolved.
And given some of the improvements associated with that camera relative to the prior generation we would expect to see accelerating growth there.
But those were 2 of the out-of-the-norm of factors that did impact instruments in endo specifically in the U.S.
Yes Mike and certainly you're right this is a -- certainly a challenging quarter in some respects certainly a lot of other businesses were very healthy.
As we mentioned the U.S.
businesses were very healthy.
Last quarter we talked about challenges in Europe and Japan.
Those challenges continued in the third quarter.
And we're seeing capital slowdowns occurring really all over the world.
So we really have a challenge in Europe that we have to address.
We normally see September as a month where the sales will pick up.
Even in Medical here in the U.S.
we didn't see the kind of pickup we were anticipating.
And certainly in Europe the normal pickup that we would have that we had factored into our projections did not materialize.
And so we're now assuming that this is a new normal at least for the next little while.
And that's the reason for our adjustment to the guidance for both 2012 and 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can step back just one follow up here just on the big picture with your taking over as CEO of the company can you just spend a minute talking about where you would like to see the company focus its resources and its capital and how the strategy would evolve? What are your thoughts behind that? Surely you have some thoughts and maybe just some preliminary ideas on how the direction that Stryker may shift a little bit now that you're at the helm? Well thanks.
Well first of all I feel honored to be leading this great company.
And let me start by saying that Stryker has a bright future which we were able to share with many of you at the Analyst Meeting the recent Analyst Meeting.
Regarding our strategy you should not expect significant changes to our overall strategy which focuses on quality innovation and cost as well as a balanced approach to capital allocation.
However as mentioned in the Q3 results we need to be much more aggressive in certain areas such as the European turnaround.
And you can rest assured that focus on International is something that we will continue to drive particularly in the emerging markets which we shared with you back in September.
So I would say that the strategy's going to continue to evolve but I would not be expecting any major shifts in our strategy.
Your next question is coming from the line of Bob Hopkins Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> First question for me is I'd like to focus on International and specifically Europe.
Can you give us a sense as to the growth rate in Europe and how much that might have deteriorated this quarter versus last? And also comment how much of Europe do you think is your own company-specific struggles versus a market slowdown in things like Hips Knees or Trauma? Okay thanks Bob.
What I would say is we pass in the second quarter we experienced mid-single-digit declines in our sales in Europe.
And I would say that it's a combination of the market being difficult as well as our own problems particularly in Southern Europe and also in Germany.
So we have new management that's underway with a very clear plan going forward as we mentioned recently in September.
This is something that's going to take multiple quarters before it gets fixed.
It won't be resolved in one quarter.
But I would say it's probably split evenly between market challenges and we are clearly losing some market share in Europe and as I had mentioned before it's job one is to get the European turnaround going.
Research Division</strong> Did it get worse in Q3? No it stayed the same.
It did not improve.
We were anticipating some level of improvement; it did not improve.
It was at same level as Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one other quick follow-up is one can you give us a sense as to what kind of organic top line growth you might be assuming for 2013 in your guidance? And then Dean did I hear you correctly that on a same-day sales basis organically you think you grew about 3.9% in the quarter versus 2.7%? And if that's right what got better sequentially? That is right Bob.
And I would say our -- in our U.S.
franchises and particularly our Reconstructive business continued to have a very nice quarter.
Knees as you saw did well.
Trauma had a very nice quarter.
So that's primarily where you're seeing that improvement.
Just to address your first question we are not giving specific guidance right now related to 2013 sales.
We'll be doing that in January as we customarily do.
But you could assume that there won't be a significant change in our sales growth versus what we're experiencing right now.
The next question is coming from the line from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up I guess to Bob's last question on the top line and I appreciate you don't want to give specifics but I guess in light of capital equipment kind of flowing down here I guess can you help us get comfortable as to why there wouldn't be a significant change? You're saying that Europe is going to take several quarters to kind of get back on track and I guess it seems a risk at least from how you're posing it seems more on the downside for MedSurg.
So should we read into this as greater confidence in Reconstruction next year? Or perhaps with some of the new products coming from the neuro side? Yes Kristen I -- just to make sure we're clear on for next year although we're not giving top line guidance what we're indicating around the bottom line and how it would be affected by the top line is don't anticipate any real change relative.
Right now we're at 2.5% to 4% full year targets for 2012.
And I don't think anybody should anticipate anything meaningfully different from that when we do set our top line guidance next year.
And that does assume that Europe as Kevin mentioned is going to take a little bit of time for us to turn that around and get back at to the very least market growth.
While other segments of the business have been performing well as we mentioned with exception of Medical we saw positive growth for every one of our U.S.
franchises.
We got nice product launches underway for Neurovascular and some ones pending there as well.
And then we also would assume that the 1488 Camera in the Endoscopy division starts to see better traction as we've worked through some of the initial glitches.
But don't assume -- what we're trying to say is the top line growth expectations we have are going to be somewhat similar to what we're experiencing in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The 2.5% to 4% is that organic or is that just like a constant currency? Yes.
That is core underlying growth exclusive of impact from acquisitions and currency.
Your next question is coming from the line of Richard Newitter from Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe as you could talk a little bit about the range that you gave for 2013 on the EPS line.
Can you maybe tell us where you see -- what factors you see getting you to the lower end? What has to happen? How much of it’s deterioration in the markets do we have to see in Europe? Is that a worst-case scenario in the U.S.? And what about the same thing on the upper end? And does the upper end factor in any potential share buybacks? I would say right off the top that that these ranges do not include any meaningful change in share buybacks.
So the reason for the range really has to do with the uncertainty in the market conditions both in Europe and with capital equipment globally.
So if we look at 9% to 12% before the excise tax that's a pretty meaningful degree of earnings leverage if you consider Katherine's previous comment regarding what type of sales you should be expecting.
With the mix of businesses that we have within Stryker and the mix of geographies the puts and takes between each one I'm not really going to really speculate right now but suffice to say that when we look at the overall landscape we expect the growth rate in that if you say roughly around the 4% range and you consider EPS growth in the 9% to 12% before the device tax that's a significant degree of leverage but it's not pushing us past the point where we'd start to compromise long-term investments.
So I prefer to sort of keep at the macro level because there always are moving parts in our businesses and if we start narrowing it down it'll kind of lose the picture.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe just one follow-up on hip growth this quarter.
I know you said that there was an impact from the product recall in your modular franchise modular stem franchise.
Can you quantify that for us in any particular way? And just maybe describe what -- how you're having conversations with customers there? Is it just more difficult to get them to switch to other non-modular stem products? Yes.
So what I'd say is you have to remember that especially the U.S.
we've been the leading growth company in the hip business for probably 7 or 8 quarters.
So if you look at our comps versus our competition we had much more difficult comps this quarter for Hips.
Certainly it was a modest impact related to -- switching for a customer is always a little bit challenging.
The majority of our customers had switched to one of our other stems a nonmodular stem.
We have had a couple of customers express concern.
There certainly was a bit of disruption from their day-to-day activity of surgery as they had to contact patients and receive calls.
So it was a quarter that had a modest impact but I would say the bigger issue was really the comps.
And certainly our customers have continued to be pretty loyal and we've been able to ship for the most part all of our customers to other stems within our portfolio.
Your next question is coming from the line of Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up I guess for Kevin your comments on the International growth understanding that'll take more than a couple of quarters to resolve but I don't know if you commented on timing or the duration of the kind of challenges you're seeing on the capital side in general for MedSurg or Medical.
If you could maybe talk a little bit about what you're seeing there in the U.S.
what specifically has gotten worse.
And then maybe your confidence in turning the camera issues the glitches that you mentioned Katherine around in the next -- is that a quarter is that a couple of quarters some color on that would be helpful.
And I have one follow-up.
Yes thanks Matt.
So as it relates to the 1488 Camera and the issues we saw those have largely now been resolved.
Now as I mentioned we've got some great improvements with this camera.
The image is 52% brighter there's 33% more lines of visualization.
So the image here is terrific and we've normally seen when we launch a brand-new camera these early glitches that honestly are just not readily apparent until you get them out in the field and the volumes ramp.
So that issue has been resolved and we would expect to see the normal pattern as it relates to the ramp-up for a new camera.
Within Instruments you're aware we have the Neptune recall and that will take us some time as we work through with the FDA to resolve that issue and that will impact a portion of their capital business probably about $25 million revenue impact in the fourth quarter and we would expect to have that 510(<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) clearance sometime in 2013.
So those are some very product-specific issues that we can put our arms roughly around a time frame for resolution.
The other component as it relates to Medical on both a U.S.
and a global basis.
And it's not that we're seeing a return to what happened in '09 where we saw significant percent of hospitals go into either a frost or a freeze mode but we are seeing capital decisions take longer.
They are being scrutinized more heavily and are requiring more approvals within a hospital.
We're also seeing smaller hospital capital budgets and also some anecdotal evidence of continued focus on IT spending which we had highlighted earlier in the year.
That segment is probably the one that's the most difficult to predict and is part of our more cautious stance as it relates to the top line.
So whether or not that gets resolved in a quarter or 2 or lingers into 2013 I think it's just an uncertainty right now.
Research Division</strong> And the reason for that just to -- anything bubbling up in the channel the reasons for those cuts or lengthening purchasing cycles? It's -- a lot of this has to do with the hospitals are finding themselves concerned about reimbursement cuts and their overall financial health as healthcare reform plays out.
And that's still a black box for a lot of us.
So until we see some of the impact of the Affordable Care Act we are seeing some more cautious stance by our hospital customers.
Research Division</strong> And then one question on the actions you're taking overseas and the -- you understand that's going to take a little bit longer weighing on your European business say on the recon side.
The one surprise I guess you mentioned the modular hip on the U.S.
Hip side having an impact.
But it was a little bit of a bigger dip than we would've expected given the size of that modular hip in your franchise.
Is that -- was there anything else that happened here in the third quarter anything in terms of seasonality or pricing or competition that you could call out as having an impact on Hips? Well yes let me just go back and say of the 3 factors that really affect the growth rate that you're looking at I would say that the -- if you look at the first impact it's really just one less day.
So it does make a difference if you look at the average daily sales rate we had one less day in the quarter that's probably the biggest or at least one of the biggest impacts.
The second impact which we'd mentioned earlier in our statements was the comps and I think that probably is the biggest item.
And then the last one is the modular impact.
Because you're right it's not a huge percent of our sales but it did cause some disruption at the customer interface.
But we had very very strong comps in the prior quarter.
We had one less day.
So if you look at our Knee business as well with one less day you can see that that was very strong performance.
But certainly we are not concerned about our hip business.
Our Accolade II stem is launched and is gaining traction.
So we really feel very good about our hip business and it's been a run that we've been in on quite some time.
It is a little bit of a dip in the overall growth rate but not something that we're concerned with.
Your next question is coming from the line of Matt Taylor from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could go into a little bit more depth on Europe.
I know we touched on this but you mentioned the changes in leadership distribution.
But can you maybe go into some of the specific changes and talk about what gives you confidence that you're going to be able to turn things around there? And sort of what the timing or the shape of the curve would be over the next couple of quarters? Well Europe we have 2 problems right? So with the first problem we have is a top line problem where we're not going as fast as the market.
It's obviously a different market but we're not growing as fast as the market.
So we really need to address Southern Europe and as I mentioned in Germany we're looking at different distribution approaches there.
It's not something I'm really ready to comment on just yet.
But the team has a very active action plan related to recovery on the top line.
And the secondary we have to look at is our cost structure.
So obviously in the light of this changing marketplace we're going to be taking more aggressive action related to back office and other areas in Europe.
So those -- it's a two-pronged strategy as I mentioned I think twice already.
It’s the #1 focus is really getting Europe turned around.
At this point I'm not really ready to go into more specifics regarding that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That sort of ties into your broader theme where you talk about leverage and investments and lowering the earnings guidance I wanted to understand in terms of the leverage that you're talking about in the earnings versus top line how much of that is in the P&amp;L versus share buyback? And then have things changed in your mind over the last few months with regards to a weaker environment changing how you think about investing or the cost structure maybe you could talk a little bit about that? Well if you look at the degree of leverage clearly the sales expectations are now below what we were initially planning on.
And the degree of leverage that we talked before device tax of 9% to 12% earnings growth off of a lower sales base of let's say in that kind of 4% range that's a healthy degree of leverage.
If we push the leverage beyond that then we're going to be looking at curtailing investments.
And there are a very robust pipeline of R&amp;D investments that I'm really not wanting to compromise.
We're continuing to invest in some dedicated sales forces in fast-growing markets.
I'll give you one example our foot and ankle business unit in the United States grew 27% in the third quarter.
It was part of that contributor to the great trauma and extremities results in the U.S.
So we have very very fast-growing business that we need to continue to feed.
And even outside the U.S.
if you look at emerging markets we continue to have robust growth.
And as we mentioned in the Analyst Call in September we plan to increase those investments in 2013.
So being able to make key investments while still delivering a leveraged P&amp;L is really the plan going forward.
It's a plan that will sustain us for the next few years.
And if we push our leverage too far which really is if you look at 10% before the device tax it's closer to 15%.
On the kind of sales growth we're achieving now that's a very high degree of leverage and something that I think could compromise our long-term growth prospects.
Your next question is coming from the line of Dave Turkaly JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Back over to the hips for a sec could you comment on the mobile bearing side of your franchise.
I know that's been growing well.
Did that grow well in the quarter? And could you give us potentially a ballpark estimate of what that is of your mix today? Yes mobile hip business represents -- the mobile hip -- the total cups is roughly 22%.
It continues to grow well and it's -- those are used in both revision and primary procedures.
So that percentage has been creeping up and it's continuing to be a very successful product.
There's actually a lot of competitors that are now entering at the mobile bearing category which is great news for us which is an indicator that this is going to be a good market for the future.
Our field really was more focused on Accolade in the last quarter which is really gaining traction very quickly and is now I believe the #1 stem in the United States.
So it grew extremely fast.
So that's really where there's been a little bit more focused.
We'll get the balance back right going forward in both the stem and the cup will be a great combination.
Your next question is coming from the line of Jason Wittes Brean Capital.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just wanted to ask on the comps for Recon.
I get what you're saying about MedSurg in terms of the visibility being challenged also about Europe.
But I also look at the recon comps and they definitely will be tougher next year especially in the U.S.
Should we be factoring that into our models? And what drivers are there left for next year to offset some of those tougher comps? Yes.
We're not going to get into specifics in terms of the components of top line growth for next year and we're not really giving a specific guidance other than to say it's probably not that dissimilar for this year.
We are seeing some good momentum in the U.S.
on the knee side.
A lot of that is tied to our GetAroundKnee campaign.
And we indicated we'll continue to evaluate whether we'll maintain that program depending on the traction we're seeing.
But right now we're pretty pleased with the early uptake.
And on the hip side we also see some pretty good momentum recognizing the difficult comps we saw this quarter and also adjusting for one less selling day.
I think we are seeing more normalized growth rates as the market starts to get back to something that approximate underlying growth in that mid-single -- low to mid-single digits range and there's no real reason we would expect a big change next year nor are we expecting a bolus of patient to represent.
But beyond that I'm not going to get into too many specifics about the key segments and what the assumptions are behind 2013 growth.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay then just a quick housekeeping follow-up question on Neptune.
Did you say $16 million or $25 million? And I guess you're also saying that in terms of when that gets back on the market and that would be the impact for the last quarter and in terms of the impact -- in terms of when it gets back on the market you don't have great visibility.
But I assume -- it's fair to assume sometime in 2013 that it would get back in the market? Yes.
We're working with the FDA right now regarding the 510(<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) clearance requirements and I would assume right now it's difficult to predict with the FDA exact timing but we would say sometime in 2013.
I apologize; I did say $25 million for the fourth quarter that's the full H2 effect.
So you're looking around $8 million in the third quarter and something closer to $16 million or so revenue impact in the fourth quarter.
And that would fall within the Instruments line.
Your next question is coming from the line of David Lewis Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Kevin I just want come back to it sounds like based on your preamble remarks that the reason to cut 2013 guidance is more about the need to invest and maybe less about a material change in the environment.
I guess the question we've gotten from a lot of investors this evenings is did you have enough time to sort of evaluate all the various investments that you stated that you may need to make in a matter of weeks to sort of feel comfortable that that guidance range for '13 sort of captures what you want to accomplish for investors long term? Yes.
Well first I would say is that I'm not an outsider that wasn't part of Stryker.
So clearly my view changes as I move into the CEO chair but I certainly was well aware of the environment that we are under.
September was a big surprise.
So the sales uptick that we were expecting September didn't materialize.
And when we project that forward when we look at what these trends are it really caused for rebalancing.
But I certainly wasn't starting from standing start.
I was obviously involved in the company understood the strategy and we really need to maintain our investments.
We really want long-term growth.
And when I looked at the actual degree of leverage that would require -- you guys do this math all the time.
If you look at that sort of 4% top line and you try to deliver something that's 15% on the bottom line that's going to come at a cost and that cost will be investments.
And so even though it's been only 2.5 weeks it has been sufficient time and this has been frankly a key focus of my first beginning in this job was really making sure we did our best to set a clear path for the future.
And certainly anticipating that this call was coming it became the top priority.
I have the luxury of having Dean here.
So in terms of replacing some of the open positions I can take some time.
Curt's been a great help in my early days as well.
So I do want to let you know this has been something that as a team we have worked on very thoroughly.
It's been -- it was obviously a great deal of thought was put into it but it's something we feel very confident about for the years ahead.
Research Division</strong> And then just maybe Kevin a [indiscernible] on your remarks about Surpass.
It has been a view that competitive flow diverter products have resulted in sort of pull-through on the coiling side you've been pretty adamant that you are growing at the market rate I think the last quarter.
So maybe help us understand are we still growing at the market rate on the coiling side? And in this window before you can get a flow diverter on the market do you still think you can continue to grow at market heading in next year? Thanks David.
Actually our coil business has been growing above market and that has been driven by the launch of our new Target coil which we've seen some great uptake and then we followed it on with the nanocoils.
So in terms of our market share gains we've been above market.
But at the same time the coil market has been impacted by the launch of competitive flow diversion stents which are probably around 15% of that total coil market.
Some of that is new procedures some of that does help coils but there is also some cannibalization.
So really pleased with the uptake for the coils but this was an important part of component to fully round out our bag and really allow us to demonstrate that commitment to having a full bag that addresses both hemorrhagic and ischemic.
Your next question is coming from the line of Raj Denhoy from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wonder if I could ask a bit about the spine business.
I think you posted about 2% in the quarter if I’m reading it correctly.
There's been a lot of talk about pressures in the spine market perhaps intensifying it again in terms of PODs and insurance push-back.
Do you have any general comments on how the spine business is fairing? Yes.
We haven't seen any really meaningful change and I've read some of the commentary about PODs.
They're obviously still there and we still see some surgeons switching over but there's been no meaningful change in either the push-back from payers who are looking for more clinical data or the impact we've seen from PODs.
So from our perspective the market's been relatively unchanged versus what we saw in the prior quarter and that includes negative pricing pressure.
We are benefiting from the broadened bag that we realized with the 2011 acquisition of Orthovita and getting a biologic there and some of the pull-through we've been able to realize but I wouldn't say we've seen a meaningful change in the backdrop in the spine market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just on the U.S.
Knee business.
You mentioned a couple of times that you are seeing some nice results from your advertising campaign.
I know it's still early days but have you given any thoughts to what that means broadly whether that's something you want to explore further as a company perhaps a real change in the way that you sort of do business here with these product? Yes this is certainly the first one where we've been broad scale in terms of direct-to-consumer.
I think the consumer will continue to be very important.
And as I mentioned in the September Analyst Meeting we are focused very much on power brands.
Knee is certainly more elective than hip.
The hip marketing team is thinking about whether the communication direct-to-patient would make sense.
We have no plans as of yet.
Certainly it makes more sense with knee being a more elective procedure.
But it's something for the future that we're certainly interested in and we're going to continue to explore.
Your next question is coming from the line of Bruce Nudell Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Kevin in your discussions with the board as this process progressed could you share kind of the top line and bottom line expectations for company performance over the midterm? Well I think we were pretty clear about the guidance at least as it relates to the end of this year and into next year.
My discussions with the board have been very good.
We expect Stryker to continue to be a high performance company with performance at the high-end of the medtech sector.
Beyond that I'm not really going to get into long-term numbers and what that means.
But don't misread this change in guidance as us changing in anyway our focus on being a high-performance organization focused on innovation quality and cost.
Research Division</strong> And I guess a follow-up to that now that you've taken over the reins could you share your view of given where you think the major joint market is going in the more kind of conventional segments of orthopedics do you feel that the company needs to diversify more into kind of science-based endeavors such as neurovascular where it's more the PMA process but maybe higher risk but higher reward? Well let me go back to the comment I made I think early on which is our core strategy really is not going to change fundamentally.
So in fact at the Analyst Meeting and Katherine laid out a very clear picture of our BD approach where we're really looking at our core markets and adjacent markets as being priorities to fill out our portfolio.
Long term we love being in the ortho space.
The demographics are clearly very favorable.
It's a very competitive market but we've been winning in this market.
Clearly there are some countries in the world where have work to do.
But overall we've been winning and we're clearly a major player and intend to remain and we're very happy to be in that market.
But again don't expect any major strategic shifts at least not in the short term.
And as our strategy continues to evolve we will keep you posted.
Your next question is coming from the line of Rajeev Jashnani UBS.
Research Division</strong> Some of the concerns we heard over the past few weeks just relate to ability to hold together the management team and defections.
Kevin I was wondering maybe you could comment on what your plans are in that regard whether it's bringing in additional folks you may have worked with in the past or how should we expect the senior leadership team to transition or stay relative to what we see today? Well first of all as you all know we have an outstanding management team at Stryker.
We have a deep bench at Stryker.
Clearly having somebody like Dean as I mentioned earlier helps really to stabilize.
We have a very strong finance organization but having Dean as somebody who has the history is -- the Secretary of the board as well on the team is a very stabilizing force.
The orthopedic business obviously I'll be looking to name a replacement there.
Both the CFO and the group orthopedic role we're going to be looking at both external and internal candidates.
It's not something I feel a big rush to name a replacement.
If I find somebody and the right person quickly I'll move.
But there's no big hurry.
As you saw our U.S.
orthopedic business is performing very well and has been all year and has a very strong management team.
So as it relates to defections we have a very very good management team.
It's not something that I'm very concerned about at least not in the short term.
Your next question is coming from the line of Joanne Wuensch BMO Capital Markets.
Could you please comment on price and volumes as it relates to your hip and your knee franchise in the last quarter.
Yes Joanne we break out the pricing as it relates to the 3 main business segments: Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotech &amp; Spine.
And that detail is in the press release.
We don't specifically break out hip and knee pricing and it is still net-net negative but we have been seeing a modestly improving trend with a nice mix component particularly on the hip side.
So net-net still modestly negative but consistent with some of the general area that we've been in.
Okay.
You talked about September being a big surprise.
How much of that is market related and how much of that is Stryker related? Well the big surprise really was specific or more highlighted towards some of our International businesses as well as some of our more capital-intensive business where we expected a stronger acceleration in growth than we realized.
And I think we'd point back to some of that as the markets clearly as we've seen in the news the European markets remain challenged but also some of that is clearly Stryker-specific.
So call it 50-50 half market half us.
Yes at least for the International.
As it relates to capital it's really more of the market than it is us losing any kind of share.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Matson Mizuho Securities U.S.A.
Research Division</strong> Yes so I guess just with regard to your new focus on the International markets Kevin Stryker as you talked about at the Analyst Day is a bit underexposed to some of the emerging markets relative to some of the other larger medtech companies.
And I'm just wondering if that's going to be a big focus early on? Or if you're really more focused on trying to fix Europe and Japan and sort of triaging and not as focused on building out the emerging markets at this point? Well obviously Stryker's a vast company and we need to focus on multiple areas.
I would say the more urgent or pressing problem is Europe.
But emerging markets we represent that would be roughly 6% of our sales in emerging markets which is clearly lower than what we would like to be.
So I wouldn't say it's one or the other I think we're going to focus on both.
But clearly Europe's turnaround is more pressing in importance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to ask the inevitable question on your use of cash.
I understand you've laid this out at the -- not you but the prior CEO laid this out at the Investor Day but it seems like we're kind of hitting the reset button here.
So just wondering would you be willing to increase your dividend in the future at a greater rate than you've done in the past just to give -- given the really strong cash flow that we saw this quarter? Yes.
I would -- just some comments from here and as you know our capital allocation has really been focused on using our cash for M&amp;A as evidenced by the most recent deal with Surpass announced yesterday buybacks and dividends.
And really if you look back since 2009 we've announced 10 acquisitions and that includes Surpass.
We've also have been investing significantly in our dividend.
It's grown at a compound rate of roughly 40% since 2006.
And since '08 we've repurchased roughly 2 billion of shares.
So we like this balanced approach to capital allocation and we're really not trying to signal a reset here as it relates to that.
There may be more or less of one in any given quarter recognizing that we've been increasing the dividend rate at a fairly consistent clip above the level of earnings growth.
The other thing I'd like to add is as you saw in our guidance we're not talking about buybacks as part of our guidance I really would like to decouple kind of EPS and underlying performance from whether we decide to do more or less share buybacks in the future.
Your next question is coming from the line of Matthew O'Brien William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Kevin I was just curious and Katherine back when you bought Boston Scientific's Neurovascular business you mentioned or you told everybody hey we're going to be growing below market rates for a while but we anticipate getting back to the market level in 18 to 24 months and now you've done that.
And so when we think about Europe and the investments that you have to make there would you be disappointed second half of next year if you're not back to market rates? Or is that more of a 2014 event more back to the market rates in Europe? Yes I'm not sure we can necessarily triangulate some of the objectives we've set out with Neurovascular to some of the action plans that we have underway.
In Europe Neurovascular was really tied to some product launches and some other initiatives.
I think at this point as we alluded to in our commentary this is a very big priority for us both in accelerating the top line and addressing the cost structure that we're not going to resolve in a quarter or 2.
I think right now especially given the state of flux in some of those European market it's probably a little bit premature to start pinpointing exactly when we would expect to be back to that level of market growth or exactly what level of growth would look like in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up question and correct me if I heard this wrong but it sounded like in spine your commentary about a growth in the quarter while still under pressure is a little bit better than we saw in Q2.
I think you said down low-single digits versus kind of 5% to 6% historically.
First of all is that right? And then secondly if that's true is it volume related or is it product [ph] specific related? Our premise were really intended to indicate that we weren't seeing a really meaningful change as it's related to the overall market either from the impact of PODs or some of the pushback that we were seeing from payers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But your business specifically it sounds like it got a little bit better so it's really more Stryker-specific than anything else? Core Spine modestly better but honestly it's not enough that we would signal a real change in the trend.
We have been seeing some very good growth in some of our more interventional-based spine products in our Neuro Spine ENT.
It's more that core Spine business that on the margin a little bit better but not enough to talk about a reversal of trends or really being out there doing something dramatically ahead of market growth.
Your next question is from the line of Larry Biegelsen Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kevin 2 questions.
First on pricing and recon it looks like it did get significantly better from negative 2.4% to negative 1.4% this quarter.
Why the improvement? Or where was it? This is Tony McKinney.
I've just chime in.
Really we saw relatively good improvement across all of our recon lines.
We've had a nice stable trend and it's been modestly improving here quarter-over-quarter.
So it's really across each of the lines.
Yes and I think at the marketplace you'll be hearing from the rest of our competitors and there is a sign that pricing is moderating.
It's a trend frankly we've seen for the last 2 quarters.
That trend continued this quarter.
It is a good sign for the overall recon markets certainly in the United States.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then lastly for me I'm trying to reconcile the acceleration in the growth per selling day in the third quarter the 3.9% versus I think you said 2.9% in the second quarter and what you saw in September and what that means for the fourth quarter? In other words sales per day accelerated the growth to 3.9%.
Is that -- how do feel about that acceleration going into the fourth quarter? Yes when we gave the guidance range of 2.5% to 4% which is underlying growth.
In the fourth quarter in terms of extra selling day we have 1 extra selling day so that will obviously impact the math as it relates to the core growth.
And on an adjusted basis on adjusted daily sales basis we were very pleased with our U.S.
performance.
As we mentioned the exception of Medical every franchise was in positive territory.
The comments that related to not seeing as much of an acceleration in the month of September was more specific to certain International geographies and some of our more capital-intensive businesses.
And I would just note those capital businesses tend to have less of an impact as it relates to an adjusted average daily sales just given the nature of those products.
Your next question from Jeff Johnson Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Katherine just following up on your International point around the MedSurg side of the business.
That business was up 7.5% constant currency.
A big part of that was obviously Medical.
Just wondering was there something onetime in the Medical that we should be looking to back out or nonrecurring to think about that Medical business or I'm sorry the whole MedSurg business is really trending in international markets at this point? No.
I would just note that the medical base outside the U.S.
is small so you are seeing the impact from just a lot of small numbers.
The comments we made about pressure on capital budget that's really not just specific to the U.S.
It's a global comment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Dean just one or no I guess it's Kevin for you a question just on the foot and ankle business you talk about that being up there nicely in the U.S.
this quarter adding some sales rep there not wanting to cut back on the sales rep investments then just wondering how you're thinking about product portfolio in foot and ankle do you need to add products to that portfolio as you add sales rep as well? We actually have a great product portfolio.
We had existing products within our Trauma business and then we combine those with the Memometal acquisition which we did the middle of last year as a very very complete.
We don't have a total ankle.
But to be honest it's not holding us back whatsoever.
Something that we're looking but not something that we feel we absolutely need.
So that would be the only product gap that I could point to.
But if you look at 27% growth roughly $20 million of sales in the quarter so you can see that we're actually not that far from the market leader Wright Medical and something that I don't think people really fully appreciate.
And we've just made this decision at the beginning of the year to focus on foot and ankle and it's really paying dividends.
So we have a great product portfolio.
The Memometal acquisition gives us a pipeline as well as new products.
So we don't really feel we need anything to take market leadership within a reasonably short period of time.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Lichtman Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> First question Kevin as you talk about the investments for next year and those that you want to retain how should we be thinking of them.
Are they primarily an R&amp;D? Is it targeted sales force investment? Or is it really keeping that U.S.
cash the powder dry there in case of a potential M&amp;A? No I would say one of the -- it's not because we want to keep the U.S.
cash powder dry.
We have a capital structure that's pretty flexible and we can do things.
So that would not be one of the reasons.
What I would say and I'll go back to the examples I think I may have mentioned it’s a combination.
It's pipeline and R&amp;D pipeline as a part of it.
Selective investments in sales forces in fast-growing spaces.
So that would be a second piece.
So it's really just -- it's a combination of making sure we preserve those kind of investments going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Katherine I know there's a lot of noise in the Instruments line with Neptune but can you talk about the powdered instrument rollout the new line is that fully out? How is that progressing? And is there any sort of cooling off in expectations based on some of your capital expense comments? No.
Within Instruments they had a great performance again this quarter with the System 7 power tool that we've launched late last year.
We had another quarter where the heavy-duty power tool capital component in the third quarter was up over 25% that's consistent with the levels we saw in the second quarter.
It really is indicative of the benefits of that new product offering.
Remember we have got 30 years of innovation history in power tools.
This has a smaller battery lighter weight and some other terrific performance features that are -- we're really able to leverage to a considerably vast sales and distribution presence.
So very pleased with that but the issues with Neptune did mask some of that growth as it adversely impacted total Instruments but we feel really good about the rollout and the traction Instruments are seeing with the power tools.
Your next question is from the line of Bill Plovanic Cannacord.
Research Division</strong> Just I've had some people ask as we look in Q4 and especially on the capital good side with the medtech tax coming to play do you see any buy in as we head through Q4 into Q1 potential in any of the businesses? No I wouldn't say that's what we're anticipating.
Our fourth quarter sales tend to be heaviest for capital that's just reflective of the nature of hospital capital budgets and that's a trend we see regardless of what's going on with the broader government actions and the tax but we're not anticipating any real change associated with that.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly just on SG&amp;A I think the spend was a little higher you mentioned September caught you off guard.
Is that something you adjust as you go into Q4 or is it something you wait to see how October and November go before any final adjustments are made? Yes.
So first of all it didn't really catch us off guard.
The year-over-year increase I think Dean mentioned really had to do with that onetime event that occurred last year.
So it was very similar level of spending as we had in the second quarter.
So it wasn't that we are caught off guard.
Where we missed was on the top line.
So the spending was kind of to plan the top line miss.
So as a result clearly we are and I'd mentioned I think a couple of times in certain countries we certainly are going to look at our spending and make some actions and start some action in the fourth quarter.
We have time for one final question.
The final question is from the line of David Roman Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just I wanted to ask 2 questions: one strategic and one on the P&amp;L.
The first one is as you think about the M&amp;A strategy and the company starts to get bigger and bigger what point do you kind of worry that it becomes somewhat unwielding [ph] from a management perspective particularly if you look at other examples across medical devices bigger has not proven to always be better.
So if you look at some of the operational missteps obviously in like Europe and things like that to what extent can you -- does it get harder to control things like that as the company gets bigger? Well I really don't think our missteps have anything to do with company size.
So if you look at our business in Europe we've been having some challenges.
They're really more to do with what I'll call the basics: management leadership and basics.
Making sure we stay close to the customer and don't get distracted.
So I really don't believe it has to do with size.
If you look at our acquisition strategy it's really core and adjacent markets which allows us to really be masters of certain service lines.
If you look at the orthopedic service line we are deeper in that service line than even a broad company like Johnson &amp; Johnson.
If you look at neuro now we're rounding out that portfolio and we're going to be very very deep in the neuro space.
So it's not that we're acquiring companies that are far field from who we are and the formula that we have to win really applies very well across this.
So it's not a size issue.
I'm not making any excuses.
We have to improve our performance but this situation outside the U.S.
has been frankly going on for a little longer than any of us would like and it's something that we are going to address as job one.
Research Division</strong> And then on the P&amp;L and if I look at the gross margin line since 2010 you're obviously down I think kind of 80 basis points or so on an adjusted basis if you just look at this quarter or even year-to-date.
But it looks like some of the higher-margin businesses like knees Neurovascular Trauma tend to be doing better.
Is there -- maybe what's going on the gross margin line that's dragged it down in the context of favorable mix? I mean you said that pricing has been pretty stable and in fact getting better? And is that therefore an opportunity going forward that something you can improve upon? Yes.
I would point to some of our prior comments that are associated with some of the acquisitions that we've made and the investments in our GQ [ph] and our own quality overall.
So those are 2 big buckets.
Recall that we have done 10 deals if you include Surpass 9 obviously excluding that since 2009.
We've had to make investments as we look to transition those to our quality systems and some of that has impacted the gross margin line.
And we've also talked about initiatives underway through Looney Carpenter and his broader organization in Global Quality and Ops that we anticipate will drive about $500 million of cost savings between '12 and 2017 but we've had to make investments there and that has impacted the quarter in some periods gross margin in some periods we've opted to make those investments.
So those are probably 2 of the big factors along with the normal noise you hear with foreign-currency et cetera.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
So thank you all for joining our call.
I look forward to beginning to meet with you in the months ahead.
Our conference call for the fourth quarter 2012 results will be held on January 23 2013.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Welcome to the Stryker's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Larisa and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that the discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo President Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Joining me is Dean Bergy our Interim CFO; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
In terms of the format for today's call I will provide opening comments and then turn the call over to Katherine for details regarding our recently announced planned acquisition of Trauson.
And then Dean will cover the financials.
We will then open the call to your questions where we will be joined by Tony McKinney our Chief Accounting Officer.
Turning to our Q4 results we finished 2012 with both revenue and earnings at the high end of our revised targets.
Fourth quarter sales increased 5.5% on a reported basis and up 6.1% in constant currency with no meaningful impact from acquisitions.
We did have one extra selling day in the quarter which added 1.7 percentage points to total company revenue growth.
For the full year sales growth excluding foreign exchange and acquisitions came in at 4.2% which is at the upper end of the 2.5% to 4% target we revised in October.
While the challenges in Europe and hospital capital equipment continued in Q4 this was offset by accelerated growth in many of our U.S.
businesses.
A key focus for our teams globally is accelerating revenue growth as we look to leverage our diverse product portfolio including internal innovation and the impact from our targeted acquisitions.
Looking at our 3 segments in more detail Q4 sales growth was led by 11% constant currency growth for Neurotechnology and Spine including a strong 10% U.S.
Spine growth.
Reconstructive posted a 7.4% constant currency gain powered by a 14% increase in U.S.
sales.
MedSurg growth excluding foreign exchange up 2.7% reflected the continued pressure on our medical business as well as the impact from the previously discussed Neptune waste management product recall.
However these challenges were offset by increasing momentum within Endoscopy behind our new camera launch coupled with solid gains in instruments excluding Neptune and double-digit growth for sustainability solutions.
On a geographic basis the U.S.
once again led growth in the quarter increasing 8.7%.
Outside the U.S.
we remain challenged particularly in Europe which declined in the mid-single digits on an operating basis.
We have taken specific steps to address our underperformance in Europe including filling key leadership gaps and implementing measures to drive better execution.
However as previously mentioned this turnaround will take multiple quarters and we don't expect to see improving momentum before the second half of 2013.
And while off a relatively small base we are encouraged by continued strong double-digit growth in emerging markets which will be further bolstered by the recently announced acquisition of Trauson Medical.
As Katherine will discuss shortly we are excited about the long-term potential of this acquisition as it expands our offering into the fast-growing value segment of the Chinese orthopedic market.
In addition to solid Q4 sales growth we delivered a 100-basis point year-over-year increase in adjusted gross margin which came in at 68.3% of sales.
Combined with a continued focus on managing our operating expenses our adjusted operating margin improved by 120 basis points versus the prior year coming in at 25.3% and helping to lift our adjusted diluted net earnings per share by 12% to $1.14.
For the full year adjusted per share earnings of $4.07 up 9% was at the high end of the $4.04 to $4.07 range which we reset in October.
In closing we are pleased with our Q4 performance and are encouraged by the momentum we see heading into 2013.
Without a doubt we have challenges that we will need to work through including driving the turnaround in Europe.
But we are also well positioned to capitalize on our diverse product offering and strong presence in a wide range of key markets within medical technology.
We are highly encouraged by the impact of our acquisition activity in recent years which has bolstered our own investments in R&amp;D.
For example our Memometal acquisition in July 2011 contributed to a robust U.S.
foot and ankle growth of 39% in Q4.
We have further strengthened our global footprint with the pending acquisition of Trauson Medical which we believe will be a key component to our long-term expansion in emerging markets.
As we turn to 2013 we remain focused on driving sales growth through innovation cross divisional collaboration and selected acquisitions.
We will continue to drive operating efficiencies in order to ensure continued margin expansion.
And we are committed to optimizing shareholder returns through highly selective M&amp;A continued growth in our dividends and share buybacks.
Given the strength of our balance sheet we are well positioned to pursue all 3 components of our capital allocation strategy as evidenced by the ongoing deal activity the recently announced 25% increase in our quarterly dividend and the expansion in our share authorization to $1 billion.
We are committed to delivering on our stated financial targets for 2013 which include sales growth excluding foreign exchange and acquisitions of 3% to 5.5% with adjusted diluting net earnings per share of $4.25 to $4.40 up 4% to 8% which includes the roughly $100 million pretax impact from the medical device excise tax.
Excluding the tax we are targeting an 8% to 12% increase in our per share earnings reflecting our commitment to both solid sales growth and leveraged earnings gains.
With that I will turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
My comments on today's call will focus on our planned acquisition of Trauson Holdings which expands our presence in the emerging market.
Specifically last week we announced that we will make a voluntary general offer to acquire all the shares of Trauson in an all-cash transaction for approximately $685 million.
Trauson was founded in China in 1986 and with sales in 2011 approximating $60 million the company is the leading trauma manufacturer in China and a key competitor in the Spine segment.
As some of you may recall Stryker and Trauson have maintained a relationship under an OEM agreement for instrumentation since 2007.
With this move we are expanding our presence in the key emerging market through a product portfolio and pipeline that has targeted the large and fast-growing value segment of the Chinese orthopedic market.
Importantly the acquisition of Trauson is a critical step towards broadening our presence in China and developing a product platform targeted at the value segment of emerging markets.
With this acquisition we gain access to Trauson's R&amp;D expertise as well as the strength of its distribution network.
Looking at the company's product portfolio Trauson has over 120 products marketed under its own brand as well as an attractive pipeline.
With well over 2 decades of experience in the Chinese orthopedic market Trauson has a well-established brand that it leverages to an extensive distributer network.
For Stryker the acquisition is consistent with our strategy of expanding our global footprint and increasing our exposure in the fast-growing emerging market.
As part of that effort we have prioritized China and the value segment of the market in particular as a critical market given that the device segment is growing at roughly 20% annually with the overall market expected to more than double in the next 5 years.
To date Stryker's presence in China has been focused on the premium segment which is dominated by multinational players.
However the value segment of the market is growing at a faster rate with local manufacturers the key players.
With increased government and private health care spending the value segment of the Chinese orthopedic market is expected to continue to expand at above global market rates and with the acquisition of Trauson we will be well positioned as a leading company to capture that growth.
We also believe we have the ability to further leverage Trauson's product offering into other emerging markets.
We expect the acquisition will close by the end of the second quarter of 2013 and excluding acquisition- and integration-related charges the deal does not impact our 2013 adjusted diluted net earnings per share target of $4.25 to $4.40.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dean.
Thanks Katherine.
As Kevin indicated strong growth in our U.S.
Reconstructive and Neurotechnology and Spine product segments helped us achieve sales growth of 5.5% on a reported basis and 6.1% in constant currency.
With respect to earnings we delivered adjusted diluted net earnings per share of $1.14 representing growth of 11.8% when compared to last year's fourth quarter.
On a GAAP basis diluted net earnings per share were $0.71 down 32.4% versus the prior year primarily as a result of the charge in the quarter related to the rejuvenate and ABG II product recall.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP net earnings per share is provided in the tables accompanying today's press release.
In reviewing the quarter I will start with a discussion of the components of our revenue growth.
In the fourth quarter volume and mix contributed 7.5% to our top line growth.
Price changes reduced sales by 1.4% generally in line with the levels experienced throughout the year.
In addition currency negatively impacted our top line by approximately $13 million and decreased our overall reported sales growth by 0.6%.
Looking at our reporting segments I will start with Reconstructive products which represented 45% of our sales in the quarter.
Reconstructive products include our hip knee trauma and other reconstructive lines.
Sales in the Reconstructive segment were up 6.7% as reported and grew 7.4% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
Reconstructive sales grew 13.9% in the quarter.
Trauma and extremities led the way in the U.S.
with 26% growth driven by new products expansion of our sales force strong growth in foot and ankle and a pickup related to a competitor's product recall.
In addition knees continue to benefit from our GetAroundKnee direct-to-consumer campaign posting 9% growth and hips with a 7% increase also had a very nice quarter.
U.S.
gains were partially offset by weakness in our international Reconstructive business where sales declined 0.7% in constant currency with the European sales down mid-single digits and most other developed overseas markets growing at low- to mid-single digit levels in local currency.
Next I will turn to the MedSurg product segment which represented approximately 37% of sales in the quarter.
For reporting purposes MedSurg is comprised of Instruments Endoscopy Medical and the Sustainability Solutions business.
Total MedSurg sales increased 2.4% as reported and 2.7% on a constant currency basis.
These results were led by growth from our Endoscopy and Sustainability Solutions businesses.
Endoscopy is starting to benefit from the launch of the new 1488 Camera as we have resolved the early technical glitches and are now in full launch mode.
Instruments reported mid-single digit sales growth as we continue to see solid gains for our Power Tools segment partly offset by the Neptune Waste Management System recall which adversely impacted sales by approximately $18 million in the quarter.
We expect this recall to negatively impact sales by about $17 million to $20 million per quarter until we obtain regulatory clearance.
As we work with the FDA to address the requirements for the Neptune 510(k) we anticipate this regulatory clearance is unlikely to be achieved in the first half of 2013.
As anticipated medical sales declined by 7.4% as this predominantly U.S.-driven business continued to be challenged by strong comparables and some belt tightening associated with hospital capital spending.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represented 18% of company sales had an excellent quarter.
Sales increased 9.7% as reported and 10.8% on a constant currency basis.
Our Neurovascular NSE and Interventional Spine platforms all generated double-digit constant currency growth.
Neurovascular saw a continued strong uptake for the Target Coil as well as nice performance from the recently launched Trevo stent retriever.
Core spinal implant sales accelerated to post mid-single digit constant currency sales growth helped by a double-digit increase from the Biologics products obtained with our acquisition of Orthovita.
I will now turn to the income statement beginning with our gross margin performance.
On a reported basis gross margins in the fourth quarter finished at 68.2% while adjusted gross margins finished at 68.3%.
The adjusted gross margin represents 100 basis point improvement on a year-over-year basis and it was in line with the previous 2 quarters of this year.
The improvement over 2011 was driven by favorable product mix continued cost reduction efforts from our global quality and operations group and a favorable comparative impact from currency all of which were partially offset by the negative impact of pricing.
Adjusted gross margin for the full year was 68.1% in 2012 compared to 67.9% in 2011.
Research and development spending finished at 5.5% of sales consistent with the prior quarter and our overall expectations.
Selling general and administrative cost represented 44.2% of sales.
These costs include a $174 million pretax charge related to the voluntary recall of our rejuvenate and ABG II modular-neck hip stems which was described in detail in the January 9 press release announcing our preliminary 2012 results.
The charge establishes reserves representing the low end of the range of estimated probable loss.
This recall is still in a very early stage and will continue to be evaluated at a quarterly basis based on information we receive related to the status of the recall.
Adjusting for the rejuvenate charge as well as restructuring- and acquisition-related charges fourth quarter SG&amp;A finished at 36.2% of sales.
This compares to adjusted SG&amp;A at 36.6% of sales in the prior year.
Adjusted SG&amp;A as a percent of sales finished 2012 at 37.2% in line with the prior year.
Reported operating income for the fourth quarter declined 11.5% compared to 2011 and was 15.8% of sales.
Adjusted fourth quarter operating income increased 10.7% and the adjusted operating margin finished at 25.3% a 120-basis point pickup versus the prior year primarily as a result of the significant improvement in gross margin.
Other income and expense reduced pretax income by $12 million in the quarter.
You'll recall that 2011's fourth quarter included a $27 million reduction in interest expense associated with recording a favorable tax settlement of the IRS' cost sharing arrangement.
Adjusting for this the prior year Q4 expense for this line would be comparable to this year.
Components of the current year's other income and expense included investment and interest income of $10 million offset by interest expense of $19 million and a foreign exchange transaction loss of $3 million.
The company's effective income tax rate was 24.6% for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to 7.4% in the prior year.
The prior year rate was reduced by the settlement of the Irish cost sharing arrangement as well as tax benefits associated with inventory step up and higher tax rate jurisdictions.
Excluding these items in 2011 our adjusted fourth quarter tax rate finished at 25.4%.
The current year rate was in line with our expectations.
The effective tax rate for 2013 will reflect the benefit of the adoption in January by the U.S.
Congress of the law to extend certain tax benefits applicable to the company.
The extension applies to both 2012 and 2013.
However the timing of the adoption dictates the 2000 tax year -- 2012 tax year benefit must be recognized in the first quarter of 2013 for financial reporting purposes.
Hence we will receive 5 quarters of tax benefit related to the extenders in our upcoming first quarter which is expected to positively impact adjusted EPS by approximately $0.04.
The total year tax benefit of the extenders is expected to be approximately $0.06 to $0.07 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $4.3 billion of cash and marketable securities an increase of approximately $870 million compared to year-end 2011.
As a reminder we have $1.75 billion of long-term debt on the balance sheet.
On the asset management side accounts receivable days ended the quarter at 55 which was down 4 days from the third quarter and 3 days compared to December 2011.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 153 which was down an impressive 30 days sequentially and down 5 days when measured against the prior year.
Turning to cash flow.
In the quarter we generated cash flow from operations of $596 million and we reported operating cash flow of $1.657 billion for the full year an increase of 16% versus 2011.
Finally in the fourth quarter we did not repurchase any stock.
For the year we repurchased 2.1 million shares and spent $108 million to do so.
During the fourth quarter our Board of Directors increased the amount of open share repurchase authorizations to $1 billion from $595 million.
And lastly turning to the outlook as we outlined in our January 9th press release for the full year 2013 we are projecting constant currency sales growth at a range of 3% to 5.5%.
If foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels we anticipate net sales will be negatively impacted by approximately 0% to 1% in both the first quarter and full year of 2013.
As previously communicated 2013 adjusted diluted net earnings per share including the estimated $100 million pretax impact from the medical device excise tax is projected to be in a range of $4.25 to $4.40.
With that we will now open up the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
One on the guidance and one on the U.S.
hip and knee market.
So maybe I'll start with the U.S.
hip and knee market.
You guys obviously had an extra selling day.
You had slightly easier comps.
And yet even excluding those you still seemed to produce a really good growth rate in U.S.
hips and knees this quarter.
I was wondering if I could get your just perspective on the U.S.
market.
How much of that do you think was share gains? Is there something real going on in the market? Just provide a little more perspective on the U.S.
hip and knee results that you put up this quarter.
Bob it's Katherine.
Maybe I'll just take a stab at it.
As you can understand this is probably a little bit tough to peg because we don't have everybody else's numbers in at this point.
We are certainly pleased with the momentum we're seeing in the U.S.
in both hips and knees and some of that is on the knee side from the GetAroundKnee campaign.
On the hip side some good products like Accolade which we launched in the second quarter of last year.
I think at this point at the very least the market is stable to maybe modestly improved in the fourth quarter.
How much share shifting we've seen it's just too early to predict until all the numbers come in.
But we feel pretty good about the stability of the market and certainly some of the momentum that we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on guidance for 2013 I'm asking this within the context of a fourth quarter operating margin number that was one of your better quarters of operating leverage in quite some time here in fourth quarter as you stated in your prepared remarks.
And so I'd just like to get a sense from you guys as to whether or not that can be sustainable throughout 2013.
And the way I'd ask the question is you gave guidance of -- using mid-points roughly a little over 4% revenue growth and then 8% to 12% EPS growth excluding the med tech tax.
So to get from that 4% to the 8% to 12% is most of that continued underlying operating margin growth? And if the answer is yes what's allowing you to finally enter a sustained period of operating leverage at Stryker? Bob this is Dean.
I mean obviously we've had 3 quarters of pretty good gross margin numbers.
We did have a very good quarter from an operating leverage standpoint.
Obviously this is a quarter where from a sales standpoint it's our biggest quarter in terms of the numbers that we put up there.
But I think we do feel good about our ability to drive some operating margin into it.
Obviously that was implied in what we had told you relative to guidance.
So we feel good about where the business is positioned.
We've done things with the Global Quality and Operations to start to give cost savings there.
And we're continuing to look at other places in the business where we can reach out for that.
So I think we feel generally pretty good about our ability to do that but it's going to be a steady drumbeat in terms of how we tackle it.
Our next question comes from Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups on that.
So if we look at the numbers that we've all seen over the last let's call it few weeks for the Recon market.
There's a suggestion out there that December in particular was very strong as patients getting their procedures in before the end of the year with the whole world becoming more seasonally shifted towards the back of the year.
Is that something you'd confirm or you have a view on? I would say at this point Mike we didn't see any big end of the quarter push or anything to suggest a seasonality or a push effect that was noticeably different than anything we've seen in other quarters.
Q4 tends to have more seasonality but obviously that's going to get reflected as it's in the base in the prior year.
So it just felt like a solid quarter again.
Don't know what the market did but I think we feel comfortable saying at the very least the market is stable to maybe modestly better.
But it didn't feel like there was any kind of one-timers in there.
Research Division</strong> And just as my follow-up can you discuss a couple of other markets that you're in that are growing very well.
You're obviously growing well above what market growth is.
But I'd like to get your view of what underlying growth looks like right now in foot and ankle where you've had an exceptional quarter and in Neurovascular where you've also had a very good quarter.
Both those markets look like they've accelerated and obviously you're growing at some multiple of market growth.
Mike it's Kevin Lobo.
I'm going to start with the foot and ankle.
Our sense of the market is that it's probably growing in somewhere in the 12% to 15% range overall.
Obviously we had an exceptional quarter growing at 39%.
If you recall we created a new foot and ankle business unit in January of 2012.
And after digesting the Memometal acquisition in the prior year combining our current products with those products took us about 1 quarter or 2 to get our stride.
We had a very strong third quarter and an even stronger fourth quarter.
So we're clearly outpacing the market but it is a good market.
The market is growing double-digit.
We obviously grew even faster than that.
And still see tremendous opportunity for growth in the market where implants historically had not been used.
So this is a market expansion story as well as a share story.
Yes.
On the Neurovascular side it's certainly seeing very solid momentum in that business.
It's what helped contribute to the total Neuro technology business that saw that double-digit growth in the quarter.
They -- the Neurovascular group since the time of the acquisition has continued to have a really nice flow of new products most recently the Target Coil and then in August of last year their earlier-than-anticipated launch of the Trevo device which we obtained through the Concentric acquisition.
So that market is probably still growing somewhere in the upper single-digit vicinity and part of that is procedure expansion and as new patients get identified and we feel pretty good about the outlook for that type of sustained market growth.
The next question comes from Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So just -- impressive across a couple of business lines here so there's lots of questions to ask.
But maybe on Spine you mentioned Biologics being a driver there.
But even with Biologics as a driver that was a pretty -- it was a pretty significant improvement in growth organic growth I should say.
Should -- and how should we think about that going forward? And maybe can you talk a little bit about that the way the dynamics that the Biologics is driving that business beyond just selling more Biologics? Then I have one follow-up.
Yes if I'm understanding the question correct I would say on the Spine side I think we'd like to see some more quarters of putting up some improving numbers but certainly the fourth quarter was an improvement with that core hardware business up in the single-digit vicinity mid-single digit vicinity as we're starting to see some benefits of greater focus on that business new leadership that was put in place a number of quarters ago.
And then when we did the acquisition of Orthovita a big part of the rationale similar to Memometal for doing these acquisitions in our core area is unlocking the value of those products that wasn't really achievable given the limited distribution in sales capabilities of the prior -- of the company as a stand-alone.
So putting that into our Spine sales force our distribution and marrying that with our product portfolio we've been able to drive greater momentum in that business and really unlock the value we saw in that Biologics product portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on Europe that's a region that's struggled a little bit for some time now.
And you talked about making some changes.
You've made some changes.
I guess I would ask when we can start to see the impact the results of those changes coming through the numbers.
And what's your confidence level that you've actually at this point identified the problems and addressed the problems fully? Sure Matt I would say that certainly in the third quarter we highlighted Europe as being a problem for us.
And I think we went into detail about the shift that we made from a franchise model from the country model to a franchise model and now we're sort of rebalancing our organization picking the best of both systems.
We have a whole new reorganization new country leaders have all been appointed.
We're starting to see already some early signs in Germany which is one of the problem areas Southern Europe continues to struggle.
What I indicated on the last call is the same thing I'll say now which is it will take us a number of quarters.
We should start to see improvement in the second half of the year.
You have to remember that in Europe implants represent a bigger portion of their business than they do in the United States.
And implant business historically have been a little stickier than our MedSurg businesses.
So it does take time to recover the business that we have lost over the past couple of years.
But I'm very confident as [indiscernible] as the new President who was appointed back in May and the number of -- the appointments he's made in the country I had some time to spend with them recently.
I'm very excited about those appointments and feel that we're on a good trajectory.
It's just going to take us a bit of time.
And so no surprise with the results that we posted in Europe and I would expect similar type of results for the first 2 quarters of 2013.
Matt Taylor from Barclays is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you about your restructuring.
Certainly starting to see some of that benefit flow through this year.
But can you talk about it qualitatively in terms of how -- what specific projects you're executing? How difficult they are to execute and how many more programs like this you think you might be able to do going forward to be able to offset some pricing pressure? Sure this is Dean.
A lot of what we're doing not surprisingly is in Europe.
A lot of it is also related to some of the things that we've done in Global Quality and Operations.
When we announced these projects we thought that we'd have about $100 million of annual savings.
We think about 1/3 of that will be incremental to 2013.
When we initially announced this we thought that the range of charges that we would take for restructuring would be somewhere in the $150 million to $175 million range.
We think now it could be up to $50 million higher than that.
And we would expect to get incremental savings ultimately of maybe of another 50% of that the $25 million that we -- or of the $50 million of additional spending that we might do on the high end of that range.
We do expect all of the projects to be completed in 2013.
That additional incremental savings will really flow primarily into out years 2014.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> That was great.
And I guess I just wanted to ask a cap allocation question.
You made the Trauson acquisition I was curious if you could give us thoughts on just the timing of that.
And I'm assuming there's no change to your overall cap allocation going forward but maybe just remind us what your goals there are in terms of the split of dividends repurchase and M&amp;A.
Yes there's really no change at all to the capital allocation strategy as we talked about and Kevin made in his comments on the call and it is 3-pronged.
Our first priority continues to be M&amp;A.
And we're going to remain very focused on our core markets and key adjacent markets.
And then we're going to do dividends and we announced in December a 25% increase in the quarterly dividend for 2013.
And then lastly buybacks and we upped the authorization to $1 billion.
And so given the strength of our balance sheet we really have the flexibility to pursue all 3 and we'll continue to do that and given that we really believe optimizing shareholder value is going to come from acquisitions that drives top line growth get us into fast-growing markets expand our presence globally while also looking to return income to shareholders.
David Lewis from Morgan Stanley is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Kevin just maybe a quick question for you and then maybe one for Kevin or Katherine.
Kevin when you think about trauma obviously a significant stand-out here in the quarter.
And I appreciate there's a lot of different dynamics going on in the market.
You obviously have a competitor recall.
But there's also a lot of integration going on across as many of the players.
And I also noticed you mentioned increasing sales reps.
I'm trying to figure out how much of this was really competitor recall.
How much is you selectively adding to sales and potentially gaining share opportunistically given some of this -- your distraction in the industry and to what extent do you think those gains if they're happening are sticky? Sure.
So I think you could estimate about 1/3 of our growth was really driven by the recall.
So 2/3 of the growth of the 26% you would say was just driven by core momentum.
And we really had a very good third quarter as well.
Then actually if you go back the last 4 or 5 years we've been really strengthening the trauma line.
This year we launched the Clavicle Plate.
We launched Hoffmann.
So we've been filling out our product bag and we are now able to really compete with Synthes even in Level I trauma centers something that we weren't able to do about 5 or 6 years ago.
So really great management consistent management that's filled out our product bag and a winning formula.
When -- you're right there's a lot of movement in the marketplace a lot of integration with competitors and we've certainly been opportunistic.
The stickiness related to the recall time will tell on that how sticky that will be.
But we feel very good about the momentum in the trauma business.
The additional reps were really primarily focused on the extremities areas in the foot and ankle area et cetera but really tremendous momentum.
We've been over the past few years specializing our reps sometimes just to carry a broader bag to be more focused on trauma.
That has definitely paid dividends for us and we are very bullish on trauma going into 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then either Kevin or Kath I wonder with Trauson if you could sort of take us through sort of that first 18 months and then sort of thereafter.
And I guess what I'm specifically driving at is just what is the game plan first 18 months in terms of do you use your breadth to drive better growth in China? And is that really the focus is to accelerate and grow the Chinese market? And to what extent maybe after 12 or 18 months do you think about leveraging this asset R&amp;D and distribution into other emerging markets or potentially the value segment in some developed markets? Yes I'll take the question David.
I would say that clearly as we indicated in our prepared comments the goal of this acquisition is to be able to leverage the product portfolio into other emerging markets.
But it'd be too soon right now having not even acquired the company to get into specific time lines.
And really the goal over the next 18 months is to continue to strengthen our knowledge of the Chinese market.
We participate in the premium segment but this gets us into the value segment of the market.
And the goal here is to begin to execute on driving more products and leveraging the pipeline that they have available to them.
So probably not going to get into a whole lot of specifics particularly since we haven't closed the acquisition but the overriding goal here was to continue to expand our footprint globally to get into what we view is the highest priority emerging market of China and in particular the value segment where M&amp;Cs [ph] don't really participate.
It's really dominated by local players and given our existing relationship we felt that this was a natural next step.
Dave Turkaly from JMP is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Was there any meaningful change in your distribution your sales force for Recon in the fourth quarter? No.
No no change at all to our model.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Trauson just quickly.
The value segment can you give us an idea -- I realize it's small -- but what the margin profile of your sales there would look like versus say what it looks like today in a domestic market? No that's probably a level of detail that we wouldn't go into.
I mean you can certainly look at -- Trauson's a publicly traded company and get a sense for their margin profile which is very attractive.
But we probably wouldn't get into that level of granularity particularly for a business of this size that relative to Stryker is not at a level we would break out.
Matthew Dodds from Citigroup is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> In knees it looks like Kevin you made good progress with the DTC campaign with GetAround.
Is there any potential to expand that into hips maybe or anything else? Great question Matt.
The hip team is actually looking into it.
I mean clearly you need to have a compelling concept if you're going to go on television and we have a compelling concept with knees.
Something that's very differentiated and something that's resonating with consumers as well as with our customers.
I can tell you we are planning to continue the knee initiative.
The hip team is studying it.
We have at this point not yet made a decision.
Because we really do need to have the concept that's very compelling before we would launch into that.
But it is under consideration and we'll keep you posted.
Research Division</strong> GetAroundHip is cool enough that [indiscernible].
I just have one quick...
We can see why you're not in marketing Matt.
Research Division</strong> Good point.
Katherine just quickly on the med tech tax is it in SG&amp;A or is it somewhere else? I don't know if you said that earlier.
It's going to be somewhere else.
Research Division</strong> Could you say where the somewhere else is? It seems a lot of people are putting it in gross margin is that not the case? Yes it was a -- you have the flexibility based on the latest rules to either put it in SG&amp;A or COGS.
We'll be putting it in COGS.
Michael Matson from Mizuho Securities USA is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to get your perspective on your knee competitive position given that we do have some new products coming from several of your competitors.
I know I've asked you this in the past but just given that they've shed a little more light on some of the features and benefits of their products I was wondering if you could give us an update on how you're planning to kind of fend off those new products.
Yes I think we're going to continue to execute on the strategy that we've outlined.
We're really pleased with the concept behind the GetAroundKnee campaign which is based on the fact that we have the only single radius knee on the market.
Triathlon is not a new knee.
But what's new is really differentiating and detailing in a much easier way to both customers and physicians the benefits of a single radius design.
And I think that's why this knee campaign has resonated so strongly.
So undoubtedly any new competitor coming out especially with existing surgeons they're going to see some receptivity to that.
But our focus remains on continuing to drive the features and benefits of that product which are really it is the only single radius knee on the market right now.
We wouldn't be continuing with the DTC campaign if we weren't really pleased with the metrics we're seeing.
And obviously the most important one being the revenue growth number.
So I'm not trying to be naive about new products coming on the market but feel really comfortable with the platform that we have and the attributes associated with Triathlon.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on the Neurovascular business obviously some really strong growth there.
And I think Trevo was mentioned as one of the drivers.
But is that the primary driver of the acceleration? Because I guess this was the first full quarter where that product was available in the market.
I would say it was a contributing factor but I wouldn't say it was the driving factor.
We have a new coil on the market.
We launched the nanocoil earlier in the year which is the smallest coil in the market and is very helpful particularly as a finishing coil.
So it's -- they've had some good product momentum.
I wouldn't necessarily say Trevo was the driver but certainly a contributing factor to that business.
Derrick Sung from Sanford Bernstein is online with a question.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question on your medical -- your beds business and the kind of environment for CapEx spending.
There have been some speculation that maybe CapEx spending was going to be shifting from -- within the hospitals coming from IT or to other areas.
And I guess maybe that doesn't look like it was the case this quarter but I was wondering if you could just give us some more color on how the hospitals are thinking about CapEx spending maybe how to think about it for the year.
Any color there would be great.
Thanks Derrick I'll take a stab at it.
And I think as you see from our fourth quarter results clearly medical is still challenges we had expected following Q3.
Some of that is a reprioritization of hospital capital spending around IT as we've talked about previously and some of it is smaller budgets and people really trying to understand what are going to be the actual implications of the Affordable Care Act and it's obviously very early in the year to understand all of that.
So we are not assuming a big rebound in that business.
Initially we're going to look at it cautiously and continue to flex -- or test flex what's going on with hospital capital budgets.
But it's an area of the business that I think is inherently going to be periods where capital spending is stronger and then there's going to be periods like we're in right now where it is more challenged.
We love being in this business but going along with that means a lot more volatility in this segment than we see in some of our other businesses.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up on pricing in Recon it looks like maybe it got 100 bps worse this quarter than last quarter.
Are you seeing anything different? Is that just kind of variations in quarter-to-quarter and any color there would be great.
Derrick actually in the U.S.
it was pretty comparable quarter-to-quarter.
We did see a little bit of a fall-off in the overseas markets.
Keep in mind that we do have for one more quarter this Japan price decrease and that was probably a little bit more of a driver in this quarter than it has been although it's obviously been with us for 3 quarters now and will sunset after the first quarter.
But the U.S.
Recon pricing was reasonably in line with where it's been all year.
David Roman from Goldman Sachs is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could start with gross margins.
Obviously you had a nice performance in the quarter and Dean you've provided some of the moving parts around the gross margin line.
But can you maybe help give a little bit more detail on magnitudes of some of those pieces underlying performance versus FX and then maybe put that into context of longer-term growth within the business and how you're thinking about higher-margin segments growing versus lower margin segments and what that actually means to the trajectory of the gross profit line? Well gross margin I don't want to belittle the topic but it is a very very difficult thing for us to fully get our arms around particularly when you talk of -- start talking about 20- or 30-basis point movements.
In terms of the pickup from the prior year last year I think we did call out a couple of things that impacted it quite a bit.
One was our mix and the other thing we had last year was a negative impact that we said was about 70 basis points from our decision to slow our manufacturing plants down.
So certainly on a comparative basis year-over-year you're seeing that.
I think in this year we called out the things that I think are important to us and I don't think there's any one that are significantly driving it more than others.
Obviously our implant business is our higher-margin businesses.
And those were pretty strong this quarter.
So certainly you can assume that's part of it.
But we're also as we've said we've got our Global Quality and Operations group continuing to make operational improvements.
And we think that will continue to help us.
And that's a piece of it but these are all small incremental pieces.
And certainly currency is one that's in there that kind of moves around from quarter-to-quarter and is a little bit harder for us to peg.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe on the guidance the 3% to 5.5% revenue growth for 2013 can you just provide -- maybe just go into a little bit more detail on some of the assumptions in terms of the end markets that underpin that guidance? The right way to think about it that you're basically taking the 2012 operating environment and assuming that stability is sort of the normal and that is the basis for the guidance? Were there any assumptions on the various businesses improving or deteriorating in your outlook? No David I think your comments are appropriate.
We have not assumed any type of acceleration or meaningful deterioration beyond the current trends we're seeing.
Kevin talked about not expecting a meaningful turnaround in our performance in Europe until the second half of the year.
But as it relates to the overall markets we're not assuming any big change no bolus of patients representing themselves.
I think most people have gotten comfortable with the fact that that's probably not the market dynamic we're going to see.
Rick Wise from Stifel Nicolaus is online with a question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First a follow-up on the trauma and the nail pickup in the quarter.
I think I missed it did you comment Kevin about how sticky or how you could hang on to some of this share you picked up just in the short run? Is it something -- is this a sustainable door that opened or an opportunity going forward? At this point it's too early for me to be able to tell you how sticky that will be.
And I think the honest answer is it will vary.
I think some customers who are very loyal to Synthes and who we've obviously bailed out in the short-term will go back.
But I think it's allowed a lot of other customers to see what Stryker can offer.
Because the Stryker they remember from 5 years ago in trauma is nothing like the Stryker of today.
So it really does depend on the receptivity of the account and our sales force's ability to show them the breadth of our offering which has increased dramatically over the past 5 years.
So I would expect some of it to stick but clearly not all of it.
But it will take some time before that plays out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my second question sort of a two-part to it I'd be sort of curious to know how you're thinking in larger picture Kevin about this whole value segment part of the world.
Yes because they are priced in developed markets you guys are targeting the value segment in China.
Maybe talk about how this opens the door to offering a broader value product offering outside the United States or even in developed world markets and how we can think about that theme playing out in years ahead for you.
Sure.
So obviously for us it's a very strategic move.
As you know the emerging markets only represents about 6% of total Stryker sales.
And even though we're very excited about the growth that we're experiencing in China and India and Brazil it's off a very small base and it's only in the premium segment.
So I would say initially the goal is clearly to operate these products in the emerging markets initially.
Over time clearly we could see and imagine certain markets that would have room for premium and value products.
I think that will take time before that plays out.
But in the short term we have tremendous opportunities in the emerging markets.
We're going to focus our energy in the short term the next sort of few years on the emerging markets.
But over time this does open the door and provide us with a strong brand and a history and a heritage of products that could one day land up in developed markets around the world.
Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital is online with a question.
First one big picture Kevin now that you've been there since October can you give us an idea what you're seeing and how you want to make your mark on Stryker? Well it's been a pretty active 100 days I would say.
I've had a chance to tour all over the world with Stryker and met many of the 22 000 employees.
It's been really exciting for me to see how strong our businesses are the strength of our leadership.
I would say that we really have 4 areas of opportunity and globalization is clearly one of them.
And you've seen with the -- not just the acquisition of Trauson but otherwise we have a lot of room to grow.
There's a lot of products that have been a great success within the United States that we have yet to really operationalize outside the United States.
So globalization innovation is a big area of opportunity in terms of broadening our lens beyond product only innovation looking at different business models.
Collaboration as a third area collaborating across divisions to drive value for customers we're seeing some of our divisions get together especially in the Neuro space as well as even in Ortho to drive value for the customer.
In the past Stryker was very decentralized and you wouldn't see that degree of collaboration.
So that's a cultural change that I'm extremely excited about still early.
But there's terrific opportunities there.
And then the last area I would say is cost optimization.
And Dean alluded to the Global Quality and Operations improvements that we expect to flow through the gross margin line.
But I would also say that inventories are a significant opportunity for us as well as in G&amp;A.
We are later than many organizations in moving towards shared services.
So despite the strength of our P&amp;L the strength of our balance sheet we still see significant opportunities for improvement coming from a very strong position.
In my first 100 days I see a lot of opportunity and teams that are very passionate and excited about getting after these opportunities.
And then on a specific question.
In Spine your revenue growth particularly in core products is poking it's head up a little bit so to speak.
What's going on there? Is it new products or new feet on the street? Yes Joanne I would just -- we're pleased with the fourth quarter results but it's a quarter where we're starting to see improved momentum.
So probably too early to say we've got it all figured out.
We've put new leadership in some time ago as I mentioned and starting to see the benefits of a renewed focus there leveraging the broader portfolio that we were able to augment with the Orthovita acquisition.
But I think we need to put up a few more quarters of showing that type of improved momentum before we really think we've got this definitively on the way to rebounding.
Yes and there were a couple of new products but nothing major in addition to obviously the Orthovita products.
So we -- they do have a little bit of a fuller bag but there wasn't sort of a blockbuster product that was the impetus.
Just terrific performance in the field.
Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets is online with a question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions for Dean.
First Dean I was wondering if you can help us out with 1Q EPS guidance.
You're getting the benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit which I think you said was $0.04.
The consensus for 1Q is $1.03.
Should we be raising our estimate for the tax credit or will that be reinvested? Now that's my first question.
The second is related to share buyback.
You didn't do a buyback in 4Q.
I believe you did over $100 million for 2012 then you've got the $1 billion authorization.
So should we assume a meaningful buyback in 2013? Sure.
On the R&amp;D tax credit what I would tell you is that that legislation was passed in early January.
Obviously we put out our press release on January 9 so we were certainly aware of that.
And we have our guidance outlined there in terms of kind of the way it flows by quarter.
So obviously it helps us in the first quarter but we were aware of it.
Certainly probably some level of it will be reinvested.
And we have a whole year to think about that.
But there are opportunities always to do things to help invigorate our business.
So I think the answer is I'm not going to comment on the specific number but you'll certainly see the way we've outlined -- the way our guidance progresses and we're comfortable with that.
On the share buyback question I think we've been pretty clear that that's part of our plan but it's kind of #3 in line.
So we certainly have some powder there and we would look to deploy that but I guess meaningful is in the eye of the beholder.
And I think you can expect to use some of that but it's certainly not something that we're saying you should think about as a meaningful -- a big piece of the driver of our EPS growth in 2013.
Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo is online with a question.
LLC Research Division</strong> One question on 2014 and then one question on the 2013 guidance.
First for Kevin on 2014 an incremental 12 million people or so will gain insurance in the U.S.
In your view do you think this could have a meaningful impact on the market? Or is it going to be kind of negligible? And then just had one question on the 2013 guidance.
But go ahead Kevin please.
Sure so as I think about this impact in 2014 I would say it's either neutral or maybe a modest positive.
I certainly think for our implant business the vast majority of these patients are being treated today.
There's not going to be an influx of new patients I don't think in that side of the business.
There could be a pickup in some of the MedSurg businesses potentially as you have more patients coming through possibly in beds et cetera where if you look at patient satisfaction being a key metric for Medicare reimbursement I think some of the hospitals that are looking to prolong may want to really invest because a bed is really seen as a very very key element of a patient satisfaction metric.
So I think we could say neutral to modest positive but certainly in our business there isn't -- we're not very excited by what this offers to us based on our patient demographic and the types of products that we sell.
LLC Research Division</strong> And on the 2013 guidance what are you assuming for the medical business? Is it in terms of just does it get to flat for the year? And second on the Neptune relaunch are you assuming that it is -- in the guidance that it's relaunched in the second half of the year? Katherine it wasn't clear kind of what you're assuming for the guidance.
Yes we're probably not going to give -- well not probably.
We're not going to give growth expectations for 2013 by segment.
It's just a level of granularity that's a bit too specific.
You could -- probably safe to assume though that we're not expecting right now a dramatic turnaround in our medical business part of that just the inherent uncertainties that I talked about before tied to IT prioritization and also the implications of the Affordable Care Act which we're yet to see play out.
So I think you should probably be fairly cautious as you think about modeling the medical business going forward.
In terms of the revenue impact from the Neptune recall the Q4 impact was about $18 million and we expect it to be somewhere in the $17 million to $20 million per quarter until the product's back on the market.
So that will be 2 more quarters before we anniversary at Q1 and Q2.
We're not assuming anything before the second half of this year in terms of being able to relaunch and even that I would be -- I would say that that's an approximation just given the inherent vagaries of trying to time product relaunches with FDA.
Rich Newitter from Leerink Swann is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if -- within the context of your comments on capital equipment spending and the environment there Endoscopy picked up a little bit.
You have a new product cycle starting there can you one just talk about kind of it sounds like we're kind of in quarter 1 now with the delayed launch.
How long do you think the tail should be for that product cycle? And how should we think about Endoscopy and the HD camera within the spectrum of spending and budgets and what you see for '13? Yes.
Clearly what we've learned is not all capital is the same.
And there are much bigger ticket items and those that can be deferred and within all of our businesses medical is the most deferrable just given the nature of the type of products beds and stretchers et cetera that they sell.
Our other business Endoscopy and Instruments to lesser degrees have capital components.
But it's a different type of capital product.
Endo is as you mentioned launching their new camera.
It officially launched very late in the second quarter.
As we talked about previously there were initially some technical glitches that is very common as we've been in this market for a number of years when you really get it out in big numbers a brand-new launch.
So that is not uncommon for us.
Those have been addressed.
So we are in full launch mode.
And you typically historically have seen 3-year type product cycles when we launch a new camera.
We think there's a lot of great features and benefits associated with this camera including the visualization as well as its ability to be used in multiple procedures within a hospital.
So we're very excited about it.
You saw some of the benefit tied to that in the quarter.
But I do think you need to differentiate between capital related to medical as opposed to our other capital businesses.
Research Division</strong> And then just a quick one on Spine would you say that the incremental improvement in performance in Spine is all Orthovita? And if so to what extent is that the hardware pulling through Orthovita and/or are you leading with Orthovita and that's actually pulling through your core Spine instrumentation? Yes I mean we broke out on the call the growth contribution so that core Spine implant business was seeing growth in the mid-single digits and that we were seeing double-digit growth from Orthovita.
Obviously off of different bases.
I would say Orthovita is benefiting from our much broader sales and distribution and that was a key part of the rationale.
So we are definitely seeing some improvement.
Kevin mentioned some of the product launches although no blockbusters.
But again we're early in the turnaround.
Really thrilled with what that leadership team and the sales force is doing.
But I'd like to see a few quarters of sustained improvement.
And like we saw with trauma I think a more full bag has a wonderful impact on the field.
And whether it's one help -- which one helps which one kind of hard to go back and actually say which one is helping pull through the other products.
But the more full a bag is the more vital it is the more the field obviously respond.
The reaction of the customers improved and we certainly have strengthened our Spine bag primarily with Orthovita but also a couple of other smaller launches.
And that's having an impact.
So we need to see that sustained like as Kevin said we don't want to get ahead of ourselves after one quarter but certainly we're pleased with the fourth quarter results in Spine.
Rajeev Jashnani from UBS is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> And Katherine I certainly appreciate your comments on the U.S.
Recon market stable modest improvement.
But I was just going to push a little bit more and if you could provide any more color I would certainly appreciate it.
And perhaps there were any new accounts that you've penetrated in the quarter or any perspective you're hearing back from existing customers in terms of procedures per day improvement? Or any other metric that you might track would certainly be helpful.
Yes I would probably going to largely echo some of the prior comments.
I think we're seeing good momentum tied to the GetAroundKnee campaign.
Some new product launches on the hip side.
My comments about the market are somewhat guesstimates because we need everybody's numbers to come in to determine whether or not we gained share or we kept pace with the market certainly as it relates to the U.S.
business.
So I don't think I can get much more specific.
Yes we do track other metrics but that's probably a level of granularity in terms of new accounts that we wouldn't get into on this call but overall we feel good about the market right now and certainly about what we're seeing in our business.
And if you look at our Recon business over the full year it was a very strong year.
So obviously this call is focused on the fourth quarter.
But if you go all the way back to January we've had pretty much a strong year across knees and hips throughout the year.
Knees more accelerating.
hips obviously had a little bit of a dip in the third quarter and then picked it right back up.
Hips has been on a pretty good roll for almost 8 quarters now.
So it's kind of sustained strong performance.
I'm very happy with the leadership team we have out there.
And so really have a good outlook going into next year.
Research Division</strong> And this maybe kind of a maybe a dumb follow-up question but is there any reason to think that the DTC campaign would be a driver of share or would that just be principally increasing volume at existing customers? Well it's very difficult for us to be precise on a metric like that but I can assure that we have won new business with the knee.
There are many anecdotes that I have I can't put a specific number on it.
But certainly the attention that it's created both with customers as well as with consumers who have come in and asked for it has driven some competitive volume without a doubt.
So again the exact amount I can't be precise with you.
But the fact that we're continuing with the program obviously means there's a cost associated with a program like that.
We're pleased and we're getting a return on that investment.
That would not be the case if we were only selling to our existing customers.
Bruce Nudell from Crédit Suisse is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Kevin could you just comment on broadly speaking on developed x U.S.
versus emerging x U.S.
markets in terms of major joint volume growth? And the trend lines you see going forward for those? Yes Bruce maybe I'll jump in here.
Clearly in the developed -- the emerging markets the growth is much greater than the developed markets o U.S.
If you look at places like China what we're seeing is very low penetration rates low-single digits whether it's trauma hips knee Implants but they're also in a very different place in terms of health care spending per capita.
I don't think we see -- or once you get into developed markets you're going to see much greater penetration rates obviously just given where they are in the market development.
I think o U.S.
and some of the Southern European countries there's different pressures on those businesses where given the single-payer environment you literally have hospitals that were doing hundreds of hip and knees a year ago and are doing a fraction of those right now but that's a function of budgetary constraints as opposed to underlying patient demand.
Yes I think outside of Southern Europe pretty steady market volume.
No big increase no big decrease.
Southern Europe clearly is more depressed.
When we give our commentary on Europe right now we're much more focused on improving our performance understanding that it is a challenging marketplace.
But we -- our goal is really to get back to market growth in Europe.
But outside of Europe we have very good market shares in the developed markets and we're seeing pretty consistent volumes frankly over the past few years.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my follow-up is on knees.
The GetAround campaigns focused on your design philosophy.
Zimmer and J&amp;J have announced more natural-feeling knees.
Are any of these claims going to be backed up by objective measures of performance and/or patient satisfaction so that it's more substantive? And maybe more sustainable? Well in our case obviously we've had our knee on the market for a number of years.
Our revision rates are well documented well published.
So we know we have a very strong performing product.
And so competitive products will have their advantages that they will tout.
We know what our knee does.
We know how it feels.
We have enough of experience to really comment very clearly on what we're offering.
And of course we'll pay attention to the competitive offering and they'll have to demonstrate their points of difference just the same way we would.
So we are aware of their features and what's different about their knees.
And it's not something at this point that is overly concerning.
Of course never want to underestimate the competition but we feel like we're in a very good place with our existing product and the innovation that we are designing around it.
Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I have actually 2.
The first just going back to the med tech tax.
I think you'd said it's about $100 million in 2013.
I recall initially that was a higher amount.
Is the difference just simply due to the classification and cost of goods sold and will that run through I guess according to how inventory goes through? So maybe that effect happening more beginning in call it maybe the second half versus the first half of the year? And in light of that kind of where can we look for gross margins and operating margins in 2013? And I have a follow-up.
Okay.
Kristen this is Dean.
The number did come down but that was from very early on.
I mean we haven't changed the number since October.
And in terms of the way it'll work for us and I think this will be different for different companies.
So you'll have to ask them.
It really depends on -- it's driven by when the first sale of the product occurs.
And the way it works for us it's going to tie right to our sales.
So it's going to go through the P&amp;L right away and it will go all through gross margins we've talked about.
So if you want to get an estimate of what it's going to be you can take $100 million against our top line.
That's close to 100 basis points on our gross margin.
Some of the competition have different structures right? Correct.
So for some companies it will get stuck in inventory and roll through in a different way but ours will go through as the sales are occurring.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just in light of that pressure which will probably be I guess maybe about 100 basis points on the gross profit line as well as operating margin do you think that you can still show some growth and operating margin improvement? And then the second question is just I appreciate you don't want to give specific product line guidance but I was wondering if you guys would be willing to kind of offer your view on what your overall top line assumption for growth is broken down by the major divisions of Recon MedSurg and then the Neurotech and Spine.
On operating margin certainly I -- we've kind of alluded to it.
But you can see from the way our top line guidance falls relative to the way our bottom line guidance falls.
You can see that there is implied operating margin improvement in there.
And we expect there to be some.
So we are going to be able to offset the device tax by getting additional leverage there.
And relative to your other question we really don't want to get into that level of granularity.
I know we talked more about that last year but we're comfortable we're going to be able to deliver 3% to 5% and we believe that all 3 of our segments will contribute meaningfully to helping us get there 5.5% sorry.
Matthew O'Brien from William Blair is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> A couple of them real quickly here for you.
With respect to the recalls and I think it's kind of played out at this point but just can you give us a sense for the level of commentary you're getting back from your sales force either with Neptune or with the 2 hip products as far as customer dissatisfaction and any kind of impact you anticipate here in Q1? Yes I would just say on the hip side I would note that we have got about 28 000 of those implanted since launch so a relatively small product.
Obviously any physician dealing with this it's never a positive thing.
But I would go back to what we're putting up in terms of a revenue number for our hip business and I think just given our relative size not to diminish what some patients may be dealing with or physicians but given our relative size we believe this is a manageable item.
Clearly Neptune our sales force would rather have it on the market than off the market and we'll be working through the issues associated with that to be able to return it as quickly as possible.
In the interim we're fortunate that Instruments has a broad product offering and seeing very good momentum with the launch of their latest generation power tool that's now going into year 2 and is helping to offset some of that impact from Neptune.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one more for me.
And Katherine and I'd be interested to hear Kevin's thoughts as well if possible but I know you don't want to talk about product pipeline too much but historically you've talked a little bit about robotic surgery for orthopedic applications as an area of interest that you've been monitoring.
Have your views on that space changed in -- over the last several months? Are you more or less compelled by it today than you were maybe 6 to 12 months ago? I would say that our external comments have not changed as it relates to robotics.
We think there is a role for robotics in medical technology that's been proven by what intuitive surgical has done.
We think the role for it in orthopedic surgery is still evolving and has not yet been optimized.
But we haven't commented about whether that means we do or don't have an internal program.
I think like anybody we watch this space and we make those evaluations whether it's robotics or other areas that long-term could impact the orthopedic market.
Josh Jennings from Cowen and Company is online with a question.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess first just on the gross margin line thinking about some offsets to the med device tax can you just comment on where you are in the formal completion of the integration of Boston Scientific manufacturing and whether upon that completion there would be any positive impact to the gross margin line for the Neurovascular business? Yes we still have some integration work to do relative to that.
That will happen later this year.
I think in the second quarter that will be pretty much complete in terms of the full changeover of the plants there.
So we'll see.
But that has gone reasonably smoothly and we would expect as we complete that that will be the case.
LLC Research Division</strong> And any meaningful impact to the gross margin in terms of a benefit there to offset med device tax or has most of that been realized with the...
I think it's...
One of the factors.
It's a factor but it's not -- I wouldn't say it's overly significant.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just one more sticking on Neurovascular.
Maybe your Surpass acquisition any follow-up in terms of beginning of enrollment of the ID trial in Q4? And then just any commentary on commercialization in Europe? Yes taking the latter part first the revenue outside the U.S.
is very very minimal at this point and I would not view that as a big driver.
We did start enrollment in the trial in the fourth quarter and we continue to anticipate it's going to be a few years before we have that product on the market.
We are excited about it because we think a diverter's important product long-term but it's obviously this was still fairly early stage as we work towards getting ultimate approval.
I have no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the conference over to Mr.
Lobo for closing remarks.
So thank you all for joining our call.
I look forward to continuing to meet with you in the months ahead.
Our conference call for the first quarter 2013 results will be held on April 24 2013.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Stryker's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that the discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Joining me is Bill Jellison who as many of you know joined Stryker as our CFO in April; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy &amp; Investor Relations.
With respect to today's call I will provide opening comments and then turn it over to Katherine for additional details.
And then Bill will cover the financials.
We will then open the call to your questions.
Our second quarter results were driven by solid and balanced growth both geographically and across our 3 segments: Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine.
With Q2 sales of $2.2 billion we delivered 5% reported growth and a 5.9% gain excluding foreign currency and acquisitions.
We benefited from 1 extra selling day in the quarter which after adjusting for this resulted in sales growth of 4.4% excluding foreign exchange and acquisitions.
Based on our first half results we remain confident in our ability to achieve our full year sales target and are shifting our range of sales growth excluding acquisition and foreign exchange from 3% to 5.5% to 4% to 5.5%.
The strong top line along with operational efficiencies is helping drive solid performance highlighted by continued gross margin improvement after adjusting for the impact of the medical device excise tax.
While we are pleased with our operational performance as discussed previously our results have been adversely impacted by a substantial foreign exchange headwind.
For Q2 foreign currency negatively impacted our per share earnings by roughly $0.04.
However with the sales momentum and effective cost control we were able to partially absorb the foreign exchange impact and still deliver EPS of $1 a share.
With respect to our geographic growth the U.S.
had another strong showing with sales up approximately 5%.
Encouragingly we saw improved momentum in our international business which posted nearly 9% growth excluding foreign exchange and included 1.6% growth from the Trauson acquisition.
We believe that the globalization initiatives put in place are having a positive impact across our international businesses.
The European turnaround remains on track as Europe registered positive growth in the quarter versus the prior year.
We look forward to continuing this momentum in the back half of the year.
Our emerging markets businesses continue to perform well posting strong double-digit growth.
Looking at our 3 franchises in more detail.
On a global basis Reconstructive sales were up roughly 6% on a reported basis with 8% underlying growth excluding foreign exchange.
Growth was balanced geographically with a 6.3% gain in the U.S.
and a 6.9% increase in international after adjusting for foreign exchange and acquisitions.
Hips continued to roll and U.S.
knee growth of 2% appears to be in line with the market.
Turning to trauma and extremities.
We continued to see great momentum with double-digit gains in both the U.S.
and international led by our foot and ankle business which posted 34% growth in the U.S.
and 28% worldwide.
Based on the first half performance for our foot and ankle business we are now even with the market leader which is a considerable achievement given that this dedicated business unit was only created at the beginning of 2012.
Worldwide MedSurg sales increased 4% on a reported basis with year-over-year gains for all of its business segments including strong double-digit growth from the 1488 Camera and System 7 power tools.
Finally Neurotechnology and Spine posted roughly 7% underlying growth excluding foreign exchange and acquisitions led by double-digit gains for Neurovascular and Interventional Spine.
Turning to some other P&amp;L highlights.
Gross margin excluding acquisitions and restructuring charges declined 50 basis points year-over-year to 67.7%.
However this included approximately 80 basis point impact from the medical device excise tax.
With R&amp;D representing 6% of sales and up 14% from the prior year we continue to make important investments in innovation for the future.
Looking ahead to the remainder of 2013 as mentioned we feel highly encouraged by the continued strong sales momentum which supports growth at the upper end of our original range.
We are pleased with our overall operational performance but foreign currency has proven to be a major challenge in 2013 and has worsened further since we announced our Q1 results at which time we guided EPS to the lower end of our range.
If exchange rates remain at current levels we anticipate full year EPS to now be negatively impacted by approximately $0.20 per share versus the prior year.
As a result of this increased foreign exchange impact we are adjusting our EPS range to $4.20 to $4.26 versus our original target of $4.25 to $4.40.
This revised range assumes we will offset approximately half of the full year foreign exchange headwind.
Importantly going forward we will be implementing a currency hedging program to enable us to mitigate the earnings volatility associated with foreign exchange swings which Bill will comment on shortly.
With that I will turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
My comments on today's call will focus on an update of our Q1 acquisition of Trauson as well as a preview of our upcoming analyst meeting which will be held on September 4 and 5 at the Homer Stryker Center in New Jersey.
With respect to Trauson we closed on the deal on March 1 and we have been pleased with the performance to date recognizing the relatively short period of time since the acquisition.
With Trauson we are now a leading player in the lower priced segment of the trauma market as well as spine in China which we believe will be an increasingly important market with robust growth potential.
The deal complements our existing presence in the premium segment but provides us access to a different customer base and dealer network.
As it relates to the integration we continue to make solid progress and are on track with expectations as it relates to all key activities.
In order to ensure our organization remains focused on building our competitive presence in both the lower priced and premium segments of the Chinese market we have separate leaders who are running their organizations independently.
We remain excited about the prospects for this acquisition both to expand our presence in China and longer term to provide a platform that can be leveraged more broadly into the lower priced segments in other emerging markets.
Turning to the analyst meeting.
We will once again be holding this event at the Homer Stryker Center.
For those of you who are able to join us on the 4th we will be hosting a product fair focused on our neurotechnology businesses.
Specifically we will be highlighting our 6 key business units that address the neurotechnology market including Neurovascular Interventional Spine neuro Powered Instruments Navigation Spine and CNS.
With the acquisition of our Neurovascular franchise in early 2011 combined with the 2 additional acquisitions of Concentric and Surpass Stryker is the leader in complete stroke care.
But beyond these important businesses we have additional product offerings that touch the key physician community including neurosurgeons interventional neuroradiologists and neurologists with these products to be included as part of the neuro product fair.
The format will allow for informal interaction with the key leaders of these businesses and an opportunity to better understand the key product offerings and how they relate to our broad neurotechnology portfolio.
Following the product fair on September 5 we will have our formal analyst meeting which will include presentations from our key leaders with opportunity for extensive Q&amp;A.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the meeting in early September and hope you find the format and content helpful to better understanding not only Stryker's neurotechnology leadership but our broader product portfolio.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Katherine.
Sales growth was positive by 5% in the quarter including a negative 1.5% impact from FX translation.
Constant currency sales growth was a positive 6.5% and 5.9% excluding acquisitions.
We had a positive impact from an additional selling day in the quarter.
And on a days adjusted basis core growth was a positive 4.4%.
EPS on a GAAP basis for the quarter ended at $0.56 per share versus $0.85 per share last year in the second quarter while adjusted earnings per share was $1 per share for the quarter versus $0.98 per share in the second quarter last year.
This quarter's EPS includes negative impacts of approximately $0.04 per share from FX and $0.03 per share from the med tech tax.
The income statement is exposed to both transactional and translational FX risks while the balance sheet is just exposed to translational FX risk.
We currently hedge transactions once they occur but we don't hedge future transactions at this time nor do we hedge any translation exposure.
We are planning to implement a predefined layered transactional hedging program beginning sometime in the third quarter which will be fully implemented over the next year.
This will help us mitigate the volatility of FX movements in the future.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustments in the quarter primarily related to a $170 million increase in the charge associated with the voluntary recall of the Rejuvenate and ABG II modular hip stems.
The adjustments also included an increase of $19 million for estimated settlement expectations for previously disclosed regulatory issues.
We believe these are reasonable estimations of our exposure.
However no potential insurance offset that may be available to help cover some portion of the Rejuvenate recall has been included.
We do expect to recover some benefit from insurance in the future and we'll also book that as a non-GAAP adjustment when known.
Looking at sales in the second quarter.
Volume and mix contributed 7.8% to our top line sales growth and acquisitions added 0.6%.
Price changes reduced sales by 1.9%.
The price decline is in line with the decreases experienced in 2012 though.
Currency driven primarily by a significant weakening of the Japanese yen versus the U.S.
dollar negatively impacted our top line by 1.5%.
We also had an additional selling day in the quarter increasing sales by approximately 1.5% on average in the quarter.
Looking at our reporting segments.
Reconstructive products represented 44% of our sales in the quarter.
And sales in this segment were up 5.6% as reported and grew 7.6% on a constant currency basis.
On an average daily sales basis after adjusting for the impacts of acquisitions and currency Reconstructive sales were up 5% in the quarter.
U.S.
Reconstructive sales grew 6.3% in the quarter.
Trauma and extremities had another excellent quarter in the U.S.
posting 19% growth led by new products sales execution and strong growth in both foot and ankle.
Domestic hips and knees were stronger sequentially growing 6% and 2% in the quarter respectively.
Knees are still feeling the impact from the absence of our ShapeMatch Cutting Guides but the growth in this category still appears to be in line with the market.
Our international Reconstructive business was up 9.4% in constant currency and 5.7% adjusting for selling days and acquisitions.
All regions posted positive growth with performance the strongest in the emerging markets.
Next our MedSurg product segment represented approximately 37% of sales in the quarter.
Total MedSurg sales increased 4.2% as reported and 4.8% on a constant currency basis.
These results were led by growth from our Medical and Sustainability Solutions business.
Medical increased by high-single digits and Sustainability returned to solid double-digit growth.
Endoscopy posted mid-single-digit growth in constant currency.
Instrument sales in the U.S.
were hindered by the impact of the Neptune Waste Management System recall which reduced sales by approximately $20 million in the quarter.
And this impact we believe will anniversary itself mid-third quarter which will reduce the year-over-year comparison issue to around $6 million to $7 million in the third quarter and eliminate that comparison negative drag by the fourth quarter.
We look forward to getting this product back on the market once we obtain our regulatory clearance of the Neptune -- or on Neptune's 510(k).
Our final segment the Neurotechnology and Spine represented 19% of the company's sales and delivered another good quarter.
Sales increased 5.4% as reported and 7.5% on a constant currency basis.
Growth in this segment was led by our IVS and Neurovascular business which both posted solid double digit constant currency growth.
Core spinal implant sales were up 1% in the U.S.
and up double digit internationally on a constant currency basis.
Excluding the impact of the Trauson acquisition international core spine still posted growth in the mid-single digits.
In looking at our operational performance gross margins on an adjusted basis in the second quarter of 2013 were 67.7% compared to 68.2% for the second quarter of 2012.
The med tech tax negatively impacted gross margins by approximately 80 basis points in the quarter.
When compared to the same period last year the rate was also negatively impacted by foreign exchange rates.
Research and development expenses increased by 0.5 percentage points to 6% versus 5.5% last year in the quarter.
And the 14% increase in R&amp;D spending over last year reinforces our commitment in this area and our expectations for above-market sales growth.
Selling and general administrative expenses costs were -- represented probably about 45.9% of sales.
However included approximately $200 million of non-GAAP adjustments including both the Rejuvenate and regulatory costs that were mentioned earlier.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A expenses were $813 million or 36.7% of sales in the second quarter of 2013 versus 37.1% in the prior year's second quarter.
Operating margins on an adjusted basis were 23.3% in the second quarter compared to 24.1% last year in the same period.
And again that rate was primarily impacted by the 80 basis point negative impact from the med tech tax FX movements and R&amp;D expenditures partially offset by operational efficiencies.
Other income and expense in the second quarter were $21.3 million and that compares to $10.1 million last year in the second quarter.
This represents a negative $0.02 per share impact on EPS this quarter.
This increase in expense resulted primarily from lower interest income due to some lower interest rates and some higher -- or slightly higher transactional FX expense in this category.
Our reported tax rate for the second quarter was 20.8% while the adjusted effective tax rate was 23.3% for the second quarter of this year.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $4.7 billion of cash and marketable securities an increase of approximately $450 million compared to year end 2012.
We also have $2.8 billion of long-term debt on the balance sheet.
And from an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended flat with last year in June at 58 days.
And days in inventory finished the quarter at 166.
That's actually down 1 day sequentially but it's down 8 days when it's measured against the prior year quarter as we're really driving a number of initiatives in this area as part of the operational improvement plan.
Turning to cash flow.
We had an excellent first half of this year generating cash from operations of $592 million.
That compares to $492 million in the prior year which is an increase of 20.3% over the first half of last year.
Finally regarding share repurchases.
In the first half of 2013 we repurchased approximately $250 million of our stock or approximately 3.8 million shares at an average price of $65.12.
And we still have about $750 million available for repurchase under our current authorization program.
Based on our solid sales achievement in the first half and the current economic and market conditions we are projecting constant currency sales growth excluding acquisitions in a range of 4% to 5.5% for the year.
And if foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels we anticipate net sales will be negatively impacted by approximately 1.5% to 2.5% in both the third quarter and in the full year for 2013.
As Kevin indicated previously we are adjusting our guidance for our 2013 adjusted diluted net earnings per share to a range of $4.20 to $2 -- or to $4.26.
This includes a negative impact from foreign exchange movements of approximately $0.20 per share compared to last year's average rates.
Thanks for your support.
And we'd be glad to answer any questions that you may have at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your first call comes from the line of Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So Bill just to start off with a financial question.
My first question is can you just highlight how the -- how FX impacted the gross margin this quarter? And then give us a little bit more detail on the hedging program and how that might impact the P&amp;L going forward? Sure.
As far as how it affects the rate it's probably about 10 to 20 points negative impact in this period.
And obviously that's only one area that the rates actually has an impact on the overall performance.
In general as I talked about from an FX perspective we're exposed obviously on both the transactional and the translational side of the equation.
So we generate a significant amount of money and profits both in Japan and Australia and a number of other countries.
But we also have transactional-related exposure where we're selling products into a number of these countries that don't have natural offsets.
Currently the company only hedges those activities once the transaction already occurs.
And on the layered hedging program that we're at least looking at and implementing on an ongoing basis we'd be in essence looking out forward as far as 12 or 18 months and actually putting in different layers of purchases at different points in time throughout kind of that 12- or 18-month period of time.
So that we're buying the currencies that we need to have in those periods consistently through that period.
And what that does is it just mitigates or buffers some of the highs and lows associated with those exchange rate movements in any one period.
So hopefully that helps kind of explain that.
And I'd be glad to get into it more if you've got further follow-up questions.
Research Division</strong> No.
Just for my other follow-up I wanted to ask Kevin a question but thank you for that.
And Kevin I just wanted to get your quick update on the competitive knee landscape.
Obviously as everyone's been talking about for a while now there's a couple of new knees in the marketplace.
And one of the other competitors that have reported so far have mentioned that there was some trialing going on.
Your numbers seem pretty solid here.
So just -- has your opinion changed now that we're another quarter into the competitive launches on the potential impact from those competitive launches? Just an update would be great.
Yes sure Bob.
Thanks.
What I would say is basically consistent with what I said last quarter that it's going to take a while before we really see if there'll be an impact.
I would say not before the end of the third quarter will we have a good sense.
We feel pretty good about our knee performance.
It's in line with the market despite the fact that we have our ShapeMatch Cutting Guides off the market.
So we feel we're doing well.
We hear noise a little bit here and there about trialing but it's very minor at this stage.
And like I say we're not going to have a good understanding probably until the end of the third quarter.
Our next question comes from Richard Newitter from Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Just a kind of housekeeping.
I think you had given the impact of selling days on the overall Recon business just can you parse that out by hips and knees? There isn't -- Rich it's Katherine.
There really isn't any real variability between hips and knees.
So the math that we quoted on the call would hold.
And it's 1.5% overall.
There is -- if there's any variability it would be more related to our capital business that tend to be less impacted.
But for consistency's sake we apply the same math each quarter and don't try and adjust because the swings aren't that meaningful.
So I wouldn't expect any variability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the knee side can you maybe give us a sense of where you are with getting ShapeMatch back on the market? When might we expect that? And also your direct-to-consumer initiative in knees for the GetAroundKnee can you describe what updates you might have on the impact that's having on the business and what your plans are going forward with that? Yes no problem.
We filed the Otis 510(k) during the second quarter.
And it's difficult as you know to predict when the 510(k) clearance may materialize.
We're hopeful sometime this year.
But obviously that's going to depend on a number of variables.
We have been continuing with the DTC campaign although the mix of media varies just depending on some of the analysis we've done which is very consistent with what we said on prior updates.
That's not a departure of any type.
And we continue to believe that the Triathlon Knee as the only single-radius knee on the market has some unique benefits as well as some extensive clinical history that we believe will help us remain very competitive.
And we're pleased with the growth that we saw recognizing there's always some impact.
Not massive but some impact given the ShapeMatch is not available in the market right now.
Our next question comes from Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Kevin it would be great to hear from you what you think drove the strong improvement in your international hip and knee growth and the sustainability of that? Yes so sure.
As you know Europe the turnaround story has really -- really began last fall.
We put a lot of new leaders in place.
We've really focused the company on turning that around.
We've had great exchanges with our U.S.
counterparts the head offices in U.S.
to help drive that growth.
We've also sent over one of our top leaders who is leading the knee campaign in the U.S.
He's now living in Europe and helping to run the orthopaedic group in Europe.
So I would say it's a number of factors leading to sustained performance.
And we've seen the improvement gradually coming.
It came through obviously very clearly in this quarter.
But it's only 1 quarter.
So I don't want to get ahead of ourselves.
I think we need to see that sustained.
But I really can't point to one thing.
It's a real focus commitment really starting with leadership and alignment.
And driving what we have our great products.
And we just have a disproportionately lower share in Europe than we do in the U.S.
and to other markets like Australia Japan Canada.
And so that's really the key point -- part of the turnaround Europe being a negative sales over the last few quarters finally turning to positive sales this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then for my follow-up I wanted to ask about pricing because it did deteriorate in recon.
And that was a little bit surprising to me given that you lapped the Japan cuts on April 1.
So could you talk a little about where you saw pricing deteriorate? Was it the U.S.
Europe; hips knees? And how confident are you that it doesn't get worse at least in the near term from that negative 3.4% we saw this quarter? Yes.
It did worsen I think by about 80 bps or so versus the first quarter.
Remember we did anniversary the Accolade launch in the second quarter last year.
So there were some benefit that we saw.
There was nothing significant I would call out or some change in trend.
We've been saying that hip and knee pricing is likely to remain under pressure somewhere in the low-single digits partly offset by mix which is going to vary quarter-to-quarter.
But there was no significant departure from that.
Yes.
I would not characterize the market as deteriorating in terms of price.
I would say it's very stable.
Stable in the low-single digit.
From quarter-to-quarter we do tend to see a little bit of variation but it's nothing that concerns us.
Our next question comes from Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital Markets.
Just for clarification the 4.5% constant currency growth you're guiding to for the year how much of that is acquisition revenue? Or is that organic? That's organic growth.
4% to 5.5% excludes foreign currency and acquisitions.
Terrific.
Second up can you please comment on the capital purchasing environment at the hospitals? Joanne there's been no real change since our prior update.
The market remains somewhat cautious ahead of unknown changes under the ACA for next year.
So there hasn't been any significant improvement nor deterioration in what we're seeing as it relates to hospital capital spending.
Recognizing our capital businesses tend to have more variability even when there is no overall market concern.
It's just the nature of that type of business.
But there's been really no change in the environment since the start of the year.
Our next question comes from Matthew Taylor from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess first I just wanted to follow-up.
It sounded like you started to answer the FX question that Bob asked.
But given that hedging program that you talked about looking out 12 to 18 months I guess my question is you lowered the guidance for the year but when will we start to see that have more of a stabilizing impact on FX as it rolls through the P&amp;L? And can you comment on where those hedges would be located? Sure.
So -- and that's a great question because obviously we've got exchange rates that are already moved which is why as we look at the full year and look at what the expected impact for us is it's still obviously a significant drag on this year.
We believe that we're going to be implementing a layered hedge program but that's built up over time.
And that's really to protect us against kind of future rate movements.
And again a hedging program is only set up to mitigate that risk.
It doesn't eliminate the risk.
So as currencies change you're ultimately getting the impact of whatever those currencies are changing to unless you one either have some good natural hedges established for long term; and also to just mitigate at least or minimize what the volatility of that high or low on those rates are.
So if you think of us begin putting in a layered hedging program we would think we'd have it pretty much in place or largely in place by the time we get into kind of the first quarter or so of next year.
And by that point in time you're going to have multiple layers that are already being established in each one of those quarters.
But for this specific year we're still going to have fairly significant negative impacts based on where the rates are at today.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on spine your spine numbers have improved a little bit.
And a lot of people have been talking about improvements in the spine market.
Have you seen any change in volumes or the behavior of payors or anything that's really changed dynamically? No.
And keep in mind that spine business includes both our traditional core spine business as well as our Interventional Spine business which is faster growing.
It had another solid quarter of double-digit gains on the Interventional Spine side.
We see no really -- no significant change in trends in terms of whether it's payor pushback or just the underlying overall market trends.
It seems to be moving towards greater stability but it's still an overall challenging spine market.
Our next question comes from Rick Wise from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
This is actually Matt Blackman here for Rick.
Just a couple of questions.
Are you able to comment at all about the incremental cost of implementing this hedging program? So there's really not a lot of additional incremental cost associated with the hedging program.
All the hedges that we would be layering into are really forward contracts.
And those are done at kind of a very very minimal related cost aspect of that.
So there should be nothing associated at least materially associated with anything with the hedging program itself.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then the next question.
You mentioned you'd fully anniversary Neptune in the fourth quarter.
But just any commentary on getting it back to market? Well we have filed the 510(k) so we're awaiting FDA clearance.
And similar to OtisMed obviously we have to respond to any questions from the FDA.
And we're continuing to target sometime this year for the clearance but this isn't a perfect science as you know.
So we're trying to give visibility around both the quarterly impact and the expected impact until we get the clearance.
Which again hopefully it's sometime before year end.
Our next question comes from Derrick Sung from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the pricing question that was asked earlier the 80 bps we're seeing in pricing.
I guess I just wanted to go back to the kind of o U.S.-U.S.
split because as Larry mentioned there is that benefit from the Japan reimbursement cuts anniversarying.
So I was wondering does that imply that we saw a greater than 3.5% impact in the U.S.? Or if you can just maybe give a little color there that would be helpful.
I mean so first off just a clarification of that impact.
The impact on the pricing side is about a 60 basis point impact on the overall margin levels.
The rates that are out there and what's being put together as Kevin mentioned and as Katherine mentioned the ranges of those price impacts actually are different quarter-to-quarter.
And it's really based on some of the programs that people are putting into place.
But nobody is really seeing any difference in the trends associated with that.
And also keep in mind when we're talking about Reconstructive as we show that category that's not just hips and knees.
So the pricing you're seeing is inclusive of some of our other businesses as well such as trauma and extremities.
That's right.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up you're making a clearer effort here to step up your R&amp;D spend this year.
Can you talk a little bit about where that R&amp;D spend is going and kind of when you expect to get the return on that? No our comments have been that we expect in any given quarter our R&amp;D as a percent of sales to be somewhere in the 5.5% to 6% range.
And it's going to vary quarter-to-quarter.
Obviously it was at the high end of the range that quarter as we continue to make investments that we believe are helping to drive the top line growth.
So we don't expect any real change.
That continues to be the expectation.
Our next question comes from Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have a few questions but I'll try to -- to narrow it to 2.
One is the cash flow performance this quarter.
You kind of buried the lead a bit on that one when you put it into the text.
So it's up 20% year-over-year.
Can you just describe what drove that? Is there something in last year's comparison I should be aware of because obviously that's a very strong performance relative to the underlying earnings.
Sure.
I'd say that if you look at kind of last year's performance I'd say that we had a weaker or softer cash flow on level in the first half of last year.
But I think that as you saw our inventory days in comparison especially in comparison to 1 year ago are down about 8 days.
I think in general we feel very good about kind of the cash flow level that we're looking at.
And we should continue to be able to drive that at a solid layout -- or a solid rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm going to sneak in 2 follow-ups here.
First just to understand the -- you're basically describing a current FX impact on your bottom line of basically 100 basis points as $0.10.
Is it that high just because of what's going on right now is the yen and you have less hedges on your yen exposure than you do on your euro? Because I always thought that historical relationships Katherine the top line impact to bottom-line impact was less severe.
So that's first.
And the second maybe -- I just wanted to go back to the cost of the hedging program.
You described that the cost of the impact on the C&amp;L of implementing a hedging program is relatively de minimis.
I just want to make sure I understood that.
Sure.
Absolutely.
So a couple of questions there.
The first question really deals with some of rate-related impacts and it really depends on which currencies are moving.
So in some currencies we have better natural impacts or offsets associated with it.
But when you look at the Japanese yen for example and say the Australian dollar the Australian dollar just in the last -- since the last call in the last 3 months has changed about 13% downward.
So when we're selling in Australian dollars but we're buying those products that are sold into that market in either dollars or euros that's obviously a negative impact associated with it.
Same with Japan.
So Japan we had very little virtually no natural offsets there.
Everything we're selling there is really being purchased outside of that region.
So because we've had such a significant move in the yen and also in the Aussie dollar and in fact in most commodity-based countries that's actually having a more negative impact on us in this specific year than what we'd generally see even with some higher volatility and rates.
And as far as the cost of the program goes again there's obviously some additional ramp-up within kind of the treasury group to make sure that we can support that.
But relative to the overall cost of both the organization and the cost of that program it's relatively de minimis.
As far as buying that all we're really doing is we're purchasing the amount that we need in advance.
So we're buying amounts let's say for the second quarter of next year.
And we're buying that at different periods between now and then.
So that we don't just get exposed to whatever the rate is in that specific quarter but it's layered in through a number of purchases up until that date.
Our next question comes from Matthew Dodds from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Quick one first for Kevin.
Now that we've had more than half of companies reporting in the second quarter and you look at the first and second quarter combined the hip market continues to outperform the knee market whereas you could argue demographics might be better for the knee market there's more GTC spending there you got the new product launches.
I mean is the difference in your view all elective? Or knees are just that much more elective than hips? Or is there something else out there? Yes.
Matt I -- thanks for the question.
I would say that that's a trend we've been seeing for a little while now and I would attribute it to the more elective nature of knee procedures.
If you have hip pain and you're lying in your bed you feel the pain; versus a knee it can be deferrable and you could get HA shots or other things that can delay your procedure.
So I would 100% attribute it to the more elective nature.
Just on hips I would have to say I'm extremely pleased with our performance in hips given that we obviously had to undergo a recall starting last year.
You have not seen our business go negative in hips certainly in the United States where the recall was most intense.
In the third quarter of last year we had a slight dip in our growth rate but it was still positive growth.
And what you've seen since then it's -- can sustain positive market-leading growth in spite of having to manage our way through a recall.
So I think that's a tribute to the leadership that we have in our recon group in the United States.
Research Division</strong> I figured you were just looking forward to signs on the hips.
One quick one on trauma.
Was there any benefit left from the mail recall of the competitor or was that largely gone in Q1? At the end of Q1 they were largely back on the market.
So what I would say is we had a pretty pure quarter in the second quarter.
And as you know we've been growing above market in trauma for a number of quarters frankly a number of years certainly in the United States.
It was nice to see our International Trauma business pick up as well.
But feel very bullish and very confident with our Trauma business our great leadership that we have in place.
And very very strong performance in the second quarter again.
Our next question comes from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Chris Hammond in for David Roman.
First question is related to the P&amp;L.
I think for the last 2 quarters now I think you guys have come in with SG&amp;A spend a little bit higher than what we were forecasting.
And I'm wondering A kind of how that -- how we should be thinking about that for the rest of the year? And then additionally how that plays in the context for EPS for the full year when we strip out all the noise whether it's FX or device tax.
It looks like the total EPS growth rate is fairly robust and I'm wondering about the sustainability of that.
And what are the various levers up or down either way? Yes.
So I guess first off just on the SG&amp;A-related expenses.
I think that we're doing a very good job on the covering of that side.
We've got our expenses this quarter on an adjusted basis or about 36.7% of sales versus 37.1% last year in the second quarter.
I think we had some pretty good first half related improvement.
And I think overall that we're expecting to continue to -- especially if we can realize this level of top line sales growth it does allow us to get some leverage associated with our overall business.
And I think that that's our expectation moving forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Wonderful.
If I could just squeeze in just 1 follow-up here.
I curious a little bit about what's going on in Europe.
Obviously a turnaround seems to be well underway there.
But then there's some other numbers from the Trauson that's getting baked in there too.
But just outside of just the sales changes that you guys have made what are you seeing in terms of a macro landscape there? Has anything changed since you were -- you've last updated at this whether it's regard to austerity or competitive trends? So first thing I would start with the market.
I would say that the market in Europe is -- had the same challenging market that it has been frankly over the last couple of years.
Trauson sales are only in China.
There's virtually no sales outside of China.
So they're -- the impact in Europe is -- has nothing to do with Trauson.
It's really our own operational performance.
And what I would say is our actions that we had lost market share for a number of quarters and we started to address that with vigor starting in the fall of last year.
I'm very pleased with our performance in the U.K.
in France.
Spain has really turned the corner and we had a very strong quarter in Spain.
And a number of the other smaller countries we've really -- with better leadership in place and more focused we've been driving improvements.
Italy and Germany actually improved versus the first quarter but those are 2 countries were we still have work to do.
And I -- we'd be looking for more improvement from those 2 countries later on.
But this is really an operational improvement story.
But we have to be honest that this is following a period of a number of quarters where we were underperforming the market.
Our goal that we stated last year was to get back to market growth by the end of the year.
We're obviously on that trajectory based on a very strong performance this quarter.
Our next question comes from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a question on the neurovascular business.
I think you guys had mentioned there was double-digit growth in the quarter.
Can you maybe just further expand upon that? And are all of the activities or shifts between you and Boston Scientific now complete from a manufacturing standpoint? I think Kristen yes.
The final employees transferred over in April.
So we are now essentially done with all of the major integration-related aspects of that deal which is in line with what was expected when we did the deal a couple of years ago.
And they continue to see very solid momentum.
There's really no acquisition benefit in those numbers just given how small the Surpass deal was.
And so it's really a nice -- nice product flow and continuing to have good momentum across both the hemorrhagic and ischemic segments for the Neuro business.
Yes.
I'd say Kristen just to add one comment.
The product launches have been terrific in coils.
So in coils we're clearly the leader and we're gaining market share pretty significantly with nanocoils long coils just a whole series of launches over the last few quarters that are really boosting that business.
And as you know we -- that management team stayed in place as we acquired the business from Boston Scientific.
And the R&amp;D engine is really humming very very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And so overall it sounds like you would say you're gaining share and where do you think the market is generally growing at these days? I don't think there's any real change to our overall market growth expectations.
It's somewhere in the 6% to 8% range.
It's hard to get total visibility given that a lot of the companies are -- the sales are a part of much bigger companies that it doesn't necessarily get broken out.
But we think the overall market growth is probably somewhere in that 6% to 8% vicinity.
And related to the comment on gaining share we're gaining share in coils.
Certainly when you look at the ischemic market as well as the history of the flow-diverter the stent we're still enrolling patients in the trials.
We don't have that product on the market in the U.S.
So our share gains are really in the plumbing segment.
Our next question comes from Glenn Navarro from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
One on the hip side your hip numbers came in better than expected particularly on the U.S.
side.
So I'm assuming you're taking market share.
Can you confirm that? And then what do you think that the U.S.
hip market is growing? And a follow-up then after that on extremities.
Well first on the hip market obviously not everybody has reported yet.
I would guess that it's probably growing in the low single digit.
We have been at the high ends of market growth for a number of quarters now.
As I mentioned earlier very excited about our hip leadership.
We launched the Secur-Fit Advanced product recently which was a fit-and-fill stem on the heels of Accolade II being launched a year ago.
So we've had very good products flow including our RMDM and ADM cups that we launched not so long ago.
So it's been a very very good product flow.
And great execution in the field that's been driving above-market growth in hips for quite some time now.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then let me just follow up on the foot and ankle side.
You said the U.S.
business was up 34%.
We assume the U.S.
foot and ankle market's kind of going in that 10% range.
So 2 questions.
One has the market accelerated? And then 2 obviously you've taken share do you know who you've taken share from? Well first of all we love being in this market.
It's a high-growth market.
Until I read the reports it will be hard to say exactly what the market growth is.
But I would say the 10% to 15% range is probably about right for market growth.
I think we are taking share from a number of players.
It's a fairly fragmented market.
I wouldn't say it's from 1 particular player.
The bigger issue is that it's a market expansion story.
So we're frankly more concerned with growing the market than we are with individual competitors because there are so many implants that are not used today to treat hammertoe procedures or bunions.
And then that's really where the bulk of our growth is really coming from the electric procedure area which makes up the vast majority of our foot and ankle business.
Our next question comes from Matthew O'Brien from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping you could talk a bit about your capital equipment performance in the quarter.
It was quite good compared to what we've seen so far from a couple of other companies in this space.
And I just wonder if Stryker is a little bit unique in the fact that it can bundle quite a few products across recon neuro and then in MedSurg as well.
Is that a dynamic that's benefiting you in this type of environment? Is it something that's been accelerating recently? Or can you just talk a bit about that? We've been as we've talked about in the past increasingly looking to drive better cross-divisional coordination but that is still very much in the early stages and I wouldn't want to characterize the performance of any of our businesses as being driven by that at this time.
There's been no real change in the overall market backdrop as it relates to our capital businesses and that we've seen year-to-date.
Obviously we saw very good momentum with the 1488 and System 7 which are capital.
And both growing in the double digits.
Medical's our most capital-intensive business.
Over 90% of that business is capital.
Again hospitals seem somewhat cautious on some of their more deferrable capital purchases but that's a very consistent trend we've seen throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up to Derrick's earlier question on the R&amp;D side.
Three quarters in a row now of double-digit growth in that metric.
Is the spend more related towards -- maybe a bit more allocation towards some newer areas that Stryker's not currently in where you may have a call point? Or is it more just allocated in areas where you're currently at i.e.
spending on the neuro side? So clearly as neuro takes on a larger portion of Stryker's overall business you would expect a slight tick up in our overall R&amp;D rate.
So that's a business mix issue and as neuro does demand a slightly higher rate of R&amp;D spending.
But it really is an across-the-board commitment to really invigorating our pipelines.
I've had the chance to travel to all of our businesses and do business reviews including the pipeline.
I'm very excited about what I'm seeing.
At that stage we tend not to want to talk too much about a lot of the new products but you can see with our success with the 1488 and System 7 that new products are the lifeblood of the company.
And we're committed and focused on continuing to drive above-market growth through strong investments in research and development.
Our next question comes from Bruce Nudell from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Medical is clearly a lumpy business.
It did well quite -- it did quite well this quarter.
What's the kind of trend line that you envisioned for that business now that you've have some more experience with it? Bruce I don't think we'd expect any major departure from what we've seen.
Clearly prior to 2008 we saw very strong growth in capital but it was a different market environment.
We feel there is some hesitancy as we've said around the ACA and just general uncertainty.
You are right this is a business that is -- it can vary considerably from quarter-to-quarter.
Even where there isn't market uncertainty that's just the nature of capital more so for our medical than any of our other businesses.
But there's been no real change in the outlook for that business than what we've thought at the start of the year.
Research Division</strong> And just last quarter you noted that in endoscopy cameras are strong communications was below par.
Where do you think the -- where are you right now in that business? Yes.
We obviously continue to see good momentum as we're going into year 2 with the camera which was up double-digits as Kevin referenced.
Comm was down.
Again that is one of the most capital-intensive components certainly of endoscopy although the rate was considerably better than the declines that we saw in the first quarter which was expected when we were on our last call.
We would based on trends we'd expect a little bit continued improving trends that relates to comm in the back half of this year.
Our next question comes from Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups on some of the areas that folks have been asking after one was on Extremities.
And I have a follow-up on Capital and MedSurg.
So on Extremities would love to hear understanding that your growth so far has been coming from some of the sort of discretionary procedures hammertoe bunions.
Love to hear about maybe some of the investments that you're making in that business in terms of distribution maybe in terms of what -- where we can look forward to in expanding the product line either in Foot and Ankle or Upper Extremities it'd be very helpful.
Yes you are correct.
The vast majority of the revenue in our Foot and Ankle business is associated with elective procedures that we're very excited about the opportunity there.
We've put in place a dedicated sales force for Foot and Ankle which is largely a different call point than the Upper Extremities piece of the business.
And we put that in place in the first quarter of last year.
Very pleased with the focus.
It's a formula that is tried and true within Stryker bring a lot of focus and leverage what was a terrific portfolio of products with the Memometal acquisition.
And continue to -- invest and expand in the market which as Kevin mentioned this is really about a market expansion story more than anything else.
What we do longer term whether it's in upper extremities or other areas I think we'll just determine that as we look at the opportunities.
But right now the bulk of our focus is really in that Foot and Ankle area.
Research Division</strong> Nothing immediately on the docket for back half next year upper or further lower that you can talk about? What I said in the upper extremities is we -- in the Shoulder business in particular we launched our new primary shoulder a year ago.
And we have a reverse shoulder that's in our pipeline which we hope to launch by the end of the year or let's say around the end of the year.
Once we have the reverse shoulder launch that will really give us a complete portfolio.
We would love to drive pretty significant growth.
But we're not going to see much of that this year.
That will be really more of a next year's growth opportunity.
Our next question comes from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a couple of questions for Bill and then for Kevin.
Bill just one quick one on currency and then a more strategic question.
I guess on currency can you just walk us through the decision to begin to hedge transactional I guess? Is it a response to volatility in this particular quarter? Or is it really a response to the multiple disparities around FX over the last kind of 6 to 8 quarters? I really don't think it's actually either of those two.
I think that maybe the highlight of that volatility maybe has caused us to look at it a little bit harder.
But I think that it's just one of the areas that as an organization we need to look at to manage risk in general.
And we obviously have exposures in a number of different currencies both on the translation side as well as on the transaction side as well as really on our balance sheet side.
So I mean we're just looking at it relative to the activities and the practices that we currently have in place and seeing whether we think we should have some additional programs in place to help mitigate any other risk in the organization.
So I think it highlights it for us maybe this year a little bit more just because it's having an impact.
But even if the impact hadn't occurred the risk level still existed.
And we -- that's a program that we should have in place as an organization.
Yes.
I'd just like to jump in just to make a quick comment.
That obviously Bill has years of experience with layered hedging programs.
And I think bringing him on as the new CFO with a fresh set of eyes there's a risk we had known about at Stryker and Stryker's has lived with this risk for many many many years.
Rates have never moved with this kind of dramatic -- just in terms of intensity as well as the shortness of the timeframe.
So it's a risk we've known about but it's a risk that never materialized in such a dramatic action.
But Bill has that experience and obviously the two of us spent a lot of time talking about it.
We really believe this is the right step to move forward with that will smooth out those variations.
And then our true operational performance can shine through.
Research Division</strong> Just going to be 2 more quick ones.
The first is maybe going back to Bill's significant experience.
And Bill one of the areas that I think investors are pretty enthusiastic where you can bring some of your leadership is on shared services.
And I imagine as you've been there -- have you been there long enough to kind of get a sense of where Stryker sits on shared services.
And relative to some of the cost numbers that Stryker has proposed how do you feel about those numbers and your ability to implement shared services with the broader team? And over what time frame do you think that's appropriate? Then one quick follow-up for Kevin.
Well I mean a couple of things here.
One we -- I think the organization is already in a -- it's in a good position.
I think it's starting from a strong foot on a number of different activities as well as just with the strength of its overall business performance.
And yes I think that we can definitely make some continued improvements here looking forward especially as we see kind of the areas that we're going to be growing sales and focus.
But specifically as it relates to shared services while I've had a chance to look at really each one of the 3 different regions right now and yes we've been talking through a number of different opportunities on -- and activities.
I think that one that's going to migrate over probably many different years.
Again that's not something that just happens overnight.
But I think that we've got some good opportunities in a number of areas to just make sure that we're looking at even best practices within Stryker let alone kind of broadly external to Stryker because I think we're doing a lot of really good things already within the organization.
We just need to maximize on that.
Our next question comes from Bill Plovanic from Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions here.
One is for the hip recall I think it adds up cumulatively to about $384 million if my math is correct.
And correct me if I'm wrong.
And I think the original range was between $190 million to $390 million.
Should we expect an increase in that range? I think one you should expect us to reevaluate that at the end of every quarter.
And I think that we did have some run-off on some expectations.
And I think that mostly that's because of kind of a communications and how we're looking to see and get a good assessment of all the activity out there.
I don't think you should expect -- you shouldn't expect it and we shouldn't expect it.
I think the numbers that we've got out there are the range that we're currently expecting based on the kind of the current trends and low levels of expectations moving forward.
If it does change within this quarter or within the next quarter or anytime in the future we'll be reassessing that and trying to give us at least our best estimate of what that new range may be.
And it could actually move in either direction.
And as I mentioned the range that we do have out there today does not include any potential offset from any insurance recovery on the backside.
And we don't want to book anything associated with that until obviously we get closer to understanding exactly what that may be.
And if we do book some that will be as well a non-GAAP related adjustment that we'll highlight for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the hip.
And it's been kind of beat up a little here.
It was a great quarter 6% on a 5% comp.
The comps are getting tougher.
You did announce or talk about some new products that have rolled out.
I mean how much longer do you think you can keep kind of staying at the high end of the market in terms of hip and really taking share? Is this -- should we expect a reversion to the mean now that new product cycles are starting to slow or can you maintain at the high end? Well I would say that moving back to the mean is never an objective obviously.
We've been above market for I think 8 quarters in the United States.
At least 8 if not more than 8.
And in the middle of that we had a recall.
A pretty significant recall.
So I feel really strongly about -- I just had a review this week -- earlier this week with our hip business in Mahwah and very excited about the cadence of new products over the next few years.
They shared with me the execution in the field has been fantastic dealing with this recall and then continuing to sell and not making excuses for it.
So I believe we can continue to sustain market leadership.
That doesn't mean every single quarter we'll be #1 but we certainly have a terrific product portfolio that's existing.
Accolade II still is continuing to grow at robust rates.
So even though it was launched a year ago it's certainly not reached its maxim.
Same with our mobile bearing hip offerings and close cuts are still gaining traction.
A lot of surgeons use those initially in revisions but they're having great success and now they are thinking of using those cups in primary procedures.
So we still have very good runway with the new products that were launched let's say 1 year to 2 years ago in addition to the Secur-Fit Advance that was just launched.
And they -- we do have a pipeline looking ahead that excites me.
So I don't -- would not expect us to suddenly fall off on hips.
But from quarter-to-quarter any one quarter somebody might nudge a little bit ahead of us.
But we're certainly playing for market leadership for the long term here.
Our next question comes from Steven Lichtman from Oppenheimer and Company.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on endoscopy.
You mentioned that comps will even with Neptune in the back half.
But you did just anniversary the 1488 launch.
Where are we in that launch? Is this a multi-year type of launch like we've seen in hips and knees? Or are you pretty well out there in terms of the rollout? Yes.
The 1488 launch got underway late in the second quarter of last year.
If you recall we had some initial glitches which is not unusual when we start to get the products out used broader in the field.
And since that time we've started to see obviously accelerating momentum.
I'm really pleased.
So they're now going into Year 2.
And as we get certainly to the back half of Year 2 the comps get more difficult.
It tends to be a roughly 3-year cycle same with our power tools.
So Year 1 to Year -- the first 18 months the strongest growth.
And then you'd start to see a greater moderation as you start to get to the tail end of the cycle.
And there'd be no difference with that with the 1488.
Yes.
But in this quarter it was strong double-digit growth.
So when -- I would not say we're at the anniversary stage.
And we have good expectations in the second half for endoscopy.
The camera should continue to grow well.
And in addition Katherine mentioned earlier the Communication business the drag that we had in the first 2 quarters was certainly lessened in the second quarter and should start to turn modestly positive in the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then Bill never liked to ask a question on other expense but did hit you guys by $0.02 this quarter.
Is that a level that we should be thinking about on a quarterly basis the next couple? No.
I think that as we've kind of looked through the back end of the year we're obviously still getting hit by some of the lower interest rate especially on the investment incomes and we're still obviously sitting with a fairly significant amount of cash.
But I think that from a year-over-year comparison level I think the back half is probably not going to have as negative of an impact as you saw in the second quarter of this period.
Our next question comes from Josh Jennings from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just first with a competitor signing the Reconstructive joint business to MicroPort is there any outlook here for Stryker to take advantage of any disruption sales force attrition et cetera to see some benefit there in either hips or knees? Whenever you have any kind of transition there's always opportunity.
But they had a very very small share of the overall market.
So any gains that we would get I would say look at all the players likely to be able to capitalize a little bit.
But given how small their market share was it wouldn't be something that would be meaningful to our overall results.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up question on Biologics.
Can you just talk about the performance of Stryker's Biologics Unit future investment future interest in building out your Biologics franchise? And then any interpretation of the [indiscernible] analysis for Medtronics-infused product and whether or not that's a positive or negative for Stryker's Biologics going forward.
Sure.
We've acquired Orthovita as you know recently.
And we were very pleased with the Vitoss product which has been sold by our Spine business as well as our Trauma business.
Last year Spine took full advantage of that and really had terrific performance.
I would say this year Trauma has picked it up and Orthovita's starting to have a little bit more of this positive impact in Trauma than it did last year.
But we really like that business.
It has very good clinical data.
And we continue to have runway for growth in Biologics.
We have a dedicated business unit which focuses just on R&amp;D and making the product.
And then it's sold through our existing sales force.
So that was the thesis of the acquisition.
We're pleased with that acquisition.
But frankly the BMP issue on Medtronic that -- their decline has really happened over the last number of quarters.
It seems to be starting to level off and maybe there might be a little bit more decline.
But whatever benefit has accrued whether it's to us or other players in the market it's pretty much behind us.
We do also have some Biologics sold by our Sports Medicine and our Foot and Ankle business.
We entered into a distribution agreement just recently on that.
And that seems to be going very well as well.
So whether Biologics will continue to be an area of focus for us in the future.
But we have a pretty good portfolio right now that we're looking to maximize.
Our next question comes from Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> The follow-up that I had sorry about that before was around medical.
And just to maybe probe a little further into that I know you've gotten a couple of questions on it the environment being what it is and here you have these pretty impressive numbers in the quarter.
Can you maybe talk about the degree to which there was a product cycle involved there? I know you've launched some new things in sort of critical care or emergency and stretchers side to the extent maybe that surfaces played a role here.
Katherine you referenced hospitals are being more cautious with some deferrable capital expenses.
Maybe help us understand which parts of medical are performing so well for you.
Yes.
I would just -- I think on the margin yes Surfaces helps on the margin some new product launches.
Like Power-LOAD which I believe we showed earlier in the year at the academy meeting.
But I wouldn't say medical is in the midst of a major new product cycle that's driving the growth.
And I probably don't want to get into a whole lot of granularity regarding the business segment growth rate because we don't break that out separately.
But in general as you look at our -- all of our capital businesses which are around 22% to 23% of total company revenue my comments earlier was that medical as a group is the most deferrable in terms of beds and stretchers just having an inherently longer life cycle versus something like the capital businesses of our endoscopy and instruments business where cameras and power tools are technically capital but they're less deferrable than other certain types of businesses certainly than medical.
Yes.
The only thing I'd add is we really like being in the medical business.
It is volatile.
So from quarter-to-quarter we do have to deal with that volatility.
But there are new products whether it's the Power-LOAD -- there's a new wheelchair that they launched recently which did not contribute in any meaningful way to sales in this quarter but those types of investment you'll start to see the benefit over time.
So we are committed to innovation in medical.
And over the cycle with the ups and downs we certainly -- we do expect to be growing at above-market rates and we really do enjoy that business.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for closing remarks.
So thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the third quarter 2013 results will be held on October 17 2013.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to Stryker's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mayesha.
I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that the discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Joining me today are Bill Jellison our CFO; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy &amp; Investor Relations.
In view of the recently announced definitive agreement to acquire MAKO Surgical we have also included David Floyd Group President of Orthopedics.
And following my opening comments David will provide some additional perspectives on this pending transaction.
Bill will then offer details on our quarterly results and we will wrap up with Q&amp;A.
Turning to our Q3 results.
Sales excluding currency and acquisitions accelerated to 6.1% versus 2012.
With the same number of selling days in the quarter this represents strong organic sales growth with all 3 segments: Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine contributing to the sales momentum.
This growth was also balanced geographically with the U.S.
up 6.5% and international increasing 5.5%.
In the U.S.
Reconstructive growth was powered by hip gains of 9.3% and Trauma and Extremities of 22.7%.
Trauma and Extremities continues to roll having now reported 7 quarters in a row of double-digit growth including a 39% increase in Foot &amp; Ankle this quarter.
U.S.
MedSurg saw a pickup in Endoscopy at 10.5% as OR integration sales improved but was offset by a decline in Instruments due to the Neptune recall and challenging comps from System 7 sales in 2012.
We expect Instruments to return to positive sales growth in the U.S.
in Q4.
U.S.
Neurotechnology and Spine was driven by 14% sales growth in Neurotechnology as each of its businesses registered double-digit gains.
Shifting to our o U.S.
sales for the second consecutive quarter our European business registered positive year-over-year growth and is growing at market rates.
Emerging markets continue to do well with China Brazil and India delivering very strong double-digit growth.
We continue to deliver strong operating cash flow and are up 14.4% year-to-date.
Our strong balance sheet has enabled us to pursue an acquisition strategy that is expanding our sales footprint into some of the highest growth and most innovative segments of med tech.
With our recently announced agreement to acquire MAKO Surgical we believe we are well positioned to unlock the long-term potential for robotic-assisted surgery which will further define Stryker as a leader in orthopaedics.
We are also able to continue to grow our dividend while periodically executing share buybacks.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
At 68.8% our adjusted gross margin ramped considerably from the prior year due in part to continued benefits being realized from our previously discussed 5-year plan to drive greater operational efficiencies.
R&amp;D was up significantly in the quarter at plus 19% reflecting both timing and continued commitment to investing for the future.
Our adjusted SG&amp;A percent of sales was slightly lower in the quarter compared to Q3 last year despite costs related to a distributor transition in Asia which adversely impacted our per share earnings by roughly $0.03 in total.
On a per share basis Q3 adjusted EPS was $0.98 reflecting solid organic sales growth and gross margin expansion partly offset by heightened investments in R&amp;D and one-time SG&amp;A costs.
We are narrowing our full year organic sales growth guidance to 4.5% to 5.5% which once again raises the lower end of the range as we did following Q2 results.
We remain comfortable with and confirm our full year adjusted EPS estimates of $4.20 to $4.26.
Before I turn the call over to David I'd like to make a few comments regarding our recently announced plans to acquire MAKO Surgical.
As many of you may recall from our recent analyst meeting we are disciplined regarding the metrics we use to evaluate our acquisition targets and most of our deals fall within our guidelines as it relates to deal returns.
However occasionally we look to invest in areas that we believe can deliver breakthrough innovation.
And these are by definition bigger bets with bigger potential rewards.
MAKO clearly falls into this category.
And David will now elaborate more fully on this.
David? Thanks Kevin.
Good afternoon and I appreciate the opportunity to join today's call and provide you with additional perspective regarding our enthusiasm with the recently announced signing of a definitive agreement to acquire MAKO Surgical.
I want to begin by describing our view on the future of reconstructive orthopaedic surgery.
We firmly believe that innovation will drive growth and that meaningful differentiation in technology and in business models can drive share gains.
The combination of MAKO and Stryker provides an excellent platform for achieving this.
As for innovation we believe that the key opportunities in joint reconstruction are procedural advancements significantly improved patient experience as documented in outcomes and a new generation of implants.
Robotics and specifically the MAKO platform is uniquely able to deliver in all 3 areas.
Procedural innovation must address 3 key factors.
First the ability of an implant system to enable consistently reproducible superior outcomes in a variety of surgical settings in varying levels of surgical team skill and experience.
We think the keys here are bone preparation implant placement and joint alignment and balancing.
This is the most obvious demonstrated capability of robotics in orthopaedic surgery and a key driver of the near-term value proposition.
Second advancing procedural efficiency must involve minimizing soft tissue disruption and other factors that increase postoperative pain and complications.
Third significantly improving overall procedure flow and process efficiency will be essential.
However simply making the surgery faster without making it better has limited value over the long term.
MAKO has demonstrated that robotics can deliver on many of these factors of procedural innovation and shows promise on delivering on all of them as the technology platform advances.
Turning to the other opportunities for innovation.
These 3 elements of procedural advancement are designed to address not only the needs of the surgeon and the health care system but we believe will deliver enhanced patient experience and outcomes especially in knee replacement surgery.
MAKO is already demonstrating very encouraging results in unicompartmental knee surgery and we are convinced that similar advances can be achieved in total joint replacement.
Finally we are convinced that long term clinical results can be further enhanced by the next generation of implants.
The combination of consistently reproducible precision in bone preparation offered uniquely by robotics coupled with new implant designs that take advantage of robotics as an enabler will lead to a significant step forward in improved patient outcomes especially for the increasingly younger patients that seek joint replacement surgery.
Such implants are clearly years from commercialization but are a meaningful factor in the long-term value of this platform.
As many of you know I've been involved in the orthopaedic market for over 2 decades and during that time have seen a variety of innovations in joint replacement surgery.
And while I am very proud of what we have achieved in partnership with surgeons to innovate in ways that have significantly improved patient outcomes the long-term potential offered by robotic-assisted surgery holds the promise of transforming reconstructive surgery.
As the pioneer in this field MAKO has demonstrated extraordinary and rapid success in a business that has classically relied on incremental changes.
We believe Stryker's long history in joint reconstruction capital equipment and surgical instruments along with synergistic engineering resources focused on robotics will help further advance this platform and its commercial success.
Our Reconstructive implants have a strong reputation with surgeons and highly successful clinical outcomes.
Additionally we have a long history in selling capital to hospitals and we understand the unique aspects of the sales model.
Combined this should help ensure we can both expand penetration for robotic-assisted surgery in joint reconstruction while also continuing to leverage our know-how and MAKO's R&amp;D pipeline to help unlock the longer-term potential in the broader orthopaedics market.
I look forward to taking additional questions at the end of today's call and will now turn it over to Bill to discuss our Q3 financials in more detail.
Great.
Thanks David.
Sales growth was positive by 4.8% in the quarter including a negative 2% impact from FX translation.
Constant currency sales growth was a positive 6.8% which includes organic growth of 6.1%.
There is virtually no difference in selling days for the quarter.
EPS on a GAAP basis for the quarter ended at $0.27 per share versus $0.92 per share last year in the third quarter while adjusted earnings per share was $0.98 for the quarter versus $0.97 per share for the third quarter last year.
This quarter's EPS includes negative impacts of approximately $0.05 per share from FX and $0.03 per share from the med tech tax.
The income statement is exposed to both transactional and translational FX risks while the balance sheet is just exposed to translational FX risk.
In the past we have only hedged transactions once they have occurred.
However in October we have begun to establish a layered transactional hedging program which will help us mitigate some of the transactional volatility caused by changes in FX rates.
This program will start to have some effect in the first quarter of 2014 and will be more fully in place by the end of next year.
We are also implementing a net investment hedging program this month primarily structured to mitigate some of the translational risk associated with our more liquid assets that are held in euros.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustment in the quarter are primarily related to a $213 million (sic) [$313 million] increase in the charge associated with the voluntary recalls of Rejuvenate ABG II and Neptune.
These charges may increase or decrease over time as additional facts and assumptions become more refined.
No potential insurance proceeds proceeds that may be available to cover some of this potential cost have been included at this time.
While looking at sales in the quarter our organic growth of 6.1% was comprised of a positive 7.1% from volume and mix with price negatively impacting it by 0.9%.
Acquisitions added 0.7% while FX had a negative 2% impact due to significant weakness in both the Japanese yen and the Australian dollar compared to the same period last year.
Looking at our segments.
Reconstructive represented 44% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales of Reconstructive products were up 6.5% as reported and grew 9.2% constant currency.
U.S.
Reconstructive sales grew 9.9% in the quarter.
Trauma and Extremities had another excellent quarter in the U.S.
with sales increasing 22.7% led by new products sales execution and strong growth in Foot &amp; Ankle.
U.S.
hips and knees had strong growth in the period of approximately 9% and 4% in the quarter respectively recognizing that hips benefited in part from easier year-over-year comparisons.
Knees continue to feel the impact from the absence of our ShapeMatch Cutting Guides but the growth in this category still appears to be in line with the market.
Our international Reconstructive business was up 8.2% in constant currency and had organic growth of 5.3%.
All major regions posted positive gains.
However knee growth internationally was negatively impacted this quarter by a distributor transition in Asia affecting some smaller countries in the region.
Outside of Asia we achieved positive year-over-year gains in all regions.
Next our MedSurg segment represented approximately 37% of sales in the quarter.
Total MedSurg sales increased 1.5% as reported and 2.6% on a constant currency basis.
These results were led by high-single-digit growth from our Endoscopy and Sustainability Solutions businesses.
Medical had slightly positive growth while Instruments declined in the period.
Instrument sales growth in the U.S.
were hindered by both the strong System 7 sales in the third quarter last year and having the Neptune Waste Management System out of the market this year.
However in the fourth quarter the Neptune lost sales will be reflected in both periods.
We look forward to getting this product obviously back on the market once we obtain regulatory clearance.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine represented 19% of company sales and delivered another strong quarter.
Sales increased 7.7% as reported and 10% on a constant currency basis.
Growth in this segment was led by IVS and our Neurotechnology businesses where all of these businesses posted solid double-digit constant currency growth.
Spinal implant sales were up slightly in the U.S.
and up double-digit internationally on a constant currency basis.
Excluding the impact of Trauson international Spine implants still posted growth in the mid-single digits.
In looking at our operational performance gross margins on an adjusted basis in the third quarter of 2013 were 68.8% compared to 68.2% in the same period last year.
The rate was positively impacted by improved operating cost efficiencies and overhead absorption as inventory levels increased in the quarter.
Product mix was also favorable as Recon sales were very strong in the period and MedSurg sales experienced more moderate growth.
FX and price had a negative impact on the rate this quarter.
However the impact on the gross margin rate was less than in the first half of the year.
The med tech tax also negatively impacted gross margins by approximately 90 basis points in the quarter.
As we look at the fourth quarter we expect our gross margin rates to run lower than the fourth quarter of last year as we continue to be negatively impacted by the med tech tax and we also expect operational improvements to be dampened in the period as we bring down inventory levels and achieve less overhead absorption in that period.
Research and development expenses increased by 70 basis points to 6.3% versus 5.6% last year in the quarter.
The 19% increase in R&amp;D spending over last year reinforces our commitment to invest in areas where we believe will help us achieve above market sales growth in each of our key product categories.
Our R&amp;D spending this quarter resulted in an overall higher level of operating expenses in the quarter.
However we believe our total operating expenses will be lower as a percentage of sales in the fourth quarter compared to both the third quarter and last year's fourth quarter despite our additional investments in R&amp;D.
Selling general and administrative costs represented 52.8% of sales in the third quarter.
However this included approximately $313 million of costs related to the Rejuvenate ABG II and Neptune recall.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A expenses were $818 million or 38% of sales in the third quarter of 2013 versus 38.2% in the prior year's third quarter.
SG&amp;A included charges taken in various countries in Asia to transition away from a key distributor in that region which negatively impacted these expenses by approximately 0.5 percentage point this quarter.
Operating margins on an adjusted basis were 22.8% in the third quarter slightly lower than last year in the same period.
The rate was negatively impacted by the med tech tax lower prices and higher R&amp;D spending.
However those impacts were nearly offset this quarter by operational benefits and favorable product mix.
Other expenses in the third quarter were $13 million compared to $6.4 million last year in the third quarter.
This increase in expense resulted primarily from lower interest income due to lower interest rates and slightly higher interest expense from our increased borrowings.
Our reported tax rate for the third quarter was 24.8% while the adjusted effective tax rate was 22% for the third quarter which is consistent with our year-end expectations.
This compares to a 20.2% adjusted effective tax rate in the third quarter of last year.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $5.1 billion of cash and marketable securities which is an increase of $853 million compared to year end 2012.
We also have $2.8 billion of long-term debt on the balance sheet.
From an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended the quarter at 57 which are 2 days better than they were last year in September.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 185 which was an increase of 19 days sequentially and 2 days when measured against the prior year quarter.
Inventory levels were built in the quarter.
However we do expect to reduce those levels in the fourth quarter and still show a year-over-year improvement of a few days at year end.
Turning to our cash flow.
We had a strong cash generation in the first 9 months of the year with cash from operations of $1.214 billion compared to $1.061 billion in the prior year.
That's an increase of 14.4% over the first 9 months of last year.
Share repurchases were -- in the first 9 months of 2013 were approximately $252 million during that period and we still have nearly $750 million available for repurchase under our current authorization.
Based on our solid sales achievement in the first 9 months of the year and the current economic and market conditions we are projecting organic growth or constant currency growth x acquisitions in a range of 4.5% to 5.5% for the year.
If foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels we anticipate net sales will be negatively impacted by approximately 1.5% to 2% in both the fourth quarter and for the full year of 2013.
As Kevin indicated previously we are maintaining our guidance for adjusted diluted earnings per share in 2013 of $4.20 to $4.26.
Thanks for your support and we'd be glad to answer any of your questions that you may have at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wonder if you could spend a little bit more time on the MAKO transaction.
I know you guys gave some color on just the impact from a financial standpoint for the next year just thinking forward.
Can you maybe just go over what you guys are thinking in terms of sales synergies and cost synergies related to the transaction? In terms of sales synergies and cost synergies I think this is really a sales synergy driven value proposition.
When we take a look at our implants and the long clinical successful history of our implants combined with what MAKO has demonstrated in terms of robotics and the ability to precisely position those implants I think combining those 2 gives us significant revenue synergies over time.
Yes Kristen at this point also we -- we've obviously announced the signing but we haven't yet closed.
And so we really don't want to get into too many more descriptions of detailed synergies.
That's something that we'll be able to share much more after we close the transaction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess can you just speak maybe a little bit more on the -- just overall orthopaedic landscape specifically to hips and knees and whether or not you think you're seeing a strengthening of the market as we enter into the tail end of the year? And maybe just give an update too on the performance within Europe.
In terms of the market particularly as we see in the United States the third quarter does show some promise particularly in knees.
The knee volume seems to be improving.
Ours certainly has.
And as we watch the market we think the knee volume has improved substantially in the third quarter over the first half of the year.
And we're optimistic that we'll see some continued modest improvement in the knee volume over the fourth quarter.
Hip volume has been reasonably strong over the course of the year.
Kristen just one comment on the seasonality in the fourth quarter.
You know that over the last few years we have seen this trend with incrementally a little bit more seasonality in Q4 and the offset in the first quarter.
Whether or not that happens in this fourth quarter and especially in front of ACA next year is a little bit of a guessing game.
But overall the market appears to be stable to incrementally more positive.
Yes.
And Kristen this is Kevin.
Related to your question around Europe we're really pleased.
This is the second quarter in a row where we've had positive growth.
And frankly every country improved in the third quarter.
Even Italy which is the one country I've highlighted before which has been the most challenging.
It just had a very very modest decline year-over-year.
So even that has improved in its trend.
So we really believe that the changes that we started to make going back over a year from now are really taking hold.
And that's why we can now confirm that we are growing at market rates which is clearly ahead of the goal that we have set a year ago.
Our next question is Dave Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Given that we just came out of NASS I was wondering if I could hit you with a couple of quick Spine ones.
First off could you remind us what your MIS or minimally invasive strategy is there? And then the nice growth that you saw do you think you'd attribute that to the turmoil from some of the big deals in this space? Or are we seeing procedures pick up? Yes this is David.
In terms of our MIS strategy we just launched this year the second generation of our percutaneous pedicle screw system the ES2.
And that has been a very strong growth driver for us.
In addition differentiated interbody technology.
So that's been our approach on MIS.
And we have been able to see better pricing and stronger growth in MIS.
In terms of whether the overall procedure volume is improving I think it's been pretty consistent in third quarter in line with the year.
And I think that's -- what we've seen in Spine is that differentiated technologies can drive growth.
Our next question is Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> While we've got you here Kevin and both David maybe just spend some more time on MAKO.
I think people are probably a bit surprised in the proxy to see that it was a one-on-one conversation Kevin between you and MAKO and that there weren't other parties involved.
So can you talk a little bit about a how you came about the valuation for MAKO? And b how people should think about a return on the investment given the purchase price? Yes.
So MAKO has clearly been on our radar screen for some time.
And we believe in the power of robotics.
It's something that I think we've shared pretty openly with the analysts that we believe in the potential.
So yes the proxy MAKO just issued -- their preliminary proxy for those of you that are wondering what Mike's asking about.
And in that proxy statement you can see the cascade of events which started with me approaching their CEO in early August.
And we obviously moved fairly quickly through the process to actually consummate a signing of a deal.
And for us we really see this as David earlier indicated as a potential game changer in reconstructive surgery not just for their uni application but clearly beyond that.
And I think David outlined all of that rationale.
So for us as you read that time line you'll understand that we had a chance to go in and do our due diligence.
And we feel that this is going to be a good deal for Stryker over the long term.
Clearly the price represents a premium but we feel that over the long term this will deliver very strong returns for Stryker.
It will differentiate us in the marketplace and will really unlock the potential.
And as you know in many procedures the satisfaction level isn't quite as high as we would like it to be.
We believe robotics will be a key enabler to be able to meet that need.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one follow-up then.
Can you maybe shed some light on the pipeline of the products coming out of MAKO particularly from the -- that they just bought the Pipeline piece of the story? So can you just talk a little bit about what might be in Pipeline's pipeline if you follow that.
And then just -- maybe just another one just could you spend another minute on the distributor transition in Asia because obviously that impacted the business this quarter.
So obviously when we signed with MAKO we were very well aware of the Pipeline transaction.
It was well in process.
And at this point I really don't want to get into a lot of details.
Again between signing and closing I would rather just let you know that we feel very good about -- of that acquisition.
We believe that that complements MAKO very well and will be a complement to Stryker.
And I'll just leave it at that for now.
Related to distributor transition so small market countries in Asia where this happens in our company from time to time where we have to go through these transitions.
And it's unfortunate but we're actually changing out a distributor in some small market countries.
So obviously it does not affect China it does not affect India but some small market countries in Asia.
And as a result of that transition we've had to take some charges in the quarter.
Our next question is Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So just to start I have a follow-up on the hip and knee markets and I appreciate your comments.
But I was just wondering if you could share any anecdotes you're hearing from the field in terms of what's driving the incremental improvement in the market.
And I know there's some easy comps here but clearly things feel a little better.
So any anecdotes from the field or any sense from you guys as to what the drivers are of this improvement in hip and knee volumes? This is David.
I've been watching this for a long time and it can be hard to explain.
It seems like all of a sudden the knee patients stay home.
And then all of a sudden they show back up.
But what we've seen I think over the last couple of years is a little bit more consistency with hip patients because quite frankly it's a little bit harder to delay hip replacement surgery just from a lifestyle standpoint.
Knee replacement patients do have some options to sort of delay the surgery.
They ultimately need to have it.
And I think economic insecurity and uncertainty about insurance coverage have kept some patients on the sidelines.
It's possible that either they have just gotten to the point where they have to have the surgery or as they've gotten just a little bit more comfortable with the future they've come back.
But that's -- you asked for anecdotes and so you got some anecdotes.
Yes but it's one quarter.
So obviously we tend not to get too discouraged when we have a soft quarter.
We tend to not get too encouraged when we have a strong quarter.
But we do believe that the market is gradually improving.
And it's gradually improving.
It's not spiking.
But we believe that from what we're hearing that the market is gradually improving.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up on MAKO.
As you kind of did your return calculations can you give us a sense over time as to how much market share you need -- you think you need to take in order to get this to be a positive return? I'm just kind of curious as to some of your assumptions there.
And then I was also wondering if you could describe what kind of happened to your own internal program and what caused you to kind of shift from an internal focused program to going out and buying MAKO? Bob I'll take the second part of the question.
And as it relates to the area we've long talked about having a significant interest in robotic-assisted surgery in any type of technology whether it's cutting guides navigation where we play roles in both those markets that kind of assist the surgery.
And we used the learnings and our understanding of that market and looked at the MAKO technology and really believe the value proposition by combining the 2 was going to really allow for differentiation in the market.
And as David alluded to market share gains that are not within the norm that we traditionally see.
Or put another way we're looking for over time meaningful share gains.
That was really how we thought about it as it related to our own internal analysis of the robotic space.
And also maybe just a follow-on comment on that Bob as well.
From an assumption perspective obviously we have a number of different assumptions that are included in the broader-based model.
We're comfortable with those.
We're comfortable with the levels that they're delivering on from an overall discounted cash flow analysis for us.
The immediate first or first few year returns are obviously lower for this type of business because it's at a very early stage.
But we think that this is a game changer within this category for us and we think it's a great fit in our broader-based portfolio.
Your next question is Matthew Dodds with Citicorp.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First Kevin Neurotechnology that business also did really well.
What's your take on how the market's doing there? I assume you're gaining share but what's your view on the overall market? Maybe I'll just jump in there.
We are really pleased with the performance within our Neurotechnology group.
And clearly Neurovascular is continuing to see very strong momentum.
A lot of that is what they've been able to do in the coiling market which is about 40% of that segment.
We've launched a number of new products there standard long nano-sized coils.
And we're now just in the process of launching the Target XL.
And that's a fatter larger diameter coil.
And we've been seeing nice pull-through from that as well.
We've had a number of other product launches within that segment.
So that's really been the biggest driver of the performance overall in that space.
Research Division</strong> And then one quick follow-up.
On Trauson how has that gone? I know you gave a little bit of a breakout of that growth in acquisitions.
How has it gone now a couple of quarters in? Yes.
So far so good is what I'd say Matt.
The Trauson momentum is really consistent with our plans and our acquisition model.
So we're really pleased.
In China we have maintained the sales momentum that had existed prior to the acquisition.
We still have work to do in terms of getting Trauson sold outside of China.
And I'd say we knew that that was going to take us a bit of time because we had a lot of product registration issues and we have to get the distribution channel sorted out.
So that's going to take a little longer.
But certainly within China we're very pleased with the momentum.
And by all accounts whether it's R&amp;D whether it's the distributor channel whether it's customer sales and market share by every measure we're sort of on track right now.
Your next question is Jason Wittes with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One if I could just push a little bit more on the hip and knee market is it possible to break out how much of the growth came from revisions versus primaries in both hips and knees? I think it's fair to say that our revision growth is higher substantially higher than the primary growth rate just because of the nature of the procedures.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I mean is that -- if you look at where the growth's coming from are you saying it's equally distributed or it's coming a little bit more from the revision side than the primary side? I guess that's what I was trying to ask.
The growth is across both.
So we have good strong healthy growth in both our primary and our revision platforms.
The growth rates are typically higher on the revision side but we had strong growth across both.
Our next question is Derrick Sung with Sanford C.
Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Kevin we heard earlier this week from Synthes that they in their trauma business were seeing some pressure from low-cost or value-oriented competitors here in the U.S.
And obviously your business in trauma is doing quite differently here.
You're doing very well.
But I wanted to get your perspectives on what you're seeing in terms of these sort of low-cost generic orthopaedic manufacturers in the U.S.? Do you think it's a long-term threat? Is it an opportunity for you? And might this spread to other areas like hips and knees or in spine? So I'll start the answer and then I'll pass it to David.
What I can tell you is we have not really seen any of this.
And we did see the comment made.
And quite frankly we're puzzled by it.
It really has not affected us.
As you see our double-digit growth has been very consistent very steady.
And obviously a spectacular quarter this year in Trauma and Extremities.
So if it was something meaningful I think we would have noticed it.
It would've affected our growth rate.
So thus far we're not seeing it.
But maybe David if you want to add something.
Yes.
I think what we see from our customers is they continue to put a great value on differentiated technology on better instruments and on high service levels.
So we quite frankly just don't see much of an opportunity to go in with some sort of low-cost generic model in trauma.
We occasionally see things in ambulatory surgery centers for simple wrist fractures.
But by and large in the Level 1 trauma centers and even in the community hospitals the full product line and high service continue to be very very important.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I have a follow-up just going back to MAKO as a company you have a lot of experience in selling capital equipment.
And I was just wondering if you could kind of give us a little bit more color on kind of what gives you the confidence that the market for hospital capital spending that hospitals will continue to be able to spend the level that is needed for a MAKOplasty type piece of equipment either today or moving forward.
Why do you think that market can still grow? And just maybe some of your thoughts there on capital spending as it relates to MAKO.
Sure.
I'd be happy to.
I think it's helpful to sort of break it out into the near term the next few years the longer term and the future.
In the near term you have to appreciate that for most hospitals if not nearly all hospitals the orthopaedic service line is one of their premier profit centers.
Joint replacement surgery is a highly profitable procedure and a great growth driver for the hospitals.
And what MAKO has successfully done is demonstrate that with a robotic program hospitals that have a robot and a strong robotic program have driven substantially increased patient volume and substantially improved payer mix.
So those hospitals in our survey work as we studied this indicated that hospitals that acquired a robot and drove a strong program were very very happy with the results and definitely felt like the capital expense was well worth it.
Over the long term however I think what will be necessary to improve the value proposition particularly as the way health care is paid for changes are demonstrated superior patient outcomes in ways that not only give the patient better clinical outcomes but superior economic outcomes.
And we're confident based on the trends of the early data as well as the promise of the platform as it develops that robotics will deliver on both of those over the long term.
Our next question is Raj Denhoy with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if I could just ask about the Foot &amp; Ankle performance you noted in the quarter.
I think you mentioned it was 39% growth.
I think that business is probably trending well above $100 million for you now.
And I'm curious if you could just offer anything in terms of what's driving that growth.
Is it still the underlying market is supporting that kind of growth? Or do you think that there's a share capture story happening here? I think it's both.
We do believe we're capturing some meaningful share.
We also think the market is growing at a very healthy rate.
This is a market that is very difficult to sort of figure out exactly how much the market is growing.
It's not like major joint reconstruction where you can calibrate it pretty tightly based on reported results.
But we think there's strong growth.
I think the -- there's strong procedure growth.
And also as we introduce new products and new technologies that yield better results we see surgeons doing procedures that yield higher implant ASPs than the lower implant ASPs of yesterday's technology.
But we do also believe we've been able to capture some share.
I would just make one cautionary comment though.
As you start to think about Q4 just be aware of the magnitude of the year-over-year comparisons that we'll be going up against into the fourth quarter which obviously are going to temper the growth rates from a percentage basis.
That said we still feel very bullish.
This is a market that has tremendous room to expand.
And obviously the decision to create a separate business unit at the beginning of last year and dedicate sales force specifically for the podiatric surgeon is bearing fruit.
And we're seeing tremendous growth with that dedicated sales force with a new call point that we frankly hadn't called on in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
Maybe I could just ask one about Neptune.
I think you noted that next quarter will be the first quarter you won't be comping against it.
And I'm curious if you could just remind us of what magnitude or how big that has been -- how big of a drag that has been for the last couple of quarters -- the last 4 quarters for you? Sure.
I mean in the first half of the year it was probably averaging somewhere in the $15 million to $20 million a quarter range.
And in the third quarter because again at least the month of September had a year-over-year equal comparison it was really July and August.
There's probably only about $7 million impact in comparison for the third Q.
So as we move forward into the fourth quarter that will be obviously out of both periods.
Your next question is from Glenn Novarro's line with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One on price.
I noticed price was down 0.9% here in 3Q and in 2Q it was down 1.5% so less pricing pressure.
Was there anything specific that led to slightly less pricing pressure or is that just part of the fluctuations that you'll see during the course of the year? And then second some of my companies are starting to go to cash EPS after they do some big dilutive transactions.
Have you thought about going to cash EPS for 2014 and beyond? Sure.
So 2 questions there both on the price and the cash EPS.
From a price perspective obviously that can move between different quarterly periods with a strong -- especially strong sales in comparison to the prior period.
I think that there's obviously less impacts associated with what's going through in any one specific quarter.
I think the price increase -- or the price -- negative price impacts of between kind of 1% and 1.5% or 1% and 2% range I think is pretty consistent.
And I think that that's what we would expect moving forward.
As far as cash EPS is concerned obviously anytime we would do an acquisition we would take a look at both ends of it.
I think as we complete the acquisition we'll talk more specifically about kind of what we're planning on doing there.
But it's at least something that we'll consider at the point in time that we close the transaction.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David in your prepared remarks you referenced the need for both business model and product innovation.
I know you've talked a little bit about the MAKO opportunity and also how the hospital landscape is changing.
But maybe if you go into a little bit more specifics about what you envision business model change to actually mean? And I know Kevin that's been an area of focus for you in talking with investors about the evolving needs of orthopaedics.
So maybe you just -- I think we understand what the hospital looks like maybe you'd give us some perspective as to where you're going with your strategy? Well I think -- so first of all I spoke of business model differentiation as opposed to business model change.
One of the things we find very attractive about MAKO's business model is they sell capital equipment in order to sell implants.
And that's very different than sort of the standard business model in reconstructive implants where companies provide capital free of charge in order to sell implants.
So that's -- that shows a unique model.
And I think that's an example of a different kind of business model that can help drive value growth and share gain over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just a follow-up on emerging markets.
You obviously spoke a little bit about Trauson and that's obviously a big focus for you in those geographies.
And maybe if you could just speak a little more generically about the performance of emerging markets and whether we're at a point where Trauson has become additive to your overall growth? How you sort of see your portfolio emerging in those geographies and any thought on what the sustainable growth profile might be? I'll answer that.
Just from an overall perspective.
Trauson obviously is a key acquisition for us in that region.
We would expect that business to put forth some very solid growth performance.
The numbers that we broadly talked about as far as how well the emerging markets are doing those are all doing very well for us in the double-digit range.
Obviously even excluding Trauson and Trauson continues to deliver right based on our overall expectations for that business.
So we would expect it in the future to continue to help stimulate our broader-based emerging market growth but we would also expect our base business to continue to put forth some very good numbers in those regions too.
Yes.
What I'd say in emerging markets is just repeat what I've said in the past.
And this is Kevin speaking.
That at 6% of sales at the end of 2012 that was our representation of emerging markets.
And clearly we have an ambition to move that number much higher to get into the low-teens over time.
And we expect Trauson to be one of the ways we're going to get there but also growing in the premium segment very rapidly in China in Brazil in India.
And Russia and Turkey are 2 other priority markets where our presence today is a very small.
They're markets that we frankly exited a number of years ago.
And we have clear plans to get back into those markets.
And in the quarters ahead we'll have more to share in our progress in those markets.
Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Kevin just a quick one for you and maybe a follow-up for David.
But speaking to trauma specifically I know you regarded -- you talked about the low price competition.
But just your business momentum I think we started several quarters talking about perhaps this was the result of competitor recalls but you're clearly past that now.
And I wonder what do you think is driving the business here? Is it breadth of product? Is it specific distributor wins? Is it a change in your selling model? Because all we've seen is multi-quarter acceleration.
So what specifically is driving this improvement and how sustainable do you see it? So this is the kind of question I'm sure David would love to answer but I'll take a little bit of the beginning part of the question and then I will turn it to David.
I mean it's been a great story without a doubt.
Frankly it's been a multiyear process which starts with the pipeline.
So we've really completely blown out our R&amp;D capabilities and launched a number of products that now have a broad product portfolio that can compete with Synthes which frankly was -- none of the other players were able to do that including Stryker 5 years ago.
So building out the product bag was a huge part of it.
And frankly our sales force execution has been just outstanding.
And we have a combined sort of direct.
We have dedicated reps.
In some cases we have combined reps.
And under common management we've just driven tremendous performance with outstanding execution in the field.
So maybe I'll turn it to David for other color commentary.
Yes Kevin I think that's right.
If you could summarize why we've been successful in trauma I think it's consistent focus.
This is not a business that we get excited about and then cut back and get excited about and cut back.
We've had consistent focus on trauma year-over-year with a long-term plan to meaningfully build a strength in this segment.
I would say the 3 key components are as Kevin said the product line.
We have a fantastic full and complete product portfolio that continues to expand and grow and develop.
Our specialized sales model where we have increasingly trauma sales reps calling on these as opposed to full-line [ph] sales reps particularly in the major metro area.
And finally our integrated field sales management approach.
So even though we have dedicated trauma reps and dedicated trauma sales managers our brand -- general managers are responsible for growth and bringing united fronts.
So I think that focus that product line and our sales model are delivering extraordinary results.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then David maybe sticking with you.
Maybe 2 questions related to MAKO.
The first is what is -- or how does an Otis strategy progress in a post-MAKO world? That's sort of Part 1.
And then Part 2 is I doubt we're going to get you to give us time lines on product approvals so I won't go there.
But can you give us any sense of what level of clinical work you think is going to be required to bring Stryker implants up on the MAKO system? Yes so in terms of our ShapeMatch product line we still think that is a very strong and healthy business segment.
We look forward to getting that product back on the market.
It's different than robotics.
And quite frankly there won't be a robot in every hospital in the near future.
It will take some time to penetrate that market.
And we think there's a great opportunity for ShapeMatch as there is a continuing opportunity for our Navigation product as well.
There's I think a good appetite for a variety of approaches for how to use computer-assisted surgical techniques in one shape or another to deliver improved patient outcomes.
We think the time frame in terms of transitioning Stryker products over to the RIO platform is probably about 1 year or 2 when you consider the engineering work development work on the robotics side and the regulatory time frame.
But we'll have probably more clarity about that in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Matson with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> We've heard from Biomet that they're planning to launch a bi-cruciate sparing knee.
And I just wanted to get your thoughts on that potential opportunity.
Maybe this fits into the reasons that you bought MAKO.
But just do you see this as a viable product category? Sure.
Today the benefit of a bi-cruciate retaining knee is quite frankly based on a theory.
And there's some intuitive appeal to this theory.
That preserving that ACL will significantly improve patient satisfaction.
However I would point out there's nothing like a broad consensus on this.
And as you look at the procedure there's significant surgical complexity.
To date in our view it's a highly technique-dependent procedure.
We are committed to evaluate technologies which includes implants instruments procedural modifications and potentially robotics to enable new procedures which could over time include bi-cruciate retaining knees.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then given the high level of R&amp;D spending I understand there were some timing issues.
But what do you -- Kevin what do you sort of feel is the right level of R&amp;D spending as a percent of sales? Is it going to stick around the 5.5% level or could we see it creeping up towards 6% over the longer term? So clearly you saw the Neurotechnology business growing very very rapidly and they are larger consumers of R&amp;D dollars.
So our guidelines right now are in the 5.5% to 6% range.
Obviously this quarter we were a little higher than that.
But I think that's a good operating assumption is we'll be in the 5.5% to 6% on an ongoing basis.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So just wanted to explore 2 things here.
One is if you could help us understand the timing of the MAKO transaction.
I know that you approached this summer but you've been talking about it for a while.
So I'm just curious if there was something you saw on the data or something that made this really the right time for you to approach them and do the deal.
I think with any transaction there's always different events that lead to when you eventually pull the trigger.
We've long had a interest in robotics as Kevin spoke to on the call.
Felt the time was right to approach them.
Went through our normal due diligence and that resulted in us announcing the transaction.
Research Division</strong> And then for the last few quarters you talked about trying to get back to your prior growth rates in Europe in Recon.
Just curious for an update there on how the reorganization is going and how the results were in Europe? I think as you all know the implant percent of sales is much higher in Europe than it is in the United States.
So this turnaround has been really been an implant story for the most part.
And as I mentioned this is the second consecutive quarter of positive growth.
And it's taken a bit of time.
But certainly in certain countries we were -- like the U.K.
and France we were well ahead.
Other countries like Germany and Spain it’s taken a little longer but we're now running very very well.
We've had some good conversions.
We've won some tenders.
So that business has really turned.
And in Italy we've had a number of problems over the last few years and we are starting to -- that's starting to bottom out.
So I would say that the turnaround has been largely an implant turnaround.
And we're very pleased with our performance.
That's now growing at market rates.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Biegelsen with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> One for Bill and then one for Kevin.
So Bill I may be reading too much into this but the full year guidance implies about 3% to 6% constant currency growth in the fourth quarter if my math is correct.
Any reason to expect a deceleration in Q4? And then I just have one follow-up for Kevin after that.
No.
I'd say -- I mean our year-to-date constant -- our year-to-date overall organic growth and it's the organic growth that we're talking about not constant currency in our guidance.
So the organic growth that we're looking at is pretty consistent with how we've run on a year-to-date basis and we're expecting it to still be in that similar range.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then Kevin it would be helpful to hear from you how you're thinking about M&amp;A moving forward.
Should we expect kind of a pause now as you digest the MAKO deal? Yes.
So as I think we've mentioned in the past every one of our businesses are constantly scanning for acquisitions.
We have a very very strong balance sheet.
So even after the MAKO transaction closes we're still in a very very strong financial position.
So I would not assume that we are slowing down at all.
I think another deal of this size may not happen in the next month or 2.
And that's not typical of us that deals of this size -- this is obviously larger than a typical deal but I would be surprised if we didn't do another deal or 2 or 3 over the next 6 months.
You should assume that we're still in the normal deal rhythm.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Newitter with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> This is Ravi in for Rich.
Just most of my questions have been answered.
Just a little bit more curious about any MAKO strategy in terms of o U.S.
rollout how that might or might not change in Stryker's hands? I would say that it's probably fair to assume that there will be some meaningful synergies over time.
MAKO has been very -- you see from their results very U.S.
focused.
They do have some independent distributors o U.S.
And that's something that we'll be taking a look at.
Your next question comes from Bruce Nudell with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> As part of our diligence we were calling around.
And one of the first guys we ran into doubled his procedure volume drove his hospital profitable with MAKO bought a second machine and is a regional center of excellence for partials.
And my question is is just are there any low-hanging fruit in terms of underused procedures that we should be thinking about that could really drive share gains over the coming 3 to 4 years? I'm not sure what you mean by underused procedures.
I think one of the things that we see as an opportunity for growth as we did our research on surgeon's interest in robotics one of the things that had -- that quite frankly made them hesitant and one of the most significant things that made them hesitant was they were reluctant to move away from implants with a long term clinical history and a company that had been around for a long time.
So we think Stryker and MAKO together help address that very effectively.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my follow-up based on the strength that seems to be occurring in the U.S.
market today is we've been assuming around a 4% trend line in units as kind of the natural U.S.
trend line.
Should we be rethinking that in any way? I know one quarter does not a trend make.
But secularly where do you see the volume trends in the U.S.
market? Yes Bruce I think it'd probably be premature to be getting ahead and try to tweak the models to that level of specificity.
I think we feel pretty good as David had alluded to on the call about the recon market showing signs of stability to modest improvements.
Now whether that ends up being 3% 4% 5% unit growth it's a little difficult to thread the needle that closely.
But we feel good about the market our position in it and the outlook.
But overall I don't think it's one where we're going to say it's time to revise upward in any kind of meaningful way.
At the risk of sounding like Debbie Downer I just want to emphasize that we feel good but it's not some major inflection point.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Brien from William Blair.
This is Kaila in for Matt.
Just another follow-up on the MAKO deal.
And I understand you guys don't want to go into too much depth.
But we noticed that the first offer price was $21 per share and the deal obviously closed at $30.
So that assigns roughly an incremental $500 million in valuation.
We're just curious as to what changed your view through that process? What sort of new product applications maybe came to mind that might validate that higher price point? Yes.
I think the way to think about it as with any deal as you start out you have $0.01 valuation but that's based on limited information.
You go in.
You do due diligence.
You pressure test different assumptions.
You look at how you might drive synergies.
You look at potential longer term growth values.
And all of those ultimately end up in the end valuation and that's similar to what played out here.
Yes.
I wouldn't assume as happens in other deals that the first price that we put on the table is the price we were expecting to pay.
Okay.
And then we will expect further I guess information then as to those synergies further out.
But what sort of value would you assign I guess to MAKO's current applications as compared to potential future applications? Yes.
We're probably not going to get into that level of detail.
Clearly we see value in their current indications and our ability given our broader distribution and marketing capabilities to drive those penetrations.
But as David talked about at length we also see significant longer-term potential for robotic-assisted surgery in orthopaedic applications more broadly speaking.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Lichtman with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about the instrument business in the U.S.
obviously a step down.
You talked about growth in the fourth quarter but given that the comparable doesn't ease significantly relative to Neptune could you talk a little bit more about the dynamics there? What is going on? And what gives you the confidence that you're going to get back to growth in the fourth quarter in the U.S.? Well if you look at the different components of it the System 7 has a capital component and a disposable component.
And the capital component was very significant.
We had very significant comps in Q3 of last year.
Those comps ease a little bit in Q4.
So it's just simple math.
If I look at the trends of how the business is performing and we just do sort of some simple math on year-over-year.
Obviously we don't break out every subcomponent in our disclosures but it's just doing that math that gives us the confidence.
Our underlying business is performing well and we're optimistic that we'll be able to return to growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kevin on the knee business you didn't mention I don't think today the DTC.
Have you sort of renewed that program? Where are you at in sort of the evaluation there on the knee side? Do you see that program continuing? So since we have the benefit of David here today I'll ask David to respond on that.
Sure.
We do plan on continuing that campaign in 2013 and into 2014 but with changes to the media mix as planned last quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
Can you please remind us of the timing of the return to the market of the Neptune fluid management system as well the cutting blocks? Has there been any change in that? No meaningful change.
We're still hopeful sometime possibly this year end of the year as it relates to Neptune.
Obviously it depends on the government review of the 510(k) and sometime in 2014 the earlier part of 2014 as it relates to the cutting guides.
Okay.
And I need to throw in a MAKO question here.
It strikes me that this would be -- if you call it the long pole in the tent to a bundling strategy for Orthopaedics.
Is that the right way to think about it? And is that part of the thought process in pulling it into your franchise? Well I wouldn't say that that's the primary driver here but as we -- leveraging our breadth and depth is the Stryker strategy.
So obviously the broader that we get and the fact we're in capital equipment and disposables we see that as an advantage for Stryker.
And obviously this adds to that.
But I wouldn't say that that is the primary focus at all.
I would go back to David's remarks earlier about how this can really transform orthopaedic surgery.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Johnson with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> I've been jumping between a couple of calls so forgive me if I ask questions that have already been asked.
But did I hear right Bill that there was a $0.02 or $0.03 hit in the quarter from exiting a distributor relationship in Asia? Is that about how you'd quantify it? And were those onetime in nature? Or any color you could give there will be helpful.
That's correct.
It was about a $0.03 impact on the quarter and it really was pretty much contained just this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And Kevin one question I guess for you just on the broader MedSurg platform.
As I see NAV3i that you just launched looks pretty impressive system.
I don't think you've had anything out like this for 6 7 years since NAV2 was launched anyway.
So wondering how do I think about the impact that could have on your Instruments business over the next 12 months or so? It just seems like that's a pretty big opportunity that might be flying under the radar screen a little bit.
We're really excited about this product.
And this product we haven't really sold anything yet.
So the sales will start in the fourth quarter.
Within our overall Instrument business obviously NAV is not the largest portion of that.
But we really believe it's a winner and that should help to contribute to growth over time.
Your next question is a follow-up from Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So I had one follow-up on MAKO sorry and one more kind of just general strategic question for you Kevin.
I think someone asked a question earlier as to how quickly you might be able to get some of your own implants up and running on the robot.
And I just wanted to understand that on the knee side obviously there's a bit more engineering and approvals that would have to happen to those implants and my guess would be to optimize them for the robot.
But is it fair to say that things could possibly move a little faster on the hip side? My comments in terms of moving Stryker implants on the robot I should have mentioned this were specific to unicondylar knees and total hips because those are the applications that they have approved today.
There is no total knee application today approved for the robot so I can't give you a time line for migrating Stryker products onto a platform that doesn't exist yet.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Understanding that the hips don't have the sort of physical differences between sort of a robotic implant and a traditionally cut implant.
Is it possible potentially to have the hips move a little bit faster say than say unicondylar knees? I think it's probably premature Matt at this point to -- we really tried to capture the ranges by saying post closing.
And we're probably looking at 1 year to 2 before we would have our implants whether it's hips or knees.
If one of them is sooner or later in that range I think we'll have a better sense of that as we get to closing.
Yes.
And then following the closing we'll be able to share more of our perspective on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Jennings with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the first question was just on Spine.
I just was hoping to get some insight from you on where we're at with the Special Fraud Alert by the OIG against PODs? Are you seeing any benefit there from your business? Are your hospital customers continuing to sign up with PODs? Or are they leaving PODs? And what is your sense of next time line for the next event by the OIG or the Senate Finance Committee et cetera? Sure.
How I would characterize the Special Fraud Alert is that it does seem to have slowed down the growth in PODs.
We did see some number of customers issue policies that they would not do business with PODs.
But we haven't -- we certainly haven't seen them go away.
We have heard of a potential of a lawsuit against the government by PODs trying to get them to clarify their position on that.
So the battle is still going to play out over time.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just on your knee unit you called out a headwind from the ShapeMatch being off the market.
I was just wondering if there was any headwind from 2 competitive launches.
I know at your Investor Day you commented that you weren't seeing much at that point.
I just wanted to make sure that that wasn't the case for any -- you've been gaining share in knees over the last number of quarters and it was just ShapeMatch and not competitive pressures.
Yes.
No I think that's right.
We have not really seen any significant headwinds from competitive knee launches.
And we didn't really expect to see them.
I think over time we have to see that play out over the next few quarters.
Those launches are still fairly fresh.
We feel very good about our knee growth.
I think it's in line with the market.
Maybe a bit ahead of the market.
We hear noise a bit here and there about trialing of new knees but it still seems to be minor at this point.
Yes.
I'd just like to add a comment that getting back to our kind of our sales force execution which we don't talk about a lot.
But if you look at our performance across hips knees and trauma and you go back over the last 2 years we've been pretty consistent across all 3 segments which is quite unusual.
And we haven't really talked a lot about that.
And I think if you look at most companies one part will be going well the other part will sag.
Even if you go back to Stryker's history in the past we would sort of really have strong growth in one in hips and then it would be softer in knees.
And I'm really proud of our team's efforts in driving hips knees and trauma pretty consistently quarter after quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned a couple of points about the Asian distributor switch but did you quantify how much it impacted your constant currency worldwide growth? You're talking about the distributor change in Asia? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes Katherine.
There was a modest top line impact but not material enough to break it out.
Obviously it turned our knee performance because the bulk of those sales were knees.
Knees are the biggest part of that business.
So we've turned our international knee business to slightly negative.
If you excluded that our knee business outside the U.S.
grew at roughly the same rate as our knee business inside the United States.
But outside of knees it didn't really have much of an impact.
And given the size of Stryker it's very very minor to our overall growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But still encouraging.
That's a good color.
I appreciate that.
And you mentioned you're back to E.U.
market rates of growth just thought maybe you'd be kind enough to remind us what that growth rate is? Is it still declining but now you're declining less or...
No no we're registering positive growth year-over-year.
Now I wouldn't say in every country but in the aggregate.
Again Italy is still slightly negative.
But in the third quarter every other country was positive.
In the second quarter Spain was kind of about flat and that's turned to positive.
But overall if you look at our overall Europe business in Q2 and in Q3 in constant currency we had positive growth.
Low-single digit but I believe that the market based on what we can discern is roughly growing at low-single digits.
So we believe that we are growing at market rates from Q2 to Q3.
Last quarter I didn't want to celebrate too early since it was just one quarter.
So I said let's see if we can do it again in the second quarter -- in the third quarter which we just did.
So now we're feeling confident that we are growing at the market.
We have Matt Miksic with another follow-up from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So the question Kevin I wanted to ask you is just around the strategy for robotic surgery and sort of more technology.
There's a number of companies investing in more technology for the OR more technology in acute care.
From a distance I guess the debate has been gosh this is an expensive robot and how is that actually fitting the system and how might that take cost out of the system over time in a way that's favorable to the health care system improve outcomes and so on.
I'd love to just get your view on how you think robotic surgery I would imagine benefits and transforms this in a way that's cost effective as well as clinically effective.
Yes.
So I think David touched on some of this.
And we don't look at it just buying cool technology.
I mean that's not the way we look at this.
We look at this is as really being able to transform orthopaedic surgery.
So it can be less invasive to the patient much more consistent positioning of the implants more reproducible more consistent.
So you can be running more cases in a day.
It can drive better efficiency.
It doesn't matter where the procedures are done in the country.
Today we have tremendous variability in procedures and procedure times and the way procedures are done.
So we believe that this is an enabler to bring standardization to orthopaedic joint reconstruction.
And hospitals are looking for that.
Patients are looking for that.
And so that's -- we really believe this is a systematic change.
And I think David talked a lot about sort of the overall how profitable this service line is.
And we have to demonstrate economic value.
And MAKO has shown that.
They don't just sell the technology.
They're actually selling an economic story.
And I think one of our earlier callers commented on how speaking to a surgeon it's actually driven business for the hospital.
So the hospital is concerned with making money not just driving down costs.
So if they get a better payer mix.
If they're able to attract more patients.
Patients who are on the sidelines who feel confident if they're -- I'm going in for surgery and it's being done with a robotic approach and a Stryker implant I feel pretty good about the outcome I'm going to get that will drive more business.
And that's what they're concerned about.
And we really believe this fits that.
We will need to demonstrate over time both clinical and economic evidence.
But by no means do we believe this is just a high-priced cool technology.
It's much more than that.
We have no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the fourth quarter 2013 results will be held on January 22 2014.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Stryker's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Adrienne and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that the discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me today are Bill Jellison our CFO; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy &amp; Investor Relations.
Following my opening comments Katherine will provide updates as it relates to our recent M&amp;A activity and Bill will then offer details on our quarterly results as well as provide color on our 2014 guidance which includes slides available via the webcast.
We will then open up the call to Q&amp;A.
Turning to our Q4 results.
Organic sales growth which excludes currency and acquisitions was solid again this quarter increasing roughly 6%.
With the same number of selling days in the quarter this represents strong growth with all 3 segments Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine delivering year-over-year gains.
Growth was also balanced geographically with the U.S.
up 7% and international increasing 8% in constant currency.
U.S.
Reconstructive sales were up 9% reflecting a 10% increase in hips and 8% growth in knees a stellar performance particularly given the tough year-over-year comparisons of 7% hip growth and 9% knees growth.
And despite also facing challenging prior-year growth of 26% which benefited from a competitor recall U.S.
Trauma and Extremities was up a very solid 8% this quarter.
This business continues its multi-year momentum and U.S.
Foot &amp; Ankle continued to roll up an impressive 36%.
U.S.
MedSurg was led by Instruments and Endoscopy which increased 8% and 12% respectively more than offsetting flat results for medical and a slowdown in Sustainability.
Endoscopy's gains reflected across-the-board strength with solid growth in cameras video and the capital-intensive Communications business with the latter benefiting in part from easier prior-year comparisons.
Looking at Instruments its U.S.
performance picked up as signaled on our last call achieving a strong 8% growth.
And with the 510(k) we received late in 2013 for the Neptune Waste Management System as well as the FDA recently lifting its Warning Letter our Instruments team is well positioned to continue to build on Q4's momentum.
Additionally as Katherine will address in more detail our planned acquisition of Patient Safety Technologies further expands Instruments' growing presence in the operating room with products targeted at patient and caregiver safety.
Neurotechnology and Spine was up roughly 5% in the U.S.
which was solid performance given the challenging comps.
Interventional Spine led the group with strong double-digit sales growth.
Outside the U.S.
Europe continued its momentum with Q4 sales increasing for the third consecutive quarter and we continue to see strong gains in emerging markets with very high-double digit growth.
International performed well in all areas except knees which were down 2% in constant currency.
This was the result of disruption to our Asia business which we referenced in our third quarter call.
We expect our international knee results to return to more normalized growth by the end of Q1 2014.
We continue to be pleased by our Trauson results in China and look forward to launching these products in additional countries over the course of 2014.
Similar to our performance in the first 9 months fourth quarter operating cash flow increased roughly 13% reinforcing the strength of our balance sheet.
M&amp;A remains a top priority for our cash and we are excited to have closed the acquisition of MAKO at the end of 2013.
We will continue to pursue targeted acquisitions that contribute to our ongoing goal of organic sales growth at the high end of the med tech industry.
Combined with the December announcement of a 15% increase in our dividend as well as modest amount of share buybacks in the quarter we believe our capital allocation strategy will continue to help optimize shareholder returns.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
As expected our adjusted gross margin declined sequentially falling to 66.3% given lower overhead absorption in Q4 but came in for the full year with a 30 basis point improvement after adjusting for the medical device tax.
We continue to make solid investments in R&amp;D which was up nearly 8% in the quarter representing 5.6% of total sales.
On a per share basis Q4 adjusted EPS was $1.23.
And as detailed on Slide 4 on a full year basis we delivered EPS of $4.23 or at the midpoint of our $4.20 to $4.26 range.
This represents a reported year-over-year increase of 4%.
However there were several non-operating items that impacted our EPS in 2013.
Adjusting for the negative foreign exchange and the medical device excise tax as well as the positive benefit from the tax extenders our underlying EPS growth was approximately 11% reflecting our commitment to driving leveraged earnings gains.
We are excited about the breadth of our product portfolio which spans products and services as well as implants and capital.
Our ongoing investments in R&amp;D as well as our targeted M&amp;A positions us well to deliver innovation to our hospital customers.
We will continue to focus on our strategy of top line growth leveraged earnings gains and capital allocation that maximizes the strength of our balance sheet and our healthy cash flow.
With that I will turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
My comments on today's call will focus on our recent BD activity providing an update on the acquisition of MAKO Surgical as well as the announced agreement to acquire Patient Safety Technologies.
Both transactions reflect our commitment to deploying our capital to support our M&amp;A strategy which is primarily focused on our core markets as well as key adjacent markets.
With respect to MAKO we closed this acquisition in late December and believe long term it has the potential to transform orthopedic surgery through procedural advancements and improved patient experience and a new generation of implants.
The MAKO robotic platform has already proven itself capable of achieving consistently reproducible surgical results.
As we continue to optimize robotic-assisted surgery we believe it will further improve clinical outcomes.
And longer term by allowing for bone preparation and geometry and precision not possible with conventional manual instrumentation there's a potential to develop new implant designs that are specifically enables robotics capability and functionality.
In the near term our teams are focused on leveraging Stryker's considerable sales and distribution capabilities to help drive adoption for MAKO's current applications.
Two areas of initial focus which we are currently evaluating are enabling Stryker-marketed implants to be put on the robot software and starting the trial for a total knee application.
Given the short time since the close we are not prepared to provide specifics on these 2 items.
However we do anticipate starting the total knee trial in the first half of this year.
With close to 20% market share in the unicompartmental knee segment.
We believe MAKO has demonstrated excellent market acceptance of their partial knee application.
However our analysis suggest there's a bigger opportunity in total hips and total knees to leverage Stryker's reconstructive implants.
We look forward to sharing more regarding our plans for robotic-assisted surgery later in 2014.
Additionally our orthopedic growth will be the focus at our September Analyst Meeting Product Fair.
Shifting to our MedSurg group's BD activities.
We recently announced the planned acquisition of Patient Safety Technologies or PST for $120 million.
PST's innovative and proprietary product portfolio aligns with our Instruments division focused on customer solutions that enhance patient and caregiver safety.
Specifically PST's Safety-Sponge System helps prevent retained foreign objects in the operating room thereby improving patient safety and reducing healthcare costs.
The system includes bar-coded surgical sponges and towels and integrated barcode scanner and a unique compliance tracking software.
RFOs are the most common surgical never event in the U.S.
and sponges are the most common retained object with approximately 2 300 incidents reported annually at an average cost per incident of over $400 000.
With the SurgiCount Safety-Sponge System we can provide our customers with a way to eliminate unnecessary cost from the healthcare system while improving quality of care.
Since its launch in 2006 SurgiCount has established a strong customer base of over 300 hospitals including several of the leading medical institutions in the U.S.
The Safety-Sponge System will augment Stryker Instruments' broad portfolio of products that are designed to optimize the perioperative experience by reducing hazards streamlining operations and improving outcomes for patient and caregivers.
Moreover we believe our sales force can leverage our considerable established base of products targeted perioperative patient and caregiver safety including the recently 510-cleared Neptune Waste Management System and the Sterishield Personal Protection System.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Katherine.
As Kevin mentioned we have included a few slides via the webcast which summarized the 2013 sales and earnings performance and also reflects some additional insights on our 2014 guidance.
Sales growth was positive by 5.6% in the fourth quarter including a negative 1.8% impact from FX translation.
Constant currency sales growth was a positive 7.4% which includes organic growth of 5.8%.
Sales growth for the full year was a positive -- or was positive by 4.2% with organic growth of 5.1% acquisition growth of 0.8% and a negative 1.6% impact from FX translation.
Earnings per share on a GAAP basis for the fourth quarter were $1.01 per share versus $0.71 last year in the fourth quarter while adjusted earnings per share were $1.23 for the quarter versus $1.14 in the fourth quarter last year.
This quarter's EPS includes negative impacts of approximately $0.06 per share from FX and $0.04 per share from the med-tech tax.
EPS on a GAAP basis for the full year of 2013 were $2.63 per share versus $3.39 per share last year while adjusted EPS were $4.23 per share versus $4.07 per share last year.
FX negatively impacted the full year results by approximately $0.20 per share and the med-tech tax had a negative impact of approximately $0.13 per share.
The income statement is exposed to both transactional and translational FX risks while the balance sheet is just exposed to translational FX risk.
We have begun a layered transactional hedging program which will help us mitigate some of the transactional volatility caused by changes in FX rates.
This program will start to have some effect in the first quarter of 2014 and will be more fully in place by the end of 2014.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustments in the quarter are related to a $99 million increase in the charges associated with the voluntary recalls of Rejuvenate ABG II and Neptune.
These charges may increase or decrease over time as additional facts become available and assumptions become more refined.
No insurance proceeds that may potentially be available to cover some of these costs have been included.
Looking at sales in the fourth quarter.
Our organic growth of 5.8% was comprised of a positive 7.3% from volume and mix with price negatively impacting sales by 1.4%.
Acquisitions added 1.5% while FX had a negative 1.8% impact due to significant weakness in both the Japanese yen and the Australian dollar compared to the same period last year.
Looking at our segments.
Reconstructive represented 45% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales of Reconstructive products were up 5.8% as reported and grew 8% constant currency.
U.S.
Reconstructive sales grew 8.7% in the quarter.
And despite facing challenging comps Trauma and Extremities had another solid quarter in the U.S.
with sales increasing 8.4% led by new products sales execution and continued strong growth in Foot &amp; Ankle.
U.S.
hips and knees had strong growth in the period of approximately 10% and 8% respectively.
We are especially pleased with our knee performance as we are going up against 2 new competitive knees that are well into their launch periods.
We are still dealing with the absence from the market of our ShapeMatch Cutting Guides.
And as Kevin mentioned we are also against -- up against strong year-over-year comps of 7% in hips and 9% in knees from the fourth quarter of 2012.
We believe this reflects the strength of both our Triathlon Knee and our highly-motivated sales team.
Our international Reconstructive business was up 6.9% in constant currency and had organic growth of 2.4%.
Next our MedSurg segment represented approximately 37% of our total sales in the quarter.
Total MedSurg sales increased 5.4% as reported and 6.6% on a constant currency basis.
These results were led by both -- or by double-digit growth from our Endoscopy business and Medical had low-single digit growth while Instruments have upper-single digit growth in the period.
Instruments no longer had the Neptune comparison drag that it was going against in the first 9 months of this year and also had robust power tools sales in the quarter.
We are pleased to once again have the Neptune product back in our portfolio of products as we move into 2014 now that we have the FDA approval.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine represented 18% of our sales and delivered another strong quarter.
Sales increased 5.4% as reported and 7.5% on a constant currency basis.
Growth in this segment was led by our IVS and our Neurovascular business which grew solid double-digit in constant currency.
Spinal implant sales were up slightly on a constant currency basis and double-digit internationally.
In looking at our operational performance gross margins on an adjusted basis in the fourth quarter of 2013 were 66.3% compared to 68.3% in the same period last year.
As we expected and highlighted in our last call the rate this quarter was negatively impacted by the lower overhead absorption in the period as inventory levels were significantly reduced in the quarter after a build which occurred in the third quarter to support our fourth quarter sales.
We were also negatively impacted by nearly a full percentage point in both the quarter and the full year gross margin rates from the med-tech tax.
Product mix was more balanced in the fourth quarter also slightly reducing the margin rate as MedSurg which has a lower gross margin than the company average performed well without the headwinds from the Neptune recall.
FX and price also had a negative impact on the rate this quarter as we felt the full impacts of the weaker Japanese yen and Australian dollar in the quarter.
For the full year gross margins on an adjusted basis were 67.5% down 60 basis points from 2012.
However the 2013 rate was negatively impacted by 90 basis points due to the med-tech tax.
Excluding this item the rate would have increased 30 basis points for the year.
Research and development expenses increased by 10 basis points to 5.6% versus 5.4% -- or 5.5% last year in the quarter.
This represents a 7.8% increase in R&amp;D spending over last year and continues to reinforce our commitment to invest in areas which we believe will help us deliver above market sales growth in each of our key product categories.
Selling general and administrative costs represented 40.5% of sales in the fourth quarter but this included approximately $99 million of cost related to the Rejuvenate ABG II and Neptune recalls versus $174 million of similar cost in the fourth quarter of last year.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A expenses were $838 million or 34% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2013 versus 36.2% in the prior year's fourth quarter.
The improvements in SG&amp;A in the period were primarily in general and administrative expenses along with some lower marketing expenses in the period.
Operating margins on an adjusted basis were 25.3% in the fourth quarter of both 2013 and the fourth quarter of 2012.
The rate was negatively impacted by the med-tech tax and pricing.
However those impacts were fully offset in the quarter from the strength of our year-end sales operational improvements and also from lower general and administrative and marketing expenses as a percentage of sales.
Other expense on an adjusted basis in the fourth quarter was $9.5 million compared to $12 million last year in the fourth quarter.
This reduction in expense resulted primarily from gains on hedges and marketable securities.
Our reported tax rate for the fourth quarter was 10.3% while the adjusted effective tax rate was 23.6% for the fourth quarter which is higher than our full year adjusted effective tax rate of 22.3%.
This compares to a 24.7% adjusted effective tax rate in the fourth quarter last year.
As we move into 2014 we expect the full year rate will run closer to 23% with a higher rate in the first half.
Remember an extra year of tax benefit resulting from the renewal of tax extenders were included in the first quarter of 2013.
While our 2014 guidance anticipates renewal of the tax extenders they have not yet been approved by Congress and renewal and timing of them is still uncertain and may negatively impact our tax rate early in the year.
We also anticipate tax benefits from the revised structure and move to a European headquarters location in the Netherlands.
However this is not expected to be in place until the second half of the year.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $4 billion of cash and marketable securities versus $4.3 billion at the end of 2012.
And we also have $2.7 billion of long-term debt on the balance sheet.
From an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended the year at 55 days flat with the end of 2012 and 2 days better than the end of the third quarter.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 152 which was 33-day decrease sequentially and a 1-day reduction when measured against the prior-year quarter.
Inventory levels significantly reduced in the quarter after a build which occurred during the third quarter.
Turning to cash flow.
We had a strong cash generation for the full year with cash from operations of $1.886 billion compared to $1.657 billion in the prior year an increase of approximately 14% over 2012.
2013 cash flow benefited from improved operational performance and lower tax payments.
Capital expenditures were $195 million in 2013.
However are expected to run closer to $250 million to $300 million in 2014 as some capital spending is carrying over into this year and we continue to invest in our operations and IT infrastructure.
Finally regarding share repurchases in 2013 we repurchased approximately $317 million worth of our stock and we will have nearly $700 million still available for repurchase under our current authorization.
Based on our solid sales achievement in 2013 and the current economic and market conditions we are projecting organic growth or constant currency x acquisitions in a range of 4.5% to 6% for 2014.
If foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels we anticipate net sales will be negatively impacted by less than 1% for the full year of 2014 and will negatively impact adjusted earnings per share by approximately $0.07 per share as we are further impacted by a weak Japanese yen and Australian dollar without the full benefit of our layered hedging program which as mentioned won't be fully in place until the end of 2014.
In 2014 our adjusted earnings per share will now include an adjustment for acquisition-related intangible amortization expense.
If 2013 included this adjustment adjusted diluted earnings per share would have been $4.49 per share versus the $4.23 per share we reported.
Our 2014 guidance was -- for adjusted diluted earnings per share is $4.75 to $4.90 per share and includes an adjustment of approximately $0.35 per share for acquisition intangible amortization.
To assist you further in your modeling particularly in regards to our quarterly earnings progression we are providing a few additional comments.
We expect 45% of full year adjusted earnings per share to be achieved in the first half of the year with the first quarter facing the stiffest headwinds.
In the first quarter we will be negatively impacted by a greater negative FX impact based on current rate assumptions.
The additional tax benefit received in the first quarter of last year where we benefited from an extra full year benefit from the 2012 tax extenders and uncertainty around the timing of the reinstatement of those extenders this year along with tougher sales comps especially in Trauma as we benefited from a competitor recall in the category in the first quarter last year.
Thanks for your support and we'd be glad to answer any questions that you may have at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to understand just kind of the guidance particularly what your assumptions are just around acquisition contribution because you just gave the organic number.
So can you help us just to how to kind of think about how you guys are framing the benefit from the 2 acquisitions that you talked about earlier? And then just to clarify your guidance I just want to make sure I got the number right $0.35 is what the acquisition of intangibles is excluded from the $4.75 to $4.90 number? Hello Kristen.
The second part of your question that's correct the $0.35 is the number.
The first part we have been consistently guiding to organic sales growth so the number that we're focused on internally is -- was organic growth excluding sales -- or excluding FX and acquisitions since obviously the -- our goal has been to accelerate that.
We are not giving any forecast or target as it relates to acquisitions.
MAKO as you know was obviously a publicly-traded company.
I know many of the folks on the phone modeled it and we haven't closed Patient Safety yet.
So the goal -- the number that we're going to be focused on and we'll be providing guidance will be around that organic number.
Kristen what I'd add is each year we will be doing the same thing.
So at the beginning of next year we'll provide organic sales growth.
And obviously that will include MAKO next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then I guess just on MAKO can you maybe just provide any additional color? I know the commentary on the third quarter call was somewhat limited just in terms of the deal not having closed.
But just how do we think about it from a longer-term perspective in terms of opportunities for cost synergies or just -- I know you're not giving your thoughts about directionally to whatever extent you can comment on how you see it potentially accelerating the growth of the Recon business.
Well without a doubt we did the deal because we do believe it is potentially transformational on orthopedic surgery and will allow us to drive meaningful market share gains.
And so that is the goal.
Right now the teams have literally only been together for a few weeks since we just closed late last year.
They're actively assessing different options and prioritizing those options.
We were able to share that we expect to start the total knee trial in the first half of this year.
That is the biggest opportunity that we see for robotic-assisted surgery.
We're going to continue to use our sales and distribution capabilities to build on current indications but the long-term potential really is around total knees optimizing total hips and longer term the potential to introduce the next generation of implants that aren't feasible with the current instrumentation.
So we'll continue to provide additional updates.
Right now that's the clarity we have as the teams are looking at different options but they haven't finalized beyond the comments I just provided.
And then again we'll have more details beyond that as it will be part of the focus of the product fair at the September Analyst Meeting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just from a financial perspective you did give some color when you announced the deal.
Is it fair to say that the dilution associated with the deal is similar to what's embedded within your 2014 guidance? Or is it coming in a little less or a little bit more based upon the amortization that you're assuming I guess? Yes.
So I think in general we did give guidance upfront on the MAKO side.
We obviously won't be commenting moving forward on both the sales side of MAKO or the overall operating performance of MAKO.
As Katherine just mentioned kind of the teams are just really getting together looking at the integration and really deciding kind of what they're ultimately going to be able to deliver on both from a sales operational or a margin expectation and also some of the SG&amp;A leverage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no comment on whether the dilution is still similar to what you guys originally...? Yes we won't be really talking about kind of the MAKO-specific performance moving forward.
But we did give guidance upfront on the initial call there.
And next we have David Lewis Morgan Stanley online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Kevin one quick question on MAKO.
You gave us the timing for the total knee trial.
Can you give us a sense of -- is that simply total knee? And can you provide any sort of bi-cruciate timelines? And do you think you're going to need a separate trial for a bi-cruciate system? So I'd say it's a little early for the bi-cruciate.
Honestly we're just as Katherine mentioned 3 weeks into the deal.
And obviously bi-cruciate has interest.
Still there's a long way to go yet to determine whether that will be more than just a niche.
And so later on this year we'll be able to provide more color around our expectations our timing.
The teams are literally just going through their prioritization right now.
If bi-cruciate does turn out to be a really big part of the market we'll be delighted because robotically-enabled it's a very difficult procedure to do today just as the uni [ph] is difficult to do.
So if it does become a big part of the market we believe we'll be very well positioned.
But it's just too early right now to comment on where that is in our portfolio and whether we'll need additional trials.
That will be something that we'll provide later on the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kevin maybe 2 more quick ones for you.
First of all just on Trauma.
Obviously the highlights for '13 Recon numbers are very strong in the fourth quarter.
One of your competitors is talking about transitioning their Trauma strategy post the large acquisition for more internally focused in '13 to more externally focused in '14 maybe you can sort of talk about what have been sort of the key drivers of the Trauma strategy and your thoughts on Sustainability? Yes.
So this wasn't just 1 year in the making.
So we've had a terrific strategy over the last 4 5 years.
We've been growing faster than the market consistently over those years grounding out our product portfolio with primarily internally developed R&amp;D projects.
We also added the Memometal acquisition which really helped turbocharge our Foot &amp; Ankle division and Foot &amp; Ankle results.
But -- so this has been a progressive strategy of really making sure we have a complete offering we have differentiated products and we've been winning accounts and converting business consistently over that period of time.
So it wasn't a 1 year wonder and it's something that we think we'll be very well positioned to continue to grow in the years ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Rick Wise from Stifel is online with a question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question -- let me start with the -- first with the EU.
And you indicated that the EU turnaround as evidenced is continuing as positive for the third quarter in a row.
Just any color there on where we are in the turnaround process and kind of growth you're expecting -- or we should expect in the year ahead? Yes.
So we're delighted with the performance in Europe.
Frankly it was a little ahead of our expectations as we started the year in terms of the turnaround.
I would say we still have some challenges in Italy which I've mentioned previously.
It's still taking some time.
Germany is the other country that's a little bit up and down.
But other than those 2 countries the rest of Europe is in really good shape including Spain which had historically been a challenged country.
So pretty stable across all of our countries.
Our leadership team is really performing well.
They brought some real stability and closer customer connections.
So now we're looking for the next phase where we can really drive accelerated growth primarily in the MedSurg area.
So we really stabilized our implant business but we still have opportunity to grow primarily in MedSurg.
I'm looking forward to accelerated growth in the quarters and years ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Kevin just as a follow-up on the hip knee and for that matter Trauma numbers.
You're the third company in a row to report very solid numbers.
Maybe just your latest thoughts on the market outlook for 2014.
We've seen this unusual second half.
I mean can this continue into '14 or do you think it settles back? So what I'd say to that is we saw this last year in the fourth quarter a big fourth quarter and I think we're really going to know at the end of this first quarter.
And I really would like to compare the 6 months -- first quarter of this year fourth quarter of last year to the comparative 6 month period from the year before we can really determine whether this is an overall uptick in the market.
Since the middle of last year I felt that the market has been gradually improving.
But that's really -- we're not going to know for sure.
We've had 3 companies report -- we still have some more to report.
But really we're going to really only know until the end of the first quarter.
And we have Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan online with a question.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Kim here for Mike.
So I guess a couple of questions.
The first is a little bit of a follow-up to Rick's question on the seasonality piece in the Recon market.
So you talked a little bit about some of the factors weighing on your first quarter.
And so I'm just curious how did you think about the Recon piece when you thought about the EPS guidance for the first quarter? Kim very similar to what we saw last year there was seasonality in the first quarter a little bit of softening in the first quarter.
We have not baked in any extra effect whether it's due to uncertainty around ACA.
It is possible that helps Q4 and will result in an offset.
You're probably looking in the area of tens of basis points which is again why we go back.
So just assuming it's the standard seasonality pattern and then we'll look at what those 6 month averages are to determine if we've seen some modest level of improvement in the recon market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And the follow-up is for Bill on the gross margin piece and I apologize if I missed this but how are you thinking about the gross margin trend into the first half of the year and then for the full year of 2014? Sure.
I think a couple of points there.
I mean first off we really don't talk specifically about our gross profit expectations directly but we generally talk about kind of our broader-based expectations on operating margins.
And I think especially as -- based on the growth rates that we're talking about here at this level of growth rate we would expect and be driving for a certain amount of additional operating margin improvement.
I think that's probably in this environment -- a little bit more of that is obviously coming out of the SG&amp;A-related area versus the gross margin related area.
But I think our expectations in general are for modest improvement on the gross margin rate and a little bit better improvement on the SG&amp;A rates.
And we have Derrick Sung from Sanford Bernstein online with a question.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the Instruments' performance this quarter.
I appreciate that you've anniversary-ed the Neptune launch.
How much of the -- did -- were there any Neptune sales embedded in here? And maybe you can remind us of kind of what the historic run rate of Neptune is and kind of the acceleration then that we would presumably see from this level moving forward with Neptune back on the market? Hello Derrick.
What we stated last year throughout the quarter is [indiscernible] market impacting us in roughly the high teens vicinity in terms of millions of dollars.
We were still selling to existing customers who had filed the appropriate paperwork necessary but we couldn't sell any new system.
So that revenue -- lost revenue is reflective of that.
There were no new revenue associated with that in the fourth quarter.
I would remind you Instruments benefited from strong power tools that we had several new launches in the early part of the year targeted to small bone segment that also helped the growth performance.
Going forward into this year clearly Neptune will be a part of it.
We're going to be focused on existing customers early on in upgrading them.
And you should really think about it being in around the third quarter when we're back to kind of hitting on all cylinders as it relates to the Neptune relaunch.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And on MAKO I appreciate that you're not going to be breaking out sales.
Can you tell us how you'll be accounting for MAKO sales moving forward? Do those go into your knee sales where within reconstructive do they go in or there's a separate breakout? If you look within it the hip sales will be in hips the knee sales will be in knees as it relates to implants.
The capital and any related service will be in our other line along with sports medicine bone cement and the other products in that.
So it will be in those 3 buckets.
And we have Matthew Dodds from Citigroup online with a question.
Research Division</strong> First on SG&amp;A you really cranked that down year-over-year and sequentially.
I know you highlighted it as G&amp;A and marketing spend.
Could you give us a little more color on -- was one more than the other? Was there anything else in there that really pulled it down this much? Sure.
I mean I'd say that the G&amp;A was obviously the bigger piece of it although marketing was some of it as well too.
I'd also say if you look at the broader based improvement that we had throughout 2013 which was in the neighborhood of 70 80 basis points that's kind of what you should be looking at within that space.
And I think that that also holds true if you look at like the second half of 2013.
It's about the same level of improvement.
So yes there's a lot of activities that's continuing to take place within that area.
But I think that that's probably more of a reasonable level of what you should have expected actually occurred in '13.
Research Division</strong> And then just one quick follow-up.
Now you have MAKO there's a lot more to talk about AAOS.
Is there anything else in AAOS that you're going to highlight or you think is worthy of highlighting now? Well for the AAOS Meeting we will do the traditional format that we've had where we'll have the Group Investor Meetings and also the booth similar to prior years.
There will be a number of new products that are either being launched or we anticipate launching shortly.
I think you should think about them within the normal range of the type of largely incremental but meaningful innovation for the various segments.
And we have Bob Hopkins from Bank of America online with a question.
Research Division</strong> So Bill just to start on the guidance on a cash basis excluding amortization it looks like you're for 2014 guiding to about 6% to 9% EPS growth.
And I was wondering if you could just walk through some of the things that are diluting that growth? I think you mentioned FX has a $0.07 hit and there are still some -- even excluding amortization I would imagine there's a little bit of MAKO dilution.
Just what are the things that are kind of diluting that growth rate in 2014 that we maybe want to look through potentially? Yes I think a couple of things.
It's really -- the 2 biggest areas are really FX which we highlighted that it's about $0.07 per share.
And then also from an overall tax rate perspective a couple of things.
One you remember in 2012 we actually had a double year benefit 2012 and '13 benefit from the reinstatement of the tax extenders that are out there.
So for sure we'll be 1 year less of those tax extenders.
And right now our guidance does include that we will have tax extenders in 2014.
However they currently aren't renewed by Congress.
And so the benefit of those will probably come later on in the middle of the year hopefully.
However we still obviously need to watch that and make sure that Congress approves that.
Those are the 2 primary areas that are out there.
Yes.
And Bob excluding those -- if you exclude those 2 impacts the operational EPS improvement would be 10% would be double-digit growth which is kind of -- based on the organic growth rate that we're driving that's the type of leveraged earnings gains that we're aiming for.
And obviously we're looking for benefits across the P&amp;L whether it's in the cost of goods area in the SG&amp;A area to be able to deliver that leverage.
Unfortunately based on the way the exchange rates have moved and the timing of getting our hedging program in place if rates stay where there are we are going to be negatively impacted and FX is certainly the biggest impact.
Yes.
And then FX impact will probably be much more prominent in the first of the year versus the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's exactly what I was looking for.
And then as a follow-up on the hip and knee side Kevin I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more -- just remind us of what's going on in Asia on the knee side and why you have confidence that that will come back? And I was wondering if you could just provide any sort of qualitative sense as to some of the earlier questions.
Other companies have suggested that they're seeing backlogs build into 2014 and that therefore perhaps we should be optimistic that some of these good growth rates we're seeing is probably more the economy than seasonality.
I'm just wondering if you're seeing anything similar.
Yes.
So on the second question Bob obviously we're in the middle of a quarter right now and I'm not going to really comment on how things are going in January.
There are a lot of anecdotes I prefer not to really comment on anecdotes.
And we'll -- let's see how the first quarter rolls before we really can reach a conclusion on whether this is a real change in the trend.
Clearly we're happy with our fourth quarter performance.
There were a lot of expectations that our knee business would be under stress with competitive launches and having to overcome not having ShapeMatch on the market.
Certainly our knee has been a very very well chronicled knee with very very low complication rates with very very low revision rates and our sales force has done a terrific job.
So we're certainly growing at least with the market and we feel very good about our performance.
And we have Mike Matson from Needham &amp; Company online with a question.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just given the description of where you're going to be recording the revenue from MAKO it sounds like that's largely going to be housed in the Orthopaedics business.
So are you going to have the capital reps stay in the Orthopaedics side of the business? I guess how are you going to be selling that product the capital? And then how does that sort of fit with the Navigation products [indiscernible] Instruments? Yes.
So the way it's being done right now all of the sales from MAKO will be reported in the Orthopaedics group and we have a separate capital sales force which is the way MAKO was running their organization.
A separate capital group selling the robot and implant sales reps.
The separate capital group will be separate from Navigation.
And again these are different solutions.
So there are surgeons that prefer to use standard instruments.
There are surgeons that like to use cutting blocks.
There are surgeons that prefer Navigation with intraoperative Navigation and remember that Navigation is the fastest-growing part of Navigation is actually in neuro not just in the ortho area.
And then there are surgeons that like robotics.
So we are going to have solutions for every surgeon preference.
And we are keeping separate capital sales forces for the robotics group and the instruments group and that will continue to drive its growth as it has done actually quite well this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you had -- you did a great job with working capital this year over $500 million.
It looks like coming out working capital really helping your cash flow from operations.
But it sounds like capital spending is going to be up and that working capital performance is probably a hard act to follow so is it reasonable to assume that free cash flow could be down in '14 over '13? I mean if you look at the free cash flow side I think that CapEx is really the -- one of the key drivers associated with that and we do expect capital expenditures to be running higher in 2013.
So that's a fair statement.
As far as the other components of the cash flow are concerned we obviously have continued efforts on our working capital side of the equation.
But we would expect our overall operating cash flow to show some improvements but our overall free cash flow might be a little bit tighter just based on the CapEx that we're spending.
And we have Raj Denhoy from Jefferies online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if I could ask about the Foot &amp; Ankle business.
I think I asked about it the last quarter too when you grew 39%.
In this quarter you were 36% again.
I guess how sustainable should we look at that? I mean that business is not small for you anymore.
It must be $150 million or so.
Maybe you could just speak about the trends you're seeing there and again just that sustainability of that growth? Yes.
We're really excited about our Foot &amp; Ankle business.
And because it's a market development where you're really going after podiatrists that never used implants there's really a very very big run way for growth and we're experiencing that.
Certainly last year in the fourth quarter we had close to 40% growth another 36% growth on top of that in the U.S.
So really exciting.
Even worldwide we're seeing very good growth.
So I wouldn't have thought at the beginning of the year that we would have delivered a number this big coming off of last year but when you're in new markets it's a lot harder to predict than when you're in mature markets.
So we're really excited.
This is really about market expansion and getting these products into the hands of physicians that were not previously using implants.
So we believe double-digit growth for sure for a number of quarters going forward.
But again given that it's market development it's a little hard to predict; and we're obviously very pleased with our performance in this area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe if I could just ask about Trauson.
I think you made comments -- you have made comments about 2014 being the year where you'll look at expanding those products out of the Chinese market into other emerging markets.
I don't think you've given too much detail beyond that and I don't know if you're willing to offer much more in terms of the markets you're targeting and really your expectations for that effort.
For competitive reasons I'd really rather not get into exactly which countries.
It is an emerging markets play.
So you can imagine that we'll be going into different emerging markets over the course of the year.
And as we start to sell in those businesses we'll keep you posted but not really willing to share more right now.
And we have Richard Newitter from Leerink Partners online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just -- first just related to the SG&amp;A spending reduction or the cost control can you talk about how much of that was related to any pullback in the direct-to-consumer advertising campaign that you had? There was a portion of it.
As we said throughout the year each quarter we are reevaluating the mix so we continued the DTC campaign but I would say the prior quarter had more TD.
This quarter -- or the fourth quarter of '13 had other less expensive mix of the median that is part of what was behind Bill's comments related to lower expenses tied to that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just with respect to MAKO and your strategy outside the U.S.
or kind of what you're seeing initially -- and obviously you have resources that are much more significant than what MAKO had outside the U.S.
And I was wondering is there anything that immediately you're identifying that you could be doing differently or how much of a near-term opportunity is there for you to capitalize on something that they just couldn't do? I wouldn't say that's a near-term opportunity.
Obviously longer term we think about these opportunities not just for MAKO but other products from a global perspective.
But near term it's really focused on [indiscernible] educations getting the clinical trials and evaluating the different options available to us.
I would think that -- think about that as being the longer term opportunity.
And we have Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital Markets online with a question.
Can we take a look at the capital spending environment? At your Analyst Meeting in September you've highlighted that that might be one area that benefits from the implementation of the ACA.
Long term that is not reflected in our top line target for this year.
Medical was obviously challenged in the fourth quarter.
It will have a difficult comparison in the first quarter.
We continue to be cautious regarding the capital spending for those larger ticket items and that's clearly where medical falls in.
If there's a benefit from ACA we don't think we'll see it until later this year.
But I wouldn't view it as a meaningful driver certainly not reflected in our 2014 guidance.
And my second question has to do with the Extremities sales.
Once again a 30%-plus quarter in the United States.
You're taking share from somebody.
Can you just comment broadly on what you see in that market? Yes.
So again I go back to -- really we're focused on growing the market much more than we're focused on taking share.
Obviously there's some cases where we are taking market share but the bulk of our growth is really new physicians doing procedures that they were not using implants they're either using K-wires or other approaches.
So to us this is much more a market expansion story than it is a market share story.
And we have Matt Taylor from Barclays online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious.
This is a small piece of your business but I was wondering if you can give us any color around the slowdown in Sustainability Solutions and what's causing that? Yes we did have a slowdown in the quarter.
That business is susceptible to the timing of OEM product launches and there were several of those.
And then the teams have to go back and do the appropriate product development in order to get a corresponding reprocessed product on the market.
We did launch some products late last year and anticipated additional product launches this year.
You combine that with the still very clear compelling rationale for reprocessing products we believe that business will get back to double-digit growth.
But it will vary quarter-to-quarter because obviously we can't control the timing of some of those OEM launches.
Yes.
And with each OEM change we have to resubmit a 510(k).
So that's the timing difference.
This occurred primarily in the energy area with 2 of our competitors that changed our products and has caused us a bit of delay.
We've very excited and bullish about this year for Sustainability as we get those 510(k)s and return to the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And one area we didn't talk about yet was -- just if you could give us any comment on overall market health and dynamics of both Neuro and Spine markets? Have you seen anything changing there? It seems like overall we've seen pretty strong growth in Neuro and maybe some bounce-back in Spine like we've seen in Ortho.
But I'm curious to see if you see anything new there.
Yes.
So we really love being in the neuroscience space.
It's a great market.
There's still plenty of room for growth.
That's one of our -- certainly our better and more attractive markets and pleased that we acquired Neurovascular to really round out our portfolio with our other divisions in this space.
And Spine clearly the worst is I think behind us.
It's bottomed down at least and it's starting to stabilize.
Pricing is starting to stabilize.
We're starting to see a bit -- a little bit of an uptick.
So I think that's a market certainly not getting worse.
It's at least stable and maybe modestly starting to improve.
And we have Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets online with a question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on the gross margin here in the fourth quarter down 200 basis points year-over-year can you quantify the difference year-over-year? For example was it 100% FX -- 100 basis points FX 100 basis points lower plant utilization? Any color would be helpful.
Sure.
As I mentioned as far as year-over-year goes it’s probably about nearly a full point just from the impact of the med-tech tax and then also with FX being the biggest hit in the fourth quarter of this year FX was definitely another large piece of that.
It was impacting us by over 0.5 percentage point on the FX side alone.
So when you look at kind of the other aspects with some of the absorption side that was lower but then also the mix because of all the businesses performing well within the year and the MedSurg business actually having lower margins in general than our average business those are probably the 4 big components of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then for 2014 we have the Japanese price cuts.
So I'm sure that's in your guidance.
What are you assuming there? And then also will we have the same number of selling days in 2014 as 2013? Yes the selling days are outlined in the slide of the webcast.
You can see where they do vary and where they are same year-over-year.
With respect to the Japanese price cuts still pretty certain that they will be negative.
It is reflected in our overall expectations for total price which is typically down in the 1% to 2% range for the company.
Exactly where it shakes out we just don't know yet.
We haven't heard any early rumblings yet but we expect it to be consistent with prior years give or take.
And we have David Roman from Goldman Sachs online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I want to come back to Trauson for a second.
I think it's been about a year since you've closed that transaction either March of 2013.
Maybe you could provide us some updates on how that business is trending and to what extent you've been successful in integrating that to expand your EM footprint.
Kevin I think at a recent investor conference you quoted EM sales at about I think 6% or 7% of corporate average.
Maybe just any update on how that business is going both Trauson and more broadly EM.
Yes.
So we're really excited about the acquisition.
Obviously it's our first deal in China first time getting into the lower-priced segment and really pleased that the business hit the acquisition model in their first year.
So we're very pleased about that.
We focused very much on China making sure we kept the momentum in the growth going well in China.
So in the fourth quarter our emerging markets as a percent of total company sales was 8%.
In 2012 in the prior year it was 6% for the full year.
This year it's more in the 7% range.
And obviously it's been increasing throughout the course of the year with Trauson being the biggest driver.
So you would expect next year when we report our full year results that emerging markets will be over 8% of total company sales.
So we're on a march.
And clearly the goal is to get emerging markets not just because of Trauson but because we're also growing very well in the premium segment in China in Brazil in India and other emerging markets.
So we're focused on both parts of the market.
Clearly our medium-term goal is to get that above double-digit percent of total company while also maintaining good growth rates in the U.S.
and picking up the growth in Europe.
Clearly the markets are growing faster and we believe Trauson gives us a great entry into that low-priced segment.
So so far so good is what I would say on emerging markets going from 6% a year ago with 7% this year to over 8% in 2014.
So very excited about the progress.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the gross margin line understandably at any 1 quarter there are going to be a number of moving parts.
But just thinking longer term how should we think about the trajectory of gross margins particularly in the context of 1.5-ish-percent annual price decline that is $150 million annual headwind you have you have the restructuring that you've talked a lot about mix will ebb and flow I mean is a lot of this just plus 1s and minus 1s that all kind of net out to flattish? Can gross margins go higher? And then just lastly on cash EPS are you going to give us any more historical information than what you've provided today? Sure.
So I think maybe the broader context is really kind of what I stated about kind of the full year gross margin rate.
So if you look at the gross margins for the full year it was 67.5% which was down about 60 basis points for the year.
But keep in mind that included 90 basis points of an impact from the med-tech tax.
So despite the fact that price also played a part in putting pressure on that -- on those rates we actually would have been up about 30 basis points in gross margin rates this year despite the price if we had excluded the med-tech tax.
So I think in general our expectations and some of the initiatives that we've got in our GQO area which is our global quality and operations area we believe that we've got some good programs in there that are continuing to take place over the next few years.
And we're still driving for slight improvement in the gross margin rate as a contributing factor to our overall operating margin rate improvements.
Just to add to Bill's comments this is the second year in a row -- consecutive year where we had gross margin expansion.
So regardless of the price pressure that we're facing which we expect to continue we've demonstrated now consistent ability to raise gross margins.
This is part of our overall GQO program.
We're well into the 2.5 years into this program which is a 5-year program.
We've delivered 2 years in a row now of gross margin expansion and we expect to continue that.
This is one of the levers that enable us to drive operational earnings at a faster rate in our top line sales.
And just to your follow-up we do not plan to provide any additional historical information as it relates to the new adjusted EPS.
And we have Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I got one question and one follow-up.
So one Kevin I think you mentioned in looking at MAKO and rolling it out through your organization into your hospital and surgical customers that there are some folks who are going to like robots some folks like traditional instruments.
On the other hand as Katherine said it's pretty disruptive technology at least potentially over the intermediate and long term.
Do you envision yourselves as kind of leading the transition to greater use of robotic surgery in orthopedics? Or do you view yourselves as sort of -- this is part of your portfolio of advanced technology for the OR orthostats or ShapeMatch and other things being part of that? And then I have one follow-up.
Yes.
So obviously we -- this move was made to really drive market share and become the clear leader in reconstructive surgery.
So I would not assume we're going to be passive about the way that we sell this technology.
But surgeons take different times to convert.
There are some that will convert very quickly early adopters.
There's others that will wait a little bit before they'll start to convert and there are some that will be very stubborn and want to stick to their tried and proved approaches.
So we will have approaches for all types of surgeons.
But without a doubt we plan to rapidly move the adoption of robotic surgery.
This is a big play that we're -- we've made and we're not going to be passive about really taking this to the market.
Certainly our implant sales force is extremely excited about being able to sell the implants so they can be associated with the robots leveraging their own relationships.
So yes I wouldn't assume we're going to be in a "sit back and wait" mode related to robotics.
Again only 3 weeks since close.
But make no mistake we're going to be leaning forward.
Research Division</strong> Well I look forward to that.
The follow-up I had was also on orthopedics on the knee side you mentioned sort of looking to Q1 as sort of a benchmark to maybe see is this real is the recovery real on the back of what were pretty great results in U.S.
knees.
What I'm thinking about Q1 as you mentioned in your presentation there is an extra selling day.
I know other folks are either going to have an extra selling day or they're going to go against the quarter last year when they were missing a day or 2 do you expect I mean the setup is reasonably good for a pretty decent Q1 here? I would just go back to the comments we made.
We really tried to single out some of the headwinds that are more significant in the first quarter that when you go back and fine-tune your models you should really think about reflecting particularly the EPS line and I would just refer to those.
We're really not looking for an exaggerated impact from seasonality in the first quarter.
But there are some very clear specifics that are -- that we highlighted whether it's FX year-over-year comparables tax extenders all of which I would take a look at when you're updating your models.
Yes.
And maybe I'll just take the opportunity to also comment on hips since I've gotten a lot of questions on knees mostly because of the competitive launches and having ShapeMatch off the market.
But I'm really pleased with our hip performance and that -- again like our Trauma business that has been 3 years in the making of consistently leading the market especially in the U.S.
but also great performance outside the U.S.
So we're really pleased with our hip growth and which has been on the back of a number of new product launches and excellent execution in the field.
And we have Matthew O'Brien from William Blair online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to once again go back to MAKO but you guys mentioned the total knee trial that you're about to engage in and when we look at the uni knee opportunity there was a wow factor there with a challenging case in terms of performing those procedures.
And then with the hip opportunity cuff replacement [ph] was a big deal.
But can you just tell us what is the big wow factor for total knees? Are we going to be able to actually gain market share versus converting your own physicians over there? And then within there I know you've done a lot of internal work on the robotics side of things.
Should we expect that that after case of new robots applications from Stryker going forward than maybe traditionally you performed -- or you execute at? Yes.
When we look at the total knee opportunity which we think is the most compelling it's around being able to improve the patient experience patient satisfaction absolutely varies.
It is not as high as it is in hips with respect to knees.
It's about being able to drive consistently reproducible results regardless or not so much being tied to simply having the best surgeon doing the surgery.
And longer term we believe it's going to open up the opportunity that's not possible with manual instrumentation today regardless of surgeon expertise for a new generation of implants that will further improve outcomes patient experience and also benefit the hospitals.
So it's that combined effect that we believe will really be the wow factor.
It's premature to start talking about the cadence of robotics product launches at this stage.
Clearly we believe we have expertise in this area that is helping to augment what MAKO brings to the table and we also understand the implant and the capital selling process.
But beyond that we really again -- just a few weeks in we've tried to share some of the early decisions that we've been able to reach we'll provide more information as it becomes available and as we have agreement internally around what priorities we're going to focus on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
You talked about the -- I think Kevin you mentioned in the past introducing a reverse shoulder system to augment what you have on the anatomical side.
Any update as far as when you're going to launch that product? And then I don't believe you have a specialized sales force selling upper extremity products.
Is there a thought that you're going to go more aggressively down that path? So as it relates to the launches that you're talking about we do anticipate getting the reverse shoulder out starting in the second quarter but it will really be fully launched around the third quarter of this year.
There's a big gap in our portfolio.
We have not traditionally been strong in the shoulder market.
We have a hybrid approach in many of the areas where we compete where we have dedicated reps and we have a full-line reps.
We believe it's something that really helps us be it Extremities Trauma as well as Reconstructive.
We'll be leveraging a similar format as we look to gain increased traction now that we've rounded out the reverse -- or the portfolio on shoulders with the addition of the reverse later this year.
Yes.
So just to provide a little more color.
So the early launch will be in selected hospitals.
That will start towards the end of the first quarter beginning of the second quarter full launch towards the end of the second quarter.
And we have Bruce Nudell from Crédit Suisse online with a question.
Research Division</strong> This is Matt in for Bruce.
First can you maybe share with us what the different segment growth rates are there embedded in your 2014 guidance? If you're talking about as it relates to Recon MedSurg Neurotech no we don't provide that level of granularity.
Kevin commented around Neurotech being a higher growth area and I think people have their various estimates related to the biggest segments but we're just providing a top line number and that was reflected in the comments on the call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Or maybe if not that what are some of the puts and takes to get you to the edges of that range? When we tried on the call to give some color around some of the headwinds and as well as tailwinds some of the comparables some of which are more challenging in certain areas of the quarter.
I will give you for example because given the breadth of our product portfolio all the different divisions I don't think it's feasible or realistic to go through all the different puts and takes.
But something like our Trauma business as they can continue to maintain momentum throughout the year despite tough comps despite the J&amp;J that's further into their integration that's a potential extra that could be reflected but I could also list off a bunch of headwinds that could be more challenging.
We tried to do that and look at all of those which is reflected in the range that we gave.
If more of those break positively we'll be closer to the high end of that range.
That's always the goal.
But at this point we've learned pretty clearly over the years there's always something that surprises us in any given year.
So that's all reflected in that 4.5% to 6%.
Yes.
What's encouraging from our standpoint though is that this is a step-up in our organic growth rate versus the guidance we gave a year ago.
So we are overall feeling better about our performance in terms of organic sales growth.
The overall range is a step-up and it's a very good growth rate especially when you consider this does not include MAKO which we will be aggressively going after in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Then just one quick follow-up as far as the guidance this year do you assume pricing as roughly consistent with what you saw in 2013? Are there any changes? No same expectations negative 1% to 2% usually bounces around in that range.
And our next question comes from Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So on MAKO we saw the Q3 results.
They were a little bit weak on the system sales.
Can you give us any color on whether that rebounded in Q4? And I just have one follow-up.
We had really minimal sales obviously reflected given the timing of the acquisition in our numbers so it wasn't material.
I'm not going to get into color on the full quarter sales.
I know you guys got a lot of details for MAKO when they went public.
But given the size of it is relative to Stryker for example we don't break out our Navigation systems sales either in entirety or by indication and we're not going to get into that level of granularity.
We will try to provide more color as it becomes more significant.
But at this point it's just not material enough for us to be breaking it out.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the build -- on the R&amp;D tax credit and what you're assuming in the guidance just to be clear it sounds like you're assuming it's renewed later in the year.
So from a modeling standpoint you're going to get the whole benefit of 2014 in Q4 or should we be assuming equal benefit by quarter? It's just a little bit unclear how you're handling that this year.
Sure.
So our expectation is that it will get approved as we move through this year.
When it gets approved is the question.
So as you watch and see when that actually occurs.
If it for example doesn't happen until the second quarter we would pick up in essence a 0.5 year benefit in the second quarter and the rest of it in each of the last 2 quarters.
If it gets approved in the fourth quarter of this year then we wouldn't pick up any of that tax rate benefit really until the last quarter and we pick up a full year's benefit of that.
If for whatever reason they decide not to extend it then obviously that would be a negative impact on at least the guidance that we currently got out there.
And we have Josh Jennings from Cowen and Company online with a question.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just hoping you could share with us -- your 4.5% to 6% organic top line guidance -- growth guidance if you could share with us your assumptions.
We don't want to get ahead of ourselves with some of the positive trends we've been seeing.
But were your base case assumptions for Recon growth in the U.S.
for hips and knees? I would -- the way we're looking at it right now going back to Kevin's comments about feeling like it was modestly medium modestly in the tens of bps vicinity modest improvement starting in the second half of the year.
We're going to look at the average between Q4 and Q1 compare it year-over-year and I think what you'll see is a modest again tens of bps improvement in the recon market and that's largely reflected in our sales guidance.
But I will tell you that I wouldn't assume 20 30 40 whatever it is bps as a meaningful impact in that range.
It's reflected in it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a follow-up quickly on your views on the threat of generic reconstructive joint implants coming into the market in -- potentially in midyear by a larger player how big of a threat is that? And then lastly just on share count expectations with the stock price where it is share count is basically flat '13 over '12.
Is there any way to give some guidance on share count expectations for 2014? Yes.
I'll jump in and take the last part of it.
You obviously have our EPS guidance and I will just emphasize our capital allocation strategy has been and will continue to be focused first and foremost on acquisitions to help drive organic sales growth.
We're also committed to growing the dividend at rates above the growth of earnings rate and then buybacks.
Now buybacks will vary from quarter-to-quarter but that's a long-term strategy we have in place around a 3-pronged cash strategy allocation.
Yes you should assume each year is a certain level of buybacks not unlike the kind of buyback level that we had this year but it does -- it will range based on what's happening in the marketplace and where our cash position is.
Really to the first part of your question -- and I really don't see generic hips and knees as being really a viable option in the near term because the procedures are very difficult to do.
So until the procedures are de-skilled which has been the case in some other parts of med-tech when a procedure is very easy to do and you don't need a sales rep performing the high level of services that's required to enable patient outcomes then generics take off.
There's a reason why in China you have a low-priced segment that does not include hips and knees and it does not include hips and knees because these procedures are very difficult to do.
That low-priced segment which we are now participating in through Trauson is a Spine and Trauma market.
And so I don't really perceive this as a major threat.
We're always going to keep our eyes open.
But frankly until you de-skill these procedures the sales force representation is extremely important.
At Stryker we don't put sales reps in OR to help sell power tools every time a surgeon is using a power tool because the surgeon doesn't need a rep helping him use the power tool.
The surgeon does need reps when they're doing hip and knee replacement whether they are primary procedures and certainly when there are revision procedures.
And our next question comes from Steven Lichtman from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Kevin just in MedSurg obviously you've had a strong new product cycle in Endo and in Instruments in the past couple of years.
As you look to '14 have those rollouts completed now or do you expect them still to be incremental driver this year versus 2013? If I would know -- in power tools in large power tools we've just anniversary-ed the launch of the System 7 and you typically see 3- to 4-year life cycle there.
And obviously the growth starts to slow as you get to the latter part.
Conversely we launched our new products in the early part of '13 within Instruments the Cd4 and the Sabo.
Those are targeted at small bone and are seeing very nice growth which helps contribute to that 8% U.S.
gain in the quarter.
We'll have additional products that we'll be launching in '14 and some of those which we'll highlight at the upcoming AAOS Meeting.
Yes.
And I would tell you the Instruments group is extremely excited because Neptune although we've been servicing our existing accounts we haven't been able to sell new capital.
So in some ways you might want to think of that almost like a new product because we're now going to be bringing back capital equipment to the market.
Obviously in the first half of the year we have to service our existing accounts.
We need to retrofit their equipment but they're really going to be looking to go after that.
In addition Patient Safety Technologies which we expect to close some time in the first quarter will give Instruments another shot in the arm as a brand-new product which frankly with all the relationships and them knowing how to sell patient and caregiver safety just ideally positioned and those should be an engine for growth even though once again that growth in this year is outside of our guidance it certainly will help our top line performance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Kathy you mentioned relative to fourth quarter MAKO contribution for overall corporate obviously not material.
But just to clarify on the individual product lines that you guys reported or talked about on the call in knees and hips did that include some MAKO in the fourth quarter or are those just pure Stryker year-over-year growth? There was some.
But I will stress we closed very late in the year.
It was not meaningful whether it's total Stryker or even if you look at the hips and knees.
We're very pleased with the growth we put up even adjusting for the very very modest impact from a few days of selling.
And our next question comes from Bill Plovanic from Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> First just on Extremities do you have a total ankle or one in the works? And then secondly as we look at the MAKO when specifically would you expect to have the Stryker implants compatible with the software for MAKO? Okay.
Thank you.
I'll start with the total ankle.
So no we do not have a total ankle currently in our portfolio.
As you know the total ankle market is not growing at a very fast rate.
It's certainly not slowing down our growth whatsoever.
Over time I think we will want to have a total ankle within our portfolio.
We've evaluated a number of different options and we frankly discounted some of them because when we do come to market we want to make sure that it's going to be with a product that is a really compelling product whether we do that through internal development or whether we do that some other way we'll keep you posted.
But it's not something we feel a burning desire for.
We don't need it today.
Where -- you can see our performance has been outstanding in Foot &amp; Ankle without the total ankle.
But over time just like we saw with hips and knees in the early days joint replacement takes time to build up clinical track record to build up experience to get the right materials.
So it's still -- longer term it's of a high interest to us.
It's not something that preoccupies me in the short term.
And I would just say that more to come on the timing for when we would look to launch and which areas Stryker implants on the robot.
It's clearly a part of the long-term value proposition.
But we're just going through with the R&amp;D team's working jointly together and looking at those in the -- at the timing et cetera associated with that.
So more to come.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the first quarter of 2014 results will be held on April 17.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Stryker's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Eric and I'll be your operator for today's call.
(Operator Instructions) This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that the discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may begin sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me today are Bill Jellison our CFO; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy &amp; Investor Relations.
Following my opening comments Katherine will provide an update as it relates to our recent M&amp;A activity and Bill will then offer details on our quarterly results before opening the call up to Q&amp;A.
Our first quarter results reinforce the strength of our diversified mix of businesses which include implants disposables capital equipment and services that address a broad spectrum of the medical technology industry.
With this comprehensive offering we achieved another quarter of solid organic sales growth up 5% excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange.
While we benefited from one extra selling day in the quarter this was offset by the negative impact from the unusually severe weather which resulted in a high number of cancelled surgeries.
As these surgeries are being rescheduled over the course of the year we do not anticipate any discernable impact on our full year growth rates.
All three of our key business segments Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine delivered year-over-year revenue gains in Q1 and growth was well balanced between the U.S.
and international.
In the U.S.
trauma and extremities posted an impressive growth of 12% off of a tough 26% comparable which was aided by competitor recall last year.
This growth was fueled by continued strength in Foot &amp; Ankle up 34%.
Hip growth of 6% and knee growth of 4% reflected seasonality and some disruption associated with the MAKO acquisition.
As publicly traded competitors we were only able to start our integration discussions after the deal closed late last year.
With that planning taking place over the course of the first quarter.
During this period we experienced hesitancy by our sales reps as well as some customers to move forward ending visibility around the integration specifics.
Starting in April we now have the benefit of a unified sales force.
With this key step in place we are well positioned to leverage our considerable sales and distribution capabilities to drive sales growth going forward.
U.S.
MedSurg was led by robust growth in instruments up 13% as the team is capitalizing on the linked 2013 510K clearance of the Neptune Waste Management System.
Endoscopy had another solid quarter.
Medical was steady while Sustainability Solutions was slowed by some product lifecycle challenges.
U.S.
Neurotechnology had another stellar quarter with 11% growth at all three businesses Neurovascular Neuropowered Instruments and CMS registered double-digit gains.
Spine growth was flat aided by double-digit growth in Interventional Spine.
International constant currency growth of 5% was led by strong performances in Australia Japan India and China.
The latter of which had strong performance in both the premium and low-priced segment of the market.
Europe momentum continues with year-over-year growth in the low single-digits.
Most product categories had positive results although knees were soft due primarily to lingering issues in some emerging market countries which we previously mentioned.
We continue to expect this trend to improve beginning in Q2.
Turning to the P&amp;L.
The year-over-year decline in gross margin is a function of the negative impact from foreign exchange along with price which was partly offset by the benefit from our GQO initiative.
We continue to make significant investments in R&amp;D which increased 17% year-over-year while maintaining our focus on driving greater SG&amp;A efficiencies.
With our adjusted Q1 EPS of $1.06 we are confirming our full year adjusted EPS guidance of $4.75 to $4.90.
With that I will now turn the call over to Katherine.
My comments on today's call will focus on providing an update on our recent M&amp;A activity.
During Q1 we acquired Pivot Medical which was founded in 2007 with a focus on hip arthroscopy procedures treating FAI syndrome.
Pivot provides us with a platform of innovative instrumental implants to efficiently access and restore the mobility of the hip with minimal incision.
Hip arthroscopy is the fastest growing procedure in sports medicine resulting from improved procedural solution and growing demand for solution.
This acquisition complements our existing sports medicine portfolio and provides our customers with a comprehensive offering to address a broader range of procedures.
More recently we completed the acquisition of Berchtold Holding which achieved sales in 2013 of approximately $125 million to its product portfolio of surgical infrastructure equipment.
Berchtold offering includes surgical table equipment films and surgical lighting systems geared towards maximizing efficiency and safety in operating rooms and IT use.
Combining these complementary solutions with our endoscopy division’s existing operating room portfolio creates a comprehensive quality focused offering equipped to satisfy a wide range of customers’ needs around the globe.
Also during the quarter we closed on the acquisition of Patient Safety Technologies which we discussed in detail on our prior call.
Our Instruments division is excited about this innovative technology which helps prevent the objects in the operating room thereby improving patient safety and reducing healthcare costs.
Finally as it relates to MAKO during Q1 we initiated enrollment in a clinical study of a total knee application using MAKO’s Total Knee System.
We are excited about this opportunity to further broaden the clinical application for this technology and anticipate having the Total Knee on the market in 2015.
We are excited about these recent transactions and the opportunity for our division to leverage the considerable sales and marketing infrastructure to help drive accelerating revenue growth.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Katherine.
Sales growth was positive by 5.3% in the first quarter including a negative 1.1% impact from FX translation.
Constant currency sales growth was a positive 6.4% which includes organic growth of 5%.
Earnings per share on a GAAP basis for the first quarter were $0.18 per share versus $0.79 per share last year in the first quarter while adjusted earnings per share were $1.06 per share for the quarter versus $1.09 in the first quarter last year.
This quarter's EPS includes a negative impact of approximately $0.05 per share from FX this quarter compares into the last year’s first quarter is also negatively impacted by approximately $0.05 per share both from tax extenders not being renewed and also from an additional full year benefit for the 2012 tax extenders booked in the first quarter of last year.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustments in the quarter are related to a $340 million increase in the charges associated with the voluntary recalls of Rejuvenate and ABG II and Neptune.
These charges may increase or decrease over time as additional facts become available and assumptions become more refined.
No insurance proceeds that may potentially be available to cover some of these costs have been included.
Looking at sales in the first quarter.
Our organic growth of 5% was comprised of a positive 6.9% from volume and mix with price negatively impacting sales by 1.8%.
Acquisitions added 1.4% while FX had a negative 1.1% impact due to significant weakness in both the Japanese yen and the Australian dollar compared to the same period last year.
This impact should lessen considerably as we move through the year if rates fall near current levels.
Looking at our segments Reconstructive represented 43% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales of Reconstructive products were up 4.5% as reported and grew 5.9% constant currency.
U.S.
Reconstructive sales grew 8% in the quarter Trauma and Extremities once again had another solid quarter with sales in the U.S.
increasing 11.6% with continued strength in Foot &amp; Ankle as we work to expand that market.
U.S.
hips and knees growth in the period were 5.9% and 4.4% respectively and we believe the strong fourth quarter did hold some activity out of the first quarter.
We expect sales growth to accelerate in 2014 and look forward to a Total Knee launch in 2015.
Our International Reconstructive business is up 2.9% in constant currency and have low single-digit organic growth in the period.
Next our MedSurg segment represented approximately 39% of our total sales in the quarter.
At the beginning of the year we moved all of our Sports Med implants previously reported in our Recon business segment to a newly created sports med unit under common leadership in our endoscopy division.
This business is reported up through our MedSurg business segment.
2013 segment information is also been restated to consistently reflect this move.
Total MedSurg sales increased 5.8% as reported and 6.8% on a constant currency basis.
These results were led by double-digit growth from our Instruments business and high-single digit growth in endoscopy.
Medical had low-single digit growth in the period.
Our Instruments division – keep I mind also now has the Neptune product back on the market after receiving FDA clearance and should ramp up nicely as we move through the year.
Remember we were not able to sell Neptune capital last year.
International sales were strong up 7.1% in constant currency driven by our larger OUS division Endoscopy and Instruments.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine represented 18% of our sales and delivered another strong quarter.
Sales growth increased 5.9% as reported and 7% on a constant currency basis.
Growth in this segment was led by our Neurotechnology businesses and IVS which grew solid double-digit in constant currency.
Spinal implant sales were down low single-digits.
In looking at our operational performance gross margins on an adjusted basis in the first quarter of 2014 were 66.9% compared to 67.5% in the same period last year.
Foreign exchange rates and price had a negative impact on the rate this quarter as we felt the full impact of the weaker Japanese yen and Australian dollar.
If they stay at current level the year-over-year impacts from FX will begin to lessen as we move through at least to the back half of this year.
Research and development expenses increased to 6.5% of sales versus 5.9% of sales last year in the quarter.
This is a 16.3% increase in R&amp;D spending over last year and it also reflects our commitment to invest in areas which we believe will help us deliver above market sales growth.
Selling general and administrative costs represented 52.3% of sales in the first quarter and this included approximately $340 million of cost related to the Rejuvenate and Recall matters.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A expenses were $836 million or 36.3% of sales in the first quarter of 2014 versus 37.2% in the prior year's first quarter.
Operating margins on an adjusted basis were 24.1% in the first quarter of 2014 compared to 24.4% in the first quarter of 2013.
The rate was negatively impacted primarily by pricing and foreign exchange rates in the quarter partially offset by operational improvement and also from lower selling general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales.
Other expense on an adjusted basis in the first quarter was $23.7 million compared to $10.8 million in the first quarter of last year.
This increase in expense resulted primarily from higher interest expense and foreign exchange transaction losses in the period.
Our reported tax rate for the first quarter was 34.5% while the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.1% for the first quarter.
This compares to a 20.3% adjusted effective tax rate in the first quarter last year.
As we move into 2014 we expect the full year rate will run closer to 23% with a higher rate in the first half.
Remember an extra year of tax benefit resulting from the renewal of tax extenders were included in the first quarter of 2013 and tax extenders has not yet been approved for 2014 so no benefit for them was included in the first quarter.
While our 2014 guidance anticipates renewal of the tax extenders they have not yet been approved by Congress and renewal and timing of them is still uncertain and it’s negatively impact our tax rate early in the year.
We also anticipate tax benefits from the reorganization and move of our European headquarters to the Netherlands.
However this is not expected to be in place until the second half of the year so no favorable impacts will be included in our tax rate until later this year.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $4 billion of cash and marketable securities consistent with our 2013 year-end level.
We also had $3 billion of debt on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
From an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended the first quarter at 56 days or two days better than the end of the first quarter last year.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 175 which was an 8-day increase compared to 167-day in the first quarter last year and inventory levels increased in the quarter primarily in support of a Japanese ERP implementation.
Turning to cash flow.
Our cash from operations were $206 million compared to $236 million in the prior year.
First quarter cash flow was lower as inventory increased in the period including amount to support an ERP implementation in Japan and our capital expenditures in the quarter were $70 million compared to $49 million last year in the same period.
We still have nearly $700 million available for share repurchase under a current authorization.
However no shares were purchased in the first quarter as we focused on close the new acquisitions in the period.
As Kevin mentioned our 2014 guidance remains unchanged with organic sales growth in the range of 4.5% to 6% and adjusted net earnings per share in the range of $4.75 to $4.90.
To assist you in your modeling particularly as it relates to the first half we would note that current foreign exchange rates are resulting in additional headwinds with the total year impact expected to be approximately $0.10 per share with the majority of the impact in the first half of the year.
Also as mentioned previously the renewal of the tax extenders remain in our guidance however we now do not expect them to be renewed until later this year.
Thanks for your support and we'd be glad to answer any questions that you may have.
Operator Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Your first call comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
You may proceed.
Good afternoon.
Hey Kevin.
Kevin just starting off with Recon I think all quarter long we talked about the impact of various forces here in the first quarter and you talked about many of them.
It's challenging to quantify weather but you tried to do so in thinking about selling days versus the weather.
If you could just give us some more granularity on in your mind what was weather? What was seasonality? And why you're more confident that these trends begin to improve here in the second and third quarter?  David what I say around seasonality that’s something that we expected.
It’s obviously a trend that we’ve seen over the last couple of years and that played out again this quarter.
The weather clearly was not expected and it was obviously an unusual period.
We expect that those procedures will get done over the course of the year.
They will be rescheduled.
So for the full year we don’t expect that to have a meaningful impact on our volumes.
Now obviously MAKO was a different issue and separate from weather and seasonality where we had the first quarter of integration and obviously we had sales forces on both sides at MAKO and Stryker trying to feel each other out and understand how we they are going to work together.
We’ve spent the first quarter working through those plans and obviously that did affect the first quarter for MAKO but we are very excited we have our plans in place.
We have a unified sales force ready to hit the ground.
But to actually parse seasonality versus weather is not something not I could really do either.
Okay and then maybe kind of a follow-up on the MAKO commentary you just gave.
Can you give us a sense of now that the integration has been done what does the MAKO distribution force look like in terms of dedicated reps the capital sales force and we'd love to get obviously some information about how MAKO grew this quarter.
If you're not willing to do that can you give us any sense of when you can get the MAKO business back to the type of growth rates we were seeing in the earlier part of last year? Thank you.
So as we’ve already indicated we are going to report in these MAKO knee numbers with knees the MAKO hip numbers with hips and the capital will be part of our other reconstructive segment.
We have our full scales force now will be selling the implants combining the MAKO implant sales force as well as the Stryker Orthopedic sales force and that’s new starting in April.
We also have separate reps that will be selling capital.
Your next call comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
You may proceed.
Hi (inaudible) if you could just quantify the impact of just reclassifying some of the Sports Medicine business into endoscopy and just maybe talk a little bit more broadly about your strategy going forward in that line?  Sure Kristen.
The sales of Sports Medicine implants was roughly $15 million for the quarter.
It was a small but very fast-growing business which we had separate from our endoscopy division.
Our endoscopy division does sell many products into the Sports Medicine specialty.
We have now emerged those two together and have one combined offense from Sports Medicine and we renamed the business unit Sports Medicine which is not part of the endoscopy franchise.
We are really excited about being able to be built now a strong fast-growing sports medicine implant business and now combining with our existing arthroscopy business.
Okay and then I guess just looking ahead is the plan I guess to just grow that business more organically or grow it through supplementing through M&amp;A?  Kristen we did the Pivot acquisition and that is going to be within the Endoscopy division.
So that really rounded out a key gap.
In Sports Medicine we are pretty well positioned in knees and in shoulders but having a product to treat hip arthroscopy with the gap and we were obviously very impressed by the Pivot offering.
So I would say right now the focus on that acquisition which just recently closed.
Clearly endoscopy has a much larger sales marketing and depth and breadth that will be able to hopefully leverage as part of the Sports Medicine strategy going forward.
And your next call comes from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
You may proceed.
Thanks can you hear me okay.
Hi Bob.
Hi Bob.
Great good afternoon.
First question for Bill are you still comfortable suggesting that about 45% of the total year's earnings will come in the first half? And I was curious in Q1 if earnings came in where you thought because obviously it was a little lower than what the street was predicting.
Sure I’d say that I mean roughly we are still comfortable with that.
But keep in mind that there was a couple of caveats that I talked about which FX is impacting at the little bit more upfront than we expected moving into the year.
And also the tax extenders that we talked about as well too.
We are originally in pretty much for the full year on a more of an equal basis.
It’s still uncertain obviously when those will be renewed at this time but that’s also an impact that’s affecting the first half of the year.
Okay.
So couple incremental things to consider around that 45% it sound like.
And then the second question I wanted to ask which was back on hips and knees and your comment you think things will accelerate over the year.
I was wondering if you're already starting to see evidence of those surgeries rescheduled and things back to normal.
And Kevin maybe what your assumption is for the hip and knee market growth rate for 2014?  Bob I’ll jump in with couple of things going back to your prior question keep in mind we clearly did not have any visibility when we thought about the first quarter as to how should be the weather would be and obviously it had an impact and still talked about FX that also worst.
So there were some incremental negatives.
In terms of the surgeries I think what we would say is not really going to comment where we are right now early on in the second quarter surgeries get rescheduled but they tend not to get rescheduled all in the same quarter that they were canceled particularly if a division has a backlog in place.
So that’s why we said we feel comfortable that those surgeries will get replaced or rescheduled over the course of the year for all the obvious reasons for these diseases.
We generated these patients are going to suddenly feel better.
So it will work itself out over the course of the year.
We still continue to assume the reconstructive market growth somewhere in the mid single-digits and whether that’s three to four three to five something in that vicinity.
So there has been no discernable change in the underlying trends with the note of exception that seasonality continues to get more pronounced each year and based on the fourth quarter.
First quarter we anticipate the same trend will take place as we look ahead to the fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter of 2015.
Just to (Inaudible)  You broke up a little bit there.
Bob are you still there?  Should be willing to say whether or not that's a new number for that 45% I mean you give us that previously are you willing to say what the best estimate is for the first half of the year in terms of percentage of earnings giving all these considerations that you just suggested?  As we said previously we still assume approximately 45% of earnings during the first half of the year based on the range of estimates we have for the full year and then I think Bill outlined in his comments some incremental headwinds that are specific to the first half and Q2 that are worth looking at when you think about modeling.
Okay.
Thank you.
And your next call comes from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Bill how big is the SG&amp;A line? I think about the acquisitions you've made and MAKO was $20 million of the quarter on SG&amp;A itself.
So I am trying to reconcile with the addition of MAKO and recognizing that the efforts you're taking there they don't happen day one.
How does SG&amp;A come in as well as it did?  Yes so I think that there are couple comments there.
So keep in mind on the R&amp;D increase that we had a piece of that is obviously from some of the acquisitions that we’ve been bringing on board especially as it relates to a percent of sales of R&amp;D to our total sales and then as it relates to the broader based SG&amp;A side I think that you should assume that there were some reductions actually in each of those areas.
So selling costs were down slightly as well as a couple of the key categories within the G&amp;A area.
And is that sustainable? This is you know that’s one-time?  And I think that is probably reasonable to assume that the R&amp;D side should expect to run probably higher than it did last year pretty much throughout this year and I think the reverse is probably also true with the SG&amp;A broader category.
And there is nothing that's been re-categorized that's been added SG&amp;A in some other category?  No reclassifications in place.
Okay and then lastly on the disclosure that you're backing out from costs pertaining to the Neptune recall can you be clear what those are?  Are you talking for this quarter? There were no additional Neptune recall costs in this quarter.
You broke up a little bit on your question.
Is that what you are referring to?  Yes are you guys still there?  Yes.
Yes hi Mike there is a little trouble hearing you and specific to the last question was it around the Neptune recall charges in the quarter?  Yes I am just trying to make sure that we've got the reconciliation because in your move from GAAP to adjusted it says that you are adjusting for costs relative to both Rejuvenate which we understand obviously and it lists as well the Neptune recall and I wasn't clear why you'd have expenses related to that recall that you are backing out but it sounds like Bill is saying there were no expenses.
That’s correct.
There were no recall expenses for Neptune in this quarter.
The recall cost that you are seeing there were related to just the Rejuvenate matter.
Perfect okay.
Thank you guys.
That kind of market as well as and we would expect that business to continue to ramp as we move through this year.
Okay.
Thank you.
You bet   And your next call comes from Richard Newitter with Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the questions.
Kevin can I just ask you to elaborate a bit on your comments on the dynamics playing out in the EU Recon division and what gives you confidence? I think you said acceleration throughout the year in 2014?  So as you know Europe was a sour spot to go back about a year-and-a-half for Stryker and it has been over a number of quarters trailing the market and we launched our turnaround and we’ve now had four straight quarters of low single-digit growth.
So it’s sustained.
We started off with Northern Europe being the area of primary focus and now I would include Southern Europe in that.
So Spain sort of performing well at the end of last year and in this first quarter even Italy registered positive results and Italy have been a country where we were suffering the most.
So I would say our recovery has been broad based across all the countries back to basics.
We really have our management team performing very well.
So it’s sustainable four quarters in a row in a market that’s still challenging market overall.
We are performing well and obviously for Stryker Reconstructive is the biggest segments in Europe and so the implant business is starting to get healthy again.
Great and then just – with respect to the comment you were making about rescheduling surgeries in 2Q and beyond you said that a surgeon's backlog might actually be prohibitive in terms of the surgeon being able to get that patient in.
That would almost seem to suggest that backlogs seem very healthy at least in your customer base.
Can you describe either anecdotally or quantify what you're hearing from your customers about expanding backlogs if any and does that leave you feeling better than perhaps a few months ago looking forward into the year? Rich I’ll take it.
I think it’s safe to say obviously reading a little bit too much into my comment it was more around to give perspective that you can’t make up all the surgeries in a given quarter and that maybe one factor.
It was intended to imply that there has been a significant change in backlog that’s specific to us.
It’s really just the factors to why we said and think those procedure volumes will be rescheduled over the course of the year and that I would go back we are continuing to assume the Reconstructive market is essentially unchanged in terms of its growth with the noted commentary around seasonality.
Your next call comes from Derrick Sung with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
So going to your organic knee growth I guess our calculations suggest that in the US at least excluding MAKO your organic knee growth was flat to even perhaps down a little bit negative? Was this a surprise to you? Is that calculation in the ballpark? And if so then that would imply a pretty substantial reacceleration through the back half of the year.
Is that fair? Derrick I’ll take that question and for consistency sake we have said we are not going to breakout MAKO revenue and I know it cause us some challenges but I have to note you guys have your models and we’ll get some approximation in there.
We very clearly saw some impact as we talked about on weather and seasonality in the quarter and clearly Q1 versus Q4 growth is there is a big change and we assume that trend will continue this quarter.
So those are some of the factors that you should assume.
This isn’t a linear trend as it relates to our businesses both in recon as well as some of our capital businesses.
Okay.
Yes specifically related to knees what I’d say is all of last year we grew at market rates in knees and so I wouldn’t expect anything really different going into this year in terms of outside of MAKO if you just look at our core knee implants that we perform around market rates and we don’t see a different dynamic necessarily playing.
Okay thanks and can you spend a couple minutes on pricing both what sort of the level of price cuts that were seen from Japan versus your expectations? And also it does look like on Recon pricing has gotten sort of sequentially worse over the last three quarters.
What's going on there if anything? Thanks.
I’ll take the recon comment and we don’t break out pricing by specific product lines or hips and knees in our financials you can get the pricing impacts.
We continue – for the three main businesses we continue to see pricing pressure partly offset by mix and the total company price continues to be down at the 1.5% to 2% range.
And Japan price cuts obviously we expected those price cuts and they came in line with our expectations.
And specifically for reconstructive we do break out pricing by segment the first quarter price reduction was not very different if you look at our full year price reduction it’s in line with our full year price reduction.
Your next call comes from Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon just a couple of quick ones.
First Katherine just on the acquisitions is the right math two months of Trauson in the quarter and then a full quarter of MAKO there is the only two that have an impact?  Well we also closed on Pivot but we didn’t break out that revenues but it was but I think it’s safe to say very immaterial particularly given when it closed in the quarter and then Berchtold closed after the first quarter.
So   Okay and then – and Kevin for you on trauma in the US not everybody's reported but the big companies have.
It looks like the market doubled.
So almost 10% this quarter.
Is your sense that that was weather-related or do you see a strengthening in the market overall?  Yes so first of all not everybody has reported yet.
And I’d say you do have the impact of the recall the competitor recall from last year which inflated that competitor’s first quarter and frankly damped down our growth rates so our real underlying growth rate was even higher than the 12% we reported.
Weather did does have a factor.
It’s not nearly as – it’s not a one-for-one with sort of the slow down you see in hips and knees there is not a one-for-one replacement trauma but yes the weather does have an impact and was a tailwind for us for the market in the first quarter.
Thanks Kevin.
Thanks Katherine.
Your next call comes from Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks.
Just one – a couple points to clarify just I'd love to understand you mentioned some of the factors impacting the MAKO business as you got further along in the integration or really began your first quarter of integration.
Could you – I wasn't sure if I understood whether this was hesitation among the sales force as they the typical sort of who gets what territory kind of questions.
Whether there was some loss of sales force in that process or whether there was hesitation or sort of on the customer utilization side if you could maybe add a little color there? And then I have one follow-up.
So to the points you made I would say yes hesitancy on the sales force around who is going to get paid who is going to get credit what territory am I going to cover and yes on the hesitancies around customers saying well not the Stryker ones evolve should I buy this or should I wait can I get financing or are they going to sell this differently.
So the hesitancies is yes on both two parts.
The one area where we did not have an issue was on sales force loss.
We did not lose any sales force our sales forces has all been retained but there was this limbo where you are trying to figure out and sort out who is going to be credit for what.
Especially if you look at Stryker Reconstructive implant people who are not getting credits in the first quarter they obviously were engaged fully until they understood what it meant for them.
We were able to clarify that over the course of the first quarter so they are now fully engaged.
Great and then this reacceleration if you could Katherine maybe would be the best person to walk through what the points and drivers are as you see through the rest of the year putting aside what we just talked about what Kevin just mentioned what are some of the other factors you think that get the growth going again to hit your full-year numbers?  So if you are talking about – I assume you talk about top-line?  Yes.
So keep in mind our organic growth in the quarter was 5% and so I think we are in very good shape recognizing Q1 the biggest factors that’s a negative for revenue is the seasonality both for capital which obviously has stronger fourth quarter trends and then the Reconstructive which I think is of course that was pretty well beaten in terms of that seasonality trend.
As the year unfolds the benefit we’ll see is the acceleration in MAKO as we talk through.
Neptune is ramping up as it just got back on the market.
We had to do some customer upgrades in the first quarter.
We did several acquisitions that we closed in the first quarter.
We’ll start to see those attraction with those as the division start to take advantage of the expanded product offering there and…  And I’d say we are going to continue to sustain the kind of double-digit growth in Neurotechnology.
Those businesses are all really well positioned with strong momentum strong pipelines.
So we expect that business to continue to perform very well.
So we have a number of businesses Trauma Instruments division Neurotechnology we were very bullish on our performance over the course of the year.
But I just think as you go back and adjust models the biggest change that we’ve seen as we talked about it’s gotten greater each quarter or each year is the seasonality.
So obviously that’s going to impact how the fourth quarter of this year looks like just it did impacted the first quarter.
And then sort of the headwinds that we talked about around FX in particular that will impact the second quarter.
So there is just more variability on the overall quarterly trends but when we step back and look at the full year it’s very consistent with our expectations.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next call comes from Jason Wittes with Brean Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I wonder if you could help us out with timelines on product flow for MAKO now that it's fully integrated with Stryker and that is specifically the Total Knee I think you're starting that trial I think that's still going to be the MAKO knee.
I guess how long will that take to get on the market from your expectation and when would we see integration with other Stryker products within MAKO?  I would refer back to the comments we made in the formal part of the call.
We start movement in the first quarter with the Total Knees with MAKO’s Total Knee system and we do anticipate launching the Total Knee on the MAKO robot in 2015.
In terms of product iterations and next generations we are not going to go into any additional color on that.
Obviously we do have plans to introduce Stryker implants in both the hip and knee side.
The timing of that and the prioritization – I think that we are working through internally.
We will likely be able to share some additional color at our Analyst Meeting in September where the product there is going to focus on the Reconstructive business in MAKO.
But beyond that we are not prepared to go into any more detail around the pipeline.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Your next call comes from Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
First question is on foot and ankle.
Again another quarter of 30% plus growth.
But that's 3X the market so Kevin maybe talk about what continues to drive that growth and how sustainable it is? And I had a follow-up on Spine.
Yes it’s the beauty of the Foot &amp; Ankle business unit.
We created this dedicated focused business unit only a couple of years ago.
We obviously combine the Memo Metal acquisitions with our existing products and we’ve just been driving market expansion and we are addressing surgeons that weren’t using implants before.
And so it has been difficult to predict I would say at some point the comparables what you think would catch up to you but we are in a market expansion mode.
We are just continuing to drive and gain new procedures with new clinicians.
So it’s a fabulous market.
We’re very very well positioned and we continue to outperform the market by a healthy margin.
So there isn’t anything new we are doing so the playbook that we put in place from the beginning is the playbook that we are following and because it’s a new market versus having to take share from existing players the run rate for growth in still very healthy.
And then my follow-up on Spine I think you said in your prepared comments that implants were down low-single digits.
Can you break that out between US and OUS? And was that down low-single digits in line with the market?  Yes I would say that we – our performance if you look over last year we performed kind of inline with the market at least with some large players.
I would say that held true again in the first quarter or you have the U.S.
down low single-digits OUS up low single-digits that’s kind of what’s been playing out over the course of last year and the first quarter was no different.
Your next call comes from Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I wanted to understand how you are thinking about the combined business now that you've linked the sales forces and are aligned there.
Is that I guess like flipping a light switch do you think or does it takes some time now for them to regain momentum?  Well it’s just like any other integration.
So it’s going to depend.
I can’t give you a straight answer but what I can tell you is the teams are very engaged and they are very excited but it’s new and you have people that are collaborating together you have that certain relationships are well established but it’s not something that I can – it’s not going to be linear and it’s something that will build and grow and accelerate throughout the course of the year.
Okay and then just on the weather were your comments on surgeries more related to any one segment or is it more Recon focused or did you see it more broadly across your business is?  No certainly they are recon focused.
If you look at our MedSurg business posted very very good results our Neurotechnology division posted very very solid results.
So it really was localized to the Recon business.
And Spine to degree but it’s not that different than last year.
Hi good evening.
I wanted to ask just one follow-up question on the insurance business I had thought that as part of the Neptune upgrade that you were going to place those systems with customers so I'm just wondering about the 13% growth in the quarter whether you are in fact selling that again and how we should think about the actual revenue trajectory to the balance of the year?  So what we talked about that’s probably going to take until the third quarter in this year so we are really at a fully run rate because we did have to go back to existing customers and do a software upgrade for them.
But we are also now selling and we are selling disposables associated with that.
So the comment still hold I would say the teams are very excited obviously to have the product back on the market given the features and benefits and we would expect that momentum to accelerate again into the third quarter where it should be truly reflective of them hitting on all cylinders.
That's helpful.
And then maybe just a broader question for Kevin and Bill.
As you think about the long-term earnings growth of the business how should we think about the rubric to the P&amp;L? Just looking at the performance the past couple quarters it seems to me as though if I look at the drivers you have the top-line growing at a pretty consistent solid rate gross margins are coming down.
There might be some discrete factors there but it sounds like you're going to run really hard to try to keep them flattish at best.
You can manage discretionary spending and then you can try to get some financial leverage to grow earnings.
Is that the right way to think about how you grow earnings in this business now in an environment where pricing looks like a persistent headwind?  <br>Sure I think that – I mean those are generally reasonable comments but maybe the one exception on the gross margin related rate.
Keep in mind that both in the first quarter of this year and also throughout all months all the quarters last year we took a pretty heavy headwind from FX in each of those periods and a large part of that has impacted at the gross margin level.
So if FX was even neutral I think that headwind on the gross margin rate would be much reduced and despite the fact that we’ve got some significant pricing headwinds in general I think that we’ve got some good initiatives to our broader based GQO team itself reduce those operating related costs in the gross margin area to help offset that.
Your next call comes from Larry Biegelsen – Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Kevin could you talk a little bit about the outlook for the medical division in the US and the US capital equipment market in general now that the ACA has been in place for four months this year? Thanks.
So you saw our Medical division in the U.S.
grew in low single-digits and it has had pretty steady performance.
We are not seeing any discernable change in the capital equipment market.
The same challenging market that we had all of last year the ACA impact is negligible capital is still challenging but our division is continuing to perform well in a challenging market.
And then on emerging markets could you just talk about what percent of your sales now are emerging markets the growth in the quarter and how much the knee issue in Asia impacted your growth? Thanks.
So yes as we mentioned in previous calls the smaller market Asian companies the distributor change that we’ve gone through has lingered and that primarily in knee business.
So that did impact us.
Our emerging market as a total percent of sales is around 7% and we are having very strong growth as we mentioned in China as well as India.
We still have a lot of work to do in some countries like Russia and Turkey where we are really starting from a small foundation.
I am excited about the potential for emerging markets specifically with Trauson which performed very well in China and which we will start to launch in countries outside of China over the course of this year.
And your next call comes from Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just quickly on MAKO with the clinical trial that you're enrolling right now I'm looking at the website right now and it seems reasonable that it will probably take a couple quarters to enroll.
And then I think it says here about a one-year follow-up.
So we shouldn't expect that rollout to come before that trial is complete.
Is that a fair way to characterize it?  So we are going to complete the trial.
We haven’t given a timing on submission but clearly it’s going to have to happen to be consistent with our goal of launching our Total Knee system in 2015.
So we are enrolling we have not gone into detail probably for competitive reasons regarding the trial design and some of the specifics.
But it’s all consistent with our goal of launching in 2015.
Okay but it seems reasonable that it would probably be later next year rather than earlier?  2015.
So I would say…  I would say just hold for now and over the course of this year we will be able to provide more color.
It’s just too early for us to comment at this point in time.
Okay thank you.
And just real – one more real quick one for Kevin since you've got there you got into that position you've done a real nice job of building out your presence in some of the faster growth areas of orthopedics and you've done the Pivot acquisition now and your commentary there was interesting to me given how large that market is and the growth opportunity that you have there.
Should we think of Sports Med as the next focus area in ortho for Stryker? A big ramp up in sales and marketing presence there as a bigger chunk of R&amp;D spend heading into that market?  So we have a number of fast-growing segments within Stryker and I would say Sports Medicine is one of those fast-growing segments trauma is a fast-growing segment.
We have fast-growing segments in Neurotech we mentioned Interventional Spine is a fast-growing.
So many business units that are fast-growing.
I wouldn’t want to isolate it to one or two or three and we believe that the combination of the fast-growing sports medicine implants where we had strong knee strong shoulder and now very strong best-in-class hip arthroscopy products which that we acquired through Pivot combined with the endo arthroscopy business will give that a shot in arm.
So yes I would say Sports Medicine is a focus area but it’s not different than it has been in the past.
We are just going to bring a bit more muscle to it by combining the two organizations together.
We think we are very well positioned.
We have a number of new launches coming out of the arthroscopy unit that will combine with the Sports Medicine business.
So we think the timing is perfect to bring these businesses together.
But I wouldn’t say that it’s something different than we were doing before in terms of focusing we were focused on Sports Medicine.
We just didn’t have still in the implant side so we carved out a separate group did a lot of internal development have now combined that with Pivot so we now have really a great offering on the implant side that we can combine.
So three or four years we weren’t ready to really compete vigorously in Sports Medicine because we didn’t have a complete offering but we are now ready.
Your next call comes from Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thank you so much for taking the questions.
A big picture one and a detailed one big picture one of the things that you focused on when you first joined Kevin is what was happening in Europe.
Can you give us an update on what that looks like? And then my more specific question is is there any update on the timing for the reintroduction of OtisMed in the United States? Thank you.
So on the first question I take the first part of the question on Europe I would say we just had sustained strong performance.
I had mentioned before four straight quarters of positive growth in constant currency in the low single-digit area.
It’s taken a number of quarters to get that in all countries.
I mentioned last year that we were lagging in Italy.
We have been lagging in Spain that story in Spain has changed over the last six months and this quarter was the first positive we saw in Italy which had been the country where we were suffering the most over the last two years.
So the business model that we put in place for the turnaround is working and working well and we are now sustaining that performance in Europe as we mentioned before in detail how we have changed our commercial model we are very pleased with how that commercial model is working.
And so beyond that I could just say that that the team is stable and performing at a high level.
And Joanne on the OtisMed unfortunately we’ve proven that we have done a great job of predicting when we are going to get that back to the FDA.
So I don’t think we’ve gotten good visibility right now in terms of a re-launch.
I wouldn’t be assuming necessarily anything in the next few quarters.
Thank you.
Your next call comes from Dave Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Did you say you're going to launch another Total Knee in 2015 in addition to the MAKO one?  Not an addition.
The trial is being done with the MAKO robot and they had obviously releasing their MAKO Knee when they were putting this together.
So that's what’s the news that it’s in the trial right now and we anticipate launching in 2015.
The Total Knee and the MAKO robot assisted system with the MAKO Knee in the trial.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then in terms of the follow-up in the fast-growing segment it seems like there are some smaller players out there in the world of spine just like some unique assets there that are growing at a pretty good clip and given your performance there I was wondering if you have any thoughts of incremental R&amp;D to mimic some of that maybe minimally invasive technology or M&amp;A spend there in the future? Thanks.
Yes clearly minimal invasive is the fastest growing segment in Spine.
It is a focus area for us certainly with our internal R&amp;D organization and we’d certainly be open for looking at acquisitions within Spine.
We did a very small acquisition.
We did CoAlign in the first quarter and that’s an acquisition that our Spine team is very excited about.
So you should continue to expect that we will launch products internally as well as pursue acquisitions in that space.
Your next call comes from Bill Plovanic with Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks.
Good evening and thanks for taking my question Just this is for Bill.
On FX when did you start to hedge? Does this start to turning positive It’s been a headwind does it start turning to a tailwind for you at any point in time?  Right now if you take a look at kind of the roughly the $0.10 per share impact that I referred to.
In the first quarter we referenced it was about $0.05 that was probably the biggest related impact for the year I think the second quarter will also be – maybe not quite that level but still at fairly significant level.
As you move into the third quarter there may be little bit of an impact yet in the fourth quarter should be more at least balanced off based on where rates are today.
If rates move obviously that’s an impact that needs to separately be taken into account.
From a hedging perspective we did begin to – we see some benefits from the hedging program already in the first quarter here.
As we move through this year it takes us I think we stated kind of in the early part of next year until the hedging program is more fully in place but based on current FX rates that we see the impact should be pretty much more neutralized by the time we get into the fourth quarter.
And then once it's fully in place does it become that there is – we shouldn't see any EPS impact from the hedging?  No I mean absolutely not.
The hedging program is meant to really mitigate what that risk is so it just buffers it in comparison.
At some point unless rates reverse from a different level right you still have the positive or negative impact of that.
The hedging only just spreads out what the rate is that you are actually paying within a specific quarter.
And if you think about it just think about kind of over kind of a six quarter basis that’s kind of where we are purchasing the different components of our FX exposure.
So it’s the average that go into that six quarter basis as we move out into kind of the beginning part of the next year that we should be looking at.
Your next call comes from Bill Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi I just want to take a follow-up just on the other expense line item can you break it out between interest and other and whether or not that was materially off from your expectations?  So I’d say that most of that was kind of inline a little bit of that was actually from part of our FX exposure that we just talked about the $0.05 that hit us in the quarter.
Probably a good penny of that ran through that category.
So that was probably the one area that was not expected because the transaction impact in that category generally if rates don’t move from the beginning of the quarter to the end of the quarter there is typically no FX impact in that expense line.
But as far as the increase in the interest expense side keep in mind we place some debt at the beginning part of last year and so the first quarter on a comparable basis now reflects that interest expense in the first quarter as well through and obviously that was planned.
Right and then just relative to the share repurchase you mentioned there was $700 million outstanding.
How should we think about your guys' approach to whether that will be completed during the year or is it still kind of subject to some acquisition activity?  It’s always going to be subject to acquisition activity because as we stated we’ve got three primary uses but first and foremost is the acquisition dividends are second and obviously fairly consistent in terms of how those play out and interest that we purchased it is going to be the most variable I would say that in those years we have finished the year with still shares available under the authorization.
But that you should anticipate in any given year that there will be some level of buyback activity.
Clearly in the first quarter we had a lot of acquisition activity that was the primary use of cash.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
So thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the second quarter of 2014 results will be held on July 17 2014.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Stryker's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
My name is Adrienne and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the conference we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's second quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me today are Bill Jellison our CFO and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy &amp; Investor Relations.
Following my opening comments Katherine will provide an update on our M&amp;A activity and preview our upcoming Analyst Meeting.
Bill will then offer details on our quarterly results before turning to Q&amp;A.
We continue to see solid topline momentum with organic sales growth up 5% in the quarter.
After adjusting for one less selling day.
this translates to underlying organic growth of over 6%.
All three of our business segments Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotechnology and spine contributed to our Q2 performance.
Starting with U.S.
Reconstructive.
Trauma and extremities continue to achieve market leading growth up 13% despite challenging comparatives from last year.
This was powered by foot and ankle which once again achieved outstanding growth increasing over 30%.
Both hips and knees registered solid performance and accelerated from Q1 with 6% and 7% growth respectively.
Note that the impact of one less selling day is most pronounced in our hip and knee business which would have added roughly 150 basis points of growth.
These businesses also benefit from improving trend in MAKO which we expect to continue in the back half of the year.
Katherine will operate on this shortly.
Turning to U.S.
MedSurg.
We had strong performances in instruments endoscopy and medical.
Instruments increased 7% driven by continued uptake of the Neptune Waste Management System.
Endoscopy growth of 17% was aided by recent acquisitions but even after adjusting for these still grew at an impressive 9%.
Medical remained steady with a 3% increase.
Sustainability solutions had negative growth in the quarter but has recently received five 10-K approvals that will return it to positive growth starting in Q3.
The U.S.
Neurotechnology had another strong showing of 8% growth with neurovascular NSE and CMF all performing well.
U.S.
spine results were soft this quarter down 6% reflecting pricing pressure and some sales force disruptions.
We believe that a number of measures including strengthening the leadership team and bolstering our product pipeline along with our recent acquisition of CoAlign should get this business back to its normal rhythm by year-end.
International constant currency growth of 5% reflects sustained improvement in Europe as well as excellent performance in China Australia South America and India.
These strong performances were partially offset by weak results in Japan as we continue to work through a challenging ERP implementation as well as the biannual price cuts.
Most product categories had good performance although hips and knees were negative owing to the Japan issues and from tougher comparisons particularly in Europe as we anniversary our turnaround.
The small market issues in Asia which we have alluded to on past calls are largely behind us and should no longer be a drag in the back half of the year.
Turning to the P&amp;L.
Gross margin declined year-over-year owing to a modestly tougher pricing environment product mix and negative foreign exchange.
R&amp;D increased in both absolute dollars and as a percent of sales reflecting our commitment to internally driven innovation coupled with the impact from our acquisitions.
Our focus on delivering greater SG&amp;A efficiencies helped drive the year-over-year improvement in operating expenses.
Combined with a lower tax rate we delivered adjusted EPS of $1.08.
For the full year we are narrowing our guidance on sales and EPS.
We expect full year organic sales growth to be in the range of 5% to 6% and adjusted EPS in the range of $4.75 to $4.80.
These changes reflect first half performance our expectation of accelerating sales growth and the impact of acquisitions on EPS.
Looking ahead to 2015 we will provide specific guidance at the end of January as we do each year however given the recent opening of our European regional headquarters we wanted to alert you to additional benefits that will accrue in 2015 versus 2014.
We expect our 2015 effective tax rate to improve by roughly two percentage points or $0.10 to $0.15 per share.
Of this benefit we plan to reinvest about half to accelerate our topline growth and drop the other half to the bottomline.
Therefore we would expect an additional $0.05 to $0.80 per share improvement beyond our normal target for 2015.
Bill will share more about the European regional headquarters later in the call and we will discuss the reinvestment plans later this year.
With that I will now turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
The focus of my comments today will be an overview of the recently announced planned acquisition of SBi an update on the performance and expectations for our major recent acquisitions and a preview of our upcoming Analyst Meeting.
Starting first with SBi.
We announced the planned acquisition of this key player in the small bone extremity market in late June for a net consideration of approximately $285 million.
Through SBi's focus on the total ankle as well as the upper extremity small joint replacement segment we are meaningfully supplementing our small bone fixation portfolio with a comprehensive product offering.
Importantly there is minimal overlap with our existing products and we are well positioned to leverage our considerable sales and marketing infrastructure to access the various surgical specialists that focused on extending procedures.
SBi's STAR Total Ankle Replacement which represents roughly 50% of sales is the only PMA approved cementless mobile bearing total ankle in the U.S.
With these products we will expand our customer base with fellowship trained foot and ankle surgeons.
Additionally roughly half of SBi surgeons are not currently customers of Stryker's T&amp;E products.
While we do anticipate some level dis-synergies in 2014 at we integrate the company we expect to return to solid topline growth with a five year anticipated CAGR beginning in 2015 of over 20% and with the recent success of our specialized foot and ankle sales force as well as the strength of our traditional branch agent sales channel the timing is optimal for our organization to leverage this acquisition.
Moreover the addition of upper extremity small joints will allow the opportunity to focus on this important sub-segment a market estimated at over 200 million globally.
In sum with the recent launch of our internally developed reverse shoulder our expanded offering in small joint is answering a key gap in foot and ankle with at the STAR Ankle we fully anticipate building on our clear success in the extremities market.
We closed the Berchtold acquisition on April 15 which is in the communications business unit of our endoscopy division.
For this year our commercial integration is focused on customer lead sharing with Stryker Communication sales team shared operating room table leads with their Stryker Berchtold counterpart and in turn for Berchtold to share operating room integration system leads.
To date the partnership between the sales forces have generated over 100 new leads.
We anticipate maintaining separate sales representation between the existing Berchtold and Stryker portfolios through year-end at which point they will move into a single sales team.
We have been pleased with the initial results of the Pivot acquisition which closed on March 7 and is reported within the sports medicine business unit of our endoscopy division.
Stryker successfully completed the transition of the product sales to our direct sales force during the first 90 days of operation while maintaining very strong double-digit growth.
Since close we delivered the requisite product and procedural training to all reps and sampling to those reps that covered the existing 350 plus Pivot customers.
We will sample the balance of the sales force by the end of Q3.
Turning to the acquisition of Patient Safety Technologies which provided us with the SurgiCount Safety-Sponge System and is now part of the instruments division.
This deal was closed on March 24 and we have begun sampling the system and training our sales reps.
Since the close we have added roughly 100 new customer contracts mainly through further expansion in our existing customer base as well as in new accounts.
Installations are ongoing that will increase the install base of customers to over 400 by the end of the year.
With respect to Trauson which provided us with a leading brand in the fast-growing lower-priced segment of the Chinese market we are now well into our second year and are pleased with the performance and success of the integration in China.
With dedicated leadership for both the premium and lower-priced segment we believe we are optimizing the market opportunity while remaining focused on the specific attributes of these two distinct markets for Q2 growth in emerging markets with strong double-digits led by China Brazil and India and partly offset by ongoing market conditions in Russia.
Turning to MAKO.
We closed in late 2013 and worked through much of the first quarter on the integration plan which we rolled out to our sales force at the start of April.
During Q2 we were focused on training our existing reps on the technology and its benefit.
We have now trained roughly 20% of our 1 000 reps in the U.S.
and are expanding the MAKO training capabilities to cover the remainder of our selling organization by year-end.
While the integration proved to be more challenging than anticipated we believe we are gaining momentum as robust sales in Q2 improved with six points in the quarter.
Importantly our order book has strengthened and we anticipate continued sequential acceleration and robust placement.
We are also encouraged by system utilization which improved during Q2.
We remain on track to launch a total knee system in 2015 and also plan to launch our key hip systems on MAKO next year.
Finally we would be hosting our Analyst Meeting September 17 at our orthopedic headquarters in New Jersey starting at 10:30.
We are restructuring the meeting's agenda to provide greater visibility into certain businesses or key opportunities for the company.
Specifically the meeting will include a surgeon panel focused on the MAKO opportunity which will be moderated by David Floyd Group President of Orthopedics.
Tim Scannell Group President of MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine will focus his comments on our instruments division including the relaunch of Neptune and our recent acquisition of Patient Safety Technologies.
For the international perspective Ramesh Subrahmanian will highlight our expanding presence in China.
Lonny Carpenter Group President GQO will detail the benefits of our European regional headquarters which went live on July 1.
With this focused presence in Amsterdam we are excited about the opportunity which include continued strengthening our European presence and organization the ability to co-locate leaders in a central location to increase collaboration drive greater efficiency and to simplify and improve the customer experience.
And as Kevin mentioned and Bill will cover in more detail we also expect meaningful savings as a result of our RHQ.
Following the formal portion of the Analyst Meeting we will once again have a product fair at the Homer Stryker Center.
This year the focus will be on orthopedics including reconstructive MAKO sports medicine implants trauma and extremities.
In addition to the opportunities in many of our products including recent launches and acquisition the broader orthopedic leadership team will be in attendance and look forward to your question.
We hope you will be able to join us.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Katherine.
Sales growth was positive by 6.8% in the second quarter including a negative impact slight impact from FX translation.
Constant currency sales growth was a positive 6.9% which includes organic growth of 4.8%.
We had a negative impact from one less selling day in the quarter and on a days adjusted basis core growth exceeded 6%.
EPS on a GAAP basis for the second quarter were $0.56 per share flat with last year while adjusted EPS were $1.08 per share for the quarter versus $1.07 per share last year.
This quarter's EPS includes a negative impact of approximately $0.02 per share from FX and if foreign exchange rate stay at current level the back half of the year should see only a slight negative impact per quarter.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustment in the quarter are related to $160 million increase in the charges associated with the voluntary recalls of Rejuvenate &amp; ABG II.
These charges may increase or decrease over time as additional facts become available and assumptions become more refined and again no insurance proceeds that may potentially be available to cover some of these costs have been included.
Looking at sales in the second quarter our organic growth of 4.8% was comprised of a positive 6.8% from volume and mix with price negatively impacting sales by approximately 2%.
Acquisitions added 2.1% while FX had no material impact on sales in the quarter.
Looking at our segments reconstructive represented 44% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales of reconstructive products were up 6.5% as reported and grew 6.3% constant currency and increased 3.6% organically.
U.S.
reconstructive sales grew 10.7% in the quarter.
Trauma and extremities once again had another solid quarter and sales in the U.S.
were increased by 13.2% and grew 9.2% internationally with robust growth in our foot and ankle business as we continue to have great success in an expanding market.
U.S.
hips and knees growth in the period of 6.3% and 7.1% were partially offset by declines in international markets of 2.7% and 5.6%.
In the prior year quarter our international growth was 5.9% in knees and 10.4% in hips which were challenging comps.
Next our MedSurg segment represented approximately 38% of our sales in the quarter.
Total MedSurg sales increased 8.8% as reported and 9% on a constant currency basis and increased 6.7% organically.
These results benefited from high single digit growth from our instruments business and a high double-digit growth in endoscopy which included incremental revenue from recent acquisitions.
Note that endo has a much tougher comp in the third quarter however instruments will have a much easier comp in the period as Neptune had a greater negative impact in the back half of last year.
Medical had low single-digit growth again in the period against some strong prior year performance.
Our instruments division has the Neptune product back on the market and should see additional improvements in the back half of the year compared to last year.
International sales were strong up 13.2% in constant currency benefiting nicely from both organic and acquisition growth.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and spine which represents 18% of our sales increased 3.8% as reported 3.9% on a constant currency basis and 3.7% organically.
Growth in this segment was led by our neurotechnology businesses and IVS which grew strong single and low double-digit in constant currency respectively while spinal implant sales were down low single digits.
In looking at our operational performance gross margins on an adjusted basis in the second quarter of 2014 were 66.2% compared to 67.7% in the same period last year.
Foreign exchange rates continued to pressure margins and prices declined approximately 2% in the quarter while product mix also was a factor in the year-over-year decline.
As mentioned the negative FX impact should continue to lessen in the back half of the year.
Research and development expenses increased to 6.7% of sales versus 6% of sales last year in the quarter.
This is a 19.7% increase in R&amp;D spending over last year reflecting a higher level of R&amp;D spending tied to recent acquisitions and our commitment to invest more actively in few key areas which we believe will help us deliver above market sales growth including our Neurotecsh businesses.
Selling general and administrative costs represented 43.9% of sales in the second quarter.
This included approximately $166 million of cost related to the Rejuvenate and recall matters.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A expenses were $841 million or 35.6% of sales in the second quarter of 2014 versus 36.7% in the prior year's second quarter as we continue to focus on driving greater operational efficiencies.
Operating margins on an adjusted basis were 23.9% in the second quarter of 2014 compared to 24.9% in the second quarter of 2013.
The rate was negatively impacted primarily by pricing and foreign exchange rates in the quarter along with higher R&amp;D spending partially offset by operational improvements and also from lower selling general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales.
Other expenses on an adjusted basis in the second quarter were $30.3 million compared to $21.3 million last year in the second quarter.
This increase in expense resulted primarily from higher interest expense and these expenses are expected to run at a similar level throughout the rest of this year.
Our reported and adjusted tax rate for the second quarter was 22.4%.
This compares to a 23.5% adjusted effective tax rate in the second quarter last year.
We expect the full year rate will be approximately 22.5% with a slightly lower rate in the second half of the year.
The renewal of the tax extenders is still reflected in our year-end earnings forecast which if approved will help reduce the second half tax rate.
No renewal benefit has been included in our first half actuals.
While our 2014 guidance still includes approximately $0.05 per share for the renewal of the tax extenders it has not yet been approved by Congress and renewal and timing of them is still uncertain.
We also expect some tax rate benefit from our European regional headquarter move beginning in the third quarter of this year.
We officially opened our new European headquarters in Amsterdam in the beginning of this month and will be ramping up activities and transferring some intellectual property to the Netherlands as we move through 2014 and into 2015 which will require some local tax country repayments.
This move will also generate some tax benefits which are expected to further reduce our overall adjusted operating tax rate in 2015 by approximately two full percentage points from 2014's full year rate.
Currently we are expecting to reinvest approximately half of these savings directly into our business.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $4.7 billion of cash and marketable securities.
We also have $3.9 billion of debt on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
From an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended the quarter at 57 days or about one day better than the end of the second quarter last year.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 177 days which was an 11 day increase compared 166 days in the second quarter last year.
While inventory levels increased in the first half of the year partially in support the Japanese ERP implementation and recent acquisitions we do expect some improvements in the back half of the year.
Turning to cash flow.
Our cash from operations in the first half of 2014 were $572 million compared $592 million in the prior year.
First half cash flows were slightly lower than last year as inventory increased in the period including amounts to support the ERP implementation in Japan.
Our capital expenditures were $124 million in the first half of the year compared to $96 million last year.
We still have over $600 million available for share repurchase under a current authorization as $60 million of share repurchases were made in the quarter as we focused on and closed a few acquisitions in the period.
As Kevin mentioned our 2014 sales guidance includes organic sales growth in the range of 5% to 6% and adjusted net earnings per share in the range of $1.12 to $1.16 and $4.75 to $4.80 for the third quarter and full year respectively.
This guidance includes the negative $0.02 per share impact of recently announced acquisitions.
Also as mentioned previously the renewal of the tax extenders remains in our guidance however if these are not renewed it would have a negative impact on our current guidance of approximately $0.05 per share for the year.
Thanks for your support and we would be glad to answer any questions that you may have at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question comes to Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and thanks for taking the questions.
Let me start with just the guidance change for the year.
Since the street was already there someone from the streets that's a bit of a surprise but they are going to range.
So maybe you could provide a bridge from your own plan to where you are? Where you are up to date? The year-end $0.02 of that was from the recent acquisitions but maybe you can provide the rest? Sure.
I think that the primary reason on our guidance as you saw in the first half of the year our performance was a little bit softer than what we would like to have seen.
Again we had $0.02 that we just recently announced as a negative impact from some of the recent acquisitions that we have got and pricing has been running a little bit stronger a little bit higher from a negative impact perspective or at least at the top end of our 1.5% to 2% range that we have typically given.
Also as you have noted in the first part of this year FX has had about a $0.06 to $0.07 negative impact on us year-over-year at this point in time.
Okay.
Can you spend a minute Katherine on SBi to adding people the sales there have kind of flattened out for over a bit but your outlook has been pretty optimistic.
So can you just talk about what takes that from a business that's not growing right now to one that has that 20% growth potential? Yes and you are correct.
We are receiving some sales force or some sales dis-synergy as we integrated into our business and there was clearly some distraction they had as we were working through this transaction.
It really is a playbook as we saw with Memometal and other deals where we take great products and this is a terrific upper extremity portfolio really led by the STAR ankle which is a meaningful gap in our foot and ankle portfolio and leveraging our considerable sales and marketing infrastructure the demonstrated strength of the hybrid sales channel that we have that really allows us to touch base with all the various surgical specialists that participate in this market segment.
So we really think we can reverse this trend with a tremendous amount of momentum as you are seeing right now in extremities and foot and ankle and adding this key gap to the portfolio and also further broadening out our upper extremity offerings.
We feel very confident about the ability to return momentum there which is why we are targeting that north of 20% CAGR for this segment.
The next question comes from Rick Wise from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everybody.
I guess first with knees.
Can you help us understand a little more clearly.
Maybe actually I will start again.
Can you talk a little about the knee market environment? One of your competitors is talking about the environment being soft or slow.
Maybe you can give us some general perspective there? And the follow-up with that what would knee growth have been excluding Japan or maybe help us understand the impact of pricing and ERP implementation on worldwide knees? Thanks.
Rick I will take the first part.
I would say whether its hips or knees we are continuing to see a market that's very stable.
We did see sequential improvement in our business as you would anticipate given the challenges that existed for the industry mainly due to weather in the first quarter but overall the market trends are very stable.
We did have contribution from MAKO but even excluding that our underlying growth in both hips and knees was solid.
So we are pleased with the performance of those business.
We did comment that pricing has gotten incrementally tougher which is behind the total pricing being down at the high end of our anticipated range.
But that really doesn't reflect any significant changes in the market.
It's much more of a function of the timing of product launches where we are for example with Accolade II and that impacts that pricing from quarter to quarter.
So I wouldn't view that as some type of fundamental change in the market which we continue to view both segments as very stable.
Also keep in mind that as we noted earlier this quarter does have one less selling day in it as well too.
So the organic growth rate that we talked about are on a straight basis.
And those are not a days adjusted number.
And then you made the comment.
We did have the price cuts in Japan which was part of the pressure on that business and as well as Kevin noted the ERP implementation.
So those have been two of the more noteworthy challenges for that business.
And ERP implementations as you all know can be challenging.
And for us it had a disproportionate impact on our reconstructive business because of the sets and being able to track all the inventory.
So we put more resources on it right now.
In fact I also hired a new CIO for all of Stryker Bijoy Sagar who came from Merck KGaA.
He joined us in the second quarter.
We are really excited to have him onboard.
We do also have another ERP planned for our instruments division as we modernize all of our IT systems.
But having a new CIO I am extremely excited about.
We do have a lot of work to do.
We made progress in addressing the ERP over the quarter but it did have a disproportionate impact on hips and knees and we are optimistic that we will have that sorted out in the third quarter.
Our next question comes from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks very much for taking the question.
I have got a question to start for Bill and then one for Kevin.
First for Bill.
I was just wondering if you can go back to beginning of the year? Your guidance has been at the lower end of the range.
You have revised it to the lower end of the range a few times and I am just wondering is this all really surprises on currency and the $0.02 from the deal? Or is there something else going on? And then on the 2015 outlook which we appreciate does that suggest a little upward bias to consensus which is now forecasting 11% growth? So I would say that you are exactly right in the first half of the year.
So the $0.02 that we just talked about on the acquisition that we highlighted as far as having $0.02 of an impact as we move into the back half of this year is one piece of it.
The other piece is some slight additional impact on FX in comparison to what we had in our original guidance as we talked about.
Most of that obviously is impacting really the first part of this year as FX rates have actually improved a little bit except for in some of the emerging market areas now.
And then on the third piece is really that the pricing impact primarily in the recon area was probably a little bit higher at least within the first half of the year than what we really expected.
And then Bob just in terms of your question we will give our guidance in January.
So it would be premature for us to comment regarding what the consensus expectations are.
But you are correct.
You should view the $0.05 to $0.08 that we referenced as being incremental to the normal targets that we will set out at the start of the year.
Then next question comes from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hello this is actually John Demchak in for David.
I wanted to follow-up on some of the prior guidance questions with focus I guess a bit more on the organic growth adjustments.
Numbers show the company's average roughly 4% to 5% organic growth in the first half of the year.
Obviously the increased seasonality and weather had a pretty large impact in the first quarter.
Are expectations that organic growth should stay more at the 2Q levels heading into the back half? Or are there some puts and takes that we should be thinking about that could drive organic growth a bit higher? So a couple of points.
First keep in mind that the Q2 growth that we just talked about was on a one day less selling day basis.
So the adjusted basis in the second quarter was actually north of 6%.
And I say that if you look at our organic growth in the first half which was just under 5% as reported and we just now obviously raised slightly the broader-based or near the range on the top end to 5% to 6%.
That obviously implies that our second half growth rate is expected to be higher than what we have experienced so far in the first half.
One of the reasons associated with that as I mentioned is on the instruments.
The impact of Neptune on the back half of last year was obviously stronger than the first half and obviously as we are moving in through this year our Neptune sales should actually be stronger in the second half of the year than they were in the first half of the year.
So that's one piece that's helping to drive that but I think that we are feeling good and confident in a number of our different business areas to continue to take market share.
Thank you.
Very helpful.
And just wanted to follow-up on U.S.
knee growth.
As earlier competitor reports showed weaker growth in U.S.
in knees than we would have expected but your numbers showed some pretty nice sequential improvement especially when you factor in the selling day.
I was wondering if you could discuss what you see in the market competitively and if you expect growth to pick up further later in the year with increased seasonality? Yes.
I would just go back to our prior comments.
The market feels very stable.
We obviously don't have the benefit of everybody having reported results right now.
But for us we are very pleased with the sequential improvement.
And we are happy also with making progress on MAKO.
So both underlying and with MAKO we are seeing improving trends.
I wouldn't say we have seen an acceleration in the underlying average growth for the recon market.
It feels very much like a market that's been growing at fairly consistent rates recognizing we have the variability between Q4 and Q1 that exists.
The next question comes from Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
So one follow-up if I could on MAKO.
If you are providing a little more colors to and you see the rollout playing out nest year with knees and then also with hips.
I would love to understand you mentioned sales trading what's the model going to look like? Perhaps if you could shed any light on maybe how you are integrating the robot sales with recon sales and the support as well as whether you are anticipating any significant upgrade to the hip software.
That kind of color would be helpful.
And then I have one follow-up.
So I will take this questions.
So what I say is at the Analyst Day we are going to provide a lot more insight into MAKO.
What I would tell you is from a sales force structure we have a dedicated capital sales force that's within our orthopedic group that sells capital and that implants are being sold by our entire implant sales force.
So that is now of course a much larger sales force than MAKO had initially.
They all have gotten the same compensation plan starting April 1.
So we didn't have that benefit in the first quarter.
The training that Katherine alluded to in her section relates to training of the implant sales force on the benefits of MAKO so they can be prepared to sell the implants that go with the robot.
And of course going into 2015 those implants will include the Stryker implants and we will share more specifics on that at the Analyst Day.
Great and the follow-up I guess I appreciate the color on the ortho sequential growth.
It seems very encouraging.
Spine on the other hand still having trouble getting going and as you mentioned some sales disruptions I am wondering maybe if you have any timing as to when we can start to see that curve bend up a little bit on the spine business.
Yes.
So up to now up until this quarter we have been really holding our own very well in spine growing at least at the high-end of the large multinational.
So not the spine only companies.
We have been actually holding our own and actually running a very good business from a top and bottomline standpoint.
We have had some sales force disruptions that the market is incredibly aggressive out there.
That obviously hurt us in the second quarter.
This market is still a market that rewards innovation and we are seeing that already with the early response to CoAlign.
So getting our pipeline back on track is really going to be critical to us to not only retain the sales force that we have but also to drive growth.
So I would say it's going to take us a good part of this year to really get ourselves back on a strong footing.
And then I really look forward to a much more optimistic 2015 in spine.
But it's a tough market certainly especially in the United States.
Outside the U.S.
it's frankly not nearly as competitive and the markets are lot more stable.
Then getting back to your first question.
I don't think I answered the last part of your first question around the hip.
I would say the recent hip software launch on MAKO is actually really good.
So the software itself the early iterations certainly had some challenges but we now have actually a very nice software iteration.
The issue for us is now getting our implants on to the robot.
And as Katherine mentioned we plan to do that in 2015.
Our next question comes from Bruce Nudell from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Kevin at AAOS last year you were incredibly bullish about MAKO and you kind of went through the line of arguments as to why it provides a better option with modestly modified implants.
Now you have a little experience under your belt.
Could you kindly give us the elevator pitch for knees and hips with MAKO and what's really resonating with customers? The elevator pitch is the same elevator pitch I gave at the academy.
I honestly feel as bullish as I did then and now and obviously we have got integration we have issues with our sales force getting them all of up-to-date but I would say the promise of robotic surgery is the same.
Its precision its reproducibility its consistent results and we are seeing in terms of the knee in particular which is much more challenging than hips we see this as really having a tremendous potential and we are obviously in the midst of our trial right now on the total knee and anecdotally we have a certain amount of feedback around being able to do intraoperative adjustments.
It just provides a much better solution to the procedure which we know is a very complex procedure which has high high variability and not the same degree of patient satisfaction.
So obviously there's the link to improving patient satisfaction is a long link but we believe the surgeon experience will be a tremendous with that.
So there is nothing thus far in terms of the integration that's caused me to feel any less optimistic.
Mind you this is going to take time.
It takes time to sell the capital.
It takes time to put the implants that we want the robot and we would be rolling that over a period of time.
But I remain extremely bullish on the opportunity long-term.
And just on financially philosophical basis I guess you guys have engineered a mini inversion of sorts with a nice tax advantage that should be sustainable but with regards to access to ex-U.S.
cash how big a lingering problem is that and how big an enticement is inversion generally speaking? Inversions are obviously in the news a lot lately but from an overall perspective we think we have made some very good progress on our RHQ structure related activities which is primarily focused on the business itself and bringing the benefits of being able to grow our overall European business.
But it does have some benefits to us within the tax side of the equation as well and we are very confident that we are going to be able to deliver on the results that we just talked about.
Those results are on an ongoing basis.
So we are continually focused and obviously minimizing our tax rate within that area and operating our of business as effectively as we can.
We think we still have good opportunities in the future.
Thanks so much.
The next question comes from Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
It's Joanne Wuensch.
Can we focus on two things? First gross margins.
What is the take to turn those? Or should we think of the 66% level as the go forward rate? Then my second question has to deal with (inaudible) and I appreciate the organic growth rate of up 5% to 6% but you made a bunch of acquisition in the last six months in six to 12 months.
How do I think of what that may add on top of that? Thank you.
Let me answer the last question first and I will go back to the first question.
But from a growth rate perspective keep in mind the organic growth rate that we are talking about excludes those acquisitions with the exception now of Trauson is beginning to be included in our organic numbers because that's an annualized acquisition.
All the other recent acquisitions that we have are not in our current organic growth rate but obviously should help improve our overall organic growth rate as we continue and move forward over the next number of years.
From an overall perspective on the margin rate side of the equation I would say that our expectation for the rest of this year is still that the gross margins will probably be softer than they were last year throughout the rest of this year.
However we are still expecting that our SG&amp;A related activities will also run much better as well than they did last year.
The biggest pressure on the margin rates right now is really price.
The price impact was probably about not quite half of the total impact in that margin rate at this stage and we think the back half of this year at least from a pricing perspective should be a little bit better than what the first half ran.
And Joanne just maybe a little bit more color commentary.
We talked about the sequential improvement in MAKO going to fix placements in the quarter.
You should assume that's going to accelerate in the back half of the year as we train the remaining 80% of our reps on the technology and that's part of what is driving the accelerated revenue expectations.
Also try to give some color on some of the key data points whether its new contracts we have added or expanding our customer base with some of the other acquisitions recognizing the revenue contribution there is certainly lower.
So we tend to focus on organic growth since it really is the best indicator of our underlying gains but there is clearly an expectation for an acceleration in the contribution from the acquisitions with the exception of SBi given the dis-synergies we noted in 2014.
The next question comes from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Sorry about that Bob.
We dropped you off before you asked your second question.
Our apologies.
No problem and I had a problem with my phones.
So thank you and I understand there has been some discussions around inversions.
But I wanted to ask Kevin a question specifically and obviously there has been a lot of press lately about inversions and day before yesterday we had some statements out of President Obama's administration.
I am just wondering if those comments about inversions if that might cause in your view companies might be considering inversion to be less likely to move forward given the changing political environment? Just love your views on that Kevin.
Sure.
Thanks Bob.
I think it really depends on the main reason for doing the transaction.
As you know some of the deals that been done have been done really largely for financial reasons.
In those cases I think those companies would probably it's a cause for pause if the main driver of the deal is financial.
However if the deals are more strategically driven I really don't see it having much of an impact at all until legislation is actually enacted and what we are seeing in the press is the likelihood of near-term legislation doesn't seem very probable.
So again I would bifurcate into two areas.
Those that are very financially driven I think those companies will pause a little bit.
Those that really are strategically that's a bigger part of the logic and then as an inversion as maybe icing I think those will continue to be pursued.
Great I really appreciate your perspective.
Thanks for letting me back in.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Matthew Dodds from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
On the pricing side Bill should we think about this as being geographically an issue at Japan and then hips and knees are the rest of the product lines geographies kind of stable or holding in there? Well I would say that Japan was one piece of it.
But I would say that and it's within our general range.
We expect the price is going to be somewhere in the 1.5% to 2% on average in any year.
I think the first half was probably a little bit higher toward the top end of our range but the whole year I think it's probably still going to be in the 1.5% to 2% range.
But I think that if you look at where the business related impacts are while Japan is a piece of it I think the broader recon group was probably at least beyond the higher impacted area of our business.
Okay and then Kevin on foot and ankle you gave another big growth rate number.
But you didn't say this time to caution us to not expect it going forward.
You know what you just defined my expectations.
Honestly it is hard to predict these new markets are hard to predict.
And I keep waiting for the comps to start to catch up with us and the team keeps executing.
So I will be honest.
They are exceeding my expectations and I am really delighted with the results.
But with that we do remind you the comps will get tougher.
The quick question is why do you think the market growth is still above 10% though in extremities broadly? Yes I would say we tend to estimate it around between 10% and 15%.
We are certainly outperforming in the lower extremities.
Obviously the upper extremities shoulder has been a soft spot for us historically and we now have our reverse shoulder out which we are very excited about.
But that's an area we are playing catch-up in upper extremities.
But obviously in the foot and ankle area we are just having a great time so far and obviously the total that was about the total ankle.
We have been growing 30% pretty much quarter after quarter for a number of quarters without a total ankle and we believe we have got a fantastic total ankle through this acquisition.
Of course we haven't closed yet but we will be closing soon and we really believe that's a perfect solution for us and frankly gives us access to a lot of us the surgeons that we haven't had access to the fellowship trained foot and ankle surgeons.
We have been kind of on the sidelines.
So it really does give us a shot in the arm.
Our next question comes from Derrick Sung from Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a follow-up on that discussion right there with the total ankle in your lower extremities portfolio.
Now that you have filled out your last remaining gap do you think that and now that you see this great opportunity in front of you do you feel that the current sales force that you have is sufficient or do you expect to make further investment into your sales force to drive that growth moving forward? We do have a hybrid model and we also have distributors as well as direct agents and that model has worked very well between our trauma our reconstructive hybrid reps and our dedicated foot and ankle reps.
Over time we will look to possibly reevaluate the approach in upper extremities and it's possible but at this point as we analyze all the call points we have and the breadth of the various aspects of our selling organization we think we are pretty well covered.
So we don't believe we need to set up another dedicated sales force given the moves we have already made on that front.
Certainly for the lower extremities foot and ankle we may add a rep here or there but we don't need a radical change.
We have a really well organized footprint a couple of years ago when we decided to create a dedicated sales force calling on the podiatric surgeon that we have the right numbers more or less.
Again we may add a few reps here or there to fill out certain areas but I wouldn't expect anything significant from a sales force investment standpoint.
This is just getting great products and plugging it right in to our existing sales force.
Got it.
Thanks.
For my second question I wanted to turn over to the MedSurg business and in particular I was wondering if you could comment a bit on the capital the CapEx spending environment for the hospitals? We have seen it looks like their bed business picked up a little bit but maybe if you could just comment there on what your outlook is for the remainder of the year and what you are seeing in the marketplace.
Thanks.
Thanks Derrick.
I would tell you right now that the capital environment still remains pretty stable.
And by that I mean it's still challenged as it relates some of the prioritization that our hospital customers do.
And this is most relevant for our medical business which is 90% plus capital.
We did report 3% growth.
So it remains stable and we are pleased with the performance on a relative basis but I wouldn't tell you we have seen any change in underlying capital demands on a high level as it relates to whether it's from ACA.
That said we are seeing very solid growth with our 1488 camera and have strong double-digit gains there and as well as System 7.
So all capital is not the same but as your comments are really towards the bigger tick at capital I would say it's stable but no signs of an acceleration or increased investments by hospitals there.
Our next question comes from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
I wanted to come back to the topic around orthopedic pricing.
I think that J&amp;J talked about this pretty explicitly within the U.S.
business.
Maybe you could just offer a little bit more perspective on if there are any significant structural change you are seeing in the pricing environment? I think if you look at other MedTech markets there were pretty good leading indicator to see when pricing was going to turn negative like high levels of physician employment and vendor consolidation.
But is anything that you are seeing really change in the market? And what would you be confidence? Is this sort of a one-off flip or something that could worsen from here? Yes.
Thanks for the question and you could imagine we do a lot of analysis as we see how pricing trends are changing and it's clearly in the range of 1.5% to 2% but it's at the high-end and obviously if we think this is indicative of a fundamental change in the pricing environment it's going to require us to think about things differently.
So we really go into the next level of analysis and see the impact of the timing of product launches expected product launches going forward and we feel very confident that what we are seeing is the normal quarter-to-quarter variation that occurs.
We get price premium when we launch something like Accolade II which had a very nice ramp up.
But we have anniversaried that.
So it would start to see the impact on pricing as a result of that.
So all of that analysis that we do throughout the quarter leads us to believe that this is consistent with the normal quarter-to-quarter variability that can exist.
We tend to look over a rolling four quarters because that gives you the best sense of the underlying trends but we don't think we have seen some fundamental change in the pricing environment that suggest we are going to see a significant step down in recon pricing.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Maybe a follow-up on the neurovascular business which continues to do extremely well.
Maybe you could just give us some update on end-market trends.
I know back in March there is that New England Journal of Medicine article that caused some disruption at your competitor but you have powered right through that.
So maybe if you could just give us sense in where end-market dynamics are right now and how we should think about that business on a go forward basis? Sure.
If I focus on the neurovascular part because that's clearly the biggest piece of the overall neurotech business.
We continue to be really pleased.
We participate in both the hemorrhagic and ischemic segment.
Although hemorrhagic is really the revenue growth driver and it's really the target line that continues to-date additional share in each geographic region.
We have added four line extensions since the original launch of the Target coil a few years back and that still is the bulk of the neurovascular market upwards of 40% and we have absolutely taken meaningful market share year-over-year in the coil market.
We are also launching into new geographies with the product lineup whether it's the Target XL which is the larger size or the Target Nano which we are introducing into the Japanese market.
So it's really continuing to execute on that plan.
The ischemic segment it does take more investment to help develop that market and make sure you are getting patients to the right mode of care and it's really an emerging market very much so as it relates to the mechanical-based treatment of stroke segment.
But we are very excited about the longer-term prospects.
So we are going to continue with that playbook.
I am just very pleased with the pace of product rollout and our ability to continue to launch them into new geographies.
Yes.
I would just like to add.
We have an absolutely outstanding management team in neurovascular and you have seen our R&amp;D spending as a company has certainly ticked up.
Part of the reason for that uptick is spending that we have done in neurovascular which is clearly yielding benefits and we still have a robust pipeline beyond the products that Katherine alluded to that we had already launched.
So we feel very very bullish about this business going forward.
Our next question comes from Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Two questions on spine.
First you called out pricing pressure in your spinal segment.
Can you tell us what that pricing pressure was and how that compares to the overall market given your pricing was? Was the pricing more severe? And then second strategically in spine do you feel like you have now all the technologies to be competitive with for example a J&amp;J or Medtronic or is this a segment where we should anticipate more M&amp;A? Thank you.
Yes.
So firstly on pricing.
It's not a new trend.
It's been a consistent trend where pricing is worse in the U.S.
than it is globally kind of down in the mid-single-digit range and globally maybe low single-digit or more stable pricing.
Our challenge in spine really is that our position in MIS segments and clearly the CoAlign acquisition was one step to help plug some of that gap.
We were really well represented in broad-based in the scoliosis procedures pedicle screws the standard spinal fusion products.
We are very well represented but in MIS areas we have been launching a series of new products over the last 18 months.
We have more products to come but those won't be launched before the end of this year.
So it will have more of an impact in 2015.
So I would continue to expect that either through internal innovation or through potential acquisitions that that's an area that we will be focused on growing our presence in MIS portion of spine.
And frankly that's what caused us some of our challenges.
Okay.
Thank you Kevin.
Our next question comes from Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
I will try to be brief.
So Kevin you guys have done a lot of acquisitions in the first half of the year.
Just on the same M&amp;A topic should we expect you guys to be active in the second half as well? We would tell you that our BD activity ebbs and flows.
There have been periods if you go back a couple of years where we did one transaction in the entire year despite having dedicated BD people in every one of our division.
So it's impossible to time.
We are focused on BD.
We have it throughout the organization and we will probably have periods where a lot happens all at once because that's just the nature of BD.
But there is no change in the underlying strategy.
M&amp;A for us is the use of cash dividends and buybacks.
You know that our organization the way we are structured is we have business development people in each of our division.
So they are always scouring the market and constantly looking at targets.
We are not stopping that activity.
That doesn't predict that we will do a certain number of deals but the ongoing activity doesn't stop.
Whether a division is ready to absorb another one is obviously one of the factors that will be considered but we have so many divisions within the company that we can take on multiple deals at one time.
Thank you and then lastly on the shoulder launch.
Could you just give us an update on where you are with that? Thank you.
We launched the reverse shoulder during Q2 and really going into Q3 as we start to get it out there.
It's a different market than the other extremity areas foot and ankle for example that is very much a market expansion segment.
So we are seeing growth as we gain share but also just the overall expansion of that market.
That's not the case for shoulder.
You have got more established players there and a much lower underlying growth but it was a key gap in our portfolio.
It was very difficult to go in without having the full product offering that a surgeon may need and you have only got one option for them.
So we are excited about the ability to introduce that product to our hybrid reconstructive sales force but I would have more tempered expectations just given the nature of the market and the establishment of existing players.
And really in the second quarter it was more on a limited launch basis with a certain set of surgeons.
The full launch will really occur sometime by the end of the third quarter.
The next question comes from Matthew O'Brien from William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Kevin I was just looking across your portfolio it seems like you have a pretty well-rounded product offering across recon MedSurg and elsewhere.
I am just curious about your thoughts on the need in areas where you are already participating to get a lot bigger versus just continuing to internally invest in those areas and organically growing and if you have ever seen a situation where one of your bigger competitors like a J&amp;J just given their larger say in trauma has been able to cloud you across you out because of their size rather than just their product offering? Well I think the only example of trauma that you highlight is actually good example because their size and strength would simply certainly isn't slowing us down and our ability to grow.
If you look at our growth over the last eight quarters being number two hasn't really been a problem for us.
We are growing at a very robust rate.
So the key is you want to be one of the leaders in a segment and we like to be very strong in orthopedics and it narrows service line of hospitals especially in surgery.
We want to make sure we have very strong position or a path to be in a strong position.
So you know our portfolio you know within some of our portfolio we don't have a number one or two position and in those areas you can imagine that we are going to want to get to that kind of position over a period of time whether it is through internal innovation.
Trauma is a story of around internal innovation largely but one small acquisition of Memometal for the most part internally we pulled away from the pack five years ago.
Synthes was the dominant number one and then everybody else was tied for two and we completely pulled away from the pack and we did that internally.
Sometimes we will have to do it through acquisitions and we are not going to disclose which of the approaches we will use in those segments where we are lower but for the most part most of our portfolio we feel that we are punching at our weight and we are really in a strong position to compete.
In the case of hips and knees we obviously felt that robotics was going to be a really key lever for us to drive above market growth.
That may be different in other spaces where we might choose to do an acquisition just to increase our scale.
But we have very few areas where we are really at a distant gap from the leaders and in those segments you can imagine that we will be active.
Okay.
Thank you and then just one more on the spine side of things.
You mentioned a pretty competitive environment as far some of your sales force disruptions go.
Is that a function of some of these guarantees getting to be fairly high levels? And is that coming from some of the really small providers out there or some the bigger multinational multiproduct companies? I would say absolutely you are right on with the guarantees.
That's the big reason that we are having some sales force departures are very large guarantees and frankly it's coming from multiple players.
So it's not just smaller spine only.
It's even some of the other players.
So that hit us in towards the middle to end of the first quarter and that had more of an impact in the second quarter.
It's a tough market.
It's not a new tough market.
It has been a tough market for a long time.
It will continue to be a tough market and we are just to make sure that we stay focused.
We made some adds to our leadership team that I feel really positive about and I think will be in good shape going forward.
Our next question comes from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
You guys have been making pretty good progress on reducing SG&amp;A and I was just wondering to what extent you feel that this level of reduction is sustainable given all the initiatives underway and if the European headquarters will also have an impact on any sort of SG&amp;A spending there? And then separately you mentioned giving back some of the incremental offsets on the taxes.
Where exactly are those investments going to go? Are those internal or through acquisitions? So I would say a couple things.
As you look toward the back half of this year we still feel very good about what type of improvements that you should see from an SG&amp;A perspective year-over-year.
So you should continue to see nice improvements there.
And I think that from an overall perspective especially if we can continue to drive above market growth which we are doing on a number of different product related categories that obviously helps us to continue to leverage that space and I think you should expect that as we are moving forward.
From an overall perspective on the tax comment that we made I think it's more of an awareness that one we are expecting some nice improvements from the tax rate side of the equation and our expectation is that we are going to be spending some of that as we move forward but I think that's more of wait and see related response based on how well the business is doing and what type of areas that we think that would like to invest in and I think you will get more color on that as we move through the back half of this year.
And with respect to tax should we look at this as just the start of what could be additional reduction beyond 2015? Or is this one step function and that's basically it? Well I would say that we have made very good progress in the tax area to begin with.
This project is just another big step associated with that and the improvements that we are expecting to get over the next couple of years we are obviously still driving to maximize that level and it will take us kind of a couple of years to truly get the full benefit associated with even the projects that we are currently working on.
Moving forward beyond that obviously while our efforts will be strong in that area there is also many many pressures around the world through a number of different jurisdictions and trying to increase different tax revenue in different areas.
So that's a challenging environment but I think that we are well positioned and I think we still have a lot of good opportunities.
Our next question comes from Jeff Johnson from Robert Baird.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Kevin I was wondering on the extremities market your comment of 10% to 15% market growth.
I was wondering if you could maybe go even a little deeper in the weeds there on the ankle replacement market? Maybe how you see the ankle replacement market itself growing in the U.S.
and Europe? And then on your comments on STAR on that ankle product.
We have been hearing about maybe some early revisions with that product a decline in utilization because of that in some markets.
Obviously you see a lot more of that business than the few anecdotal conversations we had.
So maybe you could set me straight on some of the things we have been hearing out on the field on that product? Yes.
So first thing I would say is if you look at the total joint replacement in general the ankle is one of the late bloomers.
So you have knees and hips and shoulders and it took time before it really started to get traction before the growth really kicked in and a lot of people predicted the total ankle would take a much much larger percentage of the procedures which today as you know is mostly fusion.
People predicted that five six seven years ago.
We now really see the market starting to be primed for a take off.
Now predicting these take offs as we have proven with our own foot and ankle those other products is not easy to predict when it will take off and what pace of take off.
But we really believe that this is like the early stages of hips and knees.
That's kind of what's been happening in the total ankle market.
We believe the market is really primed to start to improve.
This is the most published ankle on the market.
It has tremendous data.
So the anecdotes as you hear a lot of the anecdotes at least from our point of view it really relates to the sales force execution and the service and we really believe we are getting a fantastic product out there.
It's the most published by far.
The data is long-term in nature and very very solid.
You always hear anecdotes about different products.
A lot of times our competitors are the ones that will throw those anecdotes around and so we are not worried about it.
We have done our due diligence.
Believe me we have known we have a gap in total ankle for some time and we have been very deliberative about making sure we make the right choice.
We believe we made the right choice and having a cementless PMA approved total ankle we believe is a real competitive advantage and now putting it in our sales force's hands will change the story in terms of the growth trajectory that's currently being pursued in the market.
Yes understood.
Thank you.
And then Katherine maybe for my follow-up.
I just wanted to be clear on what you are saying on MAKO and your implants.
You are saying jus the Stryker hip itself by 2015 I think is what you are saying and I think that's a little bit of a change in the path.
I think you have been little coy on whether it would be Stryker implant or the Restoration implant what might get approved not approved on MAKO.
Can you just set me straight on Stryker implant hip knee timing of expectations on that again? Yes you correct.
It's incremental information.
We really tried to say that as we get better clarity we will share information with you.
So at this point we do feel comfortable that we will be launching Stryker hip on the MAKO system in 2015.
We will probably get into more specifics at the Analyst Meeting and regarding specific hip systems.
The knee system there is no change.
The trial is underway.
We continue to expect to launch a total knee on the MAKO in 2015.
We haven't got any more specific on the timing of that yet.
The trial is being done with the pipeline knee that was MAKO's knee system.
We do believe there is a regulatory path that may not require a completely new trial to bring our own knee systems on to the MAKO robot in 2015.
But I would say the probability of that is less than pipeline which is the knee being used in the trial.
So new information on hips more details to come in September and no change to our thinking on knees.
Our next question comes from Matt Taylor from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I had two more strategic questions.
So I guess the first one is you made some comments over the past few months over the benefits of scale but maybe not scope yet.
And I was just curious over the past couple of years you have made a lot of acquisitions to diversify away from recon.
How do you view the benefits of scale in recon and how do think that the Zimmer.
Biomet deal could impact your business positively or negatively if it does close? So the characterization that we did a lot of acquisitions to diversify away from recon certainly since I have been the CEO it's really about strengthening our businesses.
Strengthening our businesses within orthopedics within neuro and within specialty surgery.
And I am really agnostic about how we strengthen those businesses.
So MAKO is a deal that's absolutely within reconstructive.
Trauson is a deal that's a orthopedic deal.
Then we have done deals that are outside in endoscopy and in another division.
So I would say certainly I wouldn't want anybody to think that our focus on acquisitions is to diversify away from.
It's really to strengthen all of our existing businesses.
Certainly this consolidation within recon is something that we have been anticipating.
It's not a big surprise the Zimmer Biomet that that would happen.
Having five competitors in a market that's not growing close to double digits normally would lead to some form of consolidation.
So it's not totally surprising.
The market has been pretty well disciplined thus far and we expect that that will add extra discipline to that.
And I think that's about all that I would say on that.
Thanks and then just a follow-up.
Your earlier comments on China I thought were interesting and you have kind of a tiered structure there and some strong presence in both the premium and value segment.
I guess I am just curious as you look out over the next couple of years how are you going to continue to grow and defend your share? Are you concerned about emerging market players or your "generic orthopedic devices" or is that too small to be concerned with at this point? Yes.
We feel really excited about the prospects within China because certainly regardless of what happens with China's overall GDP the healthcare market in China will be very healthy for the future and there's significant growth to be had both within the premium segment as well as in the value segment.
Local players will continue to pop up in the lower-priced segment but to have a well-rounded and very very diverse product bag is critical.
A lot of the business happens through tenders and to be able to win the tender you need a strong brand a strong local brand which we have with Trauson that has very very broad product portfolio and registration times are not easy.
The reason we moved towards acquisition was we could have done it ourselves it would have taken us six or seven years and we probably wouldn't have had products at lower price with the kind of heritage that we were able to get through the acquisition.
So we really believe it has a long runway in front of us.
Ramesh Subrahmanian our Group President for International is going to do a deep dive on China at the Analyst Day Meeting and really our biggest opportunity certainly in the next couple of years beyond China is taking Trauson to other countries which we are starting to do this year and which we will share more in the future but there is markets like India that have big trauma markets where we don't even play in today.
We are planning to launch into Trauson in 2015 in India and many other emerging markets where we have trauma markets where Stryker has not historically played.
To us that's a very very significant growth potential for the long-term.
The next question comes from Mike Matson from Needham &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I was wondering if you could maybe comment on the commission rate changes that you made in the recon business? I guess I am wondering number one was that limited to just recon or have you gone through similar moves in some of your other businesses? And then number two how big of an impact has that had in the SG&amp;A levers that we have seen this year? And is this something that you can continue to ratchet down in future years? Yes I would say we did the commission rate cut for our recon sales forces in the U.S.
at the start of the first quarter.
We intend to do rate adjustment every few years.
So it would have been three four years since the last time.
We recognize that we were above markets.
So we moved in more line with the market and structured it to have a greater focus on growth.
And that was one of the factors that we talked about the first quarter call that led to some of the softness on the recon business.
It's clearly part of what's helping to drive the SG&amp;A leverage.
It's not all of it but it's clearly a component of it.
The rest of our businesses MedSurg's does commission rate adjustments as well.
They tend to do it more on an incremental basis more frequently.
Each of the businesses have their own approach to it.
And there has been really no change that in fact was felt in some of the disruption around.
It really was a first quarter effect.
Okay and then just on the hedging program.
Will that be fully in place by 2015? In other words when we get into 2015 will these be pretty significant or potentially significant currency impacts on your gross margin be over effectively? Well they are obviously never over because the exchange rates are always moving right.
So the hedging program is really just meant to mitigate that risk.
It just buffers the impact with between quarters and try to smooth those increases all right.
It doesn't avoid the increases.
So as those increases change over time obviously that's an impact that occurs over time.
Should you at least eliminate the peaks and the valleys associated with those movements absolutely.
The full program will probably be in place by probably mid-year next year where we have got full six layer hedges consistently in place moving forward from that point.
The last question comes from Richard Newitter from Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Kevin can you talk maybe just about how you envision MAKO potentially creating advantages for Stryker's recon sales organization through efficiency or enhanced flexibility either in the OR or outside of the OR? Well I will go back to all of the comments we have made around the rationale for doing the deal is you deliver a delightful experience for the surgeon.
The surgeon is able to produce consistent placement of the implant intraoperative adjustments and once they have that experience and we believe again the total knee will be the most promising.
Certainly a bicruciate sparing knees becomes a big part of the market.
We believe robotics will play beautifully into that.
But it will be one of those situations just like what happened with in the Uni market where MAKO was able to take almost 20% share within a four year period.
Once a surgeon does it robotically and has a delightful experience they are not going back.
So we will be the only game in town.
So for us it's a very differentiated approach that provides a meaningful benefit.
A lot of those benefits we believe over time we are going to have to prove it with certain clinical trials which we will be doing but a lot of it's intuitive and obvious.
It makes this procedure easier to do.
It makes it more consistent.
It makes it more reproducible and certainly once we put the Stryker implants with the robot we have done a lot of research before we did the acquisition and surgeons were very interest in robotics.
If you look at our manufacturing plants you walk through Stryker's manufacturing plants you see robots everywhere.
And why is that? Well robots can produce cleaner more consistent results.
It's just undeniable.
And therefore we really believe bringing this to surgery is a logical extension and MAKO proved it already once with the Uni and we are going to now have to prove it in other procedures.
And we feel very optimistic about being able to do so.
So maybe just my second question to follow-up on the first one.
I was talking a little bit more just about the selling model so to speak or does it provide you with increased flexibility to drive efficiency through your sales organization itself the way they itself interact with the physician et cetera? Yes sure.
So the way it works for robotic procedures is you have a technician that helps operate the robot and that technician is not a regular commissioned sales person.
So they are paid at a much different price point than our typical commissioned salesperson.
And once the surgeon is converted and actually does their procedures robotically you don't really need that commissioned sales force person to be there all the time.
They can go off and cover additional surgeons and go cover additional hospitals.
So over time with the adoption of robotics if it grows in the trend line that we expect you would assume that the average cost of people that are in the field will go down over time.
It doesn't mean we are paying our reps less.
Our reps will still be paid as high powered reps that are gaining business but the actual people who are technically there to help manage the case are paid at a much lower rate.
And today there is one price model.
The rep whether it's a rep servicing an accounts or whether they are selling they are paid the same today.
With robotics we are going to enable a bit of a bifurcation of the model to case coverage people who are technicians who are paid at a lower rate and sales force who are paid for selling at a higher rate.
And does that lead to a bifurcation of the implant from the service cost eventually in your view? Well as I said before you are going to have two different kinds of people.
You are going to have this commission sales force for selling and paid at a high price and the technicians who are a lower price but there be less need if we gain tremendous volume there will be less need for high-priced commission reps to just service accounts.
They will be out selling.
So I really believe that will give us better productivity with our commercial resources.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
So thank you all for joining our call.
As you know it took a little longer this call and really part of the reason for that was to provide extra color on the acquisitions.
We have been very busy on the acquisition front and we plan to provide additional perspectives on acquisitions every quarter.
So thank you all for joining the call.
Our conference call for the third quarter of 2014 results will be held on October 16.
Thank you Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Stryker's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Adrian and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the conference we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's third quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me today are Bill Jellison our CFO; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Following my opening comments Katherine will provide an update on our M&amp;A activity.
Bill will then offer details on our quarterly reports before turning it to Q&amp;A.
Our top line performance strengthened in Q3 with organic revenue growth of 8% which did include the benefit from one extra selling day that contributed roughly 1%.
These results reflect solid year-over-year growth for all three business segments; Reconstructive MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine while also being balanced geographically.
Within Reconstructive trauma and extremities continued its lengthy string of double digit increases and U.S.
hip implants were also a standout.
MedSurg's impressive gains in instruments were bolstered by acceleration in Neptune sales and in medical we are seeing early signs of a strengthening in the CapEx environment.
Our Neurotechnology and Spine Group reported double digit growth in the neuro businesses partly offset by lower growth in spinal implants.
From a geographic perspective both the U.S.
and international delivered high single digit year-over-year organic growth.
Europe continues to gain traction and our strong performance in emerging markets reinforces our view of this segment's long term potential to contribute meaningfully to our growth goals.
Overall the strength of our diverse revenue base enabled us to offset some challenges and achieve impressive growth.
As Katherine will discuss we are working to drive greater momentum with MAKO and while sales are pacing below our target the pipeline development is encouraging as is our clinical progress.
Gross margin was similar to Q2 as we are seeing the impact of a modestly tougher pricing environment coupled with the negative effect of mix with existing products and acquisitions.
Shifting to SG&amp;A our focus on reducing costs is evident as we continue to drive this down as a percent of sales.
We realize additional P&amp;L leverage as the benefits from our recently opened European Regional Headquarters contributed to a lower tax rate.
With the strong pipeline reduction in operating expenses and the lower tax rate offset by meaningful investments in R&amp;D we delivered adjusted EPS of $1.15 a share up 10.6% year-over-year.
For the full year we are confident in our ability to achieve organic sales growth of 5% to 6%.
We expect adjusted EPS to come in at the low end of our $4.75 to $4.80 range owing to the tougher foreign exchange environment that Bill will elaborate on.
Also the creation of our European Headquarters will enable us to repatriate approximately $2 billion of O-U.S.
cash over the course of 2015.
With that I will now turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
The focus of my comments today will be on providing an update on the performance of our recent key acquisitions.
Encouragingly the acquisitions of Trauson Berchtold and Patient Safety Technology which we reviewed in detail on our Q2 call all continue to track with our expectations while Pivot is running slightly ahead as we leverage the strength of our considerable endoscopy sales channel.
Shifting to MAKO overall we are encouraged by the progress we are making while recognizing some challenges.
Our capital sales are pacing behind our initial targets but we have made progress each quarter with a total of eight robots sold in Q3.
We are confident that the market for robots is improving as we have a strong pipeline of deals we are working on closing.
We expect continued sequential improvement in Q4 and into next year for several reasons.
Firstly we are in the final stages of the integration of the MAKO selling organization into our recon sales force and the development of sales coordination between the MAKO capital sales reps and our very large recon implant sales force.
The first stage was completed in April as we move the MAKO selling and service organization into our recon division and under recon management and establish near term incentives.
We continue to work toward full integration into a single implant and selling organization.
Gaining near term sale synergies has proven to be more challenging than we anticipated but we are encouraged by the recent momentum.
Secondly we have developed and are expanding our flexible financing offering that we believe a number of hospitals will find attractive as we look to leverage our considerable expertise in this area.
On the clinical front we have completed enrolment in our total knee trial and continue to target FDA approval in 2015.
Turning to SBI we are very pleased with the early integration with sales tracking ahead of our initial expectations.
We have trained over 100 Stryker reps on the STAR ankle and various products.
By the time the training is complete we will have over 200 reps trained and selling the STAR Ankle and over 400 reps trained in selling SBI's various upper extremity products.
Its important to note that the STAR Ankle is a fourth generation design with over 28 000 total ankles implanted globally.
There are now well over 100 clinical studies on the STAR Ankle with one of the newest published by Dr.
Michael Kaufman [ph] where he reported 94% survivorship at an average of 12.6 years.
We believe these favorable long term results are helping to differentiate the STAR Ankle from our competitors and reinforce the benefits of three-piece mobile bearing technology.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Katherine.
Sales growth was positive by 11.1% in the third quarter including a negative 0.2% impact from foreign exchange translation.
Constant currency sales increased 11.3% which includes organic growth of 7.8%.
We had a positive impact from one more selling day in the quarter which had a positive impact on growth of approximately 1%.
Earnings per share on a GAAP basis for the third quarter were $0.16 per share versus $0.27 per share last year while adjusted earnings per share were $1.15 for the quarter versus $1.04 last year.
This quarter's earning per share includes a negative impact of approximately $0.01 per share from foreign exchange due to currency movements later in the quarter.
If foreign exchange rates stay on current levels this year will be negatively impacted by approximately $0.12 compared to last year or approximately $0.04 per share worse than what we anticipated at the end of the second quarter.
Based on the current volatility of foreign exchange rates we would expect 2015 to be negatively impacted by roughly $0.10 to $0.12 per share.
This negative impact is largely driven by the translational component of foreign exchange which we do not hedge.
The transactional impact of foreign exchange on earnings is being mostly offset by both natural and real hedges which we continue to layer into our operations.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustment in the quarter relates to tax expense associated with both the transfer of intellectual property to the Netherlands from some of our other European locations and for planned tax payments associated with approximately $2 billion of cash repatriation associated with this transfer.
I will discuss both of these items a little more when I discuss our tax rate.
Also in the quarter we incurred a charge of approximately $25 million associated with the voluntary recalls of Rejuvenate and ABG II.
These charges may increase or decrease over time as additional facts become available and assumptions more refined.
As mentioned in the past no insurance proceeds that may potentially be available to cover some of these costs have been included.
Looking at sales in the third quarter our organic growth rate of 7.8% was comprised of a positive 10.2% from volume and mix the highest quarterly growth level since 2008 while price negatively impacted sales by 2.3%.
Acquisitions added 3.4% while FX had a negative 0.2% on sales in the quarter.
Looking at our segments Reconstructive represented 43% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales of Reconstructive products were up 8.5% as reported and grew 8.6% constant currency and increased 4.9% organically.
U.S.
Reconstructive sales grew 11.9% in the quarter Trauma and Extremities once again had another solid quarter with sales in the U.S.
increasing 15.3% and grew 7.1% internationally with 30% growth in our U.S.
foot and ankle business excluding the impact from the acquisition of SBI as we continue to have a great success in expanding the market.
U.S.
hips and knees growth in the period was 8.1% and 6.8% and O-U.S.
sales were down nearly a percentage point in hips against a 9% comp last year in the quarter but up 5.3% in knees on a constant currency basis.
Next our MedSurg segment represented approximately 39% of sales in the quarter.
Total MedSurg sales increased 16.3% on an as-reported basis 16.6% on a constant currency basis and increased 11.9% organically.
These results benefited from the high teen growth in our instruments business as we continue to quickly regain share post the late 2013 relaunch of Neptune.
However even excluding Neptune instruments grew double digits in the quarter.
We also had upper teens growth in our endoscopy driven by recent acquisitions.
Medical had a strong quarter with double digit organic growth as the hospital capital equipment market began picking up.
Sustainability Solutions returned to positive growth in the quarter two.
International sales within MedSurg were also up nearly 20% in the quarter and were up slightly over 20% in constant currency benefiting mostly from double digit organic growth in each of the instruments endoscopy and medical categories.
The MedSurg Group should continue to see strong sales growth in the fourth quarter as Neptune has another quarter of easier comps.
Although you should note there will be one less selling day in the fourth quarter compared to last year.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represents 18% of our sales increased 6.5% as reported 6.9% on a constant currency basis and 6.5% organically.
Growth in the segment was led by double digit growth in Neurotechnology businesses and IVS grew high single digit in constant currency while spinal implant sales increased in the low single digit range.
In looking at our operational performance gross margin on an adjusted basis in the third quarter of 2014 were nearly flat sequentially at 66%.
This compares to 68.8% in the same period last year.
The primary decline in the margin rate in the quarter resulted from both negative product mix and negative price pressures.
Our mix was especially negative in this quarter due to the impact of recent acquisitions and strong sales of our MedSurg products which grew over 16% in the quarter.
These products have a lower gross margin rate than the company average.
Pricing was down 2.3% in the quarter or 30 basis points sequentially.
U.S.
hips and knee pricing wireless stable versus Q2 wit the decline attributed to spine and trauma products.
Pricing pressure remains challenging and is expected to be down approximately 2% for the company moving forward.
Margins were also negatively impacted from foreign exchange movements compared to last year.
Note that we anticipate our margin rate in the fourth quarter to be near the rates we experienced in the fourth quarter last year which are also more consistent with our current year-to-date gross margin performance.
Research and development expenses were 6.4% of sales slightly higher than last year in the quarter this is a 12.5% increase in R&amp;D spending over last year primarily reflecting a higher level of R&amp;D spending tied to recent acquisitions.
Selling general and administrative costs on an adjusted basis were $851 million or 35.6% of sales in the quarter versus 38% in the prior year period as we delivered strong sales growth and were able to continue to leverage our overhead and gain traction on driving greater operational efficiencies.
Operating margins on an adjusted basis were 23.9% in the third quarter of 2014 compared to 24.4% in the third quarter of 2013.
The rate was negatively impacted by lower pricing acquisition and product mix and foreign exchange rates in the quarter partially offset by operational improvements and lower selling general and admin expenses as a percent of sales.
Other expenses on an adjusted basis in the third quarter were approximately $25 million compared to $13 million last year in the third quarter.
This increase in expense resulted primarily from higher net interest expense and these expenses are expected to run at a similar level throughout the rest of the years.
Our reported tax rate for the third quarter was 86.6% while our adjusted effective tax rate was 19.9%.
This compares to a 22.4% adjusted effective tax rate in the third quarter last year.
We expect the full year rate will be approximately 22% consistent with our year-to-date adjusted effective tax rate.
Please note that the renewal of the tax extenders is still reflected in our year and earnings forecast which if approved will help reduce the fourth quarter tax rate.
However if not approved and made effective this year it will negatively impact our earnings guidance for the full year and the fourth quarter by approximately $0.05 per share.
As we mentioned during our second quarter earnings call we have officially opened our new European headquarters in Amsterdam.
During the third quarter we transferred intellectual property from other countries within Europe to the Netherlands and also made decisions to repatriate nearly $2 billion from Europe to the U.S.
over the next year.
Most of these funds will be transferred to the U.S.
in the back half of 2015.
These actions triggered a tax expense which we booked in the third quarter of this year.
The cash outflows for payment of this tax will occur between the fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter of 2015.
The transfer of the intellectual property provides us more flexibility in managing our operations in the future and aligns the ownership with where our primary European leadership team will be located.
This project will also generate some ongoing tax benefits which as we mentioned previously are expected to further reduce our overall adjusted operating tax rate in 2015 by approximately two full percentage points.
Currently we are expecting to reinvest approximately half of these savings directly into our business.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $4.7 billion of cash and marketable securities.
We also had $4 billion of debt on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
From an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended the third quarter at 56 or one day better than the end of the third quarter last year.
Days in inventory finished the quarter at 182 days which was a three day reduction compared to 185 days in the third quarter last year.
Turning to cash flow our cash from operations in the first nine months of 2014 were $1.1 billion relatively the same as the first nine months of last year.
Capital expenditures were $172 million in the first nine months of the year compared to $139 million in the same period last year.
We still have over $500 million available for share repurchase under a current authorization as approximately $100 million of share repurchases were made year-to-date.
As Kevin mentioned our 2014 sales guidance includes organic sales growth in the range of 5% to 6% and adjusted net earnings per share in the range of $4.75 to $4.80.
Due to recent FX pressures we are more comfortable at the low end of that range.
Also as mentioned previously the renewal of the tax extenders remains in our guidance.
However if these are not renewed it would have a negative impact on our current year guidance of approximately $0.05 per share.
Thanks for your support and we'd be glad to answer any questions that you may have at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
And your first question comes from Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
So I wanted to talk about really two items.
One was the MedSurg performance this morning.
I was hoping you could discuss the environment and how you think it evolved in the quarter both the U.S.
and in Europe.
And then second Bill it looks like the gross margin came in lighter than you were baking maybe a month ago and I assume part of that is mix maybe part of it is FX I was hoping you could tease that out for us a little bit.
Thanks.
Mike I will take the first part in terms of the MedSurg performance and I am overall really pleased with what we saw in the quarter.
I would say for the higher ticket capital products that are predominantly in our medical business although to a lesser degree in endo we are seeing signs of strengthening.
How strong that ends up being tough to tell because this is really the first quarter where we feel comfortable commenting that it feels that the CapEx environment has strengthened.
Instruments is really hitting on all cylinders.
Clearly the Neptune relaunch continues to gain traction.
But as mentioned even excluding that we had solid double digit growth.
So its really across the board.
Endo really benefited from the acquisition as we mentioned before they had challenging year-over-year comparisons.
So I think overall we feel good about the environment and feel like there has been very strong momentum going into the fourth quarter which as you know is typically -- a particularly strong quarter as it relates to CapEx.
Mike then on the gross margin rate as far as our expectation.
Actually the margin rates for the quarter came in relatively close to what we were expecting.
We were expecting as I mentioned before that this was going to be our toughest gross margin comp quarter.
I'd say that pricing was incrementally a little bit worse than what we expected so it did have a little bit of additional impact on the rate but not much in relationship to what we were expecting.
We expect it to be relatively close to the rates that we ran at in the second quarter and as I mentioned that's pretty consistent with our expectations moving into the fourth quarter this year and as I also mentioned that should be more in line with kind of the rates that we were running last year in the fourth quarter as well.
Okay.
If I can just ask one follow-up.
So Bill at the analyst meeting you made some comments just relative to the ability to drive operating leverage in 2015.
Can you just with this quarter now behind you and you have kind of seen what the gross margin progression looks like is that -- are you still confident in your ability to drive operating leverage next year? I think our broader based comments first just talking about rate improvements in future periods.
We generally talk about that over the next few years but we are absolutely focused on targeting improvements in operating margin rates not gross margin rates but operating margin rates on average over time.
we did state though however for next year that because of our investments with some of the tax benefits that half of those tax benefits would be actually reinvested directly in our business and that will also obviously add pressure associated with the rate in that period.
So Mike its Kevin just to add.
So obviously we will give guidance in January and you should expect to see leveraged earnings.
We obviously don't spike out the guidance specifically in every line of our P&amp;L.
The last two years on an operational basis we were able to have gross margin gains over the last couple of years.
Clearly our mix of our business has changed based on both our acquisitions as well as MedSurg growing but we do have our GQ&amp;O efforts clearly focused on driving improvement in our comps.
But with price now tracking more towards a 2% range its certainly an area of extreme focus for us.
But you will see when we give our guidance in January the degree of leverage that we will be delivering in 2015.
And our next question comes from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
You may proceed.
Good afternoon.
First question Katherine just based on some of your comments on MAKO.
Just a few things I was wondering you could elaborate on; one was you talked about sales synergies being a little more challenging than you expected and then also new financing options for customers and I guess in light of the CapEx improvement very curious in terms of what does that mean? Are you experimenting with sort of lease type models reagent rental type models so those two dynamic sales and financing options for customers regarding MAKO and then I have one follow-up? Okay.
So to take the second part we have offered through our Flex Financial Group financing options because of the capital components that exists within many of our MedSurg businesses.
So we have been in that financing area for a number of years.
What we are doing is expanding that and leveraging that expertise over to the recon side where the MAKO capital fits and really helping them work with some of the budget limitations that exists between capital and operating budgets within a hospital.
So a variety of different options that we are looking at but its clearly a skill we have and something that MAKO couldn't at their point in their trajectory offer to customers.
In terms of the integration I think the most challenging part and I think its fair to say we underestimated the complexity of it but feel very comfortable with the trajectory we are on.
Its just integrating a capital salesforce alongside a very large implant salesforce and going through the necessary training and coordination that has to take place in existing accounts.
So its nothing truly unique its just it’s a big job to do given how large our salesforce is.
So we are making really good headway very excited about the pipeline we are seeing and our ability to continue to drive sequential acceleration in robot sales.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then Bill just a question on the balance sheet; obviously with their [indiscernible] event your balance sheet is going to expand in size here over the next six months.
And Stryker is in this interesting position right now where you basically are the most underlevered company in all large cap med-tech and there is an increasing trend largely to M&amp;A increase that relative rate of leverage.
But I am just sort of wondering given that increase in cash over the short term which is going to be quite rapid can you think about the spread between your cash interest and what you can get in the credit markets that spread is actually pretty narrow.
So you start thinking about different level of capital structure that's appropriate for Stryker given your cash balance is going to expand here rapidly in the next six months? Well I think its fair to say that we definitely believe that our balance sheet is very strong across the board and has been.
And so we always want to make sure that we are putting the broader based assets that we have to work as efficiently and effectively as we can.
I think as Kevin mentioned multiple times we are absolutely first and foremost focused on acquisitions but dividends and stock buybacks are also a key part of our overall cash structure strategy.
Just keep in mind as well too that as we move forward here we have been booking and accruing an amount on our Rejuvenate claims at some point those will potentially be paid out.
So we have to make sure that we are covered for that situation.
But also on the cash repatriation side also keep in mind that as I mentioned most of that cash won't occur actually until the back half of 2015.
But you can be assured that we are actively looking at how to best utilize that cash moving forward.
And our next question comes from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Hi congrats.
Hear me okay? Yeah hi Kristen.
Okay perfect.
Thanks.
Sorry about that.
I just wanted to ask a question just kind of if you can give us your broad I guess view on just the overall recon market and in particular your performances in Europe or within international markets seems to be improving nicely.
Maybe just walk us through I guess what you are seeing if you're seeing underlying improvement if you would expect to continue to see improvements going forward sequentially seasonality and I think you do have a one last selling day in the fourth quarter as well I just wanted to confirm that? Yeah.
We do have one last selling day in the fourth quarter and I would say that it’s a little bit geographic dependent but clearly the momentum we are seeing in Europe continues and that's helping that O-U.S.
growth recognizing as we mentioned we did have some very difficult comps particularly on the hip side.
Japan with the price cuts have been challenging and also we have been working through and largely are past that now but there were implications tied to the ERP implementation that we talked about previously.
But overall feel pretty good about the environment.
Okay.
And then on the U.S.
side any comments there in particular? Yeah I mean a little tough because obviously we don't have all the numbers in yet but in terms of hips we feel pretty comfortable that we are growing ahead of the market even after adjusting for MAKO.
These for the past eight quarters we have kept pace with the market.
We may be a little trailing in that this quarter but we will have to wait and see as everybody else's numbers come in.
It does seem like overall this is a year where the hip market is stronger than the knee market.
Seasonality I think you're going to see a similar dynamic recognizing that was exceptionally strong in the fourth quarter last year so its really difficult to predict if we are going to have that healthy of a seasonality effect.
But clearly Q4 is going to see the benefit of that seasonality.
And our next question comes from David Turkaly from JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just quickly I think you said that U.S.
the knee pricing was stable.
Did you guys quantify that in terms of a percent the pricing impact on those two lines? No.
What we said was in the U.S.
hip and knee pricing was consistent with what we saw in the second quarter of this year's -- approximately in that mid single digit range.
So mid single digit range for both? Yes.
And I guess given the better CapEx environment you guys talked about I am curious if you guys have any comment on sort of utilization or overall procedural volume or sort of surgeon backlog here.
Any thoughts or any updated thoughts on that post this quarter? No.
I don't think we have any real insights to offer there.
It does seem like the CapEx environment did modestly improve.
But again its one quarter and its tough to know if that is a trend that's going to be indicative of accelerating unit volume.
So overall feel good about the momentum we are seeing but we don't really have any insight as it relates to physician volumes or [indiscernible] and the like.
And our next question comes from Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Just following to hospital capitals one follow-up there on strength.
You talked about it potentially improving here towards the end of a seasonally strong fourth quarter.
You mentioned last year I think Kevin you had spoken quite a bit about this sort of collaborative approach across to this line but they are sort of customized flexible financing approach this contracting with hospitals based on capital or operating pricing; [indiscernible] capital business lines; what you're seeing in your estimation seasonal and sort of market improvements or to what degree do you think you're taking share because of some of the programs you've put in place? And I have one follow-up.
Okay Matt first of all for the follow-up if you are on speaker I'd appreciate if you could just get off the speaker because we had a little trouble hearing you.
But I think I got the gist of the question and so clearly we do have a lot of flexible programs we are collaborating across our divisions.
But I would say at this stage of that work its really more about our teams executing directly with our customers and we clearly saw a nice performance in medical last quarter and the second quarter and that also accelerated very dramatically in the third quarter.
So part of it is the market is improving.
We can see conditions in the market improving and part of it is our execution.
Really difficult for me to parse which one of those two and when more people report this quarter we will have a better sense on how much of it is growing with the market versus how much is taking shares.
My sense is we are probably growing a little faster but I can't dimensionalize that for you just yet.
I would say our collaboration efforts its still early we were getting some wins but I wouldn't attribute the bulk of our success to that.
Its really more about our -- our team is really performing well in the market.
Thanks for that.
The follow-up maybe for Katherine on MAKO.
You had mentioned adjusting for hips and we certainly have heard more interest on the hip side.
As you complete this integration and head into the end of the year is there something that you can give us that we might view as sort of capital as heading into next year.
And to what degree is the hip emerging as sort of an important application whereas maybe a year or two ago kind of view it as sort of maybe a less interesting opportunity than the knee side? So thanks.
I think there is a couple of things.
I would go back to all the products we highlighted the Stryker products that we are going to be putting on the robot targeting for 2015.
On the hip side where they obviously have an indication and we would agree we are seeing increasing interest there and then clearly our expectation to get approval with triathlon on the robot in 2015.
So those are probably the two major triggers.
Now keep in mind we are going to have to do training and software upgrades and there is going to be work to be done and make sure this launch is executed in such a way that we can achieve our goals and that's why we continue to point to -- think about 2016 as the year when we are really going to be on a trajectory where its indicative of us taking meaningful market share gains.
What I would add is Matt just to add one comment.
The hip application we were certainly excited about it the software improvements and the last version that was done just prior to our acquisition and made a big improvement.
But surgeons for the most part are pretty happy with our hips so this requires really a change management with surgeons to really get to try it and have a good experience and having our implants of course that will help dramatically with that.
But we still see the total knee as a much bigger opportunity.
There is less overall satisfaction with patients and the perception of improvement we think is far greater than total knee.
So there is certainly going to be growth in both areas but the knee still for us is the biggest opportunity.
And our next question comes from Raj Denhoy from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
I wondered if I could just ask on the pricing environment in the United States.
One of your competitors earlier this week talked about worsening pricing particularly on the hip side and you are talking about a much more stable environment and just curious if you have any thoughts around why we would be seeing this dichotomy or this diversion in pricing in the market? I think we are actually experiencing some very similar pricing phenomenon and so the characterization is last year versus this year or how things are going from quarter-to-quarter this year.
So certainly versus the prior year we are seeing a moderate acceleration in price pressure or prices have certainly declined.
When we characterize it as stable its really over the course of this year.
But when you compare the prior year certainly we are seeing an acceleration and that's why we are now modeling for total company price decrease of roughly 2%.
Okay that's helpful.
Maybe I could ask one about MAKO as well.
I think as you outlined at the analyst meeting I mean one of the interesting things about that now for you is that you seem to broaden the offering in a sense to -- for hospitals in terms of not only offering better potential patient outcomes but also looking at things like efficiency and infections and other sorts of benefits you might be able to get from the robot? And I guess the question is when we might start to see some of that data so that you can present the much more compelling case to the hospitals to adopt it? I would say that we are obviously continuing to analyze and look at data.
I wouldn't point you to anything near term on the data front.
I think this is really going to be getting this in the hands of Stryker and other physicians leveraging the breadth of our product offering and then seeing just as they did with [indiscernible] the benefits of having the consistency of results reproducability better patient experience all those things that they will get a feel for as they start to use the robot.
I think long term to think about this becoming more of a standard of care that's when we are going to have to really look to start to have more clinical data.
But I wouldn't point you to anything at the podiums or anything near term.
And we have Matthew O'Brien next with a question.
Please proceed.
Afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Was hoping we can start on the extremity side of things.
Kevin this is an area that just continues to kind of boggle the mind as far as your growth rates go.
I think you are about doubling the market in foot and ankle.
Can you just give us a sense of -- is that share coming from some of the larger multinationals that are playing there or coming from some of the more extremities focused companies at this point? And then with the integration of SBI is there any reason to think you can't even though you have more difficult comparisons coming up grow somewhere around the 30% maybe mid-20s level going forward? Well certainly I am not going to speculate on the growth going forward because certainly they define my expectations thus far.
So when you're entering a new market its really hard to predict.
Obviously when you're in an existing market its much more easy to predict what the volume will be.
I would say most of the growth is really coming from expanding the market.
We are calling on new surgeons that weren't putting in implants before.
That has been really the engine of growth.
Obviously new products that we have been launching as well.
The STAR ankle really fills a very important gap in the product portfolio.
So we are really excited about that.
And frankly we see in a new market like this continued opportunity for growth.
So we are growing the market primarily.
We are obviously taking some share as well.
But at this point I think we see robust growth going into the future.
But what exactly robust will be will remain to be seen.
But we are extremely pleased with the performance the dedicated business unit model is working.
The certain segmentation that we created is working and we are very-very pleased with the performance.
Thanks.
And as my follow-up the neuro business which seems to get overlooked here looks like it improved sequentially here in the third quarter which historically has not done.
Can you talk a little bit about what some of the growth drivers there? It sounds like I think from last quarter you mentioned hemorrhagic is the primary growth driver.
Is the momentum in that business strengthening at this point? We have three business units within our Neurotechnology business and all three businesses are performing very well.
In fact in this quarter the neuro-powered instruments was really the strongest growth of the three.
But neurovascular which is really just the coils [ph] for neuro also grew very-very well as did our craniomaxillofacial business.
That CMF business has been sort of a double digit growth business as well.
Growing very well with custom cranial implants and a number of other new products.
So all three business contributing very evenly to the nice double digit performance.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Bruce Nudell from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Kevin and Katherine to my recollection minus five or -- Bruce sorry can you just speak up a little bit? We are having trouble hearing you.
Yeah I am sorry.
To my recollection could you hear me now? Better.
But if you can speak loudly please.
Yes.
To my recollection mid-single digit negative price in hips and knees in the U.S.
is kind of at the high end of historical levels.
Has there been a secular change and what might be driving that and is it reversible? I would say what we see -- there is nothing new in terms of the trends whether its physicians becoming employees of hospitals and greater alignment there or transparency around patient pricing and also keep in mind product cycles.
Accolade II for example we got a nice price premium for that but you do anniversary those from a couple of years into the launch.
The product cycles definitely see an impact.
So while it has declined I wouldn't say we are seeing a step function change.
Mid single digits is in the 3% to 5% range.
So again nothing really significantly different and clearly stable -- and are largely stable through the first three quarters of this year.
Okay.
And my follow-up Kevin is clearly you guys -- Bruce I am losing you.
I am sorry Bruce.
I am sorry.
You didn't expect to have Stryker implants on MAKO this year.
What is surprising you about the difficulty of MAKO robot placements? I think the biggest thing is just the pace of the integration and we were probably a bit -- we weren't probably we were overly optimistic on how quickly we could integrate and do all the coordination that's required between the capital reps and our very large Stryker implant reps and there is a lot of coordination particularly when you get into individual accounts.
Certain regions have embraced it they understand the differences in implant sales versus the CapEx sales and how to partner and there we are seeing great success and uptick in utilization.
But we are only a couple of quarters in and its going to take some time here to really leverage that breadth of combining those two sales forces.
So nothing that's significant or really different.
It was really just us being overly optimistic about the pace of managing that integration.
Yeah Bruce.
The other thing I'd add is there were certain parts of the country where some of our customers wanted better use of their robots.
So there was a bulk buy that you may have heard about that HMA had done.
CHS bought HMA as a big chain and they weren't really pleased with the performance of some of their robots.
So we actually went about transferring and went through a big process to actually transfer and move about six or seven robots to [indiscernible] high performing locations.
That look a lot of effort on the capital sales team that’s normally focused on selling to actually shift and transfer.
That will pay dividends for us going forward but its obviously tied up a lot of activity.
So when you integrate a company you have to go through these kinds of stumbles I would say.
It certainly hasn't taken away any of our enthusiasm.
The robot sales force is still intact and the funnel is really nice and filling up very nicely.
So we are excited about being able to continue to improve.
But those are some of the stumbles we had to kind of go through.
Relationships are everything and building relationships for the big recon sales force is time consuming.
And so its below our expectations but certainly the promise is every bit as exciting as we thought when we did the acquisition.
And our next question comes from Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets.
You may proceed.
Hi.
Good afternoon Two follow-up questions on pricing.
One the mid single digit knee and hips pricing in the U.S.
does that include or exclude mix? Or maybe the question should be are you getting any mix in this environment? And then a question on spine I think you called that out as pricing getting a little worse.
Can you quantify what the spine pricing was and provide some commentary why the spine pricing got worse? Thank you.
Yeah.
So that is pure price.
We are getting some mix which is partly offsetting that and that's what we report in a combined volume mix number being north of 10%.
So a little bit of price but it does not fully offset what we are seeing on the overall pure pricing side.
In terms of spine pricing there is challenging and that's part of the year-over-year decline in our pricing to the 2.3% as Bill referenced.
Part of it is just the mix of our businesses and greater pressure on certain types of products.
But we are managing through that.
Really excited about some of the new products and the leadership team that we have got in place there.
So we expect to see some improvement going forward but that's probably the key part that we would highlight.
And our next question comes from Bill Plovanic from Canaccord.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks good evening.
So if I could just leverage off of Glenn's question and switch it over to the trauma.
You mentioned pricing pressure on trauma.
Maybe I have been paying attention but historically that hasn't been an area that we have seen a lot of pressure and I am just wondering if you could give us more granularity on that? Then I have one follow-up.
So when we say pressure its certainly a different type of pressure than you see in hips and knees.
So its very low single digit.
But trauma has historically been sort of flat.
Sometimes we are going to be able to get a little bit in price but if you look year-over-year certainly we did have a bit of single digit decline in price.
Low single digit it’s a change its nothing dramatic but obviously if you look at how much market share we have taken over the last few years and we are starting to get a little bit of pushback from some of our competitors caused a small amount of price erosion nothing that's concerning.
If you look at the overall growth of our trauma business it hasn't hampered our growth and not something that we are overly worried about.
Okay.
And then just in terms of SBI it’s a more specific question but you closed on the international component of that.
I mean what -- Katherine what type of contribution should we expect from them in the quarter's going forward? We haven't broken out the acquisition contribution by the individual pieces.
I mean clearly MAKO is the largest piece and we do have to go through the integration process with SBI.
But I think with that group with the foot and ankle up 30% without it and then leveraging this product we would expect a pretty healthy acceleration obviously continuing to be in that double digit vicinity.
And our next question comes from Jeff Johnson from Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good evening guys.
Wondered if I could start just one question on the spine side of the business especially on the implant side you know that has been kind of bumping along in the U.S.
here plus or minus a couple of points every quarter.
We are starting to hear more and more pods or pod participation reversing in that.
Any signs of that showing up it doesn't seem like it in your numbers but are you hearing anything out in the field along those lines? No it really hasn't changed.
For every pod that goes away and new pods seems to pop up it seems to be pretty stable overall.
The fact that there is some prosecution will hopefully turn that tide.
We haven't seen that trend turn yet.
For our business obviously we had some challenges in the first quarter we highlighted around some sales force disruptions.
We are working our way through those challenges.
We are also focused on upgrading our portfolio to have much more MIS products in our mix.
Katherine just mentioned we had spent some time with the spine team this week and very excited about the leadership.
We have made some new leadership changes at spine and exciting portfolio of products that we are going to start to see since the beginning of next year which will hopefully make us less immune to the kind of price pressure that they have on the core spinal endpoint.
Fair enough.
Thanks Kevin.
And then Bill just a follow-up question for you; you mentioned the $0.10 to $0.12 kind of incremental hit or at least a $0.10 to $0.12 hit from currency in 2015 at current rates.
Is that incremental to how you're thinking about it maybe in the second quarter is all that from the movements just over the past three months and I know you haven't guided 2015 yet but would you kind of take a look at our 2015 numbers and whatever we were thinking last quarter maybe take that dime out at this point or how should we think about that? Sure.
I think one of the ways to kind of broadly take a look at that Jeff that you should always be kind of watching.
And it is definitely since the second quarter in fact its really the changes that occurred really since the middle of August on the rate side of the equation.
So when rates move that much and rates have generally moved about five to six percentage points across almost all the key currencies we have got roughly 35% of our business is international.
So think of in the kind of 2% range on our total earnings just from the translation related impact.
So that kind of should help kind of guide you to the level of impact that we would see on the overall operations.
As we move forward we don't know where rates are going to be as we move through in the fourth quarter and into next year right.
So as we get a better look on it we will obviously be giving better visibility when we give our broader guidance for 2015.
Plus we are obviously in the process of working through our budget for next year and whether we will be able to offset any negative pricing is something we will provide more clarity to in January.
And our next question comes from Richard Newitter from Leerink.
You may proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Maybe I could just ask on the capital spending environment.
Can you parse out where or what kind of products in the capital equipment domain within your MedSurg division are -- where you think things are getting better.
And is this kind of also applying for bigger ticket items; because it sounded like MAKO you didn't necessarily have much of a pickup on placing systems but obviously the lower ticket items within your MedSurg division are -- is that the right characterization? No.
I would say MAKO is somewhat unique because yes its capital but really what we are focused on right now is the integration and the training and driving the coordination between our selling organizations and working with hospitals on the value proposition and the like.
That's a little bit insulated or separate right now from the general hospital CapEx trends.
I would say if you look at our medical growth clearly very healthy and that tends to be our larger ticket and more deferrable hospital capital equipment and we are seeing good momentum and as we mentioned early signs of an acceleration recognizing its one quarter.
So we will see how the fourth quarter plays out but we are pretty optimistic about the momentum there.
And then if you look at instruments which has a lower component and a lower ticket CapEx but still there clearly whether its Neptune or excluding Neptune they are seeing very healthy growth which I think speaks more to the strength of the selling organization and the product portfolio and the value that Neptune brings less so than a change that we are seeing in the hospital capital environment.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then just a quick follow-up on the pricing.
I just want to make sure I heard correctly.
I think you said spine pricing net of mix was down 10% is that right? And then two is there anything specific that you saw in the last kind of three four five months on kind of spine pricing contracts coming out or a big contract coming up? No.
We didn't quote that number on spine pricing pressure.
We are seeing pricing pressure in spine and that really has to do partly with the product mix and some of the core spine fusion products.
So we do think its going to improve going forward.
Its clearly one of the contributors to the overall 2.3% pricing pressure we are seeing.
As it relates to contracts they go through different cycles at different periods of time.
So there isn't one overall contract that we'd point to.
And if you've seen the spine market really frankly over the last couple of years a mid single digit decline in prices is what we generally see over a number of quarters.
And our next question comes from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking the question.
I wanted to come back to the gross margin.
And I think the explanation around the trajectory is quite clear on what we have seen thus far.
But as you look forward as you add up the headwinds and tailwinds at least the way I am thinking about the headwinds are obviously product mix.
In the near term you have the impact of M&amp;A and then pricing currency.
But on the tailwind side it seems like over time some of those acquisition headwinds probably abate.
You have the GQ&amp;O efforts and then neuro seems to be doing pretty well as is trauma and extremity.
So can we --- what does it take to neutralize some of those forces around the gross margin line and flatten that out on a go forward basis.
So let me just hit on a couple of the ones that you just talked about.
So from an acquisition perspective absolutely.
Acquisitions impacted in a period only right.
Once it anniversaries itself now its part of our base and also keep in mind as we move into the end of the integration of acquisitions that's actually a piece that helps us improve margin rates over time because we can ultimately leverage some of the benefits of our broader operations to the GQ&amp;O team to help those acquisitions improve.
So its really just the one year where it wasn't in the base but its in kind of the current numbers.
As far as for the product side of the mix the general product mix the large part of that is driven really by how strong our equipment growth and instruments growth has been broadly in this quarter.
And at 16% this quarter that was very strong.
So I think we are still expecting to see good instrument strength and MedSurg growth as we move into the fourth quarter especially since we have not fully anniversaried kind of the relaunch of our Neptune product.
But over time we would think that that balance would be a little bit more in line with some of our historical related averages.
And then as it relates to pricing; pricing is incrementally a little bit stronger here and that is something that our broader based GQ&amp;O team is focused on knowing that we need to be working hard at our broad based cost improvement initiatives to help offset those types of costs.
Okay that's helpful.
And maybe just a follow-up for Kevin or Katherine; as you think about the organic growth rate at the Analyst Day kind of one of the things that you tried to stress was the company's ability to sustain an above [indiscernible] growth rate which obviously based on the results today you're tracking well ahead of.
But if you think on a going forward basis whether its in the context of the 5% to 6% that you're offering what are the factors that lead things to be upside relative to either the current run rate or what you're targeting here? Is it MAKO -- how much would have to come from the MAKO environment versus anything you can do on the individual product side or share gain initiative? So we're really obviously a growth oriented company both in terms of the acquisitions that we pursue as well as if you look at our R&amp;D spend over the last few years.
We are spending at a pretty healthy rate in R&amp;D and our new product cycle across all the division which I get a chance to visit and do business reviews are very exciting.
So a combination of both internally developed products as well as acquisitions will continue to fuel what Stryker has really been known for for years and years and years which are incredibly strong and talented sales organizations that can really deliver results.
And you're seeing that.
You're seeing us perform above the market over quarter after quarter after quarter and with the pipeline of products coming in and feeding into these really specialized dedicated sales forces we see this as a sustainable engine for continued strong growth.
And our next question comes from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Hi thanks.
Can you hear me okay? Yes we can.
Hi Bob.
Hi great.
Good afternoon.
So two things first on the repatriation opportunity I think this is an obviously question but I just want to be clear.
So that opportunity is an opportunity to bring cash back to the United States without paying a tax penalty correct? So the tax penalty that we are talking about would be relatively minor and actually part of the tax hit that you see in this quarter include the cost of bringing back those funds.
So once we in essence make a decision that we are ultimately going to be bringing back funds from O-U.S.
which we actually did this quarter we have to actually book that U.S.
tax in our GAAP numbers right upfront once we make that decision because the specific action associated with on an expectation of how we are going to utilize that cash.
So that's already reflected and we would not expect to book any additional tax charge when we repatriate that but we would then have the cash outflow of the tax that we have already accrued now.
So Bob so obviously the tax charge we have has two components.
So it’s a moving of the IP as well as repatriation.
But the repatriation is in the 5% kind of range its similar to the tax that we paid when we had those holidays to bring back cash a very-very nominal rate [indiscernible] bring back.
If we try to bring back further dollars then we would have to pay a much higher rate which is not interesting to us.
Okay.
I will want to understand the mechanism of that a little better.
But I will save that for a later time.
The other quick question I wanted to ask was just back on pricing and the -- I understand the comment about sort of sequentially seeing a stability in the rate of change versus what you've seen over the last couple of quarters.
But Kevin as you look forward just maybe express your confidence that you can maintain relative stability in the level of decline in pricing versus where you're right now as we again look forward into not just Q4 but thinking about 2015.
I think that's a hot button issue for a lot of investors and we'd just love to hear reviews on how confident you are that that can remain stable.
Well Bob obviously I don't have a crystal ball to know exactly what the future is going to hold.
I would say there are no new dynamics at play.
So these are the same dynamics we have been saying over the last couple of years around physician-hospital alignment around contracting the pressure that hospitals are feeling.
So its similar dynamics.
We are seeing stability over the course of the last couple of quarters.
It is a little bit more under pressure than it was in the prior year.
But if we saw a new catalyst that would be something that I'd be more worried about.
But its really the same catalyst and contracts sort of come and go.
There is different cycles that are underway and as MAKO ramps and as we start to place robots we really believe that as a fantastic differentiator for us and something that we will be able -- for Stryker at least to insulate us from some of the price pressure going forward.
So that for us is one of the key advantages.
But the marketplace hasn't fundamentally changed.
There are no new catalysts.
If there were then that would be -- it would create a lot more uncertainty for me and what we are seeing right now.
We are seeing pretty good discipline among the competitive players in the marketplace.
So from that standpoint there will be some consolidation pending in the industry.
I think that's also a catalyst for more stability generally if you look at other industries and what's happening in other industries.
And our next question comes from Rick Wise from Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon everybody.
Couple of questions; SG&amp;A clearly going down as a percentage of sales.
Trying to understand where do we go from here? How sustainable is this directionally? Is this is a onetime one year major stepdown or with [indiscernible] charges are a lot more to come.
Just help us think about that if you would? So on the SG&amp;A side of the equation we have been averaging about roughly 1.5% of improvement as a percent of sales this year.
This last quarter obviously a little bit stronger again than that.
But I'd say when we can grow at the levels that we just grew at we can absolutely get additional leverage from our broader based operations and that's what we are generally driving throughout all the goals and expectations for each of the different divisions.
We on top of that obviously have a number of different cost initiatives to try and make sure that we are focused on taking costs out of the organization where it makes sense.
So I'd say that we made good progress on a number of fronts over the last couple of years and I'd say that we still believe that there is some good progress yet to be made.
So I don't think we talk about an endpoint but I would say that if we continually can grow north of kind of the 5% range in general that we can typically get some good leverage off of that moving forward.
Yeah specifically related to G&amp;A.
So on the selling side we have taken out quite a bit of expense on the selling line this year and some in the G&amp;A area.
But in G&amp;A we still have significant room for savings by driving more shared services where we have just a couple of small pockets in Stryker right now that have moved to shared services.
We have not generalized that across the corporation and that's something we will be pushing forward in the next couple of years.
I just want to emphasize this European headquarters was a massive undertaking.
So you're seeing the side of the benefits related to repatriation of cash and tax improvements.
But to actually provide system changes and to remap all of our transactions involved hundreds of people across our organization over the last year to put this change into effect.
So we will see those benefits but those resources were burning a lot of energy on this project.
We are now going to turn their focus and their attention on driving more shared services.
And so we see room to continue to drive efficiency and leverage.
That's great Kevin.
And my follow-up again I don't know if I should put these in the same sentence but the $2 billion repatriation and the comment about reinvesting 50% of the tax savings etc could this potentially help you offset some of the clearly obvious FX headwinds in some way could you reinvest a smaller amount of the tax savings or be more aggressive.
Are these levers we should believe or assume that you're reflecting on as you put together your 2015 plan? There are a lot of dynamics and a lot of variables as we put together a plan.
So a lot of what you say will be things that we will think through and will provide clear guidance in January and characterize those elements for you in a very clear manner.
And our next question comes from Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Bill I wanted to focus on the tax rate.
I think you said if I heard correctly that you expect it to be down sequentially in Q4 but you still expect to come in at about 22% for the full year and that the R&amp;D tax credit would be reflected in Q4.
I guess did I hear correctly and that would seem to get you down to about 21%.
So maybe if you could help clarify my misunderstanding? Sure.
Yeah that's a little bit of a misunderstanding there.
But we are expecting -- we have got a year-to-date adjusted operating effective tax rate of about 22% so far year-to-date.
That's actually the rate that we are expecting for the full year which would imply that the fourth quarter will be relatively close to that rate.
As we move forward though into 2015 we do expect to reduce our average tax rate from 14 to 15 by about two full percentage points.
So if we average roughly 22 this year you should be thinking in the neighborhood of around 20% next year as you are looking at 2015.
Got it.
So that means if the -- sorry go ahead.
Just maybe one other point of clarification which was around the tax extender comment.
So the tax extenders are currently in our year end forecast.
So if those don't come then obviously that puts a little bit additional pressure on this year's tax but hopefully at the end of the day if it doesn't come this year we would sure expect it to come next year and may have like a double year benefit as we did back in 2012.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then the Q4 implied guidance if my math is correct is 3% to 7%.
I understand you have one less selling day in Q4 but is there any reason that you would be towards the low end of the guidance given the strength and momentum we saw this quarter? Thanks.
Fourth quarter is pretty volatile as we have seen in the past and certainly capital equipment is a big thrust in the fourth quarter and is inherently volatile.
So based on how we close this quarter I wouldn't think we'd be expecting to be at the low end of the range.
But it’s a range and there is unknowns that could happen.
But we are certainly feeling -- at this point we are feeling pretty good but its always inherently volatile.
And our next question comes from Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Can you hear me okay? We can now Joanne.
Thanks and good evening.
Thanks for taking the question.
We have heard on a couple of calls say for about O-U.S.
weakness it has ranged from problem in Europe to problems in the Middle East and other areas.
Could you please comment if you are experiencing any of this? Yeah.
So for us it’s a little different given the makeup of our business.
So in Europe we have a smaller business that we have really strengthened over the last couple of years.
We had a strong quarter in Europe again in the third quarter.
And so we may not be indicative of the overall broad market based on our presence.
China we had extremely strong growth well north of 20%.
India was very strong.
Now look at all the emerging markets we were very strong double digit growth.
Even if I look at our EMEA our region had a good performance.
So clearly Russia and Turkey are two areas that are problematic.
But beyond those two areas the rest of our international -- and we feel pretty good about our performance and the markets are holding up well.
The challenges that we had in Japan are I would say more Stryker specific challenges beyond obviously the price cuts that everyone experienced.
We have some of our own challenges.
But international for us is a bright spot and we are feeling -- our organic growth was very strong in Q3 and the overall negatives that I have heard as well haven't really applied as much to Stryker.
It could be based on our market presence and the momentum that we have in those regions.
That's helpful.
And as a follow-up question the two points that you will experience in tax reduction in 2015 does that become status quo or is there still more room for you to move it down? Thank you.
That's a loaded question.
I think that you can assume that we have a number of different areas that we want to continue to focus on and ultimately can see opportunities for improvement but also keep in mind that worldwide pressures within different municipalities around the world both in the U.S.
and other European and international countries are all looking for ways to increase their broader based revenue.
So while we have opportunities on improvement there is also the broader pressure on areas where governments or different areas are trying to help or reduce kind of those levels from at least the impact on their overall tax rate.
So we are absolutely focused on it and we are going to continue to make efforts there.
But as far as projecting it we aren't projecting anything in Jan 2015.
If you look at the last 10 years in Stryker's performance on this line it has been pretty steady and pretty meaningful improvements; and this is a big change which required a -- it was a big project.
But you shouldn't assume that we are content and that we are going to just sit still.
And our next question comes from Matt Taylor from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi couple of questions.
So you had a really nice quarter on your capital business and talk about this improving environment; that's a little inconsistent with some of the other results we have seen and what hospitals are talking about.
So I am just curious if there is anything to do with new products or big orders or you really think that they are opening up for whatever reason is it ACA or some factor in Europe that we are not seeing because a lot of other things that we have seen so far seem to point to relatively weak capital market? I would go back to our comments which were -- we are seeing signs of a moderate improvement in the capital environment.
Its very difficult for us to know how much of that is just us executing better than competitors versus an overall strengthening in the market.
But just looking at our medical results and looking at our pipeline and thinking about the momentum we are seeing really across our MedSurg businesses on the implant and the capital side that's what we are seeing now.
Again its just one quarter and we don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves but we feel pretty good about sings of at least a moderate improvement in the overall environment.
And then on ortho are you seeing any disruption from other big deals that are going on in the space? Is that something you could take advantage of and what are you doing well in hips and knees that your competitors aren't doing that? So I'd say related to consolidation and disruption we are not really seeing much in the way of disruption yet.
As we saw with the previous big acquisition the disruption really didn't occur sort of post implementation.
Once implementation begins and people really understand what does this mean to me that's when we really start to see disruption.
So I would say its sort of business as usual right now and we are seeing a pretty stable marketplace at least at this point once the companies integrate that's usually when we see -- tend to see more turmoil.
As it relates to our performance the story on hips is not a new story somewhat like trauma.
Trauma of course double digits and continued sustained performance; in hips if you go back 12 quarters we have been growing faster than the market at a pretty steady rate.
A combination of some new products like Accolade II as well as really strong execution in the field; and then on the knee business we have just been performing with the market which is a very good performance given that we had two large competitive launches that we have been able to perform well.
So our field sales organization has done really an excellent job and we feel we are in a very good position.
And our next question comes from Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
I think I had everything answered.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Mike.
And our next question comes from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for the follow-up.
I just wanted to confirm two things I guess; one on the FX the $0.10 to $0.12 that is incremental to what you would expect to finish 2014 at? That's correct.
That's the year-over-year impact that we would see next year.
That's if exchange rates stay at their current levels.
Based on current rates right.
And this year what is the total FX included within your forecast roughly? The FX that we are talking about in 2014 is now up to about $0.12 negative impact for us and that's about $0.04 worse than what we expected at the end of the second quarter.
Most of that $0.04 differential is occurring in the fourth quarter.
Yeah.
So Bill mentioned before once that hit us in the third quarter if the rates stay where they are now there would be a $0.03 additional hit in the fourth quarter.
So its just coincidental that that $0.12 would be similar to next year.
Okay.
And then just a bigger picture I guess if we look at the overall pricing dynamics of hips and knees down in the mid single digits.
We are still seeing really strong obviously sales growth and I don't suspect mix is contributing all that much so its really implying you got unit volume growth probably somewhere in the mid to high single digits.
How long do you think you can seek kind of this high single digit volume growth really sustain itself and what would be a more normalized unit growth environment? I think its fair to say that your statements are correct mix.
It has just been a modest benefit nowhere near offsetting price and the unit volume growth is very healthy.
Certainly in the case of hips we think that is also reflective of consistent market share gains.
And its difficult to know exactly what the market is going to grow at on a go forward basis.
We have been talking about it being largely stable.
We don't see any reason really to move away from that.
What we are really focused on though is how do we drive market share gains whether its with our existing portfolio and products like Accolade II or obviously getting into next year and beyond leveraging the MAKO.
So its really all about market share being our focus.
Its 5:45 I think we are going to wrap the call up operator.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
So thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the fourth quarter 2014 results will be held on January 27 2015.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Stryker's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Cuba and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the conference we will conduct a question-and-answer session and one follow-up question.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me today are Bill Jellison our CFO; and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Following my opening comments Katherine will provide an update on our M&amp;A activity.
Bill will then offer details on our quarterly reports before turning to question and answers.
Our topline performance in Q4 reflected our ongoing goal to grow organic sales at the high end of MedTech.
With both the fourth quarter and full year revenue increasing close to 6% excluding the impact of FX and acquisitions we maintained strong sales momentum and delivered results at the high end of our initial expectations of 4.5% to 6% growth.
Q4 results were impacted by one less selling day which negatively impacted sales by approximately 1%.
Somewhat to prior quarters our diversified revenue base remains a key advantage as all three business segments; Orthopedics MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine again delivered positive year-over-year gains.
In the U.S.
Orthopedics which is up against very tough comparisons from 2013 registered over 7% growth.
Trauma and extremities including foot and ankle continued it's impressive multi-year track record with healthy double-digit growth.
Hips once again posted strong results while knees came in flat.
Turning to MAKO we're gaining considerable momentum with the sale of 20 robots in the quarter up from eight in Q3 and the highest level of quarterly units ever achieved.
Q4 also represented the highest MAKO procedure volume increasing double-digits year-over-year.
Katherine will provide additional details regarding the number of key milestones for MAKO that we're targeting in 2015.
U.S.
MedSurg had a standout quarter led by impressive organic growth for both instruments and medical.
Continued gains for Neptune our strengthening hospital CapEx environment and strong sales force execution drove these results.
Our U.S.
Neurotechnology businesses continued their momentum with double-digit growth which more than offset some softness in our core spine business.
Coming off a strong Q3 of this year and strong comps from Q4 of last year our international businesses grew nearly 4% in constant currency.
Our challenges in Japan which began in Q2 with a difficult ERP implementation continued and were acute in hips and knees.
Our other divisions had good performances and we are particularly pleased with our results in China and sustained growth in Europe.
Gross margin came in slightly above Q3 levels reflecting similar trends we experienced throughout the year including pricing headwinds the negative effect of mix and foreign exchange while also reflecting ongoing improvements in cost of goods sold.
We remain focused on reducing operating cost with SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales decreasing by 140 basis points year-over-year.
R&amp;D increased the year-over-year both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of sales underscoring our ongoing commitment to innovation both internal development and acquisitions the benefits of which are apparent in out topline performance.
Looking ahead to 2015 we are well positioned to continue our growth.
The new European regional headquarters coupled with our just launched transatlantic operating model will set the stage for multiyear improvement in our growth profile in Western Europe and while some emerging markets have been more challenging we remain bullish on growth prospects in China and India.
Headroom remain most notably a significant negative foreign exchange impact on EPS of $0.30 a share based on current rates.
However with a strong topline ongoing reductions and operating cost and a healthy balance sheet and cash flow we're well positioned to optimize shareholder value.
For 2015 we're targeting organic sales growth of 4.5% to 6% with adjusted EPS in the range of $4.90 to $5.10 a share up 4% to 8%.
Excluding the impact of core foreign currency our underlying EPS growth would be in the range of 10% to 14%.
Given the heightened volatility and foreign exchange rates we will update these impacts each quarter throughout the year.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
The focus of my comments today will be on providing an update on the performance of our recent key acquisitions.
In early January we completed our most recent acquisition of privately held CHG hospital beds which show a series of innovative low height hospital beds and related accessories in markets across Canada the U.S.
and U.K.
The low height design helps reduce the risk of patient falls that are related to entering and exiting hospital beds.
Amongst CHG's innovative offerings is the recently launched Spirit One bed which is an expandable low-height bariatric bed for the acute care segment.
With this acquisition we're able to expand medical offerings of products that enhance the quality of care for both patients and healthcare professionals by helping to prevent patient related injuries resulting from a fall from a hospital bed.
Turning to MAKO as Kevin mentioned we're excited about the increasing momentum we're experiencing.
In late 2014 we submitted the 510-K application for our total knee on the MAKO robot and continue to target 2015 for FDA clearance.
Given the necessary training and education post approval we assume any revenue contribution from this indication will be somewhat limited in 2015 we expect to see a more meaningful ramp in 2016.
Beyond the total knee we're targeting Q2 for a limited release of our cement less uni knee on the robot and we're also preparing to launch Stryker's hip power brands including our highly successful accolade hip on the robot this year as well as our X3 poly bearings.
In summary the teams have made tremendous progress on the pipeline over the past 12 months and going forward we're well positioned to drive adoption and leverage the considerable breadth of Stryker's reconstructive sales and marketing presence.
Lastly I'll provide a few comments on one of our most recent acquisitions Small Bone Innovations which we acquired in August of last year.
We continue to be pleased with the progress we're making with sales tracking well against our plan.
We've conducted extensive training over the past six months which will continue into the first quarter and it includes the entire SBI portfolio of products.
The STAR Ankle is an important addition to our foot and ankle portfolio and with our dedicated sales force we expect to see continued strong momentum in 2015.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Katherine.
Sales growth was 6.1% in the fourth quarter including a negative 2.6% impact from FX translation.
Constant currency sales growth was 8.6% which includes organic growth of 5.5%.
Sales growth for the full year was 7.3% with organic growth of 5.8% acquisition growth of 2.5% and a negative 1% impact from FX translation.
EPF on a GAAP basis for the fourth quarter were $0.67 per share versus $1.01 per share last year in the fourth quarter while adjusted earnings per share were $1.44 per share in the quarter versus $1.29 per share in the quarter of last year.
This quarter’s EPS includes negative impact of approximately $0.06 from FX or $0.02 to $0.03per share worse than the prevailing Fx rates that we signaled on our third quarter earnings call.
Foreign exchange rates were very volatile during the fourth quarter and the Japanese Yen Australian Dollar the Euro and any other currencies continue to weaken against the dollar.
Earnings per share on a GAAP basis for the full year of 2014 were $1.34 versus $2.63 last year while adjusted earnings per share were $4.73 versus $4.49 per share last year.
CapEx negatively impacted the full year results by approximately $0.14 per share.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustments in the quarter included charge of approximately $116 million net of approximately $179 million of insurance recoveries received associated with the voluntary recalls of Rejuvenate and ABG II.
The adjustment also included an additional tax expense associated with the transfer of intellectual properties of the Netherlands from some of our other European locations.
The charges for the Rejuvenate matter may increase or decrease over time and as additional facts become available and assumptions become more refined.
Looking at sales in the fourth quarter our organic growth rate of 5.5% was comprised of a positive 7.4% from volume and mix while price negatively impacted sales by 2% points.
Acquisitions added 3.1% while FX added a negative 2.6% in the overall sales for the quarter.
Looking at our segments Orthopedics represented 42% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales of Orthopedic products were up 1.7% as reported and grew 4.5% at constant currency and increased 1.8% organically.
US Orthopedics sales grew 7.3% in the quarter.
Trauma and Extremities once again had another solid quarter with sales in the U.S.
increasing 18.7% and mid-single digit in international markets with approximately 25% growth in our U.S.
foot and ankle business excluding the impact from the acquisition of SBI as we continue to have great success in an expanding market.
U.S.
hips continued to increase its strong performance and grew 4.5% in the fourth quarter while U.S.
knees were flat and internationally sales were down 5% in hips and reflect in knees in constant currency as negative pricing and operational performance in Japan and comps were tougher within the period.
Next our MedSurg segment represented approximately 40% of our sales in the quarter.
Total MedSurg sales increased 12.1% as-reported and 14.1% in constant currency and increased 9.4% organically.
These results benefited from double-digit growth in our instruments business as we continued our strong performance across our product lines and reestablished clear market leadership with the Neptune product back on the market this year.
These are on a like-to-like comparison with Neptune as we re-launched the product in the first quarter of 2014.
We also had upper teen growth in endoscopy driven by recent acquisitions.
Medical also had a strong mid-teen organic and constant currency growth this quarter as the hospital capital market is picking up and we are driving excellent sales execution.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represents 18% of our sales in the quarter increased 3.9% as reported and 7% in constant currency with 6.3% organic growth.
Growth in this segment was led by double-digit growth in our Neurotechnology businesses and IVS while spinal implant sales decreased slightly.
And looking at our operational performance gross margins on an adjusted basis in the fourth quarter of 2014 were nearly flat sequentially at 66.1%.
This compares to 66.3% in the same quarter last year.
The decline in the margin rates in the quarter resulted both from negative product mix and negative price pressures.
Our mix was negative in this quarter due to the impact of recent acquisitions and strong sales of our MedSurg products.
These products have a lower gross margin rate than the company average.
Pricing was down 2% in the quarter and also 2% for the full year.
Pricing pressure remains challenging and is expected to be down approximately 2% for the company moving forward.
Margins were also negatively impacted from foreign exchange movements compared to last year.
Research and development expenses were 5.8% of sales slightly higher than last year in the quarter and this is a 10% increase in R&amp;D spending over last year while still nicely leveraging our overall operating expenses in the period.
Selling general and administrative costs on an adjusted basis expenses were $857 million or 32.7% of sales in the quarter versus 34% in the prior year period.
Strong sales growth and our cost improvement efforts delivered over a four percentage point of operational expense leverage in both the quarter and in the full year.
Operating margins on an adjusted basis were 27.5% in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to 26.% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The rate was positively impacted by operational improvements and solid improvements in operating expense leverage partially offset by lower pricing acquisition and product mix and foreign exchange rates in the quarter.
Our reported tax rate for the fourth quarter was 43.6% while our adjusted effective tax rate was 22.6%.
This compares to a 24.2% adjusted effective tax rate in the fourth quarter last year.
As we mentioned earlier we have officially opened our new European headquarters in Amsterdam.
Last year we transferred intellectual property from other countries within Europe to the Netherlands and also made decisions to repatriate nearly $2 billion from Europe to the US.
Most of those funds will be transferred to the US in the back half of 2015.
These actions triggered a tax expense between both in the third and fourth quarter of this year.
The cash outflows repayment of this tax will be fully paid out in the first half of 2.15.
The transfer of the intellectual property provides us more flexibility in managing our operations in the future and aligns the ownership with where our primary European leadership team will be located.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $5 billion of cash and marketable securities.
We also had $4 billion of debt on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
And from an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended the fourth quarter at 54 or one day better than the fourth quarter of last year or of 2013 and Days in inventory finished the quarter at 160 days which was a eight day increase compared to 152 days in the fourth quarter last year due to acquisitions and some higher inventory in some of our international locations.
Turning to cash flow our cash from operations in 2014 was $1.8 billion which was similar to 2013.
Capital expenditures were $233 million in 2014 compared to $195 million in 2013.
Share repurchases we still have over $500 million available for share repurchase under a current authorization as approximately $100 of share repurchases were made at 2014 but no additional shares were repurchased in the fourth quarter.
As we look to 2015 our sales guidance includes constant currency growth of 5.5% to 7% with organic sales growth in the range of 4.5% to 6%.
The foreign exchange rates hold near current levels.
We expect net sales in the first quarter and full year of 2015 to be negatively impacted by approximately 3% to 4% points.
Each quarter had the same number of selling days in 2015 as in 2014.
Pricing pressure will continue and is expected to be lower by approximately 2% for the company moving forward consistent with the pricing environment we experienced throughout 2014.
We expect our full year adjusted effective tax rate in 2015 will be closer to 20% or over two full percentage points lower than in 2014.
As mentioned previously we plan on reinvesting approximately half of our tax savings associated with European Regional Head Quarters.
These additional investments will be to support our new structure within Europe and to supplement our selling and marketing activities.
Please also note that the renewal of the tax extenders for 2015 is reflected in our projected tax rate and our earnings guidance for the full year.
However we do not have any benefit planned in our first quarter guidance and we don’t expect them to be approved until late in the year.
If the extenders are not approved and made effective again this year it will negatively impact our earnings guidance for the full year by approximately $0.05 per share.
Capital expenditures are expected to be slightly over $300 million in 2015 and as we continue to invest in our operations and IT infrastructure and assuming there are no debt increases for acquisitions or significant share repurchases we would expect net interest expense to run approximately $30 million for quarter on an average for 2015.
Based on the current FX rates we would expect 2015 to be negatively impacted by approximately $0.30 per share for the full year and approximately $0.08 for the quarter -- the first quarter.
This is higher than we have shared a few weeks ago as the Euro has weakened further by nearly four to five percentage points and the Swiss Franc suddenly strengthened approximately 15% after it decoupled its currency sealing from the Euro recently.
This negative impact is largely driven by the translational component of FX which we do not hedge.
The transactional impact of FX on earnings is being offset by both natural and real hedges which we continue to layer into our operations.
And finally 2015 adjusted net earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $4.90 to $5.10 with adjusted net earnings per share in the range of $1.05 to $1.10 for the first quarter of 2015.
Thanks for your support and we’d be glad to answer any questions that you may have at this time.
Great.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Can you hear me okay? Yeah we can.
Okay perfect.
Let me start with a balance sheet question and for those who weren’t at the conference couple of weeks ago we had talked about the comments that Stryker put in the press release on the preliminary 4Q numbers about utilizing the balance sheet.
In the fourth quarter the company didn’t buyback any stock.
Can you just talk about just kind of current thoughts on A; why didn’t you buyback any stock in the fourth quarter? And could you just give us some more of your thoughts relative to the use of the balance sheet in 2015 just building off the comments you made a couple of weeks back? Yeah Mike.
So this is Kevin.
So what I would tell you on that is what I have been consistently saying which is the first priority for cash is for acquisitions and obviously the timing of acquisitions is unpredictable.
And that if those acquisitions don’t materialize in a reasonable period of time then we would be open to larger share buybacks.
So right now we are pursuing the acquisition deal flow and we'll see what happens.
Okay and the -- is the plan -- so the plan for now don’t buyback any stock until you have a better read on the M&amp;A environment and depending on how it plays out then you would start to buy back stock but ultimately the goal is the thought process at least is to end the year with a balance sheet that has more leverage than it does going into the year? Maybe I will chime in with a couple of comments.
There is really no change from our expectations from prior years as Kevin said M&amp;A is the primary use in any given year we assume something in the $400 million range in terms of share repurchases and I think that should be the assumption around expectations at the start of this year given what we know.
And then if the deal flow doesn’t keep pace as Kevin mentioned before we would be open to larger buybacks but as a going in assumption what’s reflected in our range is the normal something in that $400 million-ish vicinity in terms of normal year buybacks.
It will vary quarter-to-quarter for a variety of reasons but that should be a good assumption that’s reflected in the range we put out.
Katherine the comment from the press release and from a couple of weeks back relative to exiting 2015 with a different balance sheet and the company entered 2015.
That still holds the idea that the company does have a different view than Stryker had historically on utilizing the balance sheet? Yeah Mike.
What I’d say we didn’t put a specific timeframe.
In the press release we didn’t say exiting 2015 but what we did say is we acknowledge the strength of our balance sheet and that we do plan to put our money to work.
So while we weren’t specific in timing we do say that over a reasonable period of time we will not stay at the kind of balance sheet position that we are in right now and it's possible for me to put a precise date on that given the timing of our deal flows but the statement was put in there for a reason.
And the reason the statement was put in there is to acknowledge the strength of the balance sheet and that we do plan to put it to work but we were not specific in terms of whether that will be over a six month nine months 12 months period of time.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead David.
Good afternoon.
Kevin I think the one issue in the quarter is lot of strength in a lot of different segments but U.S.
recon and obviously O.U.S.
Japan you talked about but it wasn’t clear in the U.S.
what specifically is pressuring hips and knees.
It looks like the price was stable sequentially.
Many of your competitors also dealt with more challenging comps.
Was there anything specific you can point us to in U.S.
subsidies which could have driven the incremental comp adjusted deceleration? And in your assumptions in 2015 can you give us a sense of what that assumes in terms of this strong CapEx business? Does it also assume a recon here in the U.S.
in the first half of '15? Yeah so David.
What I’d say is we certainly had very strong comps from the prior year right.
We have are plus 10% in the U.S.
in hips we were plus 8% in the U.S.
in knees but we haven’t seen all of our competitors report yet.
So I’d really want to wait to see how everybody else reports before we determine how our results stack up versus all of the competition.
I would say we didn’t notice the same kind of spike in the fourth quarter of 2014 as we noticed in the fourth quarter of 2013.
And so normally what we see over a six-month period is you'll start to see a big spike and then you see a drop off.
So we will see what happens over the course of the first quarter this year but I would think with the spike being not as dramatic that we won’t see quite as much of a drop off this quarter but we still believe we're doing well in the market with knees.
We've been holding our own over the last couple of years and don’t anticipate that anything major has changed there.
And as it relates to the CapEx environment certainly we had a fantastic fourth quarter of last year across all of our MedSurg businesses and medical in particular had a very very strong jump towards the end of the year.
We're seeing a better environment overall.
We're also executing very very well in the field.
So we do expect continued strong momentum in MedSurg in 2015.
Thank you.
And now our next question is going to come from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks very much.
Can you hear me okay? Yes we can Bob.
Great good afternoon.
So just to follow up on Mike’s question on basically the guidance and the balance sheet so you're guiding to $4.90 to $5.10 and Katherine I think you said that assumes a normalized $400 million in buyback.
So is it sort of a logical conclusion here that if there are no larger deals then it’s likely that you’d have a larger buyback which would put upward pressure on this EPS range that you're providing today? I think Bob that the assumption that $300 million to $400 million that’s the normal walking around in any given year level of buybacks and exactly if the pace of acquisitions isn’t such that it’s keeping up with the cash flow we generate we would be open to doing larger buybacks.
There is a lot of variables that go into what could impact the upper or lower end of our range and obviously FX is probably the biggest one but clearly just isolating that to the degree that buybacks are larger and that would be reflected towards the upper end of the range.
Okay.
And then one follow-up for Bill could you just walk me through the comment that your guidance here is assuming that you'll drive 10% to 14% underlying EPS growth obviously ex the currency impact.
So I guess a little over 5% of that is from revenue growth 2% from tax rate a little bit from buyback how much underlying operating margin leverage are you assuming in 2015 in this guidance? Sure actually Bob within a current year guidance we don’t give operational income related guidance.
I think that what we have said in the past is that we do drive to get operating leverage in the 20 to 30 basis points or so per year on an average at least over a two or three year period of time.
Keep in mind that we also mentioned earlier this year and also just now on the call as far as that we are planning to reinvest some of the dollars associated with the tax improvements in the rate side of equation back into some of the expense categories.
So you probably won’t see as much leverage overall within the operating income side as we would normally be driving especially in the expense category.
Thank you.
Go ahead.
So I was just going to add Bob on the EPS line the 10% to 14% improvement is clearly a strong underlying performance on earnings per share and the tax benefit is about 1.5.
So if you assume that the $0.07 is reinvested it's about 1.5% improvement.
So even if you take the 1.5 out it’s still growing EPS significantly faster than our top line in 2015.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I was wondering if you could just go over again the international performance within the orthopedic business.
I know you commented on Japan but maybe if you could help us just understand how quickly it will take to turn that around and just remind us again the breakout of what Europe did relative to Japan in the quarter? Yeah so Kristen just a high level I’d say Japan is certainly the biggest market that we have internationally and we mentioned on past two calls that we had an ERP system that didn’t go very well.
That system is now stabilized.
That’s the good news.
The bad news is that while we're going through our challenges especially in the hip and knee market which has instruments and sets and where system reliability is extremely important.
We certainly lost market share and we now need to regain that market share and just because our system is fixed the business is not going back to us automatically.
So we have to re-earn that business.
I would think that we will start to see that improve beginning in the second quarter of next year.
I would say Europe overall continues to perform well slightly pacing with growth and slightly pacing above the market.
In any given quarter you can see variations between our capital equipment and our implants and we don't sort of break down every single country and regions between implants in capital but I’d say that the biggest reason for that sluggishness in recon and particularly in hips is Japan.
And that’s a market that historically has been very reliable for us and where we have very strong market share but certainly it has been a drag in the second half of this year and particularly in the fourth quarter and we're going to turn that around.
So I would assume by the end of '15 we will be back but it’s -- like we saw in Europe.
It took us a little bit of time.
This one unfortunately was a bit self-inflected.
I expected that I have a new CIO and a new leadership team in our information technology group.
The CIO was hired at the end of May and he has added four new leaders to his team.
So I am a lot more optimistic about future ERP implementations but this one certainly has been challenging and had a knock-on effect of losing market share.
So just to make sure I understood you said that Japan is going to continue to be a drag.
This year we won’t see improvement until the second quarter of 2016? No 2015.
'15 okay.
We'll start to see improvement by the end of 2015 -- by the second quarter of '15.
Okay.
But it won’t get fully back I don't think towards the end of the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Raj Denhoy from Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi thank you.
I wondered if I could ask you a bit about the Mako performance in the quarter.
You may be highlighted the 20 orders that you placed.
I am curious maybe you can offer in terms of where are those replaced what’s driving that demand? And then secondly as you prepare to launch the -- or get approval and launch the knee product in the U.S.
when might we see some data in terms of some of the performance attributes of that product? Yeah I will take that and we weren’t really pleased.
Obviously we had some integration challenges earlier in the year and -- but we worked through a lot of those and being able to really leverage the breadth of our sales and marketing infrastructure.
I won’t be specific about which locations and where we placed the 20 robots.
I would say though the teams have done a great job of making sure when they do place a robot it’s in a facility that has a clear surge and champion and that really is key to ensuring that the utilization rates and the procedure volume is consistent with the expectations when we place that.
So they're in the right locations and we will continue to drive that strategy going forward.
In terms of clinical data there is -- we will have data at AOS.
There is a number of studies that have been done but it will take time.
The early adopters will be less focused on longer term follow-up studies but we're investing a lot in clinical data and understanding importance to driving long-term wide-scale adoption.
If I could ask maybe one follow-up on that? In terms of -- I think you highlighted that when you looked at the investments you made in various areas.
Maker really was your investment in orthopedics or has been to date in kind of orthopedics and I am -- I guess I am curious about how you view that investment? Is this really where you're seeing the future of orthopedics developing over time or do you still think there is a role for sort of the old way of doing orthopedics as well? Well we’ve made a number of bets in various sizes within orthopedics if you look at SBI and foot and ankle for trauma in extremities which falls under that umbrella but in terms of the largest bet yes clearly MAKO is a big bet.
We're in the enviable position and given our balance sheet and our cash generation we can continue to do the tucking deals which tend to be the majority of our M&amp;A but make these bigger bets.
We really believe it is going to revolutionize how orthopedic surgery reconstructive surgery is performed.
We think the total knee which we filed for in late 2014 is by far the biggest market opportunity and it is a big bet.
We believe we can drive meaningful market share gains which has really never been done on a sustained basis in the reconstructive market.
So it’s a clear bet on the direction that the industry is going to go and the benefit that we can bring to patients to surgeons and to the overall healthcare systems with the technology that we got with the robot.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Jason Wittes from Brean Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you very much.
So last week I attended a podiatric meeting and I was very surprised at how well you guys have been doing in building out large contract with hospitals especially in the foot and ankle business but also amongst trauma and extremities.
So I guess I just wanted to kind of get a better sense of your strategy here.
Should we assume that when you're looking at those areas those are areas that you look at as right for hospital contracting and some type of bundling? Is that kind of the right way to think about it? We'll we shifted our focus about three years ago to moving towards full account conversions which is frankly something that wasn’t possible.
Five six years ago we didn’t have the product portfolio to be able to do like a complete account conversion and so we would have niche products in different hospitals around the country and that shift and focus to total account conversion took us a little bit of time but it’s not working.
So we're providing the service we have all the products in our portfolio either through primarily internal development but also supplemented by acquisitions where we can actually run the entire trauma service center and service line of a hospital.
And then obviously foot and ankle there is a presence within the hospital but there is also podiatric surgeons that are operating outside of a hospital.
So we have a dedicated team that sells outside the hospital and we have our existing trauma and extremities sales force that’s selling inside the hospital.
So we are very pleased with the -- obviously the performance.
The market share we've been gaining over the past five years steady growth as well as getting into a new market and growing our sales in foot and ankle where people were not using implants before.
So it’s been a great experience over the past few years to watch the foot and ankle business grow.
With the SBI acquisition we've also acquired some upper extremity products that look very exciting and I think that’s the market that we see as right for growth as well and we will be piloting some specialized sales people in the upper extremities area and we look to grow that going forward.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Derrick Sung from Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
Kevin I was wondering if I could first get your thoughts on a few aspects around the consolidation that’s happening across the industry namely in the near term are you seeing any potential advantages from the disruptions with the potential -- upcoming consolidations from one of your large competitors.
Longer term how do you see the price environment evolving with consolidation in the industry and do you see room for further consolidation beyond where we are at today? Yeah so I am not going to talk about further consolidation but what I would say is every time there is an acquisition in the space there is disruption.
So we certainly saw that with a few [some] [ph].
We saw disruption and many of our competitors as well as us were able to capitalize on that.
I think with the upcoming mergers in the environment there will be disruptions.
We haven’t seen it yet.
I think once the acquisition happens you will see some sort of disruption.
We plan for that ourselves and we do acquisitions.
We did the SBI acquisition we planned for a certain level of disruption.
We experienced some disruption of our own when we did the MAKO integration.
So integrations will always create some form of disruption.
It tends not to be long term in nature but certainly something that we look to capitalize upon as any competitors of ours would have mergers or acquisitions in their space.
And what about the pricing environment? Do you expect that to change at all with the consolidation that we're seeing? Yeah what I would rather sort of step back and look at across all industries.
When you see consolidation generally you tend to see a moderating of your price impact.
So that will have to play itself out but normally in any other market when you see the number of competitors reducing you do tend to see and in our case obviously a market that has rapid price erosion you would imagine that that would start to moderate over time.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you and good afternoon everybody.
I want to start with a question for Kevin.
You did talk quite a bit about some of the trend internationally.
You referenced the Europe experience and now what’s going on in Japan but maybe you could just talk about more broadly your ex U.S.
strategy that sort of looking at your business compared to the peers.
International does represent a smaller percentage of total and given some of the fits and starts in that business are you undertaking more of a broader review of how international is being run and what gives you confidence in the sustainability of a turnaround in those franchises? Yeah so for us emerging markets represent 8% of our sales and still does now and obviously even with strong U.S.
dollar which is driving up its share of our overall sales.
In that we had strong growth in emerging markets strong double digit growth.
China continues to be a fantastic market both the premium segment as well as the lower price segment.
Those lower price segment products we're going to be launching in India which had very good growth but albeit at a small market.
So I would say within emerging markets China and India are going to be two areas that we're going to focus very heavily on and that’s from a position of strength.
Where we're weaker are in some of the other markets like Russia and Turkey and Brazil and frankly all of Latin America where we've historically had a much lower market share.
We were starting to invest and obviously you’ve seen what’s happening in those markets.
It’s actually not a bad time not to have a huge presence in Russia and Turkey and some of these markets.
So we're not going to be hit as hard as some other companies.
I think we're going to delay those investments until the market gets a little bit more healthy.
Europe we're obviously really focused on Europe and we're investing.
We’ve created a reporting structure that has sales and marketing organizations of Western Europe reporting into our divisions that are based in the U.S.
and I think that change is dramatic.
It’s going to drive focus.
It's going to drive specialization and our market shares in Western Europe are far below where they are in other markets.
So Japan to me this is an anomaly.
This is a market that we've historically been very very strong and same as Australia.
It's a very strong market that had another great year in 2014.
Challenge is there you have foreign exchanges working heavily against us and obviously Bill talked about the magnitude of foreign exchange impact in 2015 but this is not doing complete overhaul of international.
We're dialing back in some of the emerging markets continuing to invest very heavily in China and India focusing on Western Europe which I have talked about for the last three years and actually accelerating that impact with this transatlantic model that we're launching.
Japan was an unpredicted and it’s a business of our size with the breadth that we have things sometimes go wrong.
So this was a case where we put an ERP system in it.
It didn't go well.
It uncovered some other problems which actually changed some of the leadership in Japan to turn around -- things don't always go smoothly.
So I wish I could tell you something but it's not that the strategy was wrong in Japan.
We had these types of strong business in Japan for many many years.
We just hit a speed bump and we have to get back on track.
Okay.
That's our perspective and for Bill one clarification I am not sure I heard you correctly.
I think you said in your prepared remarks $30 million of net interest per quarter but that would be materially higher than what you've been running was that right and if so why? And then secondly on CapEx that $300 million number for 2015 is that the new run rate or is there something specific going on in 2015 that boost that number above the normalized trend? Sure so first on the CapEx side of the equation we actually stated that even already last year in advance so it's going into this year.
We actually didn't spend that same level.
Some of that got carried over already into 2015.
We are planning on spending a little bit heavier on an ongoing basis here for a number of reasons as we talked about both reinvesting in some of the IT technology base throughout the organization as well as just covering the faster growth of the organic growth side of our business that we've got and then investing in those businesses around the world.
So one I think that that's relatively consistent.
We should be actually spending at a higher CapEx level as we mentioned more consistently moving forward over the next three four five years.
If you talk about the interest expense side we actually were running pretty close to that same similar level throughout most of 2014.
There is actually some adjustments for a couple of different things that have taken place within different periods but that's pretty much what our average run rate has been throughout this year or throughout the 14 year and as we move into '15 it should run at a similar level.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Mike Matson from Needham &amp; Company.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Just a question on the hedging program that you're implementing I am just wondering is this sort of a moving target? In another words as the currencies keep moving pretty sharply does that sort of push out the point at which you would be fully hedged? No.
so the program that we talked about before the layered hedging as for transactional related hedges and as we mentioned before a hedging program ultimately mitigates or minimizes some of that volatility in the risk in any specific period.
It doesn’t eliminate the risk.
So if rates went down and stayed down you're ultimately going to see the impact of those as you continue to move forward.
We generally have for our transactional base about six different quarters that are hedged at any point in time and it's a rolling hedge program.
So you're in essence getting the average of those six quarters in your transactional related purchases but we're really getting the full impact each quarter of any other translational side.
So as we've earnings in a specific country each quarter those earnings get translated at whatever the current rates are and so you'll see that level of impact but our layered hedging is pretty much in place and should continue to be in place as we move forward.
Okay.
And then just with the MedSurg business growing so much faster than your other businesses I was just wondering if you could remind us what the impact -- what impact that has on your gross and operating margins for the company overall? I seem to remember that it has a negative impact on your gross margin but at the operating line it's not all that different from the other businesses? Yes so we've not given specific feedback on any of our divisions or groups but I think directionally that's absolutely correct.
So our margin rates within our broader base MedSurg Group are lower and actually that is one of the negative mixes that we talked about as MedSurg has been obviously growing much quicker than some of our businesses especially during 2014.
And from an overall operating income perspective all of our businesses perform extremely well within the broader base environment but some do have slightly lower rates but just not to the same degree.
So in categories like MedSurg while margins would be low -- gross margins would be lower you would also be having some level of lower expenses to support that maybe our orthopedic group we have.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Bruce Nudell from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi thanks so much.
Kevin could you talk briefly in your view about the importance of cement less knee especially in the younger population is that going to be enabled by the robot and if you're able to get a cement less knee does that have intrinsic cost of goods advantages? Yes so we did launch a cement less knee with a 3D printed to their base plate about a year ago or started to see that perform very very well and the 3D printing manufacturing enabled a very poor structure which adheres to the bone very effectively and we launched it very sort of slowly with the limited launch last year.
That's gaining steam and as you all know the cement is used in most keens whereas hips are cement less as it occur in the United States.
We do think that's going to be important for the future.
The robot will make it even easier but we already have a product on the market right now that we're trying to push and we're going to push that more aggressively in 2015.
But if the robot will enhance that and enable that longer term then we do believe that that is going to become a big part of the market.
It has obviously taken longer than it has in hips but that's something that we see of being important in the future.
Also for the robot I think the team pertaining for knee where you keep the ACL intact.
I think that could become a very big part of the market.
It's obviously tiny today and will take years to play out it's starting to prove that but again that's extremely hard procedure and really will not be able to be done very effectively and consistently without the use of a robot.
So there is a lot of reasons why we make that on MAKO it's not just to be able to put in the existing procedures the same way they're being put into today but also being able to develop these new procedures as you've just outlined.
And could you just elaborate a little bit on the transatlantic approach to U.S.
and European sales and like just some of the nuts and bolts aspects that you think will be impactful? Yes so we have let's call it eight divisions and we have a number of business units underneath those divisions.
So each one of those divisions is going to have a Vice President and General Manager in Europe that will have their sales and marketing people in all the big countries reporting to them directly.
And how that affects the nuts and bolts is in the past we didn't have that business focused on Europe.
So you had sales reps selling a wide bag of products that weren’t very focused and the management team when they looked up their organizational chart they didn't necessarily know that business to the same degree of the specialization and had the same support whether it's marketing materials training access to head office.
Now that's going to be in a tight organizational alignment and we spent a whole year preparing for this.
So during the year when Europe hit their number this year and really did perform very well the country managers weren’t sure what their job is going to be? Were they going to be one of these General Managers or going to stay at the country level.
So it's been a whole year preparing for this and establishing these eight key roles.
In Western Europe we still have country managers.
The one of the mistakes we had made in prior -- in our prior iteration was taking away the prominence of the Country Manager role.
We still have that role very much in place.
It's a play out and supportive role and to make sure that the things are going well in the country and the key account role with hospitals and with surgeons but what is going to drive the specialization focus and we've seen in every market where we have specialized sales forces we win.
It's a straight formula.
It's a truism whether it's in Australia it's in Canada obviously the United States and we just never got into that stage in Western Europe and we never get to that stage if you just have the country budgets the old way we did it before.
Now that we've emerged those divisions so the person who is our President of let's call it hips and knees our Field President of hips and knees you have a P&amp;L that includes Western Europe and the United States.
And when you have that office P&amp;L you have a lot more flexibility with your dollars because you've bigger marketing budgets you've bigger R&amp;D budgets you can move money around and so if you see an exciting opportunity in the U.K.
or an exciting opportunity to invest in France you can balance that against opportunities that exist in the United States and you can move resources more tangibly.
It also used to take us -- lot of amount of time to get sort of launches and training aligned between Europe and the United States that will be facilitated.
So part of the investment obviously is creating these eight roles.
Putting them all in Amsterdam having a state of the art center in Amsterdam where we can actually train surgeons these are investments that we just haven't made in Western Europe historically and that's one of the reasons why we've just never moved the dial.
We've been trying for 10 plus years and we've changed the leadership multiple times to change the organizational structures within Europe multiple times and we haven't been able to change the dial.
So this for us obviously will be a leading Western Europe.
He made the first really big improvement over the last two years to get us back on a let's call it market performance or slightly better but to take the next leap and gain significant market share this only can be enabled with a dedicated focus across business units.
So while out of time when most companies are leading away from Western Europe we're leaning in Western Europe and it's just because of our current market share position which is far below what it is in many other countries in the world.
So whether you're excited about it it's going to take obviously a number of years to play out but obviously his idea is still involved and he is still the head of Europe and he is fully supportive of this initiative and really believes that we're doing it the right way.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi can you hear me okay? Yes we can.
Yes we can.
Terrific.
Thank you.
We've been talking about capital purchases to be increasing about the level almost since we started talking about the raw material.
What you saw in the fourth quarter do you think that's a sustainable level and do you think it's just sort of a fourth quarter yearend push? Are we finally starting to see more patient call the need for more capital equipment? Hi Joanne.
I think it's a little tough to know if it's more patient is a function of ACA.
We started to see this improvement in the third quarter.
Clearly the trend continued into the fourth quarter.
Whether hospitals are through the biggest part of their IT investments that they've been making over the last few years or at some manifestation the increased patients tied to ACA it's really difficult to get that level of granularity or for just taking market share.
What I can tell you is that teams are executing really well and we're seeing a clear strengthening in those businesses that we believe is sustainable and we feel pretty optimistic about the momentum that we're going to have for 2015 but I think it's a little difficult to be able to say it's a function of ACA of increased patient demand without a little bit more time under our belt.
Okay.
Thank you.
And a follow-up what should we be looking for at AAOS this year? Well we have a number of things going on including booth tours and clearly MAKO is going to have a big presence there with all the milestones that we talked about upcoming this year and then we will be highlighting a number of products across the portfolio not just within reconstructive but trauma extremities the SBI ankle the additions that we made with PIVOT COALESCE.
So there will be a lot of products that's out there but obviously MAKO does get a lot of attention.
Terrific.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
And our next question is going to come from William Plovanic out of Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great.
Thanks.
Good evening.
I just want to check my math.
Looking at the knee business assuming that you had MAKO you didn't get much for MAKO in the fourth quarter of '13 I think it seems like the U.S.
knee business really slowed down down maybe 4% to 5% by my math if you strip out MAKO may be I am off on that.
Just wondering if you could comment on that at all? Yes so obviously we had a very very strong fourth quarter last year.
It was up 8% and then this year if you strip out MAKO I think you're little high in your math but yes we were slightly down this year.
If you exclude the MAKO we don't obviously parse that out precisely but yes we were down slightly but overall if you look over the two year period I think we're still tracking pretty consistently.
Again not everybody has reported yet but we also didn't benefit and I think there is a temporary benefit if you launch a new product.
We saw that with our Accolade II.
If you get them priced with the mix advantages for about a one or two year period we haven't been getting that since our system isn’t a new system to get some of those temporary benefits.
But certainly from a customer standpoint we don't feel reducing really any market share at all and that's been a pretty consistent position that we've had for the last three years.
Okay.
And then a follow-up is one of the comments was that there was one less selling day in the quarter.
I think that's unique to you and I am just curious was there actually one less day or was it how vacation sold during the quarter and holidays.
I think when you say one less selling days wondering if you could just quantify that and if it was U.S.
only O.U.S.
globally that's it.
Thank you.
Obviously we have with all the different countries and we do our math within Stryker based on holidays and in last year we had about one extra day in the first one less day in the second one extra day in the third one less day in the fourth and every quarter we called out whether it was an extra day or less a day and then we give you their organic growth.
You can see it's really -- clearly see our organic growth over the full period.
The third quarter we also had big big numbers.
We called out one extra day and said we had one extra percent.
It's just based on how out calendars are lined up in different parts of the world.
In '15 I am very pleased to say that we're not going to have any quarters with extra days or less days.
It's not something I enjoy talking about.
It's kind of a frustrating thing but it's just based on the way the calendar was laid out '14 versus '13.
Fortunately in '15 the calendar lines up the same as it does in '14.
So we won't be talking about this for the next year but we were pretty transparent over the full year there was no difference in days.
In 2014 days were the same as '13.
It's just the way the holidays fell and we had one extra day in the first one less in the second one extra in the third one less in the fourth.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with your question or comment.
Hey thanks for fitting me in.
two clarification questions one real question.
I just wanted to confirm that the first knee that you're going to launch from the MAKO system total knee is going to be Triathlon you mentioned earlier by [Crusher] [ph] retaining knees.
Second clarification question emerging markets grew double-digits I heard you say earlier could you give us the exact growth rate on a constant currency basis.
Thanks.
Yes we're targeting with our 510-K submission to launch the total MAKO with our Triathlon system in 2015.
We don't break out the specific emerging market country growth if that was the second part of your question.
Okay.
And then for my real question your Neurotech businesses accelerated this quarter can you talk about the potential benefit from the MR Clean study which you mentioned in the past as being important for that and have you seen an impact from that yet thanks? I wouldn't say that we've seen an impact from the MR Clean study.
clearly we're really excited about it and the potential it can have longer term as we start to build the necessary clinical data to help drive adoption to help further educate and position this to the benefit for this treatment of ischemic stroke.
But that's going to take time.
It's a very positive first step but there is a lot of market development work that still has to happen including referrals and education and more peer review data but certainly we're really pleased with it and that group will continue to build on that momentum.
Yes we obviously had strong double-digit growth across all of our three Neurotech businesses and neurovascular in particular has been gaining market share for the last couple of years in the hemorrhagic segment and MR Clean would potentially open up the ischemic segment of the market and would build upon an already very strong growing business.
So we've been really excited about the Neurotech businesses and both give us access to our new market.
It may take some time but it can certainly grow because as you know there are more ischemic strokes to non-hemorrhagic.
So it will take some time in the market.
We estimate it's probably about $100 market right now.
Could become a market somewhere between the $500 and $1 billion over time.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Richard Newitter from Leerink Swann.
Please go ahead with your question.
Richard please go ahead your line is open.
Hey sorry.
Thanks for taking the question.
I had a quick question on the -- so I appreciate that the fourth quarter has a tough comp as it differ us to the industry from the results referred so far and your year-over-year growth rate in U.S.
knees if your remaining competitors were to report something better and it does appear that you lost share can you maybe -- first I want to understand why that might be.
And then in the first quarter of '15 you should have an easier comp so all comp adjusted is there any reason why you shouldn’t be growing a lot in the market once comps are taken out of equation? Yes I would just reiterate the fact that on the knee side we were up against very tough comps actually for both hips and knees the 10% and 8% growth that we talked about with Q4 of '13 being exceptionally strong seasonality effect that we didn't see this year.
So the biggest factor where the comps and as Kevin also mentioned we're not seeing the same mix benefit given the fact that Triathlon is not a new system.
We do not believe we're losing market share in volumes and as we go forward particularly with the anticipated launch of the MAKO total knee we feel really good about our competitive position.
So clearly Q4 had some challenges Q1 we wouldn't expect the same level fall off given again it wasn’t a strong Q4 seasonality.
Weather is a wild card I can tell you right now there weren’t a lot of surgeries happening in Boston and there won't be happening tomorrow either but we did have severe weather last year.
We're just going to have to wait and see how the rest of the quarter plays out as it relates to the year-over-year comparison from a weather perspective.
Great.
Thanks and just quickly I know you guys have a reverse shoulder and limited launch I think that's correct can you give us an update on what you see there for the contribution in '15? Yes so the product is performing extremely well.
We had a limited launch and we're going to be rolling that out more extensively in 2015.
It's obviously a lot of competitors in the market so I would call it a measured launch and I don't think we will be able to grab the market share as quickly as we had certainly in areas like foot and ankle.
But we're looking at sort of a total the reverse shoulder as well as the upper extremities products that we've acquired through SBI and we're looking at how we want to attack other extremities and we have a couple of pilots planned.
I would think by the middle of the year I would be able to give you a much better idea on how I think the growth profile will be.
I think it's still early days for us.
As you know we've been a little bit late in the shoulder market.
It's an exciting market.
We believe we have very good products now and we're going to start to put that to work.
We just want to be careful that we invest the right way and that we get a good return on our investment.
Again it's not a new market.
This market already exist but we now feel like we've got a competitive offering which clearly not the case two three four years ago.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Ben Andrew from William Blair.
Please go ahead with your question.
All right.
Good afternoon.
I was hoping to get some thoughts on the MAKO performance in the quarter on the run rate basis.
Should we look at that placement rate and extend that through '15 as you all roll it out with additional versions of the product and at what point does that become a significant piece of your domestic knee business? Obviously you can't separate the two anymore.
But how should we think about that in terms of the timing.
Thank you.
I am sorry okay.
Okay.
I'll take that question sorry we're having a audio problem here.
So obviously with the launch of the Total Knee and the launch of our Stryker hip products on the robot.
The robot is going to start to gain a lot more adoption and then our primary end points are going to also be placed on the robot.
So the increased run rate works with the existing products with the MAKO products.
Our plan is to have as many robots as possible all over the country and that all of our end plants will be placed using the robot as many as possible.
It's going to take a long long time for that to happen.
So standard instrumentation and standard implants are going to be put in by the majority of surgeons but our goal is really to increase that run rate increase the adoption.
It's going to be a lot easier for hospitals to afford a robot when they know that they can put other products on it and the implants from a company like Stryker that implants that they know and that they're comfortable with.
And so yes you're going to see it increasingly take up more and more of our business and we shouldn’t think of it as a separate business like separate from our existing core business that's clearly the strategy and it's going to get messy to analyze through say '15 '16 and then it's really going to become part of our normal business.
It's such a disruptive play that frankly predicting exactly the cadence of the robots we do expect to sell a lot more robots in 2015.
There is some seasonality to it.
So obviously the first quarter you shouldn't it to be more than the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter will always be the highest quarter.
That's kind of how hospitals buy their capital.
We see that with our other MedSurg businesses but we do plan on having a full array of products on the robot so that the robot will be a lot more meaningful and should consumer much more of our overall volume.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Joshua Jennings from Cowen &amp; Co.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi thanks a lot.
I just wanted to start quickly on the U.S.
knee business and one of your competitors has implemented a strategy of selling reconstructive joints direct to U.S.
hospitals at a meaningful discount.
You didn't call it out as a competitive headwind in the quarter but was there any impact in 4Q and can you share your thoughts on the potential impact in '15 and beyond in terms of dynamics of the U.S.
market? Yes Josh we have not seen any impact from the -- we're well aware of -- this attempt and it's something that's been tried previously and we didn't see an impact then either and as we look ahead to 2015 it's not something that we were factoring in.
Obviously we pay attention and we don't want to just make assumptions but so far we've seen zero impact from it.
Great.
And as a quick follow-up on the spine division we had a few positive pre-announcements from some small cap pure spine players earlier this month.
Can you talk about your expectations for the U.S.
spine market growth in '15 in terms of acceleration stability or deceleration from '14 levels? And now you've seen 4Q results and are you comfortable with the strategy in play for Stryker to regain share and accelerate growth in that specific unit? Thanks a lot.
Yes so certainly the spine market has gone through a lot price challenges over the past four five years but innovation has been rewarded.
I think the market is trying to turn and we're seeing a positive trend in the market overall.
We're really excited about our spine business.
Obviously we had some challenges at the beginning of this year and overall the results certainly from a profit standpoint were solid.
Sales standpoint were not fantastic but I'm very excited about 2015.
The CoAlign acquisition is a fabulous product.
We've also launched some other memory invasive products in a lot of areas that have been a little bit weak for us.
We have a new R&amp;D leader that started over a year ago that has really nice looking pipeline.
We have a new general manager a new head of marketing.
So the management team that we have at Spine is fantastic.
I went to the spine meeting -- sales meeting earlier this year.
I can say the momentum there is better than it's been in many many years because they have a nice flow of innovative products that you can still gain good price and growth with as we've seen with some of the spine-only companies.
So I think we're in much better position now than we have been over the past couple of years in spine.
In fact the market is trying to look better.
So it's a space I am excited about.
We have a team in offence that should enjoy significant success in 2015 and the years ahead.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from Jeff Johnson from Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Good evening guys.
Just one quick follow-up or not even a follow-up just one clarifying question on the R&amp;D side I know you don't guide line item guidance on things like R&amp;D but in the last few years kind of growing R&amp;D 2X the rate of sales have done faster is that how we should think about the company going forward here over the next few years.
We think that maybe some of the MAKO investments start to drop off maybe some of the Neurotec studies in clinical trial cost start to fall off but I would like to hear maybe if R&amp;D should keep growing at that rate going forward? Yes Jeff this is Bill.
So as far as R&amp;D is concerned as you know we've increased our overall R&amp;D spend as a percent of sales throughout this year.
In fact the whole year ended up about 40 basis points higher kind of north of 6% and I think that you should expect that it's probably in that kind of slightly north of 6% range moving forward.
I say it's going to be more consistently growing kind of at our broader base sales level maybe slightly faster but not at the level that you saw in 2014 as far as from a growth perspective but as a percent of sales perspective that's probably reasonable.
Got it.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
So thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the first quarter 2015 results will be held on April 21 thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Stryker’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lakiba and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the conference we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that the discussions during the conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company’s most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today’s press release that is an exhibit to Stryker’s current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker’s first quarter 2015 earnings call.
Joining me today are Bill Jellison our CFO and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Following my opening comments Katherine will provide several updates including MAKO.
Bill will then offer details on our quarterly results before turning to questions and answers.
Our first quarter results continue to reflect the strength of our sales and marketing teams our diversified businesses and the payoff we are realizing from our investments in innovation.
We had another strong quarter of organic sales growth of nearly 6% and EPS topped a high-end of our projected range for the quarter.
Trauma and Extremities Sports Medicine Interventional Spine and our Neurotechnology franchises all continued their momentum from last year with excellent growth.
Our medical business also had an outstanding quarter marking three successive quarters of stellar performance.
And our U.S.
Hip business helped to fuel the strength in Orthopedics.
We are pleased with the continued progress on MAKO which was a highlight of the recent American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons Meeting.
And we continue to have a high level of conviction regarding the long-term potential for robotics in orthopedics.
We are encouraged with launch of our transatlantic operating model as Europe posted another good quarter of growth and with strength in divisional leadership is set up for accelerated gains in the years ahead.
As a reminder we have used some of the benefits of our lower tax rate to invest in Europe SG&amp;A.
Growth within the emerging markets was solid again as was our performance in Australia.
Like any quarter we had some challenges including U.S.
supply disruptions which adversely impacted revenue for both Instruments and MAKO implants.
The MAKO issues will be resolved in Q2 while the Instruments situation will linger into Q3.
Despite these challenges both businesses managed to post positive growth in the quarter.
In both cases we see delayed sales and no material loss of revenue for the full year.
Japan is on an improving trajectory and we expect this trend to continue as we move through the year.
Growth from our recent acquisitions was also modestly below our expectation in the first quarter but our teams are excited about the future of these businesses as they work through early integration.
Foreign exchange was a negative impact in line with our Q1 expectations.
And if rates remain at current levels we will generally be in line with the full year guidance communicated in January.
We have also repurchased $280 million of our stock year-to-date $130 million of which occurred during Q1.
In sum we are off to a strong start for 2015 with top line strength across our three business segments and balanced globally.
We are driving earnings results with disciplined expense management while continuing to invest in R&amp;D to ensure long-term revenue growth.
Our solid balance sheet and cash flow generation remains a key characteristic of Stryker and positions us well as we continue to look for the best ways to invest in our future.
As an organization we are focused on consistently delivering on our targets as we strive to optimize shareholder returns.
With that I will now turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
The focus of my comments today will be on providing an update on MAKO progress with our Transatlantic Operating Model or TOM as well as some comments on the recent clinical studies regarding acute ischemic stroke.
With respect to MAKO we are pleased with the continued progress we are seeing following the integration of this business during 2014.
In the first quarter we placed nine robots versus two in the year ago quarter with the placements representing a nice balance between existing Stryker customers and competitive accounts.
We did have some challenges with our MAKO knee implants going to a temporary product supply disruption during the quarter the impact of which will be fully resolved during Q2.
Adjusting for this our U.S.
Knee growth would have been modestly higher.
Looking ahead we are encouraged by the strength of the pipeline which reinforces our conviction in the growing interest in robotics.
And with sales force integration complete and new robotic indications now cleared we are well positioned for 2015 and beyond.
With respect to the latter our Stryker Power Hip brand including Accolade are now compatible with the MAKO hip application.
Additionally our X3 polyethylene bearings have also been cleared for use with the MAKO Uni implants.
Our Total Knee 510(k) application was submitted to the FDA late last year and we are continuing the dialogue with the agency.
Turning to TOM which went live at the beginning of the year this initiative will enable us to drive a multi-year improvement in our growth profile in Western Europe.
The structure is fully operational with eight transatlantic division Presidents now having full P&amp;L responsibility for the combined U.S.
and Europe businesses.
They each have a General Manager all based at our regional headquarters in Amsterdam with direct responsibility for sales and marketing in Western Europe.
The RHQ represents a flagship for our presence in Europe as we bring in HCPs into the site for training and education on our Stryker products.
We believe this will be key to strengthening the Stryker brand in Europe and enhancing our relationship with physicians and hospitals.
As we discussed approximately half our lower tax savings is being reinvested into our European business in terms of additional sales and marketing headcount and support to help further accelerate growth.
Lastly over the past four months an impressive amount of strong clinical data had been released supporting the use of device-based treatment of acute ischemic stroke.
From the acquisition of Concentric we have pioneered this space in our unique and differentiated products.
Trevo represented the majority of the products used in the pivotal MR CLEAN study which was published in the New England Journal of Medicine in January.
We expect the market will take time to evolve which will require the automation of EMS transport and inter-hospital transfers establishment of clinical guidelines position incentives and investment in new human and physical capital to absorb new patient volume.
Clearly as the data comes out it reinforces our excitement from the ischemic stroke market and its longer term revenue potential.
We believe we are well positioned and we will continue to invest in this therapy through further product development the funding of next generation trials and supporting the full continuum of care for stroke.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Katherine.
Sales growth was 3.2% in the first quarter including a negative 4.2% impact from FX translation.
Constant currency sales growth was 7.4% which includes organic growth of 5.6%.
EPS on a GAAP basis for the first quarter were $0.58 per share versus $0.18 per share last year in the first quarter while adjusted earnings per share were $1.11 per share for the quarter versus $1.06 per share in the first quarter of last year.
This quarter’s EPS includes negative impacts of roughly $0.08 per share from FX.
Foreign exchange rates were very volatile again during the first quarter with the Japanese yen Australian dollar euro Swiss franc and many other currencies weakening against the dollar.
The weakening of the Swiss franc and our layered hedging program helped to mitigate the additional weakening of other currencies that occurred within the quarter.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustments in the quarter relates to charge – a charge of approximately $54 million associated with the voluntary recalls of Rejuvenate and ABG II and an additional tax expense associated with the transfer of intellectual property to the Netherlands from some of our other European locations.
The charges for the Rejuvenate matter may increase or decrease over time as additional facts become available and assumptions become more refined.
Looking at sales in the first quarter our organic growth of 5.6% was comprised of a positive 7.1% from volume and mix while price negatively impacted sales by 1.6%.
Acquisitions added 1.9% while FX had a negative 4.2% impact on the sales in the quarter.
Looking at our segments Orthopedics represented 43% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales of Orthopedic Products were up 2.4% as reported and grew 7.5% at constant currency and increased 6.5% organically.
U.S.
Orthopedic sales grew 9.7% in the quarter.
Trauma and Extremities once again had another standout quarter with sales in the U.S.
increasing 18% and 11% in international markets in constant currency with over 30% growth in our U.S.
foot and ankle business or roughly 20% excluding the impact from the acquisition of SBI as we continue to have great success with our product offerings in this expanding market.
U.S.
Hips continued its strong performance and grew 7.5% in the first quarter while U.S.
Knees increased 2.4%.
Internationally sales were down 1.3% in Hips in constant currency and increased 4.5% in Knees in constant currency.
Next our MedSurg segment represented approximately 39% of our sales in the quarter.
Total MedSurg sales increased 4.6% as reported with 7.7% in constant currency and increased 4.3% organically.
These results were led by double-digit organic and constant currency growth in our medical business as our sales force combined with a strong product offering continue to execute in an improving capital equipment market.
We also experienced mid to upper single-digit constant currency growth in Instruments Endoscopy and Sustainability.
Our Instruments business was negatively impacted in the first quarter and will also be negatively impacted in the second quarter by product supply issue at one of our suppliers.
We believe Instruments organic growth for the quarter would have run at least in the upper single-digits if supply was fully available.
This issue was expected to be resolved by early in the third quarter and should have modest impact on Instruments full year results.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represents 18% of our sales in the quarter increased 2.1% as reported and 6.6% in constant currency and 6% organically.
Growth in this segment was led by double-digit growth in our Neurotechnology businesses and IBS while spinal implant sales increased slightly in the quarter.
And looking at our operational performance gross margins on an adjusted basis in the first quarter of 2015 were 65.6% relatively flat with the back half of 2014 and compares to 66.6% in the first quarter last year.
Gross profit includes a re-class of expenses in all periods of approximately 30 basis points which came out of SG&amp;A for consistency.
The decline in the margin rate in the quarter compared to the first quarter of last year predominantly resulted from negative pricing pressures and negative mix related to our recent acquisitions.
Pricing was down 1.6% in the quarter better than last quarter and last year which both ran approximately 2%.
Pricing pressure remains challenging and we still expect pricing to be down nearly 2% for the company moving forward.
Research and development expenses were 6.4% of sales relatively flat compared to last year in the quarter.
Selling general and administrative costs on an adjusted basis were $854 million or 35.9% of sales in the quarter versus 36% in the prior year period despite reinvestments to strengthen our European selling and regional headquarter activities.
Operating margins on an adjusted basis were 23.3% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to 24.1% in the first quarter of 2014.
The rate was negatively impacted by pricing FX and the mix of recent acquisitions along with activities to support our European business.
These impacts were partially offset by operating improvements in the period.
Other expense in the first quarter was approximately $28 million compared to $24 million last year in the first quarter.
This increase in expense resulted primarily from higher net interest expense in the period.
Our reported tax rate for the first quarter was 40.6% while our adjusted effective tax rate was 19.5%.
This compares to a 24.1% adjusted effective tax rate in the first quarter of last year.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended up the quarter with $4.3 billion of cash and marketable securities.
We also have $3.5 billion of debt on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
From an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended in the first quarter at 58 slightly above last year’s first quarter.
And days and inventory finished the quarter at 173 just a little bit better than the 174 days in the first quarter of last year.
Turning to cash flow our cash from operations in the first quarter of 2015 were $380 million compared to $209 million last year in the first quarter.
Capital expenditures were $46 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to $70 million in 2014.
However capital expenditures are expected to run higher than last year as we move through 2015.
We also repatriated approximately $700 million in the first quarter and expect to do approximately an additional $1 billion later this year.
We now have over $2.3 billion available for share repurchase under our recently expanded authorization as approximately $280 million of share repurchases were made so far in 2015 with $130 million of that repurchased by the end of the first quarter.
We will continue to evaluate the level and frequency of our share repurchases.
However current plans are to fully utilize the current authorization over the next 2 to 3 years.
Based on our solid first quarter results and current expectations for the remainder of the year we are well positioned to deliver on our full year sales and earnings guidance.
And we are now increasing the lower end of our guidance for both sales and earnings for 2015.
Our sales guidance now includes constant currency growth of 6% to 7% with organic sales growth in the range of 5% to 6%.
If foreign exchange rates hold near current levels we expect net sales for the full year of 2015 to be negatively impacted by approximately 3.5% to 4.5% with the second quarter sales projected to be impacted the most and slightly over that range.
Pricing pressure will continue and prices are currently expected to be nearly 2% for the company moving forward consistent with the pricing environment we experienced over the last year.
The benefit from the renewal of the tax extenders continues to be in our year end earnings guidance and represents approximately $0.05 per share for the year.
We continue to expect that they will once again be approved.
However we do not expect them renewed until late in the year.
As such we do not have any benefit from them in our actual results or our planned earnings guidance until the fourth quarter of this year.
We also expect that our adjusted tax rate will run at or below the level achieved in the first quarter and will be noticeably better when the benefits from the tax extenders are approved.
As mentioned previously we plan on reinvesting approximately half of our tax savings associated with the European regional tax – regional headquarters.
These additional investments are supporting our new structure within Europe and will also supplement our selling and marketing activities.
Based on current FX rates we expect 2015 to be negatively impacted by approximately $0.25 to $0.30 per share for the full year with approximately half of that occurring in the first half of the year.
The further weakening of the euro and most other currencies since our original guidance along with our hedging program has not resulted in an additional FX impact on us as the Swiss franc has also significantly weakened in that period.
That weakening along with the euro makes all of our European produced products less expensive and combined with our layered hedges has fully offset the additional translational impact which occurred.
Keep in mind that the full year negative impact of foreign exchange rates movements is largely driven by the translational component of FX which we do not hedge.
And finally we have heightened the lower end of our earnings guidance for 2015 with adjusted net earnings per share now in the range of $4.95 to $5.10 with adjusted net earnings per share in the range of $1.15 to $1.20 for the second quarter of 2015.
Thanks again for your support and we would be glad to answer any questions that you may have at this time.
Thank you.
We would now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is going to come from Rick Wise out of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Can you hear me clearly? Yes.
Great.
If I could start off with a question on acquisitions you highlighted that acquisitions were somewhat below expectations can you help us understand a little more detail which were below plan why and just what the drag on growth and how it all gets resolved? Yes.
Hi Rick.
It really is the recent deals because – as they pass the 1-year mark they have become part of organic growth.
And nothing that we would call out beyond some of the early normal integration challenges.
It’s primarily around the Berchtold acquisition which we anniversary in the second quarter and within our endoscopy segment.
We feel really good about the pipeline and the visibility we have for that revenue to improve as the year unfolds but it really is just the normal integration early challenges we have when we bring a new business in.
Yes thanks.
And just as a follow-up on MAKO Katherine can you give just a little more color on the MAKO performance this quarter was this as you expected and is this how we think about the quarterly run rate going ahead with obviously fourth quarter because of the capital spending always being a little stronger? Thanks.
We are certainly pleased with the increase in year-over-year placements going from two to nine and that it was balanced between existing customers but also competitive accounts.
Clearly there is a seasonality component to this given the significant capital piece of Q4 to Q1.
You are always going to see that drop off.
But I would say it was essentially in line with what we were targeting recognizing we did have some supply disruptions on the knee side that the impact from that was relatively modest.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi Bob.
Hello Bob.
Bob if your line is on mute please un-mute it.
Okay.
Our next question is going to come from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi I guess you guys can hear me right.
Yes we can.
Thanks Kristen.
Hi.
I was just wondering if you could talk about what the re-class was exactly.
And then just on the tax rate it seems like based on your commentary you would expect the tax rate to be a little bit lower than perhaps what you had previously had commented I just want to make sure that I was hearing about that correctly? Sure.
So the re-class is really just for consistency.
It’s really one of our groups were classifying some of the expenses the same way.
So it’s a re-class of some of the freight costs that are coming out of the SG&amp;A category and going into COGS and it’s about 30 basis points pretty much on average for this year.
But all of the restatements will be reflected in the financials in both periods.
As far as the tax rate yes we stated early on in the year that we were expecting at least two full percentage points of improvement off of last year’s rate.
I think that we feel very good about kind of one where the rate came out for the quarter and are pleased with realizing kind of the benefit associated with that.
And as we mentioned we do believe that that rate is sustainable throughout this year.
And then also keep in mind in the fourth quarter when the tax extenders if they do get approved at $0.05 a share that will affect it by about another full percentage point.
Okay.
So we should be thinking instead of a rate of close to around I guess 200 basis points lower certainly something greater than that? Yes.
In total greater than 200 basis points yes that’s correct.
Okay perfect.
That’s it for me.
Thanks.
Thanks Kristen.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
So first question I guess it’s all really guidance questions.
First question is the underlying growth actually came in probably a tad below industry where the street for that obviously very good quarter so it’s very Stryker-like in terms of the breadth but you are raising the kind of organic and constant currency guidance for the year so maybe just touch on what’s driving the increase given what was a good quarter but not one of your blowout quarters? Well Mike this is Kevin.
I would tell you we feel very good about the quarter and certainly the outlook for the rest of the year.
All of our businesses are performing well by segment by geography and we even had a challenge within instruments which is one of our largest divisions that had a supply issue that will get rectified.
Obviously MAKO implants was the more modest but even that had supplies.
So we fought through some supply challenges still delivered almost 6% organic growth and feel very good about the position that we are in right now.
The expenses are well under control.
You heard about bill on the tax rate.
So we really have all of our engines firing.
And we are feeling very positive as we look through the rest of the year and that’s why we felt confident in raising the lower end of both sales and earnings.
Okay.
And then on the earnings piece making sure I have got all the moving parts.
So it sounds like the answer to Kristen’s questions on the tax rate is that the tax rate for the year instead of being 20% may end up being closer to 19% I just want to double check on that.
And then the FX thing obviously surprised us because the dollar has gotten over the course of the last 3 months since your last call on the fourth quarter you guided to $0.30 of impact for the year and now you are saying $0.25 to $0.30 so that’s just the function of basically the Swiss manufacturing and the interchange between the euro the dollar getting stronger versus euro but the Swiss franc weakening at the same time? Yes.
So both of those questions on the tax side of the equation yes we do expect the rate to be lower than the 20% that we talked about.
So at least two if not obviously closer to three which is more in line with kind of where that first quarter is and especially if you add extenders in there we should absolutely be able to deliver on that – on the tax aspect piece for the entire year.
As far as FX is concerned you are absolutely right.
FX rate definitely weakened further against the U.S.
dollar for most currencies.
And fortunately the Swiss also weakened along with it.
And if you recall the Swiss franc actually strengthened when it decoupled away from the euro at the beginning of this year which actually caused our FX exposure to increase just prior to our guidance for the – at the beginning of the year.
So based on that weakening of the Swiss along with the euro and the hedges that we currently have in place we believe that we are fully offsetting at least the additional impact of the translational side that’s occurred since our original guidance.
Perfect.
I will let some others jump in.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon everybody.
I wanted to just start on capital deployment obviously you made the comments around the share repurchase activity that took place both year-to-date and in the first quarter could you maybe just talk – and then I think Bill you also provided some context as to the timing of when you expected to use the authorization could you maybe just talk about what were the factors influencing your decision to buyback stock I think it’s in several quarters since you bought back this type of – this type of stock and whether we should think about this as a change in the capital deployment priority scheme or just how it fits into the broader strategy? Yes.
I would – David I would view it as very much consistent with the capital allocation strategy we have tried to articulate.
We still view M&amp;A as the primary use with the dedicated BD folks in all of our divisions who are actively looking at targets.
We also have with the cash flow the ability to do buybacks as well as the dividend.
And so there is no change.
We did increase the authorization.
It gives us the flexibility.
And we expect to use it over the next 2 to 3 years.
I couldn’t predict in any given quarter we will be at these same levels.
We usually have an assumption of around $400 million of share repurchases in any given year.
This year could be higher than that.
It just will depend on how the year plays out other potential uses of cash and also recognizing the constraints that we along with many others have given where the bulk of our cash is generated being outside the U.S.
So no change whatsoever to the capital allocation strategy.
And we are in the – we have the ability to continue to pursue multiple avenues.
Okay.
And then maybe just a follow-up on the P&amp;L Bill I think in your description of the gross margin for the quarter you talked about it being essentially flat with the second half of 2014.
Are we – is that commentary meant to reflect a view that we are sort of coming to an end of the gross margin declines in some of the headwinds that you have sort of soaked up here whether it’s mix from acquisitions or price or FX are starting to abate in some of the factors here like mix for example could actually turn into a headwind as things like your neuro and spine business start to do better or am I reading too much into that? No I think that that’s at least a fair comment.
I think as we – as you look toward kind of the back end of this year the remaining part of the year I think you should expect that our gross margin rate differences on a year-over-year basis should be much narrower than what you have seen over the last year.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Kevin just want to come back to where we left off at AOS.
I think we and many investors sort of took some of your comments at AOS to be particularly bullish for the outlook for Stryker.
And I think certainly your guidance implies acceleration in the back half of the year but we sort of took your commentary at the academy meeting to be more about years to come specifically 2016.
So as you think about 2016 and the potential for driving faster growth at Stryker what are the few things you would point us to which gives you that kind of conviction as we head out into the out years? Yes thanks David.
I would say the first thing I would point to is MAKO.
As you can see the kind of momentum we have already started to build with 20 robots in Q4 9 this quarter a number of our implants getting approved on the robot increased level of interest.
And so I would see MAKO as one growth accelerator.
Second I would see the acute ischemic stroke as another area that with all the great data that’s coming out would be another engine.
Now that might take a little bit more than ‘16 but it should certainly start to ramp in ‘16.
Our transatlantic operating model we are very pleased about the upside that that has.
Not so much in the implant side but certainly if you look at MedSurg and even parts of Neurotechnology we have a lot of room to grow our market share and we are very pleased with the start.
It’s early – only one quarter since it’s gone live but had a very strong quarter and I would see that also accelerating in 2016.
So a number of those levers and then the acquisitions that we have done we have done a number of I guess 6 over the past – just over a year of bolt-ons.
And those bolt-on acquisitions whether it’s CoAlign Pivot Berchtold all of those go through sort of early integration issues.
And then those will start to accelerate.
So I really am excited about the prospects.
2015 will be a solid year.
And I think 2016 could set up to be an even better one.
Great.
And just a quick follow-up on capital deployment Kevin there has been a dramatic amount of focus on what you are going to acquire in these last 6 months.
Shifting away from what you are going to acquire to the class of thing that you are looking at.
There seems to be at least in our view a lot of focus from investors on purchasing for accretion and it takes you some pressure if there is any multiple and really driving accretion.
Do you feel that type of pressure? Does the board feel that type of pressure? And where does Stryker come out right now in terms of your preference versus acquisitions for growth versus acquisitions that could be growth or growth and accretion? Thank you.
So maybe I will take the first part and then ask Bill to chime in since Bill obviously the finance group has a big say in terms of making sure we are creating value over the long-term but we really look to strengthen our businesses and we are looking to do acquisitions.
We want to strengthen our market position in the areas where we are playing today and that could be big deals small deals or medium sized deals but we want to make sure we are strengthening our position and encouraging our divisions to continue to drive growth.
So most of the acquisitions that we pursue and you have seen this are catalysts for growth and we tend to plug those into existing divisions and then drive accelerated growth.
But we are disciplined in terms of the deals that we look at and the price that we paid for deals.
Clearly in the case of a MAKO that was a disruptive deal which is a little bit out of the ordinary.
But all the other deals go through very rigorous screening to make sure that we are paying the right price and that will create value.
Maybe I will turn to Bill in terms of the parameters that we look at when evaluating our acquisitions.
Sure.
So I would say that we are all very aware of also the need for accretion in the earnings as we do acquisitions.
But as we have talked about before whether we have done maybe some non-accretive deals in the past or not I think each deal that we look at is really looked at from the standpoint that we think that it ultimately creates value for the company over the mid and long-term as well.
And would we be looking or would be willing to still look at an acquisition that necessarily doesn’t or that doesn’t necessarily have accretion in the first year or so? We would.
It’s all about whether it ultimately adds value on the back end in an earlier stage business which we think has much higher growth for the organization than even our base level we would absolutely make that investment – another investment like that today.
But all of our acquisitions are based on the value that we think we can ultimately create for the shareholders but we aren’t restricted on just accretion as one aspect of it.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Matt Taylor from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the questions.
I just wanted to ask one I guess on your repurchase change here.
So you did talk about kind of a normal level of $400 million on this call and past calls.
And if you just do the 2 to 3 years for the $2.3 billion obviously that’s a higher number.
So are you saying that you are just leaning more towards your purchase here because you don’t have the same kind of M&amp;A pipeline or things aren’t hitting your targets or you are not trying to change your staff at all I guess I am just a little confused and want to clarify? Yes no change in the staff in terms of BD being a priority and then folks as I mentioned out there are actively looking at targets.
We have upped the authorization because we feel we have the flexibility if we decide M&amp;A is inherently unpredictable.
So we wanted to have the flexibility to potentially purchase a greater level.
$400 million isn’t exact number it’s a rough number walking around.
It could be higher than that this year and obviously to use up the entire amount over 2 to 3 years we have to increase the level.
So if it’s done in 2 years we have obviously accelerated the share repurchases and some of that will depend on whether or not BD targets make it through to fruition.
As you know the vast majority of names we look at never translate into an actual deal.
And then your pricing actually got a little bit better I guess sequentially looking at the price decline year-over-year.
Are you seeing any major changes in price? I mean there has been some concerns I have seen with investors around value-based purchasing but maybe too early to call that as a negative factor? Yes.
Pricing has gotten well obviously negative modestly better over the last few quarters and that’s nice to see but it’s still in that approximate range of around 2%.
It moved around quarter-to-quarter.
So I wouldn’t view the 1.6 as some – indicative of some big change in the pricing environment.
It’s still challenging.
We still assume it’s around 2.
It will be great if it’s less than 2 but there is no change to our current thinking.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey Bob.
Bob are you there? Mr.
Hopkins your line is open.
Okay.
Maybe the third time will be the charm with Bob.
Okay.
Okay I will have him re-queue back up.
Our next question is going to come from Mike Matson from Needham &amp; Company.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
I guess I had one on MAKO and then one on the Neurotechnology business.
So just on MAKO I was wondering if you could give us an update on the hip side of that business and how big of a deal do you think it is to have the Stryker hip family now available on the RIO system? And then just on the Neurotechnology business I understand the commentary around the standard Trevo product but how fast – sorry have you seen any impact yet just given the strength of the data that’s come out of those recent studies? And how fast do you think the market is growing neurovascular overall? And do you think Stryker has been gaining share? So on MAKO clearly having the Stryker power brand particularly Accolade which has been very successful on the MAKO robot we think it’s going to help increase the value proposition at particularly given the small clinical data we still believe total knee is the biggest market opportunity overall but we do think we can strengthen the interest level and momentum on the hip side as we add our proven clinical hip line to that products.
On neuro it’s going to take time with the market development.
We have seen an increase in volumes in some of established stroke centers but the majority still need to work through a lot of the items that we listed off on the call around being able to have physician alignment inter-hospital transfers and really making sure they are established as a stroke center and that’s going to take time.
So it’s really focused on the longer term potential as well as some additional clinical trials that are underway including DAWN and the SITS Open trial but those are probably not going to be completed in 2016 or even 2017.
So we are building the base of data.
MR CLEAN is a great study.
I think it reinforces our conviction but it will take time overall.
In terms of the market if you are talking about the ischemic segment it’s very healthy growth.
But remember the base is still very small here for the device-based treatment of that condition.
So while it’s double-digit growth it’s off of a pretty small base.
Yes.
And I think one of the questions you asked was neurovascular in general I would say that the bulk of the business is really on the hemorrhagic side as you know.
And we have consistently been taking market share over the past 2 years or 3 years with a slew of different product introductions around our target brand different sizes different shapes and that product continues to perform extremely well around the world.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is going to come from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
I am so sorry about the phone difficulties I apologize.
We just have really big expectations for this question now Bob.
Yes.
I am afraid I am not up to the task.
So two quick things first on the spine side Kevin at the recent AAOS meeting obviously this is one of areas where you have expressed a lot of excitement about the portfolio about the sales force and about the products you have coming down the pike I was wondering if you could just kind of set them expectations as we look forward as to when you think we could really start to see some noticeable acceleration in the spine business is that something that you can do organically here over the next couple of quarters or do you think it’s going to take longer? Well as I mentioned before I am really pleased with our spine business.
Certainly we have a very profitable business.
And we have been improving our organic profile.
The CoAlign acquisition was a very important one are providing very innovative products.
We have strengthened our management team at spine.
And so this first quarter was I would say a good quarter.
I think we are going to start to improve over the course of 2015 and also continue to look at other opportunities to add products whether it’s through organic or inorganic means over time.
But it’s a business that’s going well.
The management is in really good shape and I expect this to be a better year than we have seen in the last couple of years.
Okay.
And then lastly I apologize if this was asked Katherine but did you guys spell out explicitly what sort of buyback is assumed in your guidance for this year just I think originally you had said it was just sort of the normal $400 million when you first gave guidance I am sorry if I missed this but I just was curious exactly how much buyback is assumed in this new guidance? Yes.
So what we say is at the start of any year we assume some level of buyback activity.
And there is a lot of different things that factor into a range obviously.
So we say $400 million but that could be plus or minus $100 million.
And you have seen some years it’s not that and some years it could be higher than that.
I think with the open authorization increase we clearly have the ability to buyback more stock.
We haven’t made any explicit changes that you should be assuming a new level because really it’s going to depend on other priorities and how big year unfolds.
And it is again why we have a range of $0.15 range and obviously everything else being equal which won’t be true but everything else being equal we buyback more stock.
It’s going have a positive impact there.
But there is no explicit assumption at this point.
Okay.
So there is no explicit incremental assumption in these new numbers it’s sort of the same as it was at the beginning of year just by the authorization? Yes.
And we think we will use that up over 2 years to 3 years which obviously a bit – it’s a bit lower end of that we are going to have a higher level and hopefully that will translate into a better performance within the range.
But there is a lot of factors in that range as you know that can offset things pretty quickly.
Great.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks Bob.
Our next question is going to come from Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon guys.
I had a question on recon pricing in the press release you called out recon pricing down 3% and I was wondering how is that comparing to your plan and if you can give us any color on U.S.
recon pricing whether it’s above or below the 3% you have in the press release? Thanks.
Thanks Glenn.
We breakout pricing on a worldwide basis for the three business segments and you can see that in the press release.
We don’t break it down further by geography.
Clearly the greatest pricing pressure is within the Ortho segment at that 3% level.
No real change from quarter-to-quarter it’s all the same trends we have seen – we have been seeing.
I mean pricing got incrementally better for us but still negative but I wouldn’t point to any significant change in any of the business segments that would be worth highlighting as it relates to price.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up once again U.S.
foot and ankle better than 30% I don’t know how many more quarters you have left and you would keep doing 30% but maybe talk about the sustainability of that number and in the end markets I know the end markets can support that but how much longer can 30% last? Thanks.
Well thanks.
First of all just to clarify so if the greater than 30% growth was aided by the acquisition of SBI.
So on an organic basis we grew around 20 still a very very impressive number given the multiple quarters of organic growth that had exceeded 30%.
But we are really excited about the potential we are still penetrating and new markets are very exciting because they are hard to predict.
You don’t really know and as you are continuing to penetrate the market where more and more implants are being used.
Getting a total ankle it was a huge move for us.
In the foot and ankle market it was a good gap that acquisition is really just starting to gain steam.
So we still think we have plenty of growth ahead for our foot and ankle division.
Our next question is going to come from Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Some hospitals are reporting better volume in the first quarter of 2015 is that partly what drove the improvement in your Ortho numbers in Q1 and your U.S.
hip number was very strong are you already seeing the benefit from the Stryker Power brand on the MAKO robot? I would say we haven’t seen any real change in volumes in the first quarter beyond the normal seasonality that we see.
So nothing that has changed dramatically there.
And I think it’s too early given when we got the clearance of the MAKO of the Stryker Power brands on MAKO to point to that.
As you have seen we have had really good momentum there for a while and I think it’s just the strength of the overall portfolio.
Yes.
In the U.S.
our hip brands have been growing above market for about 3 years now.
So this is a continuation of the strength that we have had over time.
Okay.
And then that’s my follow-up.
I guess I am wondering if you are seeing anything so far from the Zimmer-Biomet merger or from Wright-Tornier anything in terms of disruption? Thanks for taking the question.
Yes.
Nothing that we would point to although it’s too early with – the deals haven’t closed and you typically see that disruption occur later in the integration process.
And whether or not that translates into any shares shifts we are not assuming that.
I think we are really well positioned between our portfolio and the MAKO line and the underlying strength that we are seeing in foot and ankle.
But I wouldn’t point to any disruption that we are seeing of any significance at this time.
Yes.
It’s too early and certainly if there is disruption we will be well positioned to take advantage of it.
But at this point it’s too early to see anything.
Our next question is going to come from Raj Denhoy from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Wondering if I could ask a bit on MAKO as you get closer to launching that product the total knee on – the product in the United States I am curious if there is anything you can share with us in terms of how you will position that product what the attributes will be that you will stress the customers whether it’s better alignment or better efficiencies or just anything that can support the rollout of that product? Really the overall value proposition of MAKO hasn’t changed and it’s built on improved patient benefits and clinical outcomes.
And we think we are going to be uniquely enabled to be able to show procedural enhancements and improve patient experience and then improve patient satisfaction.
We think with this technology the consistency and reproducibility of the surgery is really going to elevate and allow for greater standardization and better overall outcomes.
And then longer term hopefully next generation of implants that regardless of surgeon’s skill is simply not achievable today with traditional planar cuts.
Okay.
When asked about kind of the products you are most excited about I think you highlighted MAKO is the biggest one.
And I am not sure if you have ever given us anything in terms of your expectations about what share you could gain or what the product could actually do for your position in the marketplace.
Have you – are you ready to do that or give us anything in terms of expectations? No we haven’t and it’s early obviously we don’t have the total knee and that’s going to take time even when it gets approval it’s going to be a methodical and measured ramp up as we train and educate.
Clearly MAKO is something we are very excited about.
The ortho team is very excited about it.
But if you really look at the history of Stryker with all the different businesses and franchises we have all rolling our products it’s much more story about singles and doubles and the totality of all those products that drive the organic sales growth.
It’s very rarely any one single product that we would point to.
And while MAKO has the potential obviously to be a big driver overall it’s the totality of that portfolio.
Okay thank you.
And our next question is going to come from Matthew O’Brien from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just a follow-up on Raj’s question here previously.
Can you talk a little bit more specifically about the total knee rollout? I mean we are getting fairly close I think here to getting that approval.
So once you do get the approval how do you go out to the hospitals that already have an existing system? Is there an upgrade program that we should expect? I think the installed base is right around 250.
And then are you hearing from hospitals at this point right now that are already waiting to see the total knee application before buying the system? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes I think again it’s going to be a very measured launch post-approval.
And we are still I mean we filed with the FDA stage and then when we get the clearance we are going to have to be very measured we are going to have to train and educate to make sure that surgeon experience is appropriate.
We don’t want to mess this up.
There is going to be upgrades that have to happen from a software standpoint.
So it is something as we have articulated in the past it’s going to be a number of quarters before we start to really see the trajectory that’s indicative of us taking market share gains.
And nothing has changed with that expectation.
What we saw in our due diligence is a range of people.
There is the early adopter with any new technology.
There is those who want to see more of an established clinical brand of implants and that’s what we are doing as we add the hip power brands for example.
And then there is those who want to wait and see more indications.
So I am sure there are surgeons out there who want a total knee before they really are going to be convinced to go the robotic route.
And that’s just indicative of the various ways of technology adopters you see both with the robot or any new technology.
Fair enough.
And then for my follow-up question the Trauma and Extremities business continues to be quite healthy that selectively is around a $7 billion category growing mid to upper single-digits.
And I think your sales force is pretty established here.
You have a full portfolio of products in both areas.
Is this some – is this a category where over the next kind of 5 to 7 years you could essentially double your revenue base here? So your market estimates on a global basis for Trauma and Extremities are ballpark.
And we are really pleased with the performance we are doing there.
I don’t think we want to get into that type of multiyear projections in terms of the revenue potential.
But clearly we are very pleased with the momentum we are seeing the ability to consistently take market share.
And we think that’s going to remain the case going forward.
Yes.
I would see this as we see with Neurotechnology Sports Medicine Trauma and Extremities these are really growth businesses for Stryker and they have been for multiple quarters.
And I think in the years ahead we are going to continue to focus on them.
If you think about upper extremities we are still a relatively small player in upper extremities.
And for us that’s an exciting area for the next few years.
There are established players.
It’s not like foot and ankle which is a brand new market.
But for us there is plenty of room to grow in the upper extremities space and even with some of the products we acquired through the SBI acquisitions we think we are well-positioned there.
So for us it’s definitely has been a great business for the past multiple years and we continue to see that as an exciting growth business in the years ahead.
Our next question is going to come from Ben Andrew from William Blair.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi guys.
This is Kaila in for Ben.
Just back to the MAKO commentary and understanding the seasonality of the business but recognizing the pretty steep sequential step-downs from the fourth quarter can you just talk about the cadence of those capital sales during the quarter and if you are hearing about any material interest following AOS? So it was clearly a big part of our booth presence and the focus and the excitement that we saw at AOS was around MAKO which is great to see because it obviously reinforces our long-term conviction.
We have been in the capital business for a long time with our MedSurg businesses and see a very similar pattern where you have strong year end capital sales as hospitals are looking to use up budgets and then the appropriate drop off in the first quarter so nothing about that sequential decline surprised us.
And I think it should really be reflected in expectations going forward.
Now it’s not always going to be perfectly aligned with what we saw this year but it’s pretty indicative of the pattern of capital sales.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then with respect to your efforts around ICG can you touch on any – some of the product specifications of the system how it might be differentiated in currently available technologies and how do you plan to approach the marketplace with this device? Yes.
So I am not going to get into a lot of details as we haven’t yet launched the product.
It will be launched probably in the next 6 to 12 months sometime in that timeframe.
But what I can tell you is it’s going to be integrated into the light source that we have and that that will be a huge advantage versus having to purchase additional capital.
And if so we probably feel very good about and it will integrate exactly right into our light source be very convenient it will obviously be lower cost than having to purchase extra capital.
And it will operate as you would expect it will light up the common bile ducts that we will see very clearly as you are doing your dissection that you won’t be able to have any kind of injury.
So it’s a safety play.
We are very excited about it but again we haven’t launched it yet.
And more details will become available as we get closer to the launch.
Our next question is going to come from Bruce Nudell.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good afternoon.
This is Matt on for Bruce.
Can you hear me okay? Hi Matt.
I was wondering can you elaborate a little bit on the supply issues in Instruments and MAKO as far as – in Instruments what products were affected and what sort of caused the disruption and what gives you comfortable that you are back on the market when you think you are? Normal supply issues there is nothing significant that we would call out that was of major concern which is while we have visibility in terms of the supply returning around that related to our power tools we should have that resolved to allow for a much stronger performance with respect to Instruments in the second half of the year.
With MAKO it will be largely resolved or will be resolved during the second quarter.
Yes but I would think about this more like a back order and back orders happen in our industry a lot.
So it’s not like we are off the market it’s just that we don’t have to be a supply that we normally have people to fully meet our customer orders.
So that’s why when I – in my prepared remarks I talked about this really being a delay.
And so back orders that typically happens as you lose the sales for a period of time but you don’t lose the sale to another company the sale just gets delayed.
And that’s what we are experiencing in the Instruments area as well as MAKO.
Okay thanks.
And just one follow-up.
Any updated thoughts on competition from lower cost offerings in hips knees trauma are you seeing any change there any increased traction and do you see that as a significant threat this year or down the line based on what you have seen so far? Well I wouldn’t go beyond this year.
We are always going to be watching and watchful but I’d say for this year at least thus far this year we haven’t seen any change whatsoever related to either trauma or our reconstructive division and don’t expect to see much or at least over the course of this year.
We are always going to keep an eye on it but thus far no change whatsoever.
Our next question is going to come from Josh Jennings from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi good evening.
Thanks a lot.
I just wanted to start off with Japan business and give a little bit more color on the improvement in Q1 that you experienced.
And as you annualize the ERP implementation challenges next quarter can you quantify at all the headwind from Japan that goes away throughout the rest of 2015? And how meaningful is it to the international recon growth? Yes.
So we obviously don’t provide all the details by country.
What I can tell you is Japan really did turn around in all of our divisions except for Reconstructive.
So Reconstructive given the surgeon relationships does take a little longer to sort of gain that business back but I was very encouraged with Trauma with Spine as well as our MedSurg businesses.
The ERP systems are all resolved.
We are regaining share slowly.
But I would expect that certainly by the third quarter we should be back to kind of the same level of market share that we had in the past.
And so I am really pleased with how the new management has approached the challenge like I say in Spine and Trauma ahead of schedule recon is going to take a little bit longer.
Great.
And just on the medical unit it’s been a big driver of growth for MedSurg business can you just talk about the organic growth rate for that unit and what’s driving that and is it – is the bed replacement cycle a major component of that and capital allocation by hospitals moving away from IT? Thanks a lot.
So I would say there is a small component because we did the acquisition...
CHG? Earlier in the year but...
It’s early in the year but it’s largely organic growth virtually all of its organic growth.
And I think it’s very reflective of just the strength that we are seeing in the capital markets right now.
We feel good about this because it’s been several quarters of them really outperforming how much of that is a shift of dollars out of IT priorities it’s very difficult to get that level of granularity.
What we would say is we do feel good about the momentum that we are seeing in capital across the board.
The supply issue is notwithstanding because clearly we were seeing the demand there.
Our next question is going to come from Jeff Johnson from Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good evening just two quick questions here.
One just on the knee business U.S.
knee business kind of two quarters in a row in the flat to up 2% range anything specific contributing to that competitive launches or anything else or how we should think about your U.S.
knee business maybe over the next few quarters? I wouldn’t point to anything specific that we are seeing in that business that was clipped modestly as we mentioned by the MAKO supply issues.
But there is nothing major that we are seeing in the market are different on the competitive front.
Obviously you haven’t seen everybody report so far but nothing that we would call out.
Okay.
And then on the spine implant said it sounds like that number was maybe a little bit better than fourth quarter any changes in the end markets there anything you can talk to on pods or payer pushback or anything is that continuing to get a little bit better or is it still hard to tell on that front? Yes.
To me it seems like a very stable market our performance is starting to improve.
And that’s what I think I spoke just earlier on the call that our management team and some of the products we have launched in the MIS space where historically we had less presence in MIS.
It’s starting to help us gain momentum.
So it was modestly better in the first quarter and I would expect that trend to continue.
Understood.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question is going to come from William Plovanic from Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
I just have a financial question for Bill just what is the normal share dilution per year that we should think of with options coming into the model without share buyback just normal? Yes.
So I mean based on the numbers that Katherine was talking about I mean we would need maybe a third of that kind of level maybe a little bit more I guess then to offset the dilution that’s occurring at the same time from the share issuances? So if I take your share issuances what does that breakout into number of shares annually roughly without buyback just what’s added normally? It is probably – I mean it’s only – it’s just a few million.
Okay that’s all I had.
Thank you very much.
It’s not much associated with that.
It’s pretty small.
Thank you.
Okay thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
So thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the second quarter 2015 results will be held on July 23.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
And you may now disconnect.
Welcome to Stryker's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Adrienne and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the conference we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that the discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the Company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Joining me today are Bill Jellison our CFO and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Following my opening comments Katherine will provide updates on MAKO neurovascular and our Transatlantic Operating Model.
Bill will then offer details on our quarterly results before turning to questions and answers.
The second quarter results underscore the momentum we are seeing across our three segments as we leverage strong sales and marketing execution and realize the benefits from both internally developed products and acquisitions.
We are focused on growing organic sales at the high end of MedTech and this marks our ninth consecutive quarter of achieving organic sales growth of at least 5%.
Our strong U.S.
businesses which represent about 70% of our sales had stellar growth of over 9% led by double-digit growth from medical trauma and extremities neurotechnology and instruments.
Medical and trauma continue their excellent performance and neurotechnology has been bolstered by new clinical data that Katherine will discuss.
Instruments had a nice recovery from Q1 as much of their product [indiscernible] issues have been resolved.
Our U.S.
Spine business was also a bright spot posting 9% growth in the quarter.
We are encouraged about the growth of recent product launches such as AccuLIF from the CoAlign acquisition and have a robust pipeline of new products that will be launched over the next few years.
This product flow when combined with the strength in management team positions Spine well for the future.
Outside the U.S.
our performance was largely consistent as strength in Europe and a continued improvement in Japan was offset by some softness in other markets including parts of our China and Latin America businesses.
Looking at the P&amp;L the establishment of our European regional headquarters and related tax benefits are tracking ahead of our expectations.
As previously conveyed we are reinvesting roughly half of our tax savings to support our new structure within Europe which is reflected in the year-over-year increase in SG&amp;A.
Our strong top line disciplined expense management and better than expected reduction in tax resulted in adjusted EPS of $1.20 which was the upper end of our $1.15 to $1.20 range that we targeted heading into the quarter.
We expect our first half momentum to continue including an improved tax rate and consequently we are raising both our full year sales and adjusted EPS targets to 5.5% to 6.5% and $5.06 to $5.12 a share respectively.
With that I will now turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
The focus of my comments today will be on providing an update on MAKO progress with our Transatlantic Operating Model or TOM as well as some comments related to our neurovascular business.
Starting with MAKO we placed 13 robots globally representing a Q2 record.
This follows a Q1 record level of nine and a Q4 2014 record of 20 robot placements.
Of the 13 in Q2 we placed two in Australia which represents our first sales in this key market for Stryker where we command a market-leading position in hips and knees.
During the quarter we initiated robot upgrades which will enable Stryker hip implants to start being used on the robot in Q3.
The upgrades to the installed base will continue throughout 2015 and into next year.
As you are aware our Total Knee 510(k) application was submitted to the FDA late last year and we have responded to the agency's questions with no current change to our target for clearings in 2015.
Shifting to TOM with the completion of Q2 we are six months into our new Transatlantic structure and are pleased with the progress we are making to optimize our European presence.
We continue to invest in this initiative through a portion of the tax savings and all of our key leaders and commercial structures are in place.
We continue to see improving top line momentum in Europe and believe we are well-positioned for further acceleration particularly as we head into 2016.
Finally the European regional headquarters represent the flagship for our presence in Europe as we bring [HCPs] [ph] into this site for training and education.
We believe this will be key to strengthening the Stryker brand in Europe and enhancing our relationships with physicians at hospitals.
Lastly I will make some comments relating to our neurovascular business.
As Kevin mentioned we like the momentum in neuromuscular space and the recent update of AHA/ASA guidelines are one of the multiple drivers to market expansion.
We expect to see similar guidelines coming from Europe and Japan.
Specifically in June for the first time the AHA recommended that patient should receive endovascular therapy with a stent retriever for the treatment of ischemic stroke which represents the vast majority of the roughly 800 000 strokes that occur annually in the U.S.
alone.
These guidelines represent the first new stroke treatment in two decades to win AHA's strongest backing.
The usual treatment of an ischemic stroke is to administer a clot dissolving drug known as tPA.
However the drug must be given within 4.5 hours after symptom onset.
With stent retriever the clot can be quickly removed in the patient to restore blood flow to critical vessels in the brain.
Late last year and earlier this year several major studies including the MR CLEAN study found stent retrievers dramatically cut the risk of death or disability in patients whose clots persisted after treatment with tPA.
The new AHA guidelines recommend patients be treated with a stent retriever if it can be done within six hours of symptom onset and if they have a severe stroke caused by a clot in a large artery.
Clearly the mounting clinical data and support from AHA underscore the opportunity for endovascular treatment of stroke.
However it's important to note that much work needs to be done to further develop the market including the optimization of EMS transport systems and inter-hospital transfers protocols and hospital infrastructure and investment in the human and physical capital to absorb the patient volume.
Stryker remains committed to continuing its investment in stroke innovation with the recent launches of Trevo 6mm 3mm and the 40/30 or long Trevo this combined with further clinical studies such as the DAWN trial for late and wake-up stroke patients.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Katherine.
Sales growth was 2.9% in the second quarter including a negative 4.7% impact from FX translation.
Constant currency sales growth was 7.6% which includes organic growth of 6.9%.
EPS on a GAAP basis for the second quarter were $1.03 per share versus $0.33 per share last year in the second quarter while adjusted EPS were $1.20 per share for the quarter versus $1.08 per share in the second quarter of last year.
This quarter's EPS includes negative impacts of roughly $0.07 per share from FX in line with our original guidance.
Most foreign exchange rates were again weaker against the dollar than last year in the same period.
The weaker euro and Swiss franc along with our layered hedging program helped to mitigate some of the impact in the quarter as many of our products are manufactured within Europe.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustments in the quarter relate to a charge of approximately $112 million associated with the voluntary recalls of Rejuvenate and ABG II offset somewhat by a favorable legal settlement with Zimmer Biomet.
The charges for the Rejuvenate matter may increase or decrease over time as additional facts become available and assumptions become more refined.
Looking at sales in the second quarter our organic growth of 6.9% was comprised of a positive 8.7% from volume and mix while price negatively impacted sales by 1.8 percentage points.
Acquisitions added 0.7% while FX had a negative 4.7% impact on the sales in the quarter.
Looking at our segments Orthopaedics represented 42% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales of orthopaedic products were up 0.6% as reported and grew 6.2% constant currency and increased 5.3% organically.
U.S.
orthopaedic sales grew 8.3% in the quarter.
Trauma and extremities had another standout quarter with sales in the U.S.
increasing 18% reflecting approximately 30% growth in our U.S.
foot and ankle business including strong double-digit organic growth.
U.S.
hips continued its strong performance and grew 5.7% in the second quarter while U.S.
knees increased 2.8% against a tough 7% comp last year.
Internationally sales were a positive 1.1% in hips in constant currency and increased 5.3% in knees in constant currency.
Next our MedSurg segment represented approximately 39% of our sales in the quarter.
Total MedSurg sales increased 3.9% as reported with 7.4% in constant currency and increased 6.7% organically.
These results were led once again by double-digit organic and constant currency growth in our medical business as our sales force combined with a strong product offering continue to execute.
We also experienced upper single-digit constant currency growth in instruments as we restored shipments from a supply issue which negatively impacted the first quarter.
Endoscopy grew by 3.2% in constant currency against double-digit organic comps in the second quarter last year.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represents 19% of our sales in the quarter increased 6.4% as reported and 11.5% organically.
Growth in this segment was led by strong double-digit growth in each of our Neurotechnology businesses including neurovascular CMF and NSE.
Spinal implant sales increased mid-single-digit in the quarter and high single-digits in the U.S.
as new products energised the business.
In looking at our operational performance gross margins on an adjusted basis in the second quarter of 2015 were 66.3% compared to 65.9% in the second quarter last year.
The increase in the margin rate in the quarter compared to the second quarter of last year resulted from negative pricing pressures which were more than offset by favorable mix FX and operational efficiencies.
Pricing declined 1.8% in the quarter in line with our expectations of approximately 2 percentage point decline.
Research and development expenses were 6.3% of sales slightly lower than last year in the quarter.
Selling general and administrative costs on an adjusted basis were $879 million or 36.1% of sales in the quarter versus 35.3% in the prior year period.
The cost increases were driven in part by our decision to reinvest roughly half of our tax savings to strengthen our European selling and marketing activities and support our new European regional headquarter.
We also incurred higher compensation cost including commissions tied to our stronger sales performance partly offset by improved cost controls in many of our indirect spending categories.
Adjusting for these items on a year-to-date basis we would be delivering leverage of 30 to 40 basis points and we are confident in our ability to deliver at least this level of expense leverage in 2016 as we continue to drive a number of key initiatives in this area.
Operating margins on an adjusted basis were 23.8% in the second quarter of 2015 nearly flat with the second quarter of 2014.
The rate reflects solid operational improvements coupled with favorable mix largely offset by our investments to support our European business negative price and compensation cost tied to our strong sales performance.
Other expense in the second quarter was approximately $30 million which is flat with last year in the second quarter.
Our reported tax rate for the second quarter was 2.2 percentage points while our adjusted effective tax rate was 16.8%.
This compares to a 22.4% adjusted effective tax rate in the second quarter last year.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $4.3 billion of cash and marketable securities approximately a third of it held in the U.S.
We also had $3.5 billion of debt on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
From an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended in the second quarter at 55 days slightly below last year's second quarter and days in inventory finished the quarter at 173 just a little better than the 177 days in the second quarter last year.
Turning to cash flow our cash from operations in the first half of 2015 were $737 million compared to $579 million last year in the first half.
Capital expenditures were $114 million in the first half of 2015 compared to $124 million in the same period last year.
However capital expenditures are expected to run higher than last year as we move through 2015.
We expect significant cash outflows associated with our Rejuvenate settlement in the second half of this year with a major portion of the funding occurring in the third quarter.
So far in the third quarter we have paid out $786 million and we expect to fund a total of approximately $1.2 billion this quarter.
Approximately 50% of the funding for the Rejuvenate liability is expected to be sourced from OUS cash.
Also as we previously mentioned we have repatriated approximately $700 million in the first half of the year and expect to repatriate nearly $1 billion more late in this year.
We still have over $2 billion available for share repurchase under our recently expanded authorization as approximately $324 million of share repurchases were made by the end of the second quarter.
We will continue to evaluate the level and frequency of our share repurchases.
However current plans are to fully utilize the current authorization over the next two to three years.
Our strong second quarter results give us additional confidence in our ability to deliver improved operating results for the year.
We are increasing our guidance for both sales and earnings for 2015.
Our sales guidance now includes constant currency growth of 6.5% to 7.5% with organic sales growth in the range of 5.5% to 6.5%.
If foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels we expect the net sales for the full year of 2015 to be negatively impacted by approximately 3.5% to 4%.
Pricing pressure will continue and prices are currently expected to be nearly 2% declines for the Company moving forward consistent with the pricing environment we experienced over the last year.
The benefit from the renewal of the tax extenders continues to be in our year-end earnings guidance and represents approximately $0.05 per share for the year.
We continue to expect that they will once again be approved.
However we do not expect them to be renewed until late in the year.
As such we do not have any benefit from them in our actual results or our planned earnings guidance until the fourth quarter of this year.
We also expect that our adjusted tax rate will run at or below the level achieved in the first half of the year and will be noticeably better in the period the tax extenders are approved.
Based on current FX rates we expect 2015 to be negatively impacted by approximately $0.25 per share for the full year.
Keep in mind that the full year negative impact of foreign exchange rate movement is largely driven by the translational component of FX which we do not hedge.
And finally we are also increasing our earnings guidance for 2015.
Our adjusted net earnings per share is now $5.06 to $5.12 with adjusted net earnings per share in the range of $1.20 to $1.25 for the third quarter of 2015.
Thanks again for your support and we'd be glad to answer any questions that you may have at this time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder callers will be limited to one question and one follow-up question.
Your first question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Congrats on a really good quarter.
So just two things I want to touch on one for Bill and then one for Kevin.
First Bill one of the questions that we've gotten pretty consistently from investors relates to your ability to drop through operating margin leverage and I know you made the comment about 30 to 40 basis points of drop through so was that an SG&amp;A or an operating margin comment and is that the kind of leverage you want us to expect you to be able to deliver as we look forward? Sure.
That comment Bob was specifically on our SG&amp;A component and we wanted to just make that clear because we're making some nice reductions within that area currently.
However as you can tell that's obviously being masked by a couple of things this year and we wanted to highlight that.
I think also as we relate to 2016 comment we're highly confident in our ability to create that leverage but again that's just at the expense level and we'll talk more broadly about our operating income levels as we give our regular guidance.
But you should expect and you're seeing our gross profit margin improvement currently show up and as I mentioned earlier this year we should have better comparables against gross margin as we move through this year.
And so if we're getting any level of gross margin improvement which we believe should be flat to a slight positive in a more neutral FX related environment along with some of the SG&amp;A related leverage that we just talked about you should expect leverage at the operating income line as well moving forward.
Great thank you.
And then for Kevin and Katherine obviously you're seeing some clear strengths across your businesses and as you think about capital allocation does the strength of your business change at all how you think about capital allocation priorities does M&amp;A remain the top priority if you could just speak to that how this [clear strength] [ph] in your business might be impacting your thought process there that would be helpful? Thanks Bob.
Our capital allocation strategy is unchanged and we still have M&amp;A as our first priority and use of cash and you can see based on the activities done over the past couple of years they are contributing to our esteemed organic growth performance because after the anniversary of the first year then they become part of our organic business and we still see significant scope for acquisitions within the three segments that we planned to date.
So that continues to remain number one and as we've mentioned previously dividends we intend to have steady increases at least as fast as our earnings growth potentially a little bit faster than that and then share repurchase is the more fungible one which really varies depending on the timing and the flow of deals which as you know is inherently uncertain.
But no change to our strategy the strength of our business frankly reinforces the strategy that we've been deploying over the past few years.
The next question comes from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Kevin what I find interesting about this particular quarter if we look at various segments that you were enthusiastic about at AOS namely spine neuro and MAKO they've all come through and frankly I think most would agree have come through faster than most were expecting so I think it would be helpful based on your earlier enthusiasm what's sort of your conviction on a continuation of the trends you're seeing here in the second quarter in those key businesses spine neuro and MAKO? So I feel very good about all three of those businesses.
Neuro has been a trend we've seen frankly for multiple quarters and it's now being accelerated because of the ischemic stroke segment that Katherine mentioned which will be a multiyear journey and that was based on the Concentric acquisition which we did in October of 2012.
So neuro has been really a continuation of a multiple quarter experience.
On MAKO we turned the corner really about the midpoint of last year and you've seen sustained improvement and I expect that to continue.
We're of course very anxious for the Total Knee approval which we believe will be another catalyst for enhanced growth but our organization really has embraced this the sales force integration is now really humming.
So we're feeling very very good momentum and excited.
We got over our back order issue that plagued us a little bit in the first quarter we were able to get through that on MAKO in the second quarter so feel good about that.
Spine really is the one business that's turned the most and the most recently and I'm really encouraged because it's based on a combination of product launches and numerous product launches.
If you look over the past two years we've launched more than we did in the past four years.
If you look in the first half of this year we've launched more in any six-month period than we've launched probably in the last three four five years.
So we've really gained momentum we have new R&amp;D leadership that has an exciting flow of products and of course we've added some acquisitions as well with CoAlign with the BIO4 biologics.
So we have a number of products and the product flow going forward I feel very good about and as you've seen in spine innovation is rewarded and you grow through innovation in new products and that's a truism across large and small players in spine.
So the innovation is alive and well in spine and our management team has been strengthened over the past year or two.
So I feel very good about our prospects of spine going forward.
Okay very clear thanks Kevin.
And maybe just a deeper dive Katherine on MAKO I think what's interesting is that business has basically gone up every quarter last four to five quarters.
This particular quarter you doubled MAKO installed systems year-on-year but we still haven't seen a significant impact from either product approvals on hip or potentially obviously the knee in the latter half of the year.
So what is driving the momentum in MAKO? Is it simply a sales reorganization focus or are we starting to see the enthusiasm for existing approvals and the approvals coming obviously in a few months? I would say David it's more the former as we've got the integration challenges that we had early on last year behind us and the team is really working together in leveraging the considerable breadth and depth that we bring along with the MAKO expertise.
We are in the process as I mentioned around doing the necessary software upgrade that will enable us to start to put our hip implant on the MAKO.
We have the clearance but we have to do that work and that will continue through this year and into next year as well.
And then the knee indication we are looking to get that clearance hopefully sometime in 2015 it's in the hands of the FDA.
But keep in mind it is going to be three four quarters before we've gone through the necessary training and upgrade and work that's going to be needed to be done to make sure that that launch is truly optimized.
So I would make sure to just consider that it will not be a light switch when we get that indication.
It clearly enhances the value proposition of having a robot but it is going to take some time to make sure we really optimize that launch.
The next question comes from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
I was hoping we could come back to the neurovascular business.
Understandably Katherine in your comments you talked about the need for training and development and educating the market around the new guidelines but if we look at the numbers that your key competitors put up in their most recent quarter as well as the step-up we saw in your business today it does look like the market was sort of ready to get moving here.
So maybe you could just help us think about how we should size this opportunity on a go forward basis and whether the growth rates we're seeing now are reflective of something sustainable or some type of pent-up demand waiting for clinical data and new guidelines? I think that there are some well-established in the minority stroke centers that were well-prepared for this clinical data that we're expecting it to be positive but they had done a lot of that market development and had the patient inter-hospital transfers and the various work that needs to be done completed.
So they were good to go but that does not represent the majority of places where patients would need to go.
So I think you're seeing an early benefit but there really is going to need to be a lot of market enhancement work done between us and others as well as additional clinical data.
So we feel really excited the data is truly compelling and the impact that this can have on patients is just it's clear that these devices have a very clear role to play but it will take time for this to be broadly applicable with all stroke centers which is what we're trying to signal.
I think it's too early for us to size the market up.
We'll just have to see how this plays out on paper with roughly 80% of the 800 000 patients who have a stroke being ischemic and get to some very big numbers but I don't think we want to get too far ahead right now until we've got some more time to see how the market develops and the neurovascular community embraces the data and the market development work.
Okay and maybe just secondarily and another question on MAKO I think Kevin one of the things you talked about at AOS was your different ways to sort of get the capital out there and target some of the Biomet accounts.
Could you just maybe talk about how any sort of the changed commercial strategy may be impacting the business today and any opportunities that may arise out of the Zimmer Biomet transactions some of the divestitures that were required for completion there around Unis? I'm not exactly sure I follow your question there.
Just so in terms of relating the Unis the Zimmer Biomet to MAKO is that your question? I think as one of the divestitures required for FDC clearance was some of the Zimmer Uni product so are you seeing any disruption in the market thus far that would provide an incremental opportunity for MAKO associated with that transaction? I would say it's really too early.
I mean this deal is just closing right now.
We haven't seen much of an impact there.
The MAKO already had a very sizable portion of the Uni market as it was and certainly every time there is a change any type of acquisition whether we're doing an acquisition or whether someone else is doing an acquisition as the companies integrate there usually is opportunity.
So we'll see how that plays out but right now it's too early to say.
It really didn't impact this quarter that's for sure.
Our next question comes from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
I was just wondering if you can just reconcile the change in guidance just in terms of the EPS.
I know that looks like FX is a little less negative relative to where you were guiding previously.
I think in the first quarter you had said it was going to be a $0.25 to $0.30 headwind.
I think the tax rate went down and the organic growth went up and you're reinvesting a little bit.
So maybe just help me understand some of the moving parts just in terms of where numbers are going how much of it is organic moving versus reinvestment and so forth? Kristen this is Bill and I think that as far as our overall guidance is concerned we've obviously had some positives on a number of fronts.
I mean our sales and operations are doing very well we've increased our top line sales guidance obviously.
Taxes obviously also a little bit better than our – quite a bit better as well than talking about earlier at least for the street and then as far FX is concerned that might be $0.01 or $0.02 better for the whole year than what was there.
But I think that there's also on an ongoing basis there's a lot of other dynamics that are in the marketplace as well that we need to make sure that we're taking into account and it's truly the combination of all those positives and negatives that we're looking at.
Also keep in mind on the tax side that we have stated all year long that we've been expecting to reinvest about half of that which is what you're seeing in kind of the SG&amp;A side.
We have been expecting that investment upfront in the year and so that's also reflected in the numbers that you're hearing.
Okay.
And then so I guess the best way to think about it is if not for the reinvestment you guys would have clearly – I guess what would've been the underlying operational EPS growth if not for the reinvestment? Keep in mind on the reinvestment [talk] [ph] to the reinvestment is actually to support that overall project which is running through the SG&amp;A and other part of it is what we've talked about upfront with our Transatlantic Operating Model and some of the additional support that we want to be putting in our sales and marketing efforts especially within Europe and I think that we're also already seeing some at least positive motivation in activities around that move at this point and we expect that that's got a multiyear benefit for us.
And as we talk about kind of the leverage that we've got with our underlying operating expenses we believe that we're actually delivering that already this year and that's why we're also committing to some level of that at least externally as I mentioned on the call earlier.
I think Kristen this is Kevin just wanted to underscore what Bill said so a good portion of the reinvestment is establishing that European structure and there's cost related to that.
So the tax benefit it's not like a one-time event that's a windfall.
This is like remapping our transactions creating a structure creating this headquarters.
There was a significant amount of cost involved in creating that.
Of course it's driving significant financial benefits through the tax plan and those benefits will be there for years to come.
So this for us is an investment that is clearly paying off but it is directly related to each other and it's not that the tax area is just a windfall and comes for free.
There was a cost associated.
It appears on two different lines of the P&amp;L but net it's a huge positive for us and one of the contributors to our raised guidance.
Our next question comes from Mike Weinstein from J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
So let me start off I'll pick up actually and maybe push a little bit on the guidance as well if I went back to really the tax discussion it goes back to the analyst meeting right last year and that's when you disclosed that it would be a couple of hundred basis point benefit from the European setup and that you were going to invest half of that but since the start of the year the tax rate guidance has come down by what would basically imply say about 350 basis points so that's like $0.20 and then initially the FX headwind was $0.30 and now it's $0.25.
So that's $0.25 of kind of incremental call it less headwind or call it incremental tailwind for you guys and you've raised the bottom end of the range by $0.16 since the start of the year but you've only raised the top end by $0.02.
Are you putting earnings away at this point for a rainy day? Tell us just reconcile the math I just walked through versus how much you've raised guidance so far this year.
Sure.
Mike I think one point to make is really around the tax rate side of the equation and we in taking a look at kind of the expectation this year we clearly knew that it was going to be a better than 2% impact for this year.
From a directional perspective to the street we wanted to give guidance to say that it was a meaningful improvement but we really didn't fully like identified that until we saw that run through our number.
We wanted to commit to it.
And just like with our investments that we were doing within that area same thing.
We were spending a certain amount of money upfront that we knew we were comfortable with but we also were holding some back and making sure that we wanted to see that realize through our earnings statements before we really are releasing that.
But our total expectation for the project is in line and which was the commitment for us to reinvest half of that total savings back into the business both to support that structure which was pretty significant to support the change in the structure that we have within Europe but then also to really ramp up some of our sales and marketing activities there.
Okay.
So the answer is you are not putting earnings away for a rainy day and I have one follow-up so the operators don't cut me off but just talk for a minute about U.S.
spine because obviously this is the best quarter in a while and just would love to hear your thoughts on it.
Mike so just getting back so for our guidance obviously the guidance is really for our operational performance and so things – when we give our third quarter guidance that's where we believe our operational range will be for the third quarter.
Of course if the tax changes we've now after six months of our original headquarters we've now got a very good view of our tax rate.
So you're not going to see as much volatility in our tax rate in the third and the fourth quarter.
You can be much more reliable.
As you enter a new structure like this there's a lot of unknowns.
We worked through those unknowns in the first half of the year so now we're feeling a lot better about that.
So you won't see as much volatility as we saw in the first six months and we do try to guide around what's going to happen operationally and then of course things like FX and unknown things happen over the quarter that can move us up or down within the range.
On spine so it's been a while in the works right.
So we hired I mentioned I think at academy a year ago not this year but the prior year that we had hired a new spine R&amp;D leader and re-established a real focus on innovation which had been lacking in our spine business and we've launched a lot of products in the first half of this year and we have a really robust pipeline.
So product flow is I would say number one issue.
We also have enhanced some of our management team in spine stabilized the sales force and so we really have a good offense.
We were running a very profitable business before but we weren't growing very fast and we've now turned on the engine of growth really behind new products.
And it's not something that I see as a one-hit wonder.
Of course each quarter is dynamic.
This is one good quarter.
But I do see a sustained path for good results for multiple quarters going forward.
Our next question comes from Matt Taylor from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
I have a couple of questions I guess one was just if I look at the pricing in Recon it actually got a little bit better this quarter it was the best it has been in I guess six quarters.
So I wondered if there was any real change there or if that's just within the range of normal variability? I would put that in the range of normal variability.
It can bounce around in the 10s of basis points.
So obviously it's better when it improves or it's less negative but I wouldn't point to any change or difference in what's going on in the market.
Thanks.
And have you seen any disruption from the ongoing combinations at your different ortho competitors and maybe just comment on how you're seeing such strong growth in trauma and foot and ankle.
We haven't really seen any impact from the Biomet Zimmer merger recognizing that.
It had just recently closed.
So we'll see how that plays out.
We're certainly not going to underestimate them as a competitor.
They are two formidable organizations but we are also very focused on continuing to drive growth and execute on MAKO.
And then on trauma and extremities? Just on trauma and extremities this has been a multi-year story right.
So if you look at 2012 2013 2014 each of those years in the U.S.
we grew at least 15% and based on the first half of this year it's safe to say it looks like we're going to deliver another 15% or more growth.
So that's four years in a row.
So we've just seen sustained performance.
Foot and ankle has been a huge contributor to that that continues to grow extremely well and it's a little bit like the stroke market Katherine is talking about it's been a market development story so kind of hard to predict.
It's frankly exceeded our expectations when we created the foot and ankle business unit but that's a team that knows how to perform it's been performing consistently year after year.
So we're excited.
We still have a lot of room for growth in upper extremities.
So while we're very pleased with our performance it's not that we've reached the end of the growth opportunity.
We're still actually a smaller player in upper extremities and we see that as potentially exciting area for the future.
Our next question comes from Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to just follow up on pricing in light of what CMS announced with respect to this pilot program on bundling we've been getting a lot of incoming questions about does this put pressure on price longer-term.
So my first question Kevin is what are your thoughts on this whole bundling project? So what we saw with the initial pilots on the bundled payments is we really didn't see any different dynamic in pricing.
So the price pressure we expect will continue as it is currently.
Once they start to focus on the total episode of care in a bundled payment they tend to make much more focus on post-acute costs which frankly outpace the cost of an implant.
So we see this as a trend that really doesn't disrupt the implant pricing.
We'll have the same pressures we had before.
If anything it might start to drive them to rationalize towards less suppliers of implants.
In that world we like that kind of consolidation to us is an environment where we feel we're well-positioned to win.
So to us this is a dynamic that we've seen in pockets and we haven't seen our business adversely affected by a move to bundled payments.
It's like I say the post-acute costs are very significant and once they're shown in spotlight that's where I believe more of the focus will be placed than on the implant cost.
That's not to say the implant costs are not immune from price pressure but I don't see it as a new catalyst.
Got it.
And then just on medicals and other it was a very good strong medical quarter and I just wonder if that's a function of the favorable CapEx environment that we're in today or is it a function of your new product cadence or maybe both? I would attribute it to both.
The medical group is doing a great job executing on product launches some of which you may have seen at our product fair in June.
The environment is stable it's inherently volatile as we've seen over the years but the outlook is very stable right now is how I would characterize CapEx particularly for medical.
Our next question comes from Richard Newitter from Leerink.
Please go ahead.
First question for Bill you mentioned the 30 to 40 basis points of SG&amp;A leverage in 2016 and you said flat to positive gross margin leverage in an FX neutral situation.
Can you just describe what kind of pricing dynamics or decline what's the threshold at which maybe it's flat to negative? Sure.
So that obviously relates to the gross profit margin piece of it and from that perspective we still are expecting about a 2 percentage point price decline level.
As we've talked about before as you're in that kind of 2% level we believe we can get a normal kind of FX related environment.
We believe we can still keep margins flat and actually hopefully still improve them slightly based on kind of all the cost initiatives that we have in that area.
If pricing improves and is like 1.5% we've talked that that actually creeps up to maybe into the 20 to 40 basis points of improvement level and obviously if it goes north of 2% that also has a more negative related impact.
But again we see prices pretty much in line with where we are this year which is right in that 2% range.
Okay that's helpful.
And then for Katherine the total knee on the MAKO solution sometime in 2015 should we be thinking that when you do in fact get approval there even though we might not see it in the actual kind of implant numbers for knees and the growth rates there should we expect some sort of step-up in your ability to play systems are there customers for whom the value proposition will become that much more apparent? Without a doubt those customers who are going to see greater value in the robot with more applications and the total knee is the biggest one.
I have no doubt there are some who have waited and I'm not sure I would necessarily model some step function change or bolus this is a tough business to model but it clearly strengthens the value proposition but really the real driver will be a few quarters out once we start to do the upgrades and see more and more traction.
So I think in theory it makes sense I think we'd be a little bit hesitant to get too aggressive and modeling any type of step function change.
Our next question comes from Raj Denhoy from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted to ask a question on spine business when that business was not performing well there were lots of questions about whether you would want to do an acquisition there to perhaps jumpstart the performance.
I guess my question is as you've now seen a resumption in performance and you've described it as kind of being longer-term or at least having some durability does that change your view on that business and really how much how long you'll wait for it to grow if that makes sense I apologize? I think the way we continue to view it as clearly M&amp;A is the primary use of our cash as we've talked about we have dedicated BD people in all of our divisions who are actively looking at targets and that's the reason why we were able to identify CoAlign and seen the benefit of that product from that acquisition.
So they are always going to be out looking at ways to augment the portfolio but first and foremost we look to invest in the business and build it organically.
And so we're never going to rule out acquisition targets in any area and they're going to vary in size.
As you know most of ours tend to be relatively small to midsized targets but those BD people will continue to look at market opportunities.
I guess as that business performs better do you have more patience in a sense for it or do you still feel like you need to do something to it because I guess you described wanting to be bigger in that business longer term? I don't want to speak to any specific division.
We said we're focused on our core and key adjacent markets and spine is one of them but we also do a lot of relatively smaller deals that I'm not going to rule out continuing to augment our portfolio.
We do that when businesses are performing well and we continue to invest in them.
So there's no deviation or change in the overall strategy.
Each deal will stand on its own merits but I wouldn't want to single out any one division and say they are off the BD market for any period of time.
Our next question comes from Jason Wittes from Brean Capital.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
First the reinvestment that you're doing in Europe can we assume that that's finite period I mean basically just through the end of this year or how long will that reinvestment period run through? So the investments that we are actually making there would be investments that would occur on an ongoing basis but off of the same level right.
So we're investing about half of that tax savings this year but you should think of that just a normal step-up for what we're doing within the European side but as we're moving forward we would expect to grow that new base level and leverage it as well against our sales growth as we would anything else and that's why we wanted to reiterate that you should expect to see at least that 30 to 40 basis point of improvement in the SG&amp;A line category for next year.
[Indiscernible] like a one-time investment this is an investment that changes the base of business moving forward.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just a follow-up on Trevo I think Katherine based on your comments it sounds like the large stroke centers have pretty quickly picked up on the data and have changed their practices but if you start going to more regional or smaller centers it's unclear whether they are moving in that direction just yet.
Is that the right way to think about what is going on in the marketplace right now? Yes it's going very well with established stroke centers that are very sophisticated and who are ready to go.
I think a lot of those other stroke centers are waiting for data to be a catalyst to say we have to start to do this work and this data that's come in like MR CLEAN and will be coming in is certainly that catalyst but it takes time.
If you think about that laundry list of market development items I mentioned those are not something that will happen in a quarter or two it will be a few years but it's clearly supported by the data that I think will prompt many of those to start to make those changes in investments.
The next question comes from Mike Matson from Needham.
Please go ahead.
I guess first of all I just wanted to see if the selling days this quarter were the same as the year ago quarter.
Yes there's no change in selling days.
Okay thanks.
And then I know it's a smaller deal but I was just wondering if you could comment on the [indiscernible] medical acquisition that you did.
We are excited about that.
The medical group is clearly excited about it.
We had a relationship with them a distribution agreement going back to 2012.
The company has been around for nearly 50 years a private company based out of Turkey and they've done a great job.
They specialize in the design and manufacture of hospital beds and structures and they've been primarily serving the Turkish market around eight countries.
So it's a great opportunity for us to build a presence in that segment with a premium value product.
We know them well so we are comfortable with where they are located in their manufacturing facilities and it really helps to further strengthen our portfolio longer-term.
So it's a small deal [indiscernible] very modest not material incremental sales but clearly a great product franchise to further bolster what medical is doing.
And are those products intended to be sold globally or is it more for the European markets or emerging markets? It's primarily for the Turkish and surrounding countries as well as some in Latin America.
Longer-term we'll wait and see what direction we're going with this but you should not be thinking about that as a near-term U.S.
product offering.
Our next question comes from Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
So just starting with neurotech so we understand that a lot of physicians prefer to use an aspiration device with a stent retriever do you guys have any plans to introduce your own aspiration device and if so what's the timing and I have a follow-up? One of the great things about neurovascular both the hemorrhagic and ischemic side is there is so much opportunity for innovation and you've seen that over the last few years with technologies coming out and we have a very robust pipeline on the R&amp;D side.
I'm not going to get into specifics at this time around which products and the timing of them but I will say we're very comfortable as one of the market leaders here and with the talent in our R&amp;D team we are well-positioned both with our current portfolio and future generations of products that we'll be introducing but I'm not going to get any more specific at this time around timelines.
I understand.
And then Kevin you mentioned some softness in China can you talk about what you're seeing there? And just very quickly Bill on the tax rate I'm a little confused what tax rate to use this year.
I mean last quarter you said less than 20% but it's like trying to get about 18% in the first half without the R&amp;D tax credit.
I'll start with the China question.
So we saw a really good performance with our implant business.
Where we saw the slowdown was in capital equipment.
We saw that quite sluggish in China in the second quarter and we even saw in Latin America also the issues that we had were more pronounced in capital equipment than in our implant business.
And associated with the tax rate question that you asked our year to date operating tax rate is about 18.1% and as I mentioned in the call script we're comfortable with a rate for the full year at or slightly below that.
Keep in mind as you mentioned the tax extenders are not in that number yet.
So when the tax extenders are ultimately approved hopefully by the fourth quarter of this year in that period you will actually see the tax rate dip down again in that one period obviously but because that would be a full-year benefit of those extenders being picked up in the fourth quarter but for an average rate for this year we would expect to be a little bit below what our average trend rate is right now and I think that that's relatively a consistent tax rate that you can project for next year as well.
Our next question comes from Matthew OBrien from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Kevin as I look across the businesses it looks like the performance is quite strong across the platform but it seems like it's more volume driven than anything that we've seen historically the last couple of years I should say.
Is that a function of benefiting from things like ACA the deferrals in CapEx that are now kind of coming through and then AHA guidelines in neuro and is that something that you feel comfortable being able to smoothly transition through or lap as we get into next year some of those benefits not being as much of a tailwind? So it's hard to generalize because every division has its own story.
So if you look at trauma and extremities and the performance there that's a lot of innovation creating a new business unit for foot and ankle.
So I think each division has its own story.
The overall tailwind around capital equipment is undeniable and I think you see that in the marketplace.
So that's been a real positive.
But if you look at our instruments division as an example even before the tailwind they were really performing at a very very high level and double-digit growth kind of performer and getting Neptune back on the market and growth there.
So I feel really strongly about all of our divisions' leadership their innovation pipeline looking at the way they look at acquisitions I get a chance to go around and visit with every division and we strengthened our leadership in many areas and we have very very strong positions.
So we were growing faster than the market when the markets were a little bit down.
Now the market is certainly moving up in the capital equipment side and we're taking full advantage but you can see even in an area like medical that's done two deals just in the past year they are smaller deals but they are adding to the innovation that they are doing organically and innovation wins.
And so when the market is good you see the numbers are buoyed but I'm not worried about as we get into comparatives that are a little bit higher that we can sustain strong growth.
Okay very helpful.
And then as a follow-up question just looking at the environment that we're in right now with extremely low interest rates and robust equity markets I'm just curious on the asset side of things.
You've done a couple of smaller deals recently but are the valuations that are out in the marketplace right now for some of the larger acquisitions even midsized acquisitions targets getting to the point where it just doesn't make sense or you are unable to meet your internal hurdle rates with some of those assets and if that's the case are you willing to given the environment adjust your internal hurdle rates? I would say clearly valuations have moved up.
We are always confronted with challenges around valuations sellers' expectations even in an environment that hasn't been quite as strong as recently.
So it's always going to be a factor that we've got to consider it hasn't changed our priority around M&amp;A but it certainly does become an issue on some deals and that does impact the numbers we look at.
At this time there's no change in terms of – sorry the second part of your question when you talk about our hurdle rates and returns we're pretty disciplined and the approach we take there we think that makes sense.
Our next question comes from Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered but briefly in China you made a number of investments there over the years I remember Trauson very well.
Do you have the footprint there that you want to have? Overall we still have a long way to go in China.
I would say the Trauson acquisition was a great deal for trauma and spine and we're expanding in China.
We are still about to launch in India so we don't sell Trauson yet in India.
We're launching that in the second half of this year.
We are still waiting for approvals in Brazil.
We will launch that next year.
So I think Trauson has a lot of room to grow outside China.
Inside China I'm very pleased with that but we don't yet have lower-priced hip and knee offering.
That's something that you could see in the foreseeable future that's something we'd want to pursue.
We're not still covering all of the territories in China so we're continuing to grow our sales force in some of the more remote areas where we still don't have access.
So we've been growing our China business very strongly over the past five six years in both the premium segment as well as the lower-priced or mid-tier segment but we still have a long way to go.
I would say that the market potential in China is still very significant.
Right now obviously you're hearing a lot about the China slowdown but I think within healthcare we still believe we have a lot of room to grow and certainly on the MedSurg side that's been an area of the endoscopy business it's been a very strong business but our other MedSurg businesses don't yet have a very very strong footprint in China.
So we still see a lot of opportunity and we are learning a lot about the mid-tier segment and Trauson was our first foray into that segment and figuring out how to win in that marketplace with other products is something that I see maybe not the next year but in the next five years as very important for Stryker.
So we still have a long way to go.
I appreciate that.
As a follow-up one of the areas or one of the ways that spine has grown is investment in the sales force.
Is there a way to qualitatively talk about how much larger that sales force looks like today versus 12 18 24 months ago? In which country sorry? Oh she got cut off I'm sorry.
The question was in China so we obviously use a distributor network in China and we have a separate set of distributors for the Stryker premium business and a separate set of distributors for the mid-tier segment.
And what I mentioned to you is we've got very good coverage in the big cities and in some of the surrounding areas but pushing to the western part of China we still have room to grow and that will largely be through expanding the distributor network.
So it's not so much about direct sales force it's more about making sure we have the right distributors to cover the rest of the country.
Our next question comes from Josh Jennings from Cowen &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to start on MAKO Katherine you mentioned two systems placed in Australia and maybe if you could just give us an update on plans for OUS launches in other countries or are we getting ahead of ourselves? I think it's going to continue to be dominated by the U.S.
robot placement.
Australia is a market where as I mentioned we have very strong market positions in both hips and knees.
So it's a market that made a lot of sense but I think as you go forward I would really focus on U.S.
is going to be the primary driver of the placements.
Just in emerging markets business pardon me if I missed this in your prepared remarks but can you just talk about – you talked a lot about China but just other avenues within emerging markets where you are in terms of your trajectory this year and actually in the first half of 2015 and any initiatives you can to accelerate your emerging market growth? So I would say after China which has been a really strong market our strongest emerging market is China at Stryker after that I would say I'm really pleased with our progress in India where we're growing very very well from a small base admittedly but we're having very good performance starting from last year in India and it seems to be very sustained growth.
The other priority market is Brazil and Brazil obviously is going through a pretty tough recession right now.
We also had some issues where we had to change one of our spine dealers in Sao Paulo and that caused a bit of an issue in our spine business and so we have that from time to time in Brazil which represents roughly half of Latin America.
So Latin America is for the future very important for us and we're quite a small player but I would say this year because of the recession in Brazil it's not going quite as well as it has in the past couple of years but certainly an important market in the long term.
Areas like Russia and Turkey are actually doing quite well but you can imagine those are not exactly the most attractive markets at least at the moment but those are the other two emerging market countries that are going to be a top priority for us but we are measuring our investments.
We had planned if you look back maybe three years ago we were planning to really invest more vigorously in Russia and Turkey and given the macroeconomic conditions there we have tempered our investments in those two countries.
But clearly it represents about 8% of our sales at Stryker emerging markets and we would like that number to be much higher but the conditions have to be right and we want to make sure we get a good return on our investment but those are a couple of markets that are doing very well and there are other ones that I think we're going to be a little bit more measured in the pace of our investments.
Our next question comes from Bill Plovanic.
Please go ahead.
First on the foot and ankle that's grown really well for you.
Would you say that you're creating the market with procedural kitting or do you think that's more taking share from existing players in the foot and ankle piece? With the kind of growth we've had over the past few years I would say the bulk of it is market development but you can't grow at this kind of rate without taking some share.
So I'm sure we've taken some share along the way but this has been really more about a new market story where we're getting people that weren't using implants to start to use implants.
That's been the biggest engine of growth within foot and ankle.
Okay.
And then on MAKO as you place these systems and that's reaccelerated is this based more on an alternative financing method or are these kind of direct sales? I would say we have a flex financial unit within Stryker that provides various options to make capital easier to acquire and we have used that for some of the sales of the robot.
But frankly though the vast majority have been direct purchases thus far so the hospitals are finding the capital and they are [pruning] [ph] it up but we do have an arsenal of a range of options for them to choose from and I think going forward – certainly Europe is an example as we start to expand MAKO in Europe I think using financing will be much more prevalent than it is here in the U.S.
but in the U.S.
they've been the vast majority have been direct purchases.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
So thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the [second] [ph] quarter of 2015 results will be held on October 22 2015.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
Welcome to Stryker's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
My name is Anna and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the conference we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
During that time the participants will have the opportunity to ask one question and one follow-up question.
This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> (01:20 – 01:25) 2015 Earnings Call.
Joining me today are Bill Jellison our CFO and Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Following my opening comments Katherine will provide an update on MAKO and Bill will then offer details on our quarterly results before turning to questions and answers.
Our Q3 results represent the tenth consecutive quarter of delivering a minimum of 5% organic sales growth which reflects the strength of our diversified model and our commitment to achieving revenue gains at the high end of MedTech.
Once again all three business segments delivered year over year sales growth as continued strong momentum in the U.S.
which represents approximately 70% of our sales more than offset modest constant currency gains outside the U.S.
This performance was notable given the tough year over year comparisons in MedSurg.
Top-line standouts in the U.S.
included trauma and extremities and neurotechnology which continued their string of double digit growth.
I am also pleased with our U.S.
performance in MAKO hip knee and spine which are all showing good momentum since the beginning of the year; and despite tough prior year comparisons instruments and medical continue to perform well.
Katherine will discuss MAKO in more detail which included another strong quarter of robot sales and FDA approval of the total knee application.
International markets proved more challenging as softness in China and Latin America offset strong performance in Australia and Europe the latter which is benefiting from the launch of our Transatlantic Operating Model at the beginning of this year.
Building on our success in Europe with this new structure we have recently announced changes to our leadership model in other regions of the world.
These changes will be effective in 2016 and will drive stronger engagement with the regions and our product divisions.
We believe these changes will enable us to accelerate international growth over time although we do expect the market conditions in emerging markets to remain challenging into 2016.
Turning to the P&amp;L we drove leverage through improving gross margin ongoing focus on G&amp;A and a lower tax rate owing to the establishment of our European regional headquarters.
As a result we have been able to continue to make key investments in R&amp;D and sales and marketing to help sustain our top-line momentum while ensuring we are achieving our financial targets.
Our adjusted EPS for Q3 of $1.25 represents an increase of approximately 9% versus prior year which is at the high end of our targeted range of $1.20 to $1.25 a share.
With three solid quarters now complete we are well positioned to meet our full year sales and revised adjusted earnings guidance.
With that I will now turn the call over to Katherine.
Thanks Kevin.
My comments today will focus on MAKO with a particular emphasis on our planned rollout of our triathlon total knee on the MAKO robot.
Firstly with respect to the quarter we sold another record level for Q3 with 17 robots globally in the quarter bringing the year-to-date total to 41.
These robot sales represented a nice mix of existing and competitive accounts while also reflecting both direct purchases and lease agreements through our Flex Financial Group.
Looking at the total knee recall that we received FDA clearance in August for this key robotic indication which we believe will drive considerable differentiation in the reconstructive market.
Momentum continues to build for the MAKO total hip and the Uni has gained considerable market share.
Beyond these indications we have a high degree of conviction regarding the opportunity for the robot with the total knee which we anticipate will enable us to drive market share gains following full commercial release.
Against that backdrop we wanted to provide greater visibility regarding the launch of the total knee as we focus a significant amount of our time and effort on the front end to enable an optimal physician and patient experience.
Given the anticipated impact of the total knee we are committed to extensive training with our 1 000-plus sales force as well as our surgeon partners.
We also will look to collect data that will further strengthen the value proposition as we analyze the ability of the robot to positively impact a number of clinical and economic outcomes.
The initial phase of our launch which will get underway late this year will target a small group of existing robotic users who represent the key opinion leaders in the surgeon community.
This will help drive a database of outcomes that will allow for a presence at key podium presentations beginning in 2017.
We will also target current non-robotic surgeons who are also KOLs and have extensive experience with our triathlon total knee.
By observing outcomes for both groups we will be able to enhance the training protocols prior to full market launch.
A broader market release will get underway in the second half of 2016 setting the stage for full commercialization as we head into 2017.
Note that beyond this critical training and stage release there is considerable support being provided as we upgrade the existing robots in the field to enable for total knee placement.
In sum we're committed to leveraging our leadership in reconstructive surgery to help ensure that this transformative technology for total knee replacement has an optimal rollout while setting the stage to collect key data that will further validate its value.
As we have stated previously our approach to market launch will limit the revenue impact for this indication in 2016.
However we anticipate we will be on a path to demonstrating market share gains in total knees beginning in 2017.
With that I will now turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Katherine.
Sales growth was 1.3% in the third quarter including a negative 4.6% impact from foreign translation.
Constant currency sales growth was 5.9% which includes organic growth of 5.3%.
EPS on a GAAP basis for the third quarter were $0.79 per share versus $0.16 last year in the third quarter while adjusted EPS was $1.25 per share for the quarter versus $1.15 in the third quarter last year.
This quarter's EPS includes negative impacts of roughly $0.06 per share from FX in line with our guidance.
Most foreign exchange rates were again weaker against the dollar than last year in the same period.
The weaker Euro and Swiss Franc along with our layered hedging program helped mitigate some of the impact in the quarter as many of our products are manufactured within Europe which helped improve our gross margin rate in the period.
However significant currency weakening within the emerging market regions and general weakness in the Japanese Yen Australian and Canadian Dollar where we have minimal manufacturing negatively impacted our gross margins and operating results in those regions.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustments in the quarter relates to a charge of approximately $149 million associated with the voluntary recalls of Rejuvenate and ABG II.
The charges for the Rejuvenate matter may increase or decrease over time as additional facts become available and assumptions more refined.
Looking at our sales in the third quarter our organic growth of 5.3% was comprised of a positive 6.6% from volume and mix while price negatively impacted sales by 1.3%.
Acquisitions added 0.6% while FX had a negative 4.6% impact on sales in the quarter.
Looking at our segments Orthopaedics represented 42% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales of Orthopaedic products were up 0.3% as reported and grew 5.8% constant currency and increased 5.5% organically.
U.S.
Orthopaedic sales grew 9% in the quarter despite facing tough comps in all three of our Orthopaedic businesses.
Trauma and Extremities had another standout quarter with sales in the U.S.
increasing 15% including Foot and Ankle organic growth of nearly 20%.
U.S.
Hips continued its strong performance and grew 5.7% in the third quarter while U.S.
Knees increased 5% compared to last year.
Internationally sales were a negative 0.4% in Hips in constant currency and increased 0.2% in Knees in constant currency resulting from tougher macro market issues in China and Brazil.
Next our MedSurg segment represented approximately 39% of our sales in the quarter.
Total MedSurg sales increased 0.6% as reported with 4.1% in constant currency and increased 2.8% organically.
These results include mid-single digit constant currency growth in our Medical and Instrument businesses as we begin to go up against strong double digit sales growth periods.
Endoscopy grew up by 1.4% in constant currency as customers await our new camera launch late in the fourth quarter.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine which represents 19% of our sales in the quarter increased 5% as reported and 9.9% organically.
Growth in this segment was led by strong double digit growth in Neurovascular and NSE.
And CMF increased high single digit and Spine sales increased low single digit in the quarter including mid-single digits in the U.S.
In looking at our operational performance gross margins on an adjusted basis in the third quarter of 2015 were 66.9% compared to 65.7% in the third quarter last year.
The increase in the margin rate in the quarter compared to the third quarter of last year resulted from favorable FX product mix and operational efficiencies partially offset by continued pricing declines.
Research and development expenses were 6.4% of sales in both the third quarter of 2014 and 2015.
Selling general and administrative costs on an adjusted basis were $862 million or 35.6% of sales in the quarter versus 35.3% in the prior year.
The increase was driven in part by our decision to reinvest roughly half of our tax savings to strengthen our selling and marketing activities and support our new European regional headquarter.
We are confident in our ability to leverage these expenses again in 2016 as we continue to drive a number of key cost initiatives.
Operating margins on an adjusted basis were 24.9% in the third quarter of 2015 compared to 23.9% in the third quarter of 2014.
The rate reflects strong gross profit rate partially offset by the impact of negative price and our investments to support our European business and sales team.
Other expense in the third quarter was approximately $33 million which includes higher net interest expense and FX transaction losses in the period.
Our reported tax rate for the third quarter was 12.8% while our adjusted effective tax rate was 16.4%.
This compares to a 19.9% adjusted effective tax rate in the third quarter last year.
The tax rate this quarter brings our adjusted rate to 17.5% on a year-to date-basis.
We still expect the extenders to be approved late in the fourth quarter; however if not approved it would negatively impact our full-year per share earnings guidance by $0.03 to $0.04 per share.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $3.4 billion of cash and marketable securities approximately 30% of it held in the U.S.
We also had $3.5 billion of debt on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
From an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended the third quarter at 56 consistent with last year's third quarter and days in inventory finished the quarter at 187 days slightly higher than the 182 days in the third quarter of last year.
Turning to cash flow our cash from operations in the first nine months of 2015 were $228 million compared to $1.1 billion last year in the first nine months.
Capital expenditures were $191 million in the first nine months of 2015 compared to $172 million in the same period last year.
As mentioned last quarter we did make significant payments this year associated with our Rejuvenate settlement of $1.2 billion most of which occurred in the third quarter.
Approximately 50% of the funding for the Rejuvenate liability is being sourced from the OUS cash.
Also as we previously mentioned we have repatriated approximately $700 million in the first nine months of the year and expect to repatriate nearly $1 billion more late in the year.
We still have approximately $2 billion available for share repurchases under our expanded authorization as approximately $446 million of share repurchases were made in the first nine months.
We continue to evaluate the level and frequency of our share repurchases.
However current plans are to fully utilize the current authorization over the next two to three years.
Our strong third quarter results give us additional confidence in our ability to deliver improved operating results for the year.
Our sales guidance continues to be constant currency growth of 6.5% to 7.5% with organic sales growth in the range of 5.5% to 6.5%.
If foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels we expect net sales for the full year of 2015 to be negatively impacted by approximately 4%.
Pricing pressure will continue and prices are currently expected to be down 1.5% to 2% for the company moving forward relatively consistent with the pricing environment we have experienced over the last year.
We expect that our adjusted tax rate for all of 2015 and in 2016 will be in the 17% to 18% range.
Also keep in mind that the potential benefit from the renewal of the tax extenders continues to be in our year-end guidance and represents approximately $0.03 to $0.04 per share for the year.
Based on current FX rates we still expect 2015 to be negatively impacted by approximately $0.25 per share for the year and again keep in mind that the full year negative impact of foreign exchange rate movements is largely driven by the translational component of FX which we do not hedge.
And finally we are narrowing our earnings guidance for 2015 to $5.07 to $5.12.
Thanks again for your support and we'd be glad to answer any questions that you may have at this time.
Moderator? Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
As a reminder callers will be limited to one question and one follow-up question.
The first question comes from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks for taking the question.
Just wondering if you could comment a little bit more on the Orthopaedic trends that you're seeing in the United States.
It was a very good quarter across the board for the business and particularly within the Hip and Knee franchise.
Just wondering if you're seeing early benefits just from MAKO and just being out there and talking through having the system or if you're seeing just kind of any acceleration in the market or just some disruption from some competitors that are out there? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Kristen.
This is Kevin.
Look we're very pleased with the quarter both in Hips Knees as well as MAKO.
I would say that the team has done a terrific job in driving organic growth within Hips and Knees.
Hips you've seen for the last three years we've been driving terrific performance.
We're very pleased with the Knee momentum that we're seeing and I think we got a bit of a shot in the arm with the launch of our cones our 3D-printed cones for revisions.
But it's been momentum building throughout the year.
It's just really strong leadership strong execution.
The robot sales of course help.
I wouldn't say that we've seen much in the way of disruption so this is really more just driving organic growth and really building throughout the course of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then just in terms of the comments for outside the United States with some disruption between China and Latin America any level of visibility in terms of when that would turn around? Or I guess just – for now – just expect that to continue into 2016? I guess that's the takeaway.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah in my opening remarks I mentioned into 2016.
I don't have a crystal ball so it's really difficult to predict when the macro conditions will improve.
We referred to capital equipment being particularly tough last quarter.
We did see that spill over into implants with distributors starting to lower their inventory levels and we really don't have great visibility into how long it will last.
I think it will certainly continue through the fourth quarter and into 2016 but it's something we're going to have to update you on as each quarter unfolds.
Inc.</span></strong> But Europe is turning around with the help of the Transatlantic model? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Europe had a terrific quarter.
A really excellent – we're in the sort of mid-single digit growth in Europe and overall you know Europe GDP is not growing at that rate so we're very pleased with our performance in Europe and expect that to continue.
Our next question comes from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Kevin I wanted to come back to SG&amp;A for a second here.
I think incrementally across the year I feel like the company has talked about more material opportunities for SG&amp;A reduction.
Can you give us a sense of what that opportunity is perhaps the size of the opportunity when we could hear more about it? And a related question for Bill – what's a reasonable level of leverage we can expect sort of going forward here at this level of sales? I think last quarter you told us maybe 40 basis points.
What's an appropriate level as we think about 2016? And I had a quick follow-up for Katherine.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay all three of us.
So I'll start.
David we've been working all year on plans around SG&amp;A.
We've taken a number of measures already and we're working on evaluating some more significant measures.
We still have significant scope for improvement in SG&amp;A.
We've talked before about the fact that we have very little in the way of shared services.
We have many IT systems across our disparate organization.
So there are significant opportunities.
I'm not yet ready to quantify that and discuss that with you.
Once we reach that stage we will definitely tell you.
We will be very thoughtful as we were with GQO.
We gave you a five-year road map with the amount of savings planned over that five-year period.
You should expect to hear something like that related to SG&amp;A but we're just not ready yet and I don't want to speculate on exactly when we'll be ready to communicate.
But work is ongoing and it will be something you will hear in the not too distant future.
And just as a general comment associated with the leverage expectations pretty consistent with what we were talking about before.
So if you're seeing kind of this mid-single digit sales growth we believe we can grow our broad based operating margins kind of in the 20 to 40 basis points 30 to 40 basis points range on an average basis over a three- four-year period of time.
I think that that's pretty consistent with our expectations and if you look at where that should come from price is a key factor.
So as we mentioned in the past as price is kind of still up close to around the 2% range we'd expect very little improvements at the gross margin level and most of that would really be taking place through the SG&amp;A related leverage.
If price is 1.5% or less which we don't expect – we expect it to be in the 1.5% to 2% range – but if it was less than that we would expect to be able to drop some through at the gross margin level.
And obviously if the price went above 2% then we think that that could cause some detrimation (23:57) to the overall gross margin rate but the operating margin rate would still be able to provide some level of leverage.
Next year on the SG&amp;A side of the equation as we talked about before this year we had heavy investments for both the RHQ structure to support our tax and some of our new sales and marketing related efforts with the TOM model but we do expect to get good leverage out of the SG&amp;A category next year to be able to deliver on those results.
Okay great.
Our next question comes from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Okay thank you.
Can you hear me okay? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes we can.
Great.
Good afternoon.
First question Kevin I just wanted to follow up on the emerging markets.
Interesting that you'd see it spill off into implants.
I know you don't have a lot of visibility but what's your best estimate right now from what you're hearing from the field in terms of why this is happening? Is it simply just the economies over there or just any other color would be appreciated.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I mean what we're seeing is – certainly in Brazil – it's a market slowdown complete slowdown in the market and that's obviously the biggest country we have in Latin America and so it's both capital equipment as well as implants.
In China we saw capital equipment slowing down earlier in the year.
This quarter we saw implants starting to slow down.
And it really as far as we can tell is related to macro concerns and the distributors are just nervous.
They're worried about their cash flow.
And so it's not something that I think will continue indefinitely but it's something that we saw certainly in certain parts of our business.
We see it in Spine and Trauma more acutely than we saw it in Hips and Knees but it was pretty broad based and that's something we'll continue to monitor.
But I don't have great visibility honestly into how long it will last.
Okay and then the second question.
Kevin I'd love you to comment on capital allocation.
We haven't seen a lot of deals from you guys.
Just talk about the environment there.
And then also if you don't mind just talk about your confidence as you look at your business going forward into next year confidence in being able to continue to grow the top line in that 5% to 6% area.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah thanks Bob.
First of all I'll start with the second part of your question.
I feel very good about the health of our business overall with the one exception of the emerging markets which I think will continue to be difficult.
If I look at just across our businesses the management teams we have in place our ability to execute we've had 10 quarters in a row of at least 5% and I do believe it's sustainable.
Like every year in 2016 we're going to have our share of tailwinds and headwinds but – and we'll give our guidance in January as you know – but I feel very good about our execution our management teams and our ability to consistently deliver strong sales growth.
Now related to – what was the first part of the question – on capital allocation? I would tell you you know that all of our divisions have BD people that are out looking at targets.
I would say there are plenty of targets that are out there.
We haven't closed very many deals at least not as many this year as we have in the past couple of years.
But that's not a function of lack of targets.
It's just making sure that the valuations work and that the deals are going to be value-creating for Stryker.
So as you know M&amp;A is difficult to predict in terms of timing but we do feel that there are a significant number of attractive targets out there and our teams continue to work on that.
And that does continue to be our first priority in terms of using cash.
Our next question is from Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
I just want to follow-up on some of the questions that have already been asked.
So first question would be can you peel the onion a little bit more on the OUS performance? I mean you've talked about Brazil really slowing down and Europe you said was still mid-single digits.
Do you have any geographic breakdown whether it's developed world versus emerging markets or Europe versus Latin America versus Asia? Any other insight you could give us? Because U.S.
looks great this quarter obviously with the Ortho business.
International barely grew so some more color there would be great.
And then the second point of follow-up you talked about the 20 to 40 basis points of expected annual margin expansion.
I just want to be clear.
Is that what our expectation should be for 2016 or do you think you can do better than that next year based on what you're working on? Thanks.
Hey Mike it's Katherine.
I'll take the first part of the question.
International really was very much driven in terms of the headwinds we were facing by China and Brazil and it was really an extension of some of the trends that we saw in the second quarter.
With China it was capital has been challenged there given that's government self-pay but with some of the pull-back we have seen that impact the implant business as well.
And then in Brazil with the country in a recession that has impacted that business.
So really outside the U.S.
it's very much China and Brazil that are pulling down the numbers.
Europe with the Transatlantic Operating Model we're really seeing very good momentum.
I think Kevin cited the mid-single digit growth we're seeing there and stronger performance in other geographies like Japan and Australia.
So really I would say it's very much isolated to the emerging markets of China and Brazil.
Bill do you want to? Sure on the operating margin side of the equation as I mentioned before we are generally comfortable with kind of that 20 40 basis point improvement moving forward.
We think our businesses are structured in a good way to deliver that.
A key part of that is based on price and also based on our top line sales growth.
Kevin mentioned or alluded to at least being comfortable with kind of something in the same type of sales growth range even for next year.
If we deliver in that type of a range we would still expect to get reasonable operating margin leverage off of that.
We have not given any guidance obviously for 2016.
We'll have to take a look at kind of where FX is as well as the markets are at that point in time and we'll give better guidance with our next call.
Okay Bill just one follow-up to that.
So just on FX do you have a sense at this point assuming no change in rates what the FX spillover would be to the bottom line next year? Like what incremental headwind you'd have in 2016 to earnings versus 2015? Yeah I'd say that right now based on where current rates are at we would only expect maybe somewhere in the $0.05 range of a negative impact for next year but again it depends on where rates change over the next quarter on what we look at and when we give our guidance.
But that's probably a reasonable range at this point.
And our next question is from Rick Wise from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon everybody.
Back to MAKO Katherine you talked about opening current new accounts.
You came in a couple of systems better than I was looking for.
And just in talking about the new accounts it's early I know but can you give us a little perspective? Are these new accounts impacting share? Are you seeing pull-through? How/when do we start to see that? And I assume that MAKO should have another good fourth quarter.
I assume you expect fourth quarters to be typically normally seasonally strong.
Yeah with all of our capital businesses the fourth quarter tends to be the strongest quarter and MAKO would be no exception on that matter so we would expect a solid fourth quarter.
I think it's just too early.
Clearly the Knee indication has sparked a lot of interest in the clinical community and there's a lot of excitement around it.
But I think at this point how early we are in starting to roll out and in fact that we're in really the training stages and not being in full commercial release until late next year it's just too early to say.
I think what you're seeing on the organic Hip and Knee performance in the U.S.
is a lot of good execution certainly bolstered by MAKO but MAKO isn't having the impact for example on our Knee or Hip momentum that we would expect to see particularly with the former as we head into 2017.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
And Kevin maybe my second one for you can you talk a little bit more give us a little more color on some of your comments today? You talked about some of the OUS.
leadership changes.
Can you maybe give us a little more detail about some of the specific changes you're making some of the specific marching orders you're giving the new team? Where you've done these things I think they've had an impact.
What are you looking for and what results should we expect over the next year or so? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah so what we've done and we announced during the quarter that we are phasing out the role of the Group President of International.
So that's a role that Stryker's had for a long time and we're eliminating that position.
And as a result the other regions are going to report directly into our businesses.
It's a big change for Stryker.
It's going to enable us to be much more closely connected to have the regions very very closely connected to our product divisions.
That's what we saw as the key benefit with Europe.
I could tell you that movement in Europe is ahead of our expectations.
And so this is a natural evolution of this Transatlantic model.
We knew that we wanted to get Europe done first.
We had the biggest opportunity for share gains are in Europe.
That did accompany some investment.
We don't necessarily feel that we need to make the same degree of investments in other countries but we saw the benefit of that region to product connection and we know that that'll also drive value in other markets of the world.
And our next question is from Matt Taylor from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is actually Yong Lee (33:50) in for Matt.
Thanks for taking our questions.
I guess regarding MAKO a strong system number this quarter.
Just wondering what's the breakdown between purchase system versus financing? We don't break out the mix although I would say it's still dominated by purchases but there's a decent component of leases as well.
And that's really aided by our Flex Financial Group that's been around for a number of years now and exists throughout all our capital businesses within MedSurg as well as Ortho.
Okay.
Great thanks.
And on Foot and Ankle the growth is strong nearly 20%.
Is that largely market growth or are you starting to take some share? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would say that the market continues to be a very attractive segment.
We're doing well in the market.
We're very pleased with the SBI acquisition we did a year ago which rounded out our portfolio.
But you've seen over the past three years we've been experiencing great growth.
I would say it's primarily market driven but in some cases we are taking market share.
But I would first look at the market as being the major driver.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Matt Miksic from UBS.
Hi.
Can you hear me okay? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes we can.
Yes.
Thanks for taking our questions.
So a couple of follow-ups on some of the topics that folks have hit on already.
One MAKO you talked about the uptick in Hip and Unis.
Maybe Katherine or if you could talk a little bit about what kind of traction maybe? Any color you can give on the kind of traction you're seeing with Hips? And I have one follow-up.
I would say just reflected and as we continue to place more robots sequentially you're seeing the impact it's having with our very large sales force out there articulating the benefits of using a Hip in both robotic.
They don't need to establish a lot of credibility in market share in Uni so the gains there are less significant.
But in Hips having our sales force well into the integration now being able to articulate the benefits has really helped drive that adoption.
Any impact of some new software or new applications? I know you're probably on version two or three or four now in terms of the system.
Anything there that's starting to make things a little easier for folks? Or any color? Yeah I think any time we do any improvements it certainly helps.
But I think the biggest factor is having our considerable sales force obviously much much larger in size out there aligned and coordinated with their MAKO counterparts going into hospitals.
And those are both our own customers as well as competitive accounts and being able to place a robot and then drive the adoption obviously with Uni and Hips.
And then as we go forward the economic value proposition only improves as you start to layer in the Knee.
Got it.
And then on Spine appreciate the Q&amp;A and access last week in going through some of the new products.
The business is still obviously not I would assume where you want it in terms of growth perspective.
What can we look for there in terms of catalysts to sort of get that moving? Is it launches? Is it sales force? Is it strategic activity? Any color would be helpful.
Yeah we're really pleased with the momentum that we're seeing in the Spine business.
And that really is several years of increased investment in R&amp;D.
We have a terrific R&amp;D leader in there who I think you saw last week at NAS.
We've launched something like 10 new products in the last six months.
That's more than we've launched in the last two years collectively.
And we have a nice pipeline of new products slated to be launched as we're going forward so we're going to focus on R&amp;D driving innovation and optimizing the sales force and that's all the things that the current leadership is executing on.
So that will be the focus.
There's no magic bullet here but we're going to continue to look at that and clearly pleased with the impact some of those products are having.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah certainly you've seen the numbers in the U.S.
pick up and we're encouraged about the U.S.
We have work to do outside the United States.
A lot of those products have not yet been registered.
We haven't launched many products including the CoAlign acquisition which has given us a shot in the arm in the U.S.
We're just working through all the manufacturing transition into Stryker.
So the product tail does lag a little bit outside the U.S.
We have work to do there and certainly OUS was also impacted by the slowdown both in China and Brazil.
So not pleased with the OUS results but very pleased with the momentum in the U.S.
and as we launch those products outside the U.S.
I would expect the OUS business to pick up.
And our next question comes from Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital Markets.
Thank you very much.
I have two questions.
The first one has to do with cross-selling amongst your portfolio and what you're seeing in terms of being able to leverage your Orthopaedic as well as the other areas.
And then the second question has to do more broadly with any changes at the CMS level for the pilot program for bundled payment what you think that may or may not impact your business.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I'll take the first question.
I would say cross-selling is something that we do wherever we believe that the customer is interested in dealing across our businesses.
So the area that we tend to see this the most is in Neurotechnology where our customers will express an interest for a Neurotechnology offer and then our divisions will then work together collectively.
So it's generally in response to a customer request.
It's not something that we do proactively and that we're pushing from the center.
It's really in response to customer needs.
But our divisions work extremely well together.
Katherine cited an example of Flex Financial which is a unit that sits inside of our MedSurg group that helps MAKO sell robots within our Orthopaedic group.
So collaboration does work very very well at Stryker but it's something that tends to be very based on customer needs and not pushed from the center.
And then Joanne with respect to your second question I would say that since this is really not new to the industry really more moving over the next few years within Medicare to a mandatory what you tend to see in this situation is a much bigger focus on the post-acute care particularly patients that are discharged to rehab because the dollars there and the opportunities for cost savings are much much greater than any of the other areas.
So what we've seen is they tend to focus there is significant disparity around the U.S.
in terms of what patients are sent home versus those that go directly to rehab.
And we'd expect that trend to continue.
Doesn't mean pricing pressure isn't going to go away.
We just don't believe that's going to be a trigger to change dramatically the pricing backdrop within the implants.
The next question is from Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets.
Hi good afternoon.
I had two follow-up questions on Spine.
Kevin the U.S.
Spine number came in better than we thought and I'm just curious is that a function of a stronger Spine market in the U.S.? In other words better unit growth less payer pushback and pricing pressure? Or is this market share gains given your new product rollouts? And then as a follow-up in the past Kevin you've talked about wanting to grow Spine organically and inorganically.
Given the strength of the current pipeline should we start to assume that internal development is the way you're going to go versus M&amp;A? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So first thing I'd say is the Spine market's been a pretty stable market over the last couple of years and so I don't believe the market is suddenly improving magically.
I would say the last two quarters we've been very pleased with our performance in the U.S.
and we believe that's because of the new products that we're launching and that we're growing faster than the market.
Now of course not everybody has reported yet so we won't have a full picture on our share gains in this quarter until everyone else reports.
Related to the organic versus inorganic we're very pleased with growing our business organically.
That's always the best way to drive value in our businesses.
And as it relates to inorganic all of our divisions are constantly looking for acquisitions.
I certainly don't feel compelled to do a deal because you can see we're posting nice growth with our organic performance.
But we're always on the lookout for acquisitions.
But that's not unique to Spine; that applies to all of our divisions.
Okay thank you.
And next question is from Raj Denhoy from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
I wonder if I could ask a bit about MAKO and you laid out your plans over the next couple of years in terms of collecting data before you go broader with the technology.
And I'm curious as you start to think about the data and where you think the opportunities are to present the compelling case to hospitals to adopt it is it primarily going to be focused on efficiencies and hospitals running their practices more efficiently? Or will it be focused on patient satisfaction or perhaps both? Anything you could give us on that would be helpful.
Yeah sure Raj.
I think as you think about what we said in terms of the early launch was we're really looking at observational outcomes with both existing robotic and non-robotic users but really focusing on the key opinion leaders who really have a presence at the podium.
And we're going to be evaluating everything from implant positioning adverse events ligament releases patient satisfaction that's going to be a lot of the initial focus.
Absolutely over time we'll be developing I'm sure more robust clinical evaluations or trials but right now that's going to be the focus initially.
So less on the cost side it sounds like initially in terms of hospitals being able to do orthopaedics more efficiently or cheaper.
I think that's something that will come over time as surgeons move up the learning curve and gain greater experience.
But given a very limited launch early on as we look to optimize the training protocol that won't be the focus.
Our next question is from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon everybody.
I want to just start with a strategic question and Kevin this does relate to your comments around emerging markets.
I think if we look back a few years those regions represented a significant priority for you as some of the U.S.
businesses were a little bit more sluggish.
But maybe in the context of what you're seeing today can you maybe just help us understand where you're prioritizing your investments? And as you think about those investments where should we expect to see the greatest return within your business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So sure.
Right now emerging markets represent about 8% of Stryker's sales and that's clearly below MedTech.
It's not a bad time to be less exposed to emerging markets but that doesn't mean we aren't committed for the long term.
Our India business is doing well.
China will be an important market for the future so certainly we're not going to invest at the same rate that we've invested the last couple years while we weather the current storm.
But we are in it for the long term and we do plan to grow in emerging markets.
It's just – we had planned previously to be a little bit more aggressive in areas like Russia and Turkey.
That's currently not a good a use of our investment right now so we'll sort of hit the pause button in those countries.
And then as the market conditions improve we'll dial up the investments.
Very pleased with the investments we made in Europe; those are driving terrific returns.
As an overall company we do want to grow our business outside the United States.
Our strong U.S.
business continues to perform very well and we do plan to grow outside the U.S.
and that's why the Operating Model changes are extending even beyond Europe to include the other countries of the world because I think that direct connection to our product divisions will drive growth everywhere else outside the United States.
And Europe is very instructive.
What we've seen in Europe we know we can replicate in other countries.
Okay then maybe just a follow-up from maybe a combination of a macro and a micro question.
If you look at some of the businesses in which you operate whether it's some of the MedSurg business or procedure volume exposed areas we have seen a nice pickup in growth.
And while clearly you have some new product momentum in those areas how much do you think of the growth we're seeing is a catch-up from prior periods of some headwinds versus what might be entering kind of a new normal steady state growth rate for some of those franchises? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'm not sure what catch-up you're referring to because if you look at the last year's third quarter we had knee growth of 6.8% hip growth of 18.1% trauma 15.3%.
So we're posting strong growth this quarter on the backs of pretty strong growth in the prior year.
So for 10 quarters – consecutive quarters of over 5% organic growth – it's not like we're catching the tail of periods of slow growth.
We're posting consistent steady strong growth.
Now from quarter to quarter there's some variation between businesses but overall this is a very steady growth story that you're seeing at Stryker.
I'm not sure I understand the question or if it's a specific business you're referring to because on an overall basis we're posting growth on top of prior growth quarters that were pretty strong.
Our next question is from Matt Keeler from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First can you help us think about the MAKO total knee opportunity? You talked about MAKO success in Uni and the share gains – I think 17% over four years.
Once the total knee is launched starting in 2017 do you see the potential for a similar magnitude of share ramp going forward from there? Yeah we haven't quantified the targeted gains.
We have been very clear that we do expect once it's in full commercial release to begin to get on a trajectory to gain meaningful market share and we would expect to be on that trajectory in 2017.
I wouldn't be assuming quite that level of share gains but we also want to get some experience under our belt.
This is brand new to the industry and – but we're really excited about the impact it will have in terms of driving share gain in 2017.
I think as we get closer to that timeframe and we think about setting our targets for 2017 we'll be able to have a better sense of what that could practically mean.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And just I'll stick with MAKO.
As you invest in training next year as you get the launch underway do you expect that to be a drag at all on margins ahead of when you're fully launched in 2017? No I think you should just assume that'll be contemplated within our normal spend.
And our next question is from Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Two for me.
One on MedSurg.
One on Neurovascular.
Starting with MedSurg the growth has slowed a little bit this year.
I know you talked about a new camera I think in Q4 in endoscopy.
Could you just talk about just when – how long it will take to kind of re-accelerate the growth across MedSurg and some of the other kind of new product cycles we should be thinking about? And I had one follow-up.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure so the first thing I'd say about our MedSurg businesses is they had an absolutely huge quarter in the third quarter of last year.
If you look back at the numbers that we posted close to 20% growth in a number of our – of those businesses – so very tough comps.
And we're very pleased with our Medical division and expect them to continue to perform very well.
Endoscopy certainly we've had a few challenges related to the Berchtold integration.
That's starting to pick up steam and I'm feeling very optimistic about that.
That camera launch it's sort of the end of the 1488 camera cycle; we're moving to the 1588 platform.
That will be launched toward the end of this year and certainly there was a little bit of a delay in orders as people are anticipating that launch.
The one product area that is later in its cycle is our system 7 power tools within instruments but if you look at the instruments numbers they continue to post pretty strong results throughout the rest of their portfolio.
But that's one area as you look into 2016 where you can anticipate maybe a little bit of a moderating of growth as it gets towards the latter part of their cycle.
But they have another range of products that they can sell and they're performing very well.
So I would tell you I'm very pleased with our MedSurg performance.
I know that the absolute growth in this quarter looks a little smaller but again on the back of an outstanding third quarter of last year.
It's not like our business is slowing down or that we're losing momentum or losing share.
I feel like we have very very solid businesses that will continue to perform well.
Thanks Kevin.
And then on neurotech and Neurovascular the growth's obviously been very strong recently.
Can you help tease out how much of that growth is from the Trevo benefiting from the new stroke data versus your coils and flow diverters also growing? And any update just on how the stroke market is evolving since all the new positive data earlier this year? Thanks.
Yeah well I would start by saying when you look at our portfolio it does address both hemorrhagic and ischemic but the majority of the revenue is still driven on the hemorrhagic side which is going to be the coils and related accessories where we're seeing growth.
Ischemic growth is certainly outpacing that but it's a much smaller market at this point in time.
And it's certainly benefiting from data whether it's the MR CLEAN study that showed using stent retrievers including the majority of the retrievers used in that device was our own absolutely have a benefit on patients and this was further enhanced with the AHA guidelines that came out earlier in their year.
So that data is really underscoring the benefits of these devices that are the only devices that have clinical data supporting their use in ischemic patients.
So growth there is much faster but obviously off a much smaller base.
And our next question is from Matt O'Brien from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
This is GP (51:57) in for Matt.
Thanks for taking my question.
I had one on just the competitive landscape that you're seeing in maybe Hips and Knees especially with kind of new entrants into the market and maybe other large integrations with Zimmer Biomet there if you're seeing any displacements or distractions? There really haven't been any new entrants into the Hip and Knee market.
The competitive backdrop has been very stable.
I think as we think about the merger between Biomet and Zimmer they're obviously a considerable player in the market.
We haven't seen them report Q3 results so like you we're at a disadvantage.
We feel very pleased with the momentum we're seeing in the business.
We have said it's usually a few quarters in before you really get a sense if any dissynergies are tracking above or below what they anticipate but we're really focused on our business.
We have got a great portfolio of products.
Obviously the MAKO and the new indication we see as a huge benefit.
We'll see what happens to them but really the focus right now is gaining traction with our own customers and using MAKO to get into some competitive accounts.
Great.
And if I could just ask one on MAKO if you think about the pipeline of new indications that you're kind of looking at in your R&amp;D what's next? Should we think about maybe a shoulder or maybe moving into spine? But just trying to see what you have there.
I would say when you think about it right now essentially all of our focus is on the recon market.
I can't underscore enough the amount of time and energy that's being put into the total knee launch to make sure it is executed as close to flawlessly as possible.
We do think that is the biggest indication and can have considerable impact on the market.
I think there will be downstream applications in other areas of joints whether it's in the shoulder or in the spine but that is multi years away from where our focus is right now.
And our next question is from Ben Andrew from William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Maybe just talk a little bit about the Foot and Ankle business.
It was up 20% or so in the quarter and how much of that is sustainable over time given what the current competitive dynamic is versus maybe the underlying market growth? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah so new markets are often difficult to predict right? So when we created our Foot and Ankle business unit a few years ago I really didn't expect that the market would be this big and that the growth would be this high.
So it's been a fantastic business unit for us performing extremely well mostly with organic growth.
We had obviously the SBI acquisition as well.
The market still seems to be very hot.
There's still a lot of surgeons that are increasing their volumes and more and more surgeons getting trained.
So we do believe that this will be a high growth market for the foreseeable future.
Now whether it stays up at the 20% or starts to moderate I'm not sure but we're not really concerned about competitive dynamics.
We have a great product portfolio very strong sales force execution and when you're riding market growth and you've got the products and the sales force it's a good place to be.
Great thank you.
Our next question is from Richard Newitter from Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just two quick ones.
Maybe the first one on MAKO Katherine I guess.
Can you characterize the types of accounts that are purchasing the system right now or is it possible to do so? Any certain types of characteristics academic centers community hospitals? And then also what percentage of your installed base or new systems over the last few quarters are going to multisystem accounts? That the latter very small.
And it really covers the entire range; we're seeing all sorts of customers out there.
I wouldn't be able to characterize it as one specific type of hospital.
We have some hospitals with one robot some with multi.
We have some that were existing customers some that are competitive customers some that are buying the robots some that are leasing the robots.
So it really is the full range.
There's not one specific characteristic that I would point to.
Okay thanks.
And then Kevin just going back to M&amp;A obviously there's been quite a bit of turmoil in health care equity markets.
Valuations look like they've been pulling back.
To the extent that – were valuations in any way potentially something that was slowing down the process for you guys as you've looked around? And does this kind of recent pullback make things more attractive from your seat? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So M&amp;A the timing of M&amp;A is always difficult to predict.
And valuations is one factor; it's not always the only factor.
We also have issues sometimes around quality of remediation that's required.
Sometimes it's cultural fit so there's always a range of issues that we go through when we're looking at a target and as we get under the covers and do due diligence then we sort of figure out whether we really want to move forward or not.
Valuation clearly is always one of the factors but I wouldn't say suddenly just because we have a temporary market pullback that the companies are ready to sell to us at a much lower price.
So I think it will take a little time for that to settle in but clearly valuations is one of the factors that we look at and one of the reasons that we won't move forward.
But it's not the only reason.
And our next question is from Josh Jennings from Cowen &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good evening.
Thanks a lot.
One question on MAKO first.
Can you just talk about the robotic competitive landscape that you're seeing from direct competition Omni or Blue Belt and then how you see that evolving now with the total knee application approved? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah so I tell you that we're not focused at all on the competition.
We really don't see Blue Belt as a fully robotic solution.
It's really in our view it's an enhanced navigation system.
It doesn't have the type of features that our system has.
So we really believe we're alone in the purely true robotic space and we have a long runway ahead of us.
And we're really not concerned with the competition.
Great and just a follow-up for Bill.
You had some discussion about opportunities for operating margin expansion.
Any chance you can give us some more details on where you see those opportunities in the different business units? Are there more opportunity in recon versus Neurotechnology versus MedSurg? Any further detail would be great.
Thanks a lot.
Sure so I mean one we don't break that down externally at all.
But I mean you should expect that any of our businesses that are seeing mid-digit plus kind of organic level growth we would expect to get reasonably good operating margin improvements on that over time.
And based on the market growth dynamics in different geographies and/or in aggregate for a business if the growth rates are down in the lower single digit range you probably shouldn't expect really any operating margin improvements.
As that goes up though we should definitely get operating margin leverage in almost any of our businesses.
And I think that in general that's what we're driving to achieve over a two to three year period of time on average.
And our next question is from William Plovanic from Canaccord Genuity.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
So two brief questions one on MAKO.
How long were the cost or time associated with updating those to accommodate the total knee into your current number of systems out in the field? And then second question for Bill just on the gross margin that was a huge increase.
And I know you gave us the reasons FX mix and efficiencies offset by price but I was wondering if you could quantify those.
And then how much of that – are we at a new level – we're going to be 50 bps 100 bps higher going forward? Or will we just drop back down to where we were in the first half of this year and this is kind of a one quarter gain just because we had the big U.S.
quarter? Thank you.
Yeah Bill just – I want to make sure I'm understanding the question – you're saying how long it takes to physically upgrade an existing account to the new indication to the new robot? The software and the related hardware components? Inc.</span></strong> Well It's really just how long will it take until you're through to update all the units in the field? Is that like through 2016 you'll be done by the end of the year? I would say at the end of 2016 we feel like we'll be in a very good position to go into a full commercial launch and we won't be limited by the need to upgrade existing customers.
You're always bringing on new customers but that's part of the reason to have a very measured controlled rollout is to make sure that we're in a position really to put the pedal down when we go into full commercial launch.
As far as the gross margin rate question is concerned so yes it was a very good quarter as I mentioned really in the early part of this year both in the first and second quarter.
We talked that our gross margin rates were going to improve as we moved into the third and even in the fourth quarter of this year.
Our expectation maybe from a breakdown of some of the categories so two of the biggest impacts in this quarter are FX and mix and maybe a little bit on the pricing since pricing was only at 1.3% for us.
But FX and mix were probably if you look at the total improvement they're probably each in the 50 basis point plus range as far as the impacts that they have.
Keep in mind that a lot of our products are manufactured in Europe so as the European or the Euro currencies have been declining this year and the U.S.
has stayed strong we've actually continued to get improved gross margin rates from FX despite the fact that FX on the bottom line at the EPS level has actually been negative for us.
And then same thing on the mix side.
I think that you should expect both of those to continue as we move into the fourth quarter.
And then you should look more from an anniversary perspective that the improvements that we'd expect next year would be relatively modest at the gross margin level but we'll get into that as we announce our overall expectations for the year.
Generally if price is at the upper end or in the 1.7% 1.8% to 2% range we'd expect our gross margins to be relatively flat in that kind of an environment.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> So thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the fourth quarter 2015 results will be held on January 26 2016.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to Fourth Quarter 2015 Stryker Earnings Call.
My name is Adrian and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the conference we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
During that time participants will have an opportunity to ask one question and one follow-up question.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that discussions during this conference call will include forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed in the company's most recent filings with the SEC.
Also the discussions will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in today's press release that is an exhibit to Stryker's current report on Form 8-K filed today with the SEC.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
You may proceed sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to Stryker's fourth quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Joining me today are Bill Jellison our CFO Katherine Owen Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations and Glenn Boehnlein will be taking over for Bill on April 1.
Following my opening comments Katherine will provide an update on MAKO while Bill will offer more details on our quarterly results before turning to questions and answers.
With a 6.4% increase in organic sales in Q4 we continue to deliver on our goal of driving topline growth at the high end of MedTech.
This marks the eleventh consecutive quarter where Stryker delivered 5% or better organic sales growth demonstrating strong consistency over time.
Our diversified sales footprint has once again proven to be a key component of our growth strategy as all of our segments Orthopedics MedSurg and Neurotechnology and Spine posted good results in the quarter.
These performances underscore the strength of our sales and marketing execution and our innovation engine which is characterized by healthy R&amp;D investment and a focus and disciplined M&amp;A effort.
Approximately 70% of our sales are derived from our U.S.
businesses which once again led growth hosting an impressive gain of approximately 8%.
I’m also pleased with the growing momentum out of Europe including strong Q4 results benefiting from the shift for the Transatlantic Operating Model at the beginning of 2015.
We are building on the success as we start 2016 with Canada rolling into the model and the other regions now reporting to our Group Presidents since Tim Scannell and David Floyd.
Our international growth of roughly 4% in constant currency was once again impacted by soft performances in China and Brazil.
However as you've seen we've demonstrated the ability to offset isolated geographic softness to strengthen our larger markets.
Turning to earnings our adjusted EPS for Q4 of $1.56 is at the high end of our revised range of $1.53 to $1.56 primarily driven by the strong topline.
The balance of the P&amp;L came in as expected which Bill will cover in his section.
Looking ahead to 2016 we expect our sales momentum to continue and are targeting organic sales growth for the year of 5% to 6%.
This takes into account expected softness in emerging markets for a good portion of the year.
In addition the two year suspension of the Med Device Tax provides us with the opportunity to bolster investments and will help drive sales growth and innovation as we plan to invest the majority of this temporary benefit.
We’re also continuing on our path toward driving greater cost efficiencies which is multiyear opportunity.
Over the past year we've been focused on identifying and prioritizing the key target areas for cost reduction within our organization.
As we shift into 2016 we are moving toward project implementation under the leadership of Group President Lonny Carpenter.
We've identified significant areas of savings centered around optimizing our plant network rationalizing our product lines professionalizing our indirect procurement in a similar manner as we've done with direct materials moving to a common ERP system and driving more shared services.
Given our history of decentralization there is considerable opportunity ahead of us in this program.
We believe a methodical and deliberate approach to these efforts will allow us to preserve Stryker’s competitive differentiation in the areas of sales marketing R&amp;D and business development while hoping to ensure we're consistently delivering P&amp;L leverage.
This is reflected in our 2016 adjusted EPS range of $5.50 to $5.70 a share.
This is an increase of approximately 7.5% to 11.5% versus 2015 and it includes a negative foreign exchange impact of $0.12 to $0.13 a share.
Finally I would like to take a moment to extend my thanks and appreciation to Bill Jellison who has announced his plans to retire following an impressive 36-year career the last three of which have been in Stryker.
Bill was able to quickly move toward implementing a layered hedging program which has proven to be successful at mitigating our transactional FX exposure.
In addition he helped execute on a number of acquisitions facilitated the establishment of our European regional headquarters that's enabled significant savings and has also helped to shape our comprehensive cost reduction program.
These accomplishments have meaningfully contributed to our success and we've achieved while enabling our internal talent pool to develop including Glenn Boehnlein who has been promoted to CFO effective April 1.
Glenn has been with Stryker in various financial leadership roles since 2003 most recently serving as Group CFO for the MedSurg and Neurotechnology Group.
This group represents roughly half of the company and has been a consistent force behind our strong results.
I’m confident in Glenn’s ability and coordination with the broader financial organization to help build on our strong momentum.
Before turning the call over to Katherine I would ask Glenn to make a few comments.
Glenn? Thanks Kevin.
I appreciate the comments and the support but I also want to thank Bill for his leadership of the finance organization over the past few years and for his commitment to helping ensure a smooth transition as I take on new responsibilities.
It’s a very exciting time at Stryker and I’m thrilled to be part of such a great organization with so many talented and dedicated people.
I’m also looking forward to meeting many of our shareholders analysts at the various events going forward.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Katherine.
Thanks Glenn.
The focus of my comments today will be to provide an update on MAKO.
2015 was a year of building momentum for MAKO’s robotic assisted surgery as we continue to leverage our considerable sale and marketing infrastructure to help drive sales.
We're particularly pleased with the increased demand for the hip indication which has been augmented by combining the robotic technology with our proven portfolio of Stryker Hip Systems.
The combination enables surgeons to use a best-in-class hip implant with a long term proven clinical history on a robotic assisted platform which helps drive consistency enhance surgeon and patient experience and we believe over time clinically demonstrated benefits.
In total we sold 31 robots globally in the quarter 24 of which were in the U.S.
which represents a solid ramp from the start of the year and a significant jump year-over-year from 20 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For 2016 we're focused on continuing to drive adoption with our current indications which we believe offers considerable opportunity to drive ongoing robot license.
We're also excited about the potential for the total knee indication with our flagship triathlon system.
This year our efforts will be centered around gaining user experience with key opinion leaders to help ensure an optimal rollout as we look to full commercial release in 2017.
We believe the commercial launch which will be aided by podium presentations from the early users group will be in place as we head into next year.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks Katherine.
I would like to start off by saying I've enjoyed working with Kevin and everyone at Stryker especially the entire finance organization who have made significant contributions over the last few years helping the company deliver on its financial results coming to Stryker with a strong cultural fit and personal fit from the first week that I joined the company.
We ended 2015 at the high end of both our initial sales and earnings guidance that was set at the beginning of the year.
As we look at 2016 and set our initial guidance I am confident that our sales momentum strong product portfolio and pipeline and the cost containment initiatives we're driving for business well for the future.
I look forward to ensuring a smooth transition with Glenn and entering another stage of my life.
I'll continue to engage actively in many of my passions travel with my family and friends and explore additional Board opportunities.
I want to thank all of you for your support.
So turning to our financial performance sales grew 3.7% in the quarter including a negative 3.2% impact from foreign currency translation.
Constant currency sales growth was 7% which includes organic growth of 6.4%.
GAAP EPS for the quarter was $1.38 per share versus $0.68 last year in the fourth quarter while adjusted earnings per share were $1.56 a share for the quarter versus $1.44 per share in the fourth quarter last year.
This quarter's EPS includes negative impacts of roughly $0.04 per share from foreign exchange which was in line with our guidance.
Most currency exchange rates against the U.S.
dollar continue to be weaker than last year in the same period.
The weaker Euro and Swiss Franc along with our layered hedging program helped to mitigate some of the impacts in the quarter as many of our products are manufactured in Europe which helped improve our gross margin rates in the period.
However significant weakening in foreign currency rates in emerging markets and the continued weakness of the Japanese Yen Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar where we have minimal manufacturing negatively impacted our gross margins and operating results in those regions.
The most significant non-GAAP adjustments in the quarter where amortization restructuring changes and a net reduction in the charge associated with the voluntary recalls of the Rejuvenate ABG II Modular Hip Stem as we resolved some insurance matters in the quarter which more than offset the additional in the period.
As I've mentioned previously the charges we've recorded related to the Rejuvenate and ABG II recall represents a minimum of the range of probable loss to resolve this manner and the charges may increase or decrease over time as additional facts become available and our assumptions more refined.
In the fourth quarter our organic growth rate was 6.4% including 8.1% growth in unit volumes and mix with price negatively impacting sales by 1.7%.
Acquisitions added 0.6% while FX had a negative 3.2% impact due to significant weakness in both the Japanese Yen and the Australian Dollar compared to the same period last year.
Full year 2015 constant currency sales growth were 7% and organic growth was 6.1%.
Looking at our segments Orthopaedics represented 42% of our sales in the quarter and sales of Orthopaedic products grew 3.3% as reported and 7.1% in constant currency.
U.S.
Orthopaedic sales grew 9.7% in the quarter.
Trauma and Extremities had another excellent quarter in the U.S.
with sales increasing 13.6% led by strong growth in Foot and Ankle which again grew approximately 20% for both the fourth quarter and full year.
U.S.
Hips and Knees continued their strong performance of 6.4% and 9.1% organic growth respectively in the quarter.
Knee sales were bolstered by increased adoption of recent titanium 3d printed products.
Our international Orthopaedic business grew 2.4% in constant currency as sales growth continue to be negatively impacted by weakness in China and Brazil.
However our international Knee business grew 5.5% in constant currency in the quarter.
Finally we sold 31 MAKO units in the quarter and 72 units in the full year.
Next our MedSurg segment represented approximately 40% of our total sales and sales of MedSurg products grew 3% as reported and 5.6% in constant currency.
These results were led by growth in our Instruments and Medical business both of which had strong mid single digit percentage growth in constant currency.
Endoscopy also posted mid single digit percentage growth in constant currency in the period on the back of our new camera offering which was launched in December.
All three of these large MedSurg businesses continue to manage pricing decisions effectively with modest price declines of less than 0.5% for the year.
Our final segment Neurotechnology and Spine represented 18% of sales and delivered another good quarter.
Sales of Neurotechnology and Spine products grew 6.5% as reported and 9.9% in constant currency.
Growth in this segment was led by our Neurotechnology business which had double-digit growth in the high teens in constant currency in the fourth quarter and grew high teens in the U.S.
Spine sales had mid single digit percentage growth in constant currency in the period and had high single digit growth in the U.S.
This marks our third consecutive quarter of strong growth in U.S.
spine.
Spine also had a new 3D printed interbody device launching in 2016 which we believe will be a very exciting product for the market helping us to continue this positive trend.
In looking at our operational performance gross margin as a percent of sales on an adjusted basis in the fourth quarter was 67.2% compared to 65.8% in the fourth quarter last year.
When compared to the same period last year the rate was positively impacted by solid operational improvements product mix and FX rates despite the negative FX impact on earnings per share.
Price had a negative impact as pricing was lower by 1.7% in the period.
Our gross margin as a percentage of sales was 66.5% or 50 basis points higher than last year.
Research and development expenses increased by 20 basis points to 6% of sales in the fourth quarter compared to 5.8% in the same period last year.
On an adjusted basis selling general and administrative expenses represented 33.7% of sales in the fourth quarter compared to 32.4% in the same period last year.
As expected these expenses were higher for the year as we increased spending to support the cost structure of our European regional headquarters in Amsterdam and our Transatlantic operating model.
We're confident in our ability to leverage these expenses in 2016 as we continue to drive in a number of key cost initiatives even as we reinvest some of the savings from the suspension of the medical device tax.
Operating margin as a percentage of sales on an adjusted basis were 27.4% in the fourth quarter compared to 27.6% in the same period last year.
The full year adjusted operating margin rate was 24.9% nearly flat compared to last year.
During the year we invested in our European regional headquarters and the establishment of our Transatlantic operating model which reduced the stronger operating margins for the year.
Other expense in the fourth quarter was $36 million.
This increase in expense resulted primarily from higher net interest expense due to increased borrowings and foreign currency exchange transactional losses in the fourth quarter.
This is generally consistent with the run rate for this category.
Our reported tax rate for the fourth quarter was 14.7% while the adjusted effective tax rate was 16.6% for the fourth quarter compared to 22.6% in the same period last year.
The fourth quarter effective tax rate benefited from the renewal of the tax extenders which was contemplated in our guidance.
The full year adjusted effective tax rate was 17.3% compared to 22.3% last year as we realize the benefits from our global tax structure in European regional headquarters in Amsterdam.
Looking at the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $4.1 billion of cash and marketable securities approximately 50% of it now held in the U.S.
We also had $4 billion of debt on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
From an asset management standpoint accounts receivable days ended the quarter at 55 relatively unchanged from last year.
Days and inventory finished the quarter at 165 which was an increase of five days compared to last year.
Turing to cash flow our cash flow from operations for 2015 were $900 million compared to $1.8 billion last year but as previously mentioned we made significant payments earlier this year associated with our rejuvenate and ABG II Recall settlement of $1.2 billion most of which occurred in the third quarter.
Approximately 50% of the funding of the rejuvenate liability is being source from OUS cash.
We also repatriated a total of $1.8 billion in 2015 including approximately $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter.
Capital expenditures were $270 million in 2015 compared to $233 million last year.
Finally regarding share repurchases in 2015 we repurchased approximately $700 million of our current stock or approximately 7.5 million shares at an average price of approximately of $94.67.
We have authorization for another 1.9 billion available for repurchase under our current authorization.
Based on our strong performance in 2015 and assessment of the current economic and market conditions we are projecting constant currency and organic sales growth in a range of 5% to 6% for 2016 and expect to be at the low end of that range in the first quarter as we are still anticipating impacts of market conditions in the emerging markets especially China and Brazil.
The foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels.
We anticipate net sales will be negatively impacted by approximately 1% for 2016.
We also expect continued unfavorable price reductions of 1.5% to 2% consistent with the pricing environment experienced in 2015.
Due to the suspension of the MedTech tax we will also provide some additional visibility to our projected margin rates for 2016.
Both gross margin and operating income margins are projected to be at least 50 basis points higher in 2016 in total.
The benefit from the suspension of the MedTech tax will directly benefit our gross profit rate.
However R&amp;D will run slightly higher in 2016 and our SG&amp;A rate will only show modest improvement for the full year as we expect to reinvest the majority of the benefit we receive into this area offsetting much of our cost reductions in '16.
As such our gross margin rate improvements will be the driver of our operating margin rate in 2016.
We expect our full year adjusted effective tax rate in 2016 will continue to be approximately 17% to 17.5%.
Capital expenditures are expected to be $400 million to $450 million in 2016 as we continue to invest in our operations and IT infrastructure to support future growth.
Based on the current foreign exchange rates we expect 2016 to be negatively impacted by approximately $0.12 to $0.13 for the full year and approximately $0.03 for the first quarter.
This negative impact is largely driven by the translational component of foreign exchange which we do not hedge.
The transactional impact of foreign exchange on earnings has been offset somewhat by both natural and real hedges which we continue to layer into our operations.
Finally our guidance for adjusted net earnings per diluted share in 2016 is $5.50 to $5.70 for the full year and $1.17 to $1.22 for the first quarter.
Thanks for your support and we’ll be glad to answer any questions that you may have at this time.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder callers will be limited to one question and one follow-up question.
Our first question comes from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Can you hear me okay Hi Bob.
Great hey good afternoon.
So first Bill sorry to see you move on but good luck with the next chapter.
So it will be remised if I didn’t asked a follow-up question on this announcement and may be the way to phrase the question Bill is and for Kevin and Katherine you guys have been talking about M&amp;A for some time.
And I’m just curious if this CFO transition suggests any change in strategy or maybe suggested mirror larger deals kind of less likely until after this transition is complete.
Just getting curious how this could affect strategy and/or the outlook for M&amp;A and thanks and again congrats Bill for the decision.
Yeah thanks Bob.
Look I would tell you right now the company is in very good shape.
You can see the way we’re performing.
This is an internal transition with somebody who is inside our company.
So this not like we're signaling any kind of shift in strategy.
I would tell you we’ve been very consistent on capital allocation since I've been in the job and even before that our approach is to favor M&amp;A first then dividends and then share buyback.
So there is absolutely zero change to our operating mode and I’m expecting a very smooth transition.
You can see that we have a whole quarter of overlap and Bill is still going to be around in this community and available to help us as needed.
So I would tell you that you should expect more of the same from Stryker and this should be a very seamless change.
All right thank you for that.
And then as a quick follow-up also Kevin from a big picture perspective I was wondering if you could kind of give us your sense for the outlook for hospital capital spending in 2016 what are you seeing from hospitals you’re expecting any changes? Just wanted to get a sense for your view on the 2016 outlook for CapEx especially since you’re launching some new products into the market right now? Thanks Bob.
Look we see the market as very stable for capital equipment.
You can see in the fourth quarter we had very strong performances on MAKO selling capital that’s large capital.
We also have a lot of small capital.
Our instruments division did very well in the fourth quarter.
So we look at the market as being very stable.
We're just embarking upon our launch of our new camera 1588 with an endoscopy.
We had a nice start in the month of December and the orders look quite healthy going into the year.
So we're not seeing really any change a very stable capital market.
And our next question comes from Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
Good evening everybody and Bill my sentiments as well.
Thanks for all your help and enjoy your time away from Stryker.
Let me ask a couple questions guys.
So one question is the 5% to 6% constant currency guidance for 2016 obviously you've by and large have been running above that.
Can you just tell us what you have baked in there for the emerging market performance because obviously you're still assuming a challenge in emerging market environment for the year? So I just want to get some sensitivity around it.
Yeah Mike in terms of emerging markets which is in that 7% to 8% of our total sales in China and Brazil are the biggest components although we’ve been seeing nice growth in markets outside of that.
We've assumed those markets remain challenging for the better part of the year.
China as well as Brazil were difficult to predict given the macro issue surrounding them.
We do benefit from easier comparisons as we get to the back half of the year but we assume your real market there continues to be a bit of a challenge.
Yeah Mike I would say the emerging markets for us we had similar performance in the fourth quarter as we did in the third quarter.
So we're slightly negative in terms of growth in our emerging markets China of course being the biggest drag and for Stryker we have a capital equipment business especially the Endoscopy division that's quite big in China and so that has a bit more of an impact to the disposables or implants on Stryker.
So we're expecting that to continue to be difficult and that will be a drag and it's certainly in the year.
So we're setting our guidance from five to six.
As you saw last year we moved our guidance up during the year.
If these conditions don't or are not as severe you can expect even do the same it doesn’t change our outlook on our business.
We feel very good about our business but it's early in the year and we know that those markets are going to be challenged and we're just baking in some caution around those markets.
Understood.
So let me two quick follow-ups relative to the guidance.
So one you started to talk about the cost transformation initiative in greater detail in San Francisco and in the 2016 guidance you're basically assuming no SG&amp;A leverage and that's part of what you're what about reinvesting back in the business with the benefit of the MedTech packs helping the gross margin line.
So can you just talk a little about where you're going to incrementally invest if that will show up in SG&amp;A or will it all show up in R&amp;D.
And then second the acceleration of the share buyback and acceleration maybe is not the right term but you bought that more stock than you had been buying back in the fourth quarter.
Can you just talk a little bit about what's in your 2016 guidance curve for capital deployment? Yeah so it's couple different questions there.
The first one associated with kind of the margin rates and also the SG&amp;A area.
We do and expect some modest level of improvement still in the broader operating expense category but the reinvestment is primarily taking place in both areas probably about maybe 20 basis points or so of an impact on the R&amp;D related side and the remainder kind of in the SG&amp;A area.
I would say that with the cost initiatives that we've got in place that you would have seen and obviously better leverage there but with the reinvestment that will slow that down at least this year but we should still be showing obviously some very solid gross margin rate improvement and we should be getting good drop-through still into the operating income line for that.
As it relates to the buybacks yes we did jump that up to about $700 million in this year.
As you can see our cash has continued to stay very strong.
We were able to bring back some additional cash.
We have about $2 billion here in the U.S.
at this point and as far as our guidance is concerned you should expect that we commented before that we've got the authorization out there.
We expected to complete that over kind of a two to three year period of time barring any sizeable acquisitions and hopefully as Kevin mentioned acquisitions are absolutely still our first and foremost kind of attention within that space and we expect to be very active as we move forward but those are all based on timing situations right.
So -- but that is still our number one focus.
And our next question comes from Rick Wise from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Hi Kevin.
Hi everybody.
Maybe Kevin to start my first would be on the operating margin outlook.
Obviously you're exiting 15% to 27.4% maybe just comment if you would on your aspirational goals here? Is it 30%? Is it 35% over the next two to four and three to five years but just talk about the magnitude and the durability of this seemingly long-tailed opportunity? So Rick look we only give guidance out for one year right.
So we provided you guidance this year which shows some pretty meaningful leverage on the EPS line.
Coming off the year we just delivered leverage and we didn't have the 12% to 13% share of negative FX.
We would be giving EPS in the 10% to 14% range.
So that's pretty meaningful leverage on sales of 5% to 6%.
So you should expect us to continue to drive meaningful leverage.
That's the goal of the constant program.
We've said before there are significant opportunities in the hundreds of millions of dollars and as we drive those savings we'll obviously if there is great opportunities to invest we'll invest some of those dollars and some of those dollars will fall to the bottom line.
But I don't have a magical number and I think it also depends on as the year's progress what types of deals that we do and how that affects our margin profile.
So I think each year you'll expect us to give the kind of guidance we're giving you this year nice robust organic growth and a nice amount of leverage to the bottom line and I think I'll just leave it at that.
Okay.
And Katherine maybe for you on MAKO.
Can you give us a little more color on your comment you talked about increased demand for the hip indication.
It seemed to me you've placed a few more systems than we expected.
Can you talk about the placements and the utilization and maybe where you are in the rollout for new indications in software? So I think it really is reflective of being complete year two of the acquisition.
So working through the integration and really helping the combined sales forces to optimize their education and around the features and benefits of our hip system on the robot-assisted platform and getting out there and really detailing those benefits.
It's a nice mix of both existing striker customers but also new accounts that we're able to get into with the robots.
We're really pleased with the placement as well as having a number of them outside the U.S.
I would really just emphasize 2016 is about really working to make sure we are optimally set up for full commercial launch in '17 for the total needs so we are not expecting any real impact from that this year.
We have a lot of work to do to optimize the training protocol.
We're going to work with key opinion leaders both on the robotic side as well as KOLs with our triathlon system to make sure we are meshing those observational studies to really fine-tune the training protocol.
We then have to train our own sales force do the upgrades of the system.
So there is a lot work to be done to make sure when we go into full commercial launch we're set to really optimize that and have a presence at the podium.
So we'll continue to drive placements with the existing indications for 2016 while doing the necessary ground work to really ensure when the great position in 2017 to take full advantage of the total knee indication.
And our next question comes from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon everybody.
I wanted to just start with some of the investment spending that you're committing to through the P&amp;L.
Over the past several years you've been very consistent with investing your business both SG&amp;A and R&amp;D which has obviously produced this very nice topline growth rate.
But as you look forward as you continue to invest in the business do you see opportunities to enhance the topline growth rate beyond what you're performing today and where are the most attractive areas of investment for you? Well I can tell you that I get a chance to travel around all of our divisions over the course of the year and yet to meet and R&amp;D that has enough money to spend on new product.
So I would say that all the divisions have opportunities.
There is clearly some areas that we would focus on a little bit more than others.
So you've seen our spine business really start to turn based on focused investments in R&amp;D.
We've had three great quarters in a row in the U.S.
We still have to take a lot of those products outside the U.S.
But I would say that will be in area where organic development and spending is really paying off for us.
So you could expect more in that area.
Sports medicine for us is a business that's growing very fast.
It's relatively small within Stryker.
That's also an area of interest.
Neurotechnology as well as extremities I would say I picked those four right off on top of my head but I would tell you we have a long list and if my other division president's are listening on the call I know that they're preparing ideas for me as well.
And we'll obviously look at all the ideas and determine which ones we think can really provide value for us.
We're not going to just spend for the sake of spending.
In the company as big as Stryker is with the decentralized focus we're seeing that innovation delivers.
And I cited one example of 3D printing where I think we're seeing it to have an impact on two different divisions of striker our knee business as well as spine and we have a huge line up of other divisions with ideas and prototypes to get into 3D printer titanium product.
So I would say that those are the top of mind areas of focus but all the divisions are lining up and we'll be very selective as we march through that and we'll share more as the year unfolds.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then on the capital spending side the $400 million to $450 million at the end of the high end of the range that would be almost a doubling from where you were I think in 2014.
Could you maybe just help us go into a little bit detail on where those CapEx dollars are going? How much of that are 2016 isolated in nature and what the implications of this additional CapEx are to the rest of the business down the road? Sure.
I'd say that there is beyond just supporting the operations in the higher growth level that we've got in the company there is a couple of areas of specific investment.
One is on in the ERP transformational area which is strengthening our global ERPs on a world-wide basis and reducing the numbers that we have.
So we're on a more consistent common system there.
The second one is actually we're building a brand new state-of-the-art 3D printing manufacturing facility this year as well too.
So we're spending some dollars I think in some key potential growth areas for us and we might want to take advantage of that this year is a little bit of a blip in comparison to what that normal CapEx would be.
And the next question comes from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Just a couple of question.
One Kevin just to start off with the Ortho market I wonder if you could just comment on 2015 if you think about the underlying momentum in the market and your share position how much relative share you may or may not taken in '15 and how those dynamics in your mind compare to the outlook you'd see for '16 both in terms of how the [audio gap]? …the last three four years have been in line with the market or maybe slightly below.
And I think we're going to start to see a bit of over-performance there behind innovation and launching new products.
So we feel good about our position in those two.
Trauma of course as you know has been standout for us about four years and we continue to launch new products and we continue to growth very well.
So to us the market seems very stable.
We like our position in each of the categories.
If you conclude spine within your definition of orthopedics I would say that was an area that had been more troubled for us but we feel we're on a very good path now.
So across the portfolio and I just had a chance to spend time at the sales meeting for orthopedics and spine I could tell you they feel very good about our competitive position in a market that seems very stable.
So I think we'll see more of the same in terms of volume growth and we like our competitive position.
Okay.
Thanks Kevin and just two quick ones.
One just Katherine just thinking about MAKO for a second you're now selling more systems than the target MAKO ever did.
And I wonder are you seeing any push back on ASP system around a million dollars.
And in light of one of your competitors acquiring another competitor specifically in robotics do you expect to see some ASP pressure in '16 or '17? And then Bill you sparked my interest on the 3D printing facility.
Is this is a facility that will be capable of doing 3D printed full total knee and hips or is this more derivative products to the orthopedic process? Thank you.
On the capital side obviously that's always going to be a conversation.
You don't sell a million dollar capital easily but I will tell you we are million dollar capitals.
So those robots are sold.
They're not placed.
I think what we're doing is really leveraging the ability to offer different models and we talked about our flex financial.
So giving customers the ability to outright purchase or lease depending on their needs and I think that's how helping and it's really I think the difference between when MAKO with standalone is we have a very large selling organization that over the last two years has really come to understand the features and the benefits.
And the value proposition has only improved going from the knees then to a hip then to a hip with our hip system is on it and now knowing that total knee will be coming I think helps in that sales process as well.
But we are selling those robots and I don't anticipate that changing in 2016 related to any competition that might be out there.
And the second part of your question was around 3D printing.
So we've launched over the past few years we've started with part of our knee system to enable cementless knee.
So tibia base plate.
We have this past year in the middle of the year launched revision cones with geometry that can only be made with 3D printing.
We have our patella that we've launched that's 3D printed and now we're just about to launch a 3D printed titanium interbody device for spine.
So all of the products we've launched thus far that our 3D printer are all innovative new products.
In the case of the spine product and the cementless product it allows for bony in-growth because they're porous materials and getting very good feedback from our customers.
For the foreseeable future at least the next three four years or so our focus is really on innovative new products and not replacing our existing products with 3D printed products.
The pipeline of innovative new geometries that can't be made without 3D printing is the area of focus.
So it's not about trying to replace our products and drive down cost.
Over time ten years from now that could be the case but in the near to midterm it's really focused on innovative new products.
And our next question comes from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi can you guys hear me okay.
Yes we can Christina.
Okay perfect.
So Bill I'll reiterate definitely congratulations on your retirement we definitely will miss you.
So just a question more strategically I was just wondering if you feel good about the three main buckets that you have now and whether or not Kevin you feel like there is any need to expand beyond that and get into any other white spaces at this point? Yeah no Kristen I'll be consistent with I will be saying in the past couple of years and our strategy is to stay within these three segments fee.
We like our position in these three segments.
We want to continue if you look at all of our acquisitions they've strengthened each of our businesses that we're currently in.
And I think every year we do a white space assessment and the white space assessment is not as attractive as staying within our segments.
There are a significant number of targets within our segment.
I know we only completed two deals.
There is a little bit quieter year in 2015 but I can tell you the activity level was no different in 2015 with a lot of deals being discussed and so I would expect us to continue along our current strategy and don’t expect us to suddenly jump into a white space.
Okay.
And then just with respect to the narrow tech area are there any notable clinical activities coming up for trial readouts or can you speak to any new product pipelines or just think that we should be aware of that could help growth even though obviously it's been going really well.
No we've been with this -- thanks Kristen.
We love this business and I would say our coiling and the ischemic stroke were in great shape and we are growing very well in those two categories.
The one area for Stryker that is slight gap is the flow diverting stent segment.
We are selling that outside the U.S.
but we don’t yet have U.S.
approval.
We have in the process of just completing up a trial and we'll be submitting for that but we're still -- we still have some time before that’s get approved.
That’s the one area we’re not in.
So we're driving this terrific growth without being in that one segment in the United States.
So that’s an ongoing process.
We'll update you more towards the end of this year in terms of when that will come to market.
Our next question comes from Jason Wittes from Brean Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
It sounds like we should view the total knee coming out next year as sort of a transformational product.
If I look into this year can you may be highlight some of the products that we should be focused on that really drive that growth this year? I would really look at is across the Board very typical Stryker fashion where its more singles and doubles whether it's Endo launching their new 1588 camera or MAKO continuing to drive indications like Hip with the new BS Stryker brand that we talked about or Spine with their new products that are coming out 3D printed.
So it’s really a story about those incremental innovative new products.
Usually no one on its own is a growth driver.
It's the totality of that offering that really allows us to sustain that organic growth at the high end of MedTech.
Clearly next year we'll set up for some more impactful products that when you think about MAKO and the total Knee and expecting to be on a clear trajectory of taking meaningful market share as work our way through '17.
Ischemic is one more of those more transformational opportunities.
There is a lot of market development that still needs to take place there around the patient path referral systems hospital -- inter hospital transfer.
So we talked about that being a multiyear process but clearly seeing some very good growth rates but off of a still small base.
But I would really think about this year is the typical Stryker story.
We've got a lot of products a lot of momentum dedicated sales force with especially -- a specialty focus that’s really helping to drive that 5% to 6% growth we're targeting.
Okay.
Very helpful and just a quick follow-up for MAKO can you give us a sense of how many of these new placements are to existing accounts and how many of these de novo? Just kind of… We haven’t broken out -- out of the 31 we haven’t broken out I would tell you though that it is a combination of both existing Stryker customers as well as new customers where we haven’t had any type of meaningful presence.
So we haven’t given it with more granularity than that but there is a nice mix.
Great thank you.
And the next question comes from Matt Miksic from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hello Matt? Matt your line is open.
Sorry about that guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Super job on the numbers it looks like and I'll pass along my congratulations and farewell to Bill.
We will also miss you.
So on MAKO just a couple of maybe broader questions on how you're positioning the platform.
Robotics has been kind of a market development project for a while.
Oftentimes dealing with surgeons and helping them get more comfortable with new technology maybe changing the way surgeries over the long term.
But what point does this become or has it already become an opportunity to drive better contracting for you across your implant lines greater share or utilization multi-line contracting driven by the merits of this system and the technology and I've a couple of quick follow-ups? So Matt I would say look we're still in the early stages.
Stryker hip brands are now available recently and we haven't launched a total knee yet.
So I think those are the big applications and to say that it is impacting contracting yet I would say it's too early for that.
Once this becomes a more mature business which will take a couple of years then I think obviously having a system that if the surgeons are having a great experience and they enjoy it and they want to use the products it really does provide us with great differentiation which will -- and differentiation will show up in many different ways including potentially in contracting.
But we're ways from that yet.
We have a lot of work to do in the next couple of years to really gain more broad adoption of the technology.
Another on the same topic here Katherine someone asked earlier about hips and what's changing and how you're improving in performance there? To put that in perspective I remember when hips came out and when you first acquired the system it wasn’t generally thought to be really where the bank for the buck was with the robot.
And I guess what's changing is application getting a lot easier is people getting -- are they proving out the benefits of the hip? What's driving uptake against what was historically viewed as sort of like not the greatest application for the robot? Okay.
So I'll take this question.
So look when I tell you the first iterations of the hip software were a little bit clumpy and it requires quite a bit more registration time -- you have to register in the software system.
So that's just an extra step that some of the surgeons were a little bit frustrated with.
Over time both prior to our acquisition and subsequent to our acquisition we've made some enhancements of the software to make it a little bit more user friendly.
That's been one factor for sure.
I think the most compelling factors is showing the surgeons on the pre-imposed X-rays that they put the hip exactly where they want to put it and I think even though surgeons that had some hesitations when they see pre-imposed X-rays they're just -- it's a very compelling visual for them to understand -- before they weren’t doing that.
They weren’t able to get that same type of consistency and that's starting to resonate with a lot of surgeons and now being able to put our implants in addition with easier to use software and to get that kind of outcome it's like all things that change right.
Change doesn’t occur to everybody at the same time.
Some people are early adopters.
Some people frankly will never adopt.
They’ll just be set in their ways but what we're seeing is the middle of the bell curve is starting to shift it's mindset and frankly the more of it robotics has talked about in the community at large we find that actually a very positive thing because we really believe we have a terrific system and we're obviously continuing to invest in that system going forward.
Our next question comes from Joanne Wuensch from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good evening and thank you for taking the question.
I have two questions.
The first one has to do with 3D printing.
It became quite aware that a couple of years ago now you're definitely doing a bigger focus on that.
What does it take for a 3D printed call it hip or knee to become more mainstream is it manufacturing is it clinical data? How should we think about this evolving? Well it's a long answer Joanne and the reason I pause is to get into all the technology on 3D printing will take a long time.
The quick summary is the 3D printing metal is very different than sort of the way you think about 3D printing plastic having it on a desk in an office and cranking out 3D printed products.
So metal is much more complicated.
It's explosive.
It requires a lot of extra programming.
You just don't buy a machine and sort off to the race as it's a lot more complicated than that and so we spent a lot of time.
We've been working on this for many many years and so we have a lot of knowhow on how to program the machines and optimize the machines and so there is a lot of factors that go into it to be able to create and different types of machines work that are for smaller products than larger products.
So it's difficult for me to just summarize in a short time.
I would just say that its more complicated than plastics or other things that you read about in the mainstream press and that’s why for us our focus is much more on innovative new products and not necessarily replacing total systems that will be many many many years ahead of us.
That’s very helpful.
As a follow up what should we expect at the upcoming AAOS? Thank you.
Yes Joanne I think it will be typical to prior years clearly there is going to be a big focus around MAKO as we think about Uni as well as Hip it’s too early in our initial commercial launch activities to have a big focus on user feedback from total knees although I sure that we have lot of surgeon presence around that as they’re looking to get educated on the features and benefits.
And we’ll have a tour of the booth as we’ve done previously to highlight new products across all the business from Trauma Foot and Ankle Spine etcetera and we'll also have an opportunity while we're there just to sit down and meet with management and have a open Q&amp;A forum.
And the next question comes from the Raj Denhoy from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Wonder if I could ask a question about the CJR CCJR program that’s rolling out.
I know that you guys have been pretty clear as all the companies have that you don’t think it's going to have much impact on pricing and focus on post acute care which pretty much mirrors the hearing as well.
But my question is really around how Stryker interfaces with that model? When you perform at solutions business you guys were involved in some of the bundle payments initiatives before.
Is there an opportunity for you guys to perhaps benefit from the CGR program as it rolls out? Yeah we agree with your comments.
We don’t think it’s going to have a meaningful impact.
We have seen in past with some of our prior program that really does drive to focus on post acute and patients that are discharged right to rehab given the high cost there.
We do have a small business our Stryker Performance Solutions that we think can help work with hospitals to help to make them aware of the data.
So they can have a sense of what best-in-classes and where some of the cost benefits they can realize whether it’s around infection rates transfusion etcetera.
So it's not a huge part of our business but it is one that provides insights and does help them as they think about their overall cost structure.
But clearly we continue to believe based on everything we’ve seen that it's going to be a post acute care.
We haven’t seen any meaningful change at all in price between those trial areas as it relates to implant pricing and really the cost that savings they can realize focusing on rehab really do dwarf anything else at this point in time.
Right.
May be just as a follow-up but if you think about that service offering if that’s the way to describe it which Performance Solutions certainly does some of if we should think about the next several years do you envision that service components becoming a bigger part of the business offering not just implants to hospitals but perhaps something a bit broader? Yeah that division is continuing to focus on that.
It’s not a huge part of our company.
I think we see this CCJR is a terrific example and opportunity for us to grow that business but it's not at a scale of which I really want to start highlighting it.
I would tell you a year from now I think we'll have a much better idea of the scope of CCJR and whether that can become a broader business for us.
So services is not something new to Stryker.
Well lot of our MedSurg business provides services to hospitals.
We have people in the hospitals that our customer pay for to make sure that all their up time is working on their equipment.
So we're not against services at all but we don’t sort of like to get out in front of ourselves.
Let’s see how this year unfolds and if the business becomes something that could be scalable then we'll talk about a lot more but right now it’s a small part.
I agree with you that CCJR does provide an exciting opportunity for that business but it’s a very small part of Stryker.
And our next question comes from Larry Biegelsen from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
I want to start with M&amp;A about a year ago Kevin you said you expected to put the balance sheet to work and I just wanted to confirm if that's still the case and I am asking because obviously you've been relatively quiet on the acquisition front over the past 6 to 12 months which is atypical.
So is there any reason you haven't pulled the trigger on more deals and I had one follow-up.
Thanks.
Sure I would tell you just deal timing is inherently unpredictable.
There is absolutely no change in the statement I made before I still intend to put the balance sheet to work.
The reason we got the extra share buyback approval level was just in case deals don’t get over the line or drag on for extended periods of time we would start to step up the buybacks but you should expect us to continue to be very active acquirer but you’ve seen in the past right sometimes some years there is one or two deals another years you see many more deals.
So our level of activity hasn’t changed.
I still see many exciting prospects out there and so we’re staying the course with the existing strategy.
And then earlier you said that in Q1 you would expect to be at the low end of the 5% to 6% I think constant currency growth rate because of what you’re seeing in emerging markets.
And so -- but you expect emerging markets to be relatively weak throughout 2016 I believe.
So my question is does getting the growth rate up above that the low range in the range does that depend upon an improvement in the emerging market and if not how do you get that growth rate up? Thanks for taking the questions.
Yeah I would just comment that if you look at the cadence of quarters last year we had some difficult comparisons in the first quarter as related to emerging markets more of the pressure particularly in China unfolded as the year went on.
We're going to have easier comps in the back half of the year.
We tend to have a seasonally stronger second half of the year particular as it relates to the fourth quarter.
So it's more just reflective of how our quarters tend to play out in some of the year-over-year comparisons.
And our next question comes from the Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Kevin your U.S.
Hip and Knee business had a strong fourth quarter of 6% and 9% respectively.
Did you see in the fourth quarter the U.S.
Orthopedic market accelerate or pickup a bit or do you think that was more share capture from Zimmer given the integration between Zimmer and Biomet and then I had a follow up question on robotics? Yeah so look until we see everybody report it's really difficult for me to say how much of it is the market versus comparative share capture.
The Knee number we're encouraged about.
We tend to believe our Knee improvement is more driven by the new products the revision cones and more of uptick of our cementless Knee offering.
So we believe that’s more of the issue than let's call it sales force disruptions or any other factors that are occurring at other companies.
It's more about our innovation.
When I talk to our field the sense on getting is a very stable market.
So wasn’t -- a few years ago we saw this big seasonal fourth quarter lift.
We'll now we're seeing a typical fourth quarter.
This December was more or less typical.
Its more active but was more active a year ago two.
So we’re not seeing -- we didn’t see anything or major in terms from quarter-to-quarter you do sometimes see slight upticks or downticks but until the report it's going to be difficult for me to comment but I think you had a second question.
Yes Katherine in your prepared remarks you talked about with the MAKO system podium presentations in 2016.
So can you describe what type of presentations -- I’m assuming these are clinical trials so what type of trials and when can we see these trials being presented? Thank you.
Yeah my comments were that we’re going to do observational studies in 2016.
So really looking at key opinion leaders who have extensive experience with robotics to understand how we can fine-tune the training protocol and optimize the rollout.
We’re also going to be doing observational studies with key opinion leaders who have a lot of familiarity with the triathlon system.
So we can mesh those two datasets and really put us in a position to have a presence at the podiums in 2017 not '16.
So we think mining the full commercial launch and being in a position in 2017 for those initial users those key opinion leaders to talk about their experience and how they were able to optimize both the robot as well as our triathlon will help drive the adoption.
We’re going to continue to collect additional clinical data but that is going to take our number of years.
This is really focused around observational studies to help optimize the training protocol.
And our next question comes from Mike Matson from Needham &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for fitting me in.
I just wanted to start with the new camera at the endoscopy business how does this compare with the prior model? Is it more of an incremental improvement? And just in terms of the impact on the growth rate there do you expect that to me more of a step change or more of a ramp in terms of the growth and endoscopy and then I have one follow-up? So no just the 1588 so each term we have a new version and we call it the classrooms 1488 as you know now we're calling it 1588.
Aim is the name of it.
I would say it's meaningfully better certainly 1488 had terrific resolution but we've improved the backlighting and some of the image clarity for certain procedures like E&amp;T.
So our products works well in wide variety of procedures but there are certain procedures where highlighting just wasn’t quite as optimized and we made some nice enhancements there.
So across the range of procedures surgeons are all going to have a delightful experience whereas in the past it was not necessarily across every specialty that’s the first thing.
Second thing is we have ICG built into our light source which we never had before.
So with a press of a button you can light up the organs just I am sure you're familiar with ICG with the comparative product out there.
But this is not -- doesn’t require extra piece of capital.
It's built right into the existing light source easy for the surgeons to use which is wonderful.
It also includes another product for GYN that lights up parts of the anatomy.
So it's really a safe surgery launch.
And it enables safe surgery with enhanced visualization and we just launched it in December.
So we don’t a huge amount of sales yet but I would say the earlier clinical feedback has been very positive.
So I do expect endoscopy to have a better year in 2016 than they did in 2015.
Okay.
Thanks and then just with regard to this big ERP project that you have what’s the execution risk there that something gets some balls get dropped in terms of the inventory levels and things like that causing impact on your overall results for the company? Thanks.
Yeah so like with any system of implementation there is always some degree of risk.
We’re being very thoughtful and careful about how we go about the project.
We're staffing -- we're putting our best people on it.
They're in dedicated -- in a dedicated workspace.
And in fact my former Head of HR who also has run businesses is going to be leading the business component of that and I've appointed a new Head of HR that send a terrific signal through the organization of kind commit more making.
It will be measured launch.
So it will take a number of years before complete and we’re starting off with our instruments division and we’re going to continue to -- we have a steady study march plan that we have an IT leader who is partnering with the business leader who has -- was -- had a previous MedTech company doing exactly this kind of an implantation over the past few years.
So we believe it's all of our talent staffing the right people who know our business and we’re going to do our best obviously to mitigate the risk.
We had a painful experience in Japan a couple of years ago.
I can tell you the approach of this project is radically different to the approach we used in that project.
And so we feel we'll be in good shape and it's not a big bang launch.
We’re going to do division by division region by region and there will be a steady cadence.
So even if something does start to wobble a little bit it should have very very little impact.
Our next question comes from Matt Taylor from Barclays Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Can you hear me okay.
Yep we can hear you.
Great.
So I was just wondering if you could just follow up on some of those comments on 3D printing and you talked about the materiality of the contributions in the quarter and what you're expecting out that you’re going to be investing more in this new plan? How big is it and how material could that be.
Yeah so for the moment these are innovative products that are adding I'll call it incremental growth.
It's not the core growth.
The core growth is our big systems right our triathlon or accolade.
That’s where the core amount of our sales comes from.
But this gives a little extra boost and puts a little bit of jump in our sales force step.
Gives them something new to talk to the customer about.
So as an example of our vision business lagged -- our market share lagged our primary business in needs by about five or six market share points.
So we've been in our Stryker friendly account.
Sometimes they would go to a competitive -- a competitor to do the revision procedure.
Now that we have it we consider best-in-class revision cones not only do we keep that business at certain stages with Stryker we gain that sales but they're not something that they can go talk to a competitive surgeon about.
So I would say it's not a huge contributor but it’s an extra shot in the arm.
So with Robotics and 3D printing we believe we have the lead on both of those areas and those are things we can talk about that differentiate us from our competition.
So again not -- even today Robotics is not a huge component of our growth or our actual dollar sales but we believe they are the ones that are causing that extra piece of growth and in a different view of Stryker for the future.
Over time I expect Robotics and 3D print to take on a more important portion of our overall sales and there will be sustainable and sticky if we have something that the competition doesn’t have.
Okay.
Great and just one question on the Transatlantic Model it seems like you’re making some progress there.
Can you talk about where you are and how much that's helped to improve some of the OUS results and where you think that could go? Yes so look Europe has exceeded my expectations.
We had -- really our international growth doesn’t look fantastic.
So you don’t see it but Europe had a mid-single digit growth year and it improved progressively from the first quarter to the fourth quarter.
So that kind of uptick is frankly ahead of where I expected it to be.
It’s been masked a little bit because of the sluggishness out of China.
So that has dampened our international sales but it’s been a really great success.
I’m excited about what I’m seeing across our businesses in Europe.
Some of the divisions took off faster than others like trauma extremities and endoscopy took off really quickly and now I am starting to see some nice uptick in instruments in spine towards the end of the year.
So more to come in Europe.
We made a number of investments over the course of the year.
Those investments are now taking hold and I think you will start to see Europe become a division that delivers better topline and starts to deliver some leverage going forward.
We’ve added Canada.
So those are now directly managed a division President has direct P&amp;L accountability for Canada the U.S.
and Europe.
The other regions we haven’t yet folded into the model but by eliminating the Group President of international role we now have them reporting directly to our Business Group President.
So it just increases speed and connectivity from our regions to come straight to a Group President.
Over time we’ll see whether those countries will roll into this model but we don’t want to run too fast to fully integrate a complete global business units especially with markets like China that are so different or Japan.
But we’re very pleased with the progress so far taking out that position puts nothing about cost reduction that was 100% just to increase speed and connectivity of those countries to our business.
And our next question comes from Matt Keeler from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys thanks for taking the questions.
Just two quick ones first on Hips outside the U.S.
you highlighted the drag from emerging markets but your Knee growth actually picked up pretty nicely.
So I’m just wondering if there was a much more pronounced impact from that emerging market to drag on Hips relative to Knees and if there were any other factors that impacted your Hip business outside the U.S.? No nothing particular.
You see this from quarter-to-quarter and sometimes you will see sort of Hips jump in the case of Hips Canada is an example there was a Hip tender that we lost.
So that accounted for some of the Hip growth.
There is not one overwriting factor.
It’s sort of a story by story country by country and we see this from quarter-to-quarter.
Sometimes you'll see Knee -- our business is not as big outside the U.S.
So you do see a little bit more volatility in our numbers whether its Hips Knees Spine.
Once those businesses get larger you should expect that there will be less volatility.
Great.
Thanks and just lastly instruments growth was pretty strong in the quarter but I think you highlighted that business is later on in its product cycle.
So just wondering if you think the level of growth we saw in the fourth quarter if that's sustainable going forward and what are some of the products to watch where you are maybe little later on in that product cycle? Yes so the Power Tools is the product that we refer to as being late in the cycle.
The system setting power tools which is probably the biggest single product category within instruments but instruments has a lot of other products.
So they have Neptune.
They're launching a new signature line of drills.
We actually report that as part of a neurotech but it’s run by our instruments division but yes they have the sponge counter as well patient safety company that we acquired.
So these are different kinds of businesses that can drive growth.
It’s a little less predictable in Power Tools.
So I think we're very excited by how they finished the year.
They finished the year very very strong and we think they will have a good year but longer in the cycle sometimes we do see them tailing off a little bit.
So I would expect the year that's similar to the year that they had this year overall.
And our next question comes from Rich Newitter from Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for squeezing me in.
Kevin I was hoping just to get some comments on spine.
You characterized the market as stable and you’re clearly seeing some nice uptick in the growth rates there yes into product launches.
So my question really is has there been any change or can you give us your updated thoughts on how you view external versus internal investments in this division for you now that things seem to be on better footing? Yeah so I’m really excited about what we're doing organically.
So we’ve re-tooled our R&amp;D organization some of our marketing organization over the past few years and this business is hitting its stride and we're launching more and more new products.
We’re getting into MIS which was an area that we were softer in before if you look back three four years ago.
And so it's great to see the organic growth.
Organic growth obviously is much more financially attractive than going out and spending a lot of money on companies.
Over time I do want this to become a bigger division and I think it's likely to see a combination of both organic and acquisitions but it's always better to have a strong organic business.
And so I do not feel at all that I need to do an acquisition because of the strength in what we've started to build internally but that's something that will likely happen over time.
Okay.
Thanks and then just on extremity again your Foot and Ankle growth I think you said it was 20% that this business continues to truck along.
Any comments on the end markets versus potential share gains that we might have seen in the quarter and specially are you seeing any disruptions from recent M&amp;A in the field? Thanks.
Yeah I would just say these are markets that continue to be very healthy growing double digits.
We do believe we’re taking market share.
We’ve got a dedicated sales focus there some great products.
I wouldn’t call it any disruptions that we’re seeing in the marketplace.
I think it’s just continues to be really good execution in a market that has favorable underlying growth dynamics.
And our next question comes from Joshua Jennings from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi good evening.
Thank you.
Kevin I just wanted -- hoping you touch on pricing.
I think recently you had some public commentary about some potential moderation in the pricing headwinds that you've historically been experiencing.
Any comments in terms of assumptions for pricing headwinds within guidance and any outlook for pricing particularly in Orthopaedics.
Yeah so you saw for the full year our price did moderate somewhat from the prior year and there was a lot of concern as we exit if you remember as we’re exiting '14 there was a lot of concern that the pricing was going to accelerate in '15.
In fact it hasn’t it actually moderated a little bit but it’s modest right the moderation is very modest and in our guidance we suggest that the price will be between 1.5% to 2%.
And so I would say it's a stable market.
We’ve continued to have price pressure.
It's not going away but we don’t see any accelerators to that price pressure and that’s why we feel it's going to be pretty stable going into 2016.
Great and just one follow up on MAKO we haven’t heard much over the last year on the Uni Knee product.
Any commentary there in terms of how its contributing to growth in your Knee franchises and just overall growth for that product line.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Obviously the Unit market when its put in the context of overall Stryker its very small part of the overall business and I would say it's just -- it’s a steady contributor but there is nothing remarkable to say about it.
It’s a good business but it’s a very small part of our overall need.
Are you just talking Josh specifically for MAKO.
No he got… So for MAKO it’s the first indication.
They’re continuing to drive uptake for that as well as with Hip and as we get additional indication I think it helped us.
It does help drive adoption as some customers were not interested in just the Uni but as we get more indications they’re starting to adapt for that as well as the others.
Yeah but I’m just trying to interrupt sorry that Josh got cut off just to interrupt that the growth to 9% in the U.S.
that’s spike in growth.
It really wasn’t driven by MAKO or Uni.
That’s driven more by the broader Knee business.
And next question comes from the Matthew O’Brien from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking questions.
Just quickly on MAKO again the number of systems you placed internationally accelerated here in Q4.
Was there anything that you can call out as far as maybe a little bit of tipping point in terms of interest in the robotic system OUS and maybe that could be an even more meaningful contributor here in 2016? No still the lion's share of the focus and the revenue was coming from the U.S.
and get place more systems outside the U.S.
and we'll continue to focus on those opportunities particularly places like Australia and certain other markets but the bulk of the revenue stream has been and will likely continue at least near term to be U.S.
Yeah it tends to be a country by country thing.
So Australia had a terrific year in robot sales.
I think within Europe we’re going to see certain countries are going to adopt MAKO much more quickly than other countries.
So I think each year you'll see the international volume starting to increase but it might be Italy this year.
It might be the U.K.
next year over the next few years but again to Katherine’s point the market that’s the most important by far is going to the U.S.
market.
Okay.
And then just to follow-up a little bit on Richard’s question a little more broadly on trauma and extremities I think we saw some acceleration here in Q4 beyond what we’ve seen over the last several quarters.
And I’m just curious if that acceleration was specific to any couple of products or geographies around particularly the U.S.
and if that level of growth is something that you think is sustainable here in 2016? Well I think you’ve seen our trauma business in the U.S.
it's been four years of really terrific growth.
So that to me is sustainable when you’re growing at that level.
So we’re very pleased.
We’ve rounded our portfolio completely and so that enables us to do complete hospital conversions something that was impossible with Stryker five six years ago.
Europe really picked up quickly.
So as we move to the Transatlantic Model I was very encouraged by our trauma success in Europe.
We have not been nearly as successful in Europe as we have been in the United States and we do now have the same products which are all approved.
So I think -- I expect more commercial success in Europe as well as Japan.
Now some of those products take a little longer to get approved in Japan.
So I think that once those products start to arrive we will start to see more of an uptick in Japan as well.
But I would say we are in very good position in that business.
We have a very very strong leadership team and we expect to continue to have success in trauma extremities.
And our next question comes from Jeff Johnson from Robert Baird.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and Bill just once best wishes I was looking back this afternoon I think it has been 14 years that you and I have overlapped.
So thanks for all the conversation all the help over that time.
And so Kevin just wanted to ask just question one follow-up question here just on the phasing or maybe gaiting of some of the MedTech tax savings.
Is there going to be any timing differential between when the MedTech tax savings start coming and influencing the cost of goods line versus when you start reinvesting those dollars back into SG&amp;A and R&amp;D.
Should those match pretty evenly out of P&amp;L or just how to think about the gaiting throughout this year? I think that that’s fair to say Jeff and thanks a lot for your comments.
I think that on the cost of goods sold category obviously that will start to write off in the beginning of the year.
Our investments as we are targeting right now moving again through 2016 we would also expect to be doing that in reinvestment pretty much consistently throughout the year.
All right.
That's all I have.
Sorry it’s going to be clean from the beginning of the year from the beginning of this year to 2017.
It starts immediately.
There is no lag effect which I think had happened prior with the different companies.
So for us it's clean.
You will see it cleanly in the two years.
Got it.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Steve Lichtman from Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
I actually just have one follow-up on ERP you talked about the investment on the capital side.
Are there any P&amp;L impacts that we should expect over the next couple of years as you start to implement ERP and when do you anticipate the system being fully in place? So a couple of different questions again there.
So on the ERP side of the equation from an investment perspective we won’t see the first implementations really for about another year and half or so and then those will be rolled out over the next few years after that.
As far as the cost side of equation goes we would not expect that to be a big blip once we get to kind of the stabilized level that we've got in 2016 here but moving forward and in fact if anything as those systems are implemented we would expect some of the benefits plus with the CTG initiatives that we've got kicked off those will continue to roll in at different points throughout different years.
We do have multi hundreds of millions of dollars targeted for that.
Keep in mind as well that we have price downs in the $150 million to $200 million range that we need to be working to offset and then as far as the impacts associated with the investment again that should be pretty consistent as we're moving forward beyond 2016.
Yes just to add to that I would say we do have some expense that will be hitting our P&amp;L but we’re absorbing that within the guidance that we have provided to you.
Got it thanks.
That’s all I had thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Kaila Krum from William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Just a couple of quick ones for me.
The first clearly you all are still emphasizing M&amp;A as a key priority herein.
I am just curious if you can touch on how or if those conversations have changed tone just with some evaluation pull back specifically that we've seen in recent weeks? Yeah I would say that that shorter time period doesn’t have an impact and as Kevin articulated we continue to be focused on M&amp;A externally.
There is going to be periods where it looks or less active depending on timing.
Internally the teams have never been busier and there is no change in the strategy and the recent market disruption is what it is.
Okay.
And then I guess just to follow-up on an earlier question just around whether or not there is this potential for longer term growth rate to accelerate and then just pairing that with your earlier comments about MAKO and likelihood that 2016 is more of a setup year for 2017 is it fair to assume that overall topline growth could modestly accelerate heading into 2017 from 2015 levels? It's always our goal to grow sales at the high end of MedTech and certainly we've got some nice opportunities between ischemic and MAKO and that's going to be in early stages next year.
So probably premature to start to push towards higher growth rates in this year but we feel really good with what we've set up for this year and hopefully can build on that in '17.
Yeah and I think we're going to learn a lot.
So I think towards the end of this year we'll be able to share more of the two additional platforms both MAKO and ischemic drove closer to one but I think can provide let's call them change of factories and growth for the company.
Now whatever happens in '17 or '18 or '19 is there are new platforms.
So it's not easy to predict but I think we'll learn a lot over the course of this year and certainly be able to share more with you when we provide our guidance in the following year.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the conference call over to Mr.
Kevin Lobo for any closing remarks.
So thank you all for joining our call.
Our conference call for the first quarter 2016 results will be held on April 20.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.