Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Sysco’s first quarter fiscal 2011 earnings results conference call.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I’d like to turn the call over to Neil Russell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco’s first quarter 2011 conference call.
On today’s call you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made in the course of this presentation that state the company’s or management’s intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ in a material manner from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s SEC filings including but not limited to risk factors contained in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 3 2010 and in the company’s press release issued earlier this morning.
On the call today we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find the reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures on our Investor Relations Web site at sysco.com.
Also all comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
Lastly we would like to remind that our Investor Day is scheduled for December 2.
If you haven’t already registered please do so prior to November 22.
With that out of the way I’ll turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thanks Neil and good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported net earnings of $299 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
Our sales in the first quarter increased 7.4% driven mainly by increased case volume and estimated food cost inflation of 3.3%.
Case volume was higher across all regions in our Broadline and SYGMA segments and the year-over-year increased represented the strongest improvement since the second quarter of fiscal 2007.
While the pace of the macroeconomic recovery remains sluggish and restaurant traffic patterns continue to be under pressure recent data suggests the industry is slowly recovering.
Sysco’s gradual but consistent improvement in case volume confirms this trend and we believe we are continuing to grow our market share.
We are pleased with our sales growth for the quarter and I should also note that we achieved record first quarter operating income.
Nevertheless operating income growth over the prior year was less than our sales increase as improved expense management was more than offset by a 46 basis point decline in gross margin percent.
Several factors contributed to the decline in gross margins.
Approximately 10 points of the margin decline related to a change in business mix.
While both our Broadline and SYGMA businesses grew this quarter SYGMA grew at a faster rate and since SYGMA operates a lower margin business this mix shift impacted total margins.
We do not view this as a negative outcome.
As a matter of fact we see a great deal of opportunity on the contract side of the business both from the Broadline and SYGMA segments.
The key is to strike an appropriate balance between street and contract sales growth over time.
The remainder of the gross margin decline was split about evenly between two drivers.
The first is a set of ongoing strategic pricing initiatives designed to drive volume increases in targeted categories.
While these initiatives are putting near-term pressure on our margins we are starting to see double-digit volume increases where these programs have been effectively implemented.
We expect this specific pressure on gross margins will persist in the near-term but we also believe these initiatives will result in profitable market share gains over time.
The last component of the gross margin decline relates to the significant raise of inflation in the meat dairy and sea food categories which together approached 10%.
While we typically are able to pass through modest levels of price inflation on a timely basis it is more difficult in the short-term to pass through double digit price increases to our customers without negatively impacting their business.
Our ongoing productivity initiatives helped to mitigate a portion of the gross margin pressure with U.S.
Broadline warehouse cases per man hour and cases per trip increasing compared to last year’s first quarter.
In addition total sales per employee also increased year-over-year.
All that said while operating performance in the first quarter is acceptable it’s not up to our standards.
We recently held our annual senior leadership meeting at which the importance of profitable sales growth was thoroughly discussed.
Our management team understands that we must find ways to grow our earnings faster than sales during these challenging times.
Turning to our multi-year business transformation initiative for a moment the project remains on track.
We are preparing to begin the last of our four cycles of testing prior to go live with our pilot facility early next year.
We’re also beginning to staff Sysco business services and have recently named Kirk Drummond to lead this strategically important part of our business.
Kirk has been with Sysco for the last 24 years working in various capacities at our local operating companies and at corporate including five years as our Chief Information Officer and the last five years as our Senior Vice President and Treasurer.
This organization will centralize back office administrative functions such accounting receivables payables billing and call center support.
I’d like to close by thanking our associates and our management team for their ongoing contributions and commitment to Sysco’s success.
This is an excitement time in our company’s history and our associates continue to deliver a high level service and support to our customers.
While our business is facing certain challenges we remain dedicated to being our customers’ most valued business partner and to investing in the future growth of Sysco.
We know this focus strengthens our competitive position and provides the strong foundation for success over the long-term.
Now I’ll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
For the first quarter sales were $9.8 billion or an increase of 7.4% compared to the prior year driven mainly by case volume growth and the impact of food cost inflation which we estimate to be 3.3% for the period.
In addition acquisitions within the last 12 months increased sales by 0.6% and changes in foreign exchange rate increased sales by 0.5%.
Operating income increased $9 million or 1.8% to $506 million during the quarter.
While sales increased 7.4% gross margin increased only 4.8% and operating expense increased 6%.
Operating expense increased $75 million for the quarter due to three main drivers.
First salaries and related expense increased approximately $40 million primarily from increased case volume during the quarter including increased commissions and incentives and delivery personnel costs.
Total headcount was down very slightly compared to the prior year meaning we held our headcount levels relatively steady despite increased case volume.
While total headcount is down we’ve increased MA headcount over the last year.
It typically takes one year to two years for an MA to be fully productive within the sales organization but we consider this investment in the business to be an important one that will enhance our ability to grow sales as the industry recovers and continue to take market share.
Second as we had discussed on last quarter’s call pension expense increased by $15 million year-over-year.
Lastly operating expense included a $14 million benefit from the impact of Corporate Owned Life Insurance or COLI which is an unfavorable comparison to the $21 million benefit we recorded in the prior year.
Net earnings for the first quarter were $299 million declining $27 million or 8.3% compared to the prior year.
Net earnings reflect a $39 million year-over-year increase in tax expense primarily due to the IRS settlement gain and higher non-taxable COLI gains recorded in the prior year.
Excluding the impact of COLI in both periods and the IRS settlement gain net earnings for the quarter as adjusted would have increased 3.4%.
In addition the $15 million year-over-year increase in pension expense impacted net earnings by another 2.8 percentage points.
Earnings per share declined 7.3% to $0.51 which included a $0.02 benefit from COLI.
In the prior year period earnings per share were $0.55 and included a $0.05 gain related to the IRS settlement and a $0.04 benefit from COLI.
Turning to cash flow; cash flow from operations for the fiscal year was $227 million compared to $42 million in the prior year.
Cash flow from operations increased year-over-year due mainly to the timing of our IRS settlement payments.
During the first quarter of this year we had no settlement payments however in the prior year period we paid $316 million.
We expect to pay a total of $212 million in settlement payments during this fiscal year and again next year.
As a reminder these scheduled payments include $106 million cash outflow in the second quarter period and a $53 million cash outflow in the third and fourth fiscal quarters.
Cash flow from operations was negatively impacted during the quarter by an increase in accounts receivable and a decline in accrued expense.
Receivables increased due to higher sales during the period and the decline in accrued expenses this quarter was due mainly to the payment of incentive compensation related to the prior fiscal year.
Capital expenditures totaled $143 million for the quarter including facility expansion and replacement fleet replacements and investments in technology including our business transformation project.
In closing while the business environment remains challenging we’re seeing improvements and our operating companies continue to have a strong focus on growing cases controlling costs improving productivity and successfully implementing our business transformation.
As a result we are confident that Sysco is well positioned to take advantage of the economic recovery as it takes hold.
With that operator we will now take questions.
(Operator instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Ajay Jain with Hapoalim Securities.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to clarify a few things on the gross margin impact during the quarter.
I think some of that decline I am sure is a little bit cosmetic because of the inflation impact And Bill I think you already talked about the mix shift between SYGMA and Broadline but as far as the strategic price investments that I think you cited in your press release it seems at least to me a little bit unprecedented for Sysco to have to resort to discounting based on the way you guys have typically gone to market.
So can you just talk about how far reaching these price investments are going to be over the rest of the year and if you had to quantify how much of the 46 basis point decline was driven by price investments in this last quarter is that something that you can quantify at all? I’ve given my best shot and we’ll see where we end up here.
So to repeat of the 46 basis point decline we think about 10 basis point of that is the business mix of SYGMA versus the Broadline.
So that leaves you a little over a third of a point of margin decline.
Our best estimate is about half of that is we would attribute to pretty significant inflation in those three categories.
I mentioned meat dairy and seafood and the other half I don’t know I’d call discounting or pricing so much as what we would characterize is as what we said is strategic category initiatives.
Where we see opportunities Ajay where we are somewhat underpenetrated and we think it’s appropriate for us to get a little more focused and get a little more finely priced in those categories.
So we’ve been into this year for a few months and I would expect that to continue here over a good portion of the balance of the year but it’s not a random type of thing.
Its distinct categories and we’re doing it in different parts of the country and over time throughout the country and again I would expect us to maybe not in 12 months but over a reasonable period of time see it pay back there on the sales line.
So going forward would the gross margin implications from these category management initiatives with the magnitude be similar to this latest quarter? It’s actually hard to predict.
I mean there’s a lot of things that go in the gross margin Ajay but I would say for this piece of the pie so to speak I think as we said and I think as I said in the narrative I expect the pressure to continue here for at least a couple more quarters.
With that said I think there’s other things we can manage better including the inflation part and that’s what we were alluding to in terms of our discussions with our management team.
There is opportunities for us to manage this inflation environment somewhat better.
Just this one quick follow-up on the tax rate I know there’s some variability each quarter based on stock compensation and COLI but could you talk about what you’re assuming as far as a normalized tax rate for the rest of the year? Obviously a normalized rate for Sysco is probably 38% 39%.
What’s going on with the tax rate is primarily driven by the IRS settlement last year and the COLI both last year and this year.
Those are the two main drivers that’s affecting the tax rate.
But as far as what you’re modeling in internally is 38% to 39% representative of what we should be assuming as well? Well that’s a normalized tax rate.
I’m not really commenting about what we expect for the year to be candid.
We don’t really know what COLI is going to be for the full year.
We start the year off assuming COLI is going to be flat.
Obviously it wasn’t flat in this first quarter.
We got a benefit from it.
We don’t really know what’s going to happen for the duration of the year.
So I would say yes we started the year assuming 38% to 39%.
We knew that we were going to have a lapping issue in the first quarter because of the things that happened in the first quarter last year.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Meredith Adler with Barclays Capital.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was wondering since you were kind enough to give us a sense of how much of the gross margin was due to the strategic price investments maybe you could talk a little bit about how much of the volume the case volume increase we saw also came from those specific categories? I think you said in your prepared remarks that you did get a good response in sales in those categories.
I’ll give it my best shot again here.
I think in terms of putting that together what we did say here is that we are seeing double digit increases in those categories where we effectively roll these initiatives out and we’re not all the way through doing that.
So it doesn’t transcend the entire book of business so to speak for the quarter but we’re pleased with the sales growth that we are seeing.
With that said there’s other categories as well that contributed to the sales growth and some of which were the same ones that had some pretty significant inflationary pressures.
So its mix I guess so there’s not a direct correlation is the short answer.
And then I have a question about inflation.
I know you said that you think that the operators could have done a better job passing it along but maybe you could talk a little bit about the condition I mean I am sure they all want to make money so what the conditions might be that would be making it difficult for them to pass it along and is it fair to call that price competition? Well what I said I want to be really clear because I see a lot of our people listening here too.
I said we need to do better going forward.
We are fine with the quarter as I said it was acceptable.
These are very interesting times in addition to being exciting times.
So we got a situation out here where a year ago we had about 3.5 points of deflation cases were going the wrong way.
A year later we’re seeing just the opposite amount of inflation and we’re encouraged by the case growth.
If you look at it from our customer standpoint if you go back three years we’ve been through an environment of two years of pretty significant inflation a third year deflation and now we’re into our fourth year here where inflation is picking up in these certain categories.
So I’m not saying that we should have done better I’m really just saying we need to do better going forward and our folks to understand that.
In terms of how you manage that essentially you manage it territory by territory account by account and you look at each situation and you’re always getting an eye at the operating company level you’re always trying to strike the right balance between opportunities for growth and opportunities to more effectively more productively service these accounts with the reality that our customers are running a business as well and we need to be sensitive to what their higher cost items are and what their key concerns are.
That’s why we have 8 000 commission sales people out there that’s why we have Presidents in all these operating companies as to make those decisions on an account by account basis and overall from an enterprise standpoint we try to give them good guidance and feedback.
And then on the contract side of the business the inflation as we’ve talked before impacts a little different most of the categories are contractually linked to some type of pricing mechanism and there typically is up to a 30-day time lag from the time the products comes in to when the prices roll.
So it depends on whether its street business or contract business.
And then I just have a final question you were talking about that SYGMA business growing faster and I just think you generally have opportunities on the contracted side.
I was wondering whether the business transformation process is part of what needs to be accomplished for you to go after the contracted business more aggressively and make sure that that brings at least a comparable financial benefit to the company because it’s obviously lower gross margin business.
Well I think the business transformation initiative is going to help us on both sides.
It will definitely help us on the street side in terms of I think our sales people having better tools to work with as well as our customers and over time allowing our customers to participate I think more actively in what level of service the wanted what types of price points the whole channel opportunity there.
On the contract side we are starting to see this already but to your point I think we’ll see it more as we have better data and more integrated systems.
Our big opportunity on the contract side is to create a more consistent face to the customer of all Sysco’s capabilities.
So when you hear us speak about more effectively integrating our capabilities we’re talking about both on the merchandising and the sales side as well as across all of our different businesses SYGMA FreshPoint Meat Company Guest Supply all those types of things.
So I think the biggest opportunity on the contract side is just from an enterprise standpoint being able to go after this business more cohesively and that’s what we are looking forward to there.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
On the business transformation process when do you think we start to see some of the cost savings falling out of that because it seems like there’s probably some duplicative efforts there at the operating company level versus the parent? As we talked about we finished the design of the business transformation process.
We are going through testing the fourth round of testing of that’s begin and we’ll start to roll out sometime in the early part of next calendar year.
We won’t actually start to see reductions in costs until we get further into the rollout process.
That’s the schedule of numbers that we put up back in December at the Investor Day meeting which we’ll update for you this December at the same time.
So while we’ve outlined all the costs and the way we’ve been doing that is incremental net of benefits.
You really don’t start seeing significant benefits until fiscal 2013 and in that year our current estimates again will be updated in December but what we showed you last December was the benefits would offset the costs in 2013.
So it’d be about break even in that year and then thereafter of course we’d see more benefits than costs.
So we’ll watch for that update on the schedule.
And then on the inflation what do think is a comfortable level of inflation to pass through where you can get it through and it doesn’t kind of shocks the system and you don’t have problems passing through margin there? I’ll let Chris start with that one Mark and… What we’ve always talked about is small amounts in inflation are great for us one to maybe even three points of inflation.
We can handle that and our customers can handle that.
When you start spiking above that it causes some problems.
We typically believe we can always manage those increases effectively but maybe they may take more time to pass through the system.
What we’re commenting about this quarter is three categories.
Whereas Bill said we saw inflation combined in those three categories of close to 10% and that’s more than we can pass through in any timely manner.
So one two three we can handle that our customers handle that.
When you start spiking across the board or in certain categories it gets more difficult and these particular categories are meaningful (inaudible) especially are fairly high margin categories.
The other point I think which I am sure most of you on this call understand is this challenge is not unique to our industry and certainly not to us there’s a lot of companies that are dealing with this growing inflation issue and the product mix right now.
So we need to stay close to our customers and for that matter our suppliers and make good decisions and I believe you’ll see that we’ll do that.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Mark.
And we’ll take our next question from Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Hi guys this is Jeff Hans actually on behalf of Greg.
Following up on the strategic pricing initiatives that you guys have rolled out and as it relates to the overall environment what are you seeing from your competitors I guess kind of following those initiatives in those specific markets and I guess just overall I mean is the environment still pretty competitive versus where it’s been the last few quarters? I’d say the competitive environment is just I think it’s comparable to where it’s been people are very still very acutely sensitized to case growth and volume growth and getting people into restaurants and their operations that type of things.
So I don’t think there’s been a lot of change there.
It will be hard for us to gauge any competitive reaction to this.
What I would just say again is that we’re seeing some good results on our end.
So that’s coming from some place and we are just pleased with what we are seeing and the only point we are trying to make today is it did impact our margin and probably will here for a couple more quarters anyway but we think it’s an appropriate opportunity for us to take advantage of.
Just one last one I guess in terms of the trend in case volume growth into October and maybe early November did that kind of continue at the rate you saw in your fiscal 1Q and also kind of the rate of inflation I guess in October-November as well that accelerated or just stayed constant? We don’t typically a lot of guidance or updates in terms of the quarter but I think I would say this to you; there has been I think favorable stand in the marketplace we tried to signal that in our comments earlier this morning.
We’re encouraged with the volume growth that we’re seeing right now and at the same time what we’re reading what we feel on our side of the business I don’t think the inflation is going to abate any time soon.
Thanks so much.
Yes.
And we’ll take our next question from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Hi Andy.
I guess just a question popped in my head as you answered last question.
What is prompting price competition in an improving environment it seems counter intuitive in most industries and certainly how food service distribution as I know that has historically structured the industries as a lot they got better price competition eased seems counterintuitive? While I’ll take a shot at this if I don’t get it Andy come back to me.
We need to put this in some type of context this industry has always been highly competitive there is a lot of competitors out there there is lot of different people with different business models and different agenda there is always competition.
I think maybe to your point we’re in a inflection point now and the cycle I was trying to describe earlier is if you look at it over three year period I am no food services story but I don’t know that we’ve ever had a three year period like this where we had two years of lot of inflation and put lot of pressure on our customers then you have a year of deflation.
Now we’re finally starting to see some case growth and we think the industry has shown a little good signs of recovery but there’s still a lot of sensitivity out there at the operator side and the distributor side in terms of growth and how we continue to based upon our respective businesses.
So this favorable turn reminds us let’s be clear we’re talking about may be 2% or 3% growth in our line of business.
We’re not talking 7% or 8% real growth.
So I think it’s still very very competitive out there and I think people’s memories are a long right now and everyone is doing everything that he can to not just improve their business but to be prepared for any surprises that come down right here over the next six months to 12 months.
So I think it’s more just a weighted impact of what we’ve been through the last two three years.
I am going to jump in and just have one thing.
I think we’ve mentioned it but there it’s mentioning it again.
Last year at this time we were reporting deflation of I think 3.4% in our number.
We went from a negative 3.4% to positive 3.3% in fairly short year of time and that we’d saw that volatility causes a lot of uncomfortable out there in the market.
So we’re going that it’s.
A few point we have an opportunity managers better as I said and we’re committed to doing that.
Let me ask you specifically on this DMA this consortium of regional.
If they just want to I think the McCormick &amp; Schmick contract from you guys was that un-priced and if so what I am trying to figure out is how deep is this price competition and is that what you would consider just kind of normal give and take and there is plenty of stuff you want or is the capacity utilization that some of the distributor might be at it’s own inflection point where the marginal cost are de minimis as well be it kind of low end contracts I’m just trying to understand a little more whether market dynamics are the way they are? Yes.
I think the only thing I’m going to comment on specifically as it relates to McCormick &amp; Schmick we’re disappointed we lost the business it was good business for us.
In terms of what triggered that decision I’m not exactly sure of probably all the above.
With that said we’re encouraged with what we’re doing right now in the contract side both in SYGMA and on the multi unit sales portion of our Broadline business here Larry Pulliam and Kent Humphries and their team.
We’ve got a lot of momentum there we’ve made some organization moves and we’re much more focused on segments and that type of thing.
We’ll talk more about it in December.
We never wanted this business that’s something we’re working very hard on throughout our company to minimize those situations.
But I can tell you we’re bringing on business as well and we feel very good about the direction in that area.
And the last thing we aren’t using pricing to win business and share is it more getting actually new customers or is it more expanding into new lines with existing customers and kind of getting to sometimes in this industry if you win customers and then margins kind of normalize? It’s a little bit of both.
I don’t know that I can break that down for you.
Certainly the most profitable sale we can make is in incremental sale with an existing customer.
So I think there is plenty of opportunity there it’s also an opportunity to put our best foot forward with prospects.
I think it’s both.
The last thing as I must missed this on the SAP; could you give us the impact the earnings impact? We didn’t comment about it because it was not a material change quarter-over-quarter and our guidance has not changed from the 10-K.
Okay thank you.
Thank you Andrew.
And we’ll take our next question from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Great thank you.
Actually it’s just a follow-up on my previous question.
Over the last couple of years your case volume has significantly exceeded that of restaurant traffic as I understand it is reported by the chains and so the question is where has your sales growth come from has it come from sales to existing accounts or as you just mentioned lower margin sales to new accounts what do you anticipate that mix in general going forward and do you have a good sense for your existing accounts how your share has changed over the past couple of years and is there like a medium term target we could possible think about? Is that it? Yes it’s really one question.
John it’s similar to Andy’s I mean I think it’s I’m going to need you come back I think but essentially it’s coming from both.
I mean we certainly want to participate in the growth of our existing customers we are everyday out there trying to improve our share of wallet with those folks and we do believe we’ve been able to do that.
Now that’s hard to quantify and hard to sometime say with a straight face when the industry has been in decline for a year to two years.
But we certainly think that we’ve taken improved our share of wallet and taken share for that matter in all segments.
So I think what’s helped us a little bit in the overall numbers relative to the restaurant numbers is about 30% of our business or a little bit more than that 35% I guess is non-restaurant business.
So we continue to do well in the institutional side of things and that’s certainly been a buffer for us through these difficult times.
But our approach and our model hasn’t changed.
We want to grow with our current customers.
We want to help them grow but as we’ve talked before and we’ll talk in more in December there is plenty of opportunity for us both on the street side as well as the contract side of this business to bring on new business.
The last piece of this and the part that we continue to focus on even more is to protect the business that we have and ensure those customers have been very well to us over the years.
Okay understood thanks for the color.
And we’ll take our next question from Bob Summers with Susquehanna.
Hey good morning.
I’m just trying to get my arms around the variable labor component of the model a little bit and understand and I appreciate this is a big picture look but why an $84 million increase in gross profit dollars drives about a $40 million increase in salaries and related items so I guess on the surface that seems a rather aggressive path? Well I’ll start but I think Chris got some more specifics on this still but essentially what we try to explain is just in general you’ve got some incentive increases there at the management side.
Bob we here just talked about productivity improvements we’re pleased and we continue to be pleased with what we’re seeing on the operational side of the business as well as on the admin side now.
But one thing we have done and we talked about this and we’ll continue to do is we have more aggressively invested in our sales force here over the last six months or so and those numbers are beginning to populate themselves both in terms of the numbers of MAs on the street as well as trainee.
So that does translate into higher commissions with the sales growth and into higher fixed investment on the selling payroll side as we try to get back on track in terms of our headcount in sales.
Without being real specific here I am just trying to bifurcate that for you in terms of we’re pleased with what we’re seeing operationally on the admin side in terms of productivity but we are investing in sales folks and have been over the three to six months.
Chris do you wanted to? I think you actually have the numbers I mean obviously we started with a gross margin number that was lower than we would have liked and then the payout came out of that lower number.
It comes back to leverage and you’re specifically focusing on the labor side of the equation I think that’s the answer.
And then second can you just talk a little bit about Sysco brand sales? If I am looking at this table that you have in the back properly did the penetration rate go down? Yes that’s a trend that we’ve seen now for the better part of two years.
So our brand sales are off and as we’ve been talking we’re concerned about that to a point.
Obviously you need to sell customers what it is that they need and they want but we do have some opportunities there and internally we are doing a lot of work in that area and I think you’ll see some progress there but it takes a while to move the needle on that but we are very focused on that.
But again we need to approach that in a way that works for the customer base and that’s the balancing act that we’re dealing with at this point.
Right.
Agreed but if I were to think of is there intending gross margin drag associated with that change I’m just trying to think through another component of the gross margin? There can be but it tends to get woven into the other factors the other two factors I was talking about.
So I can’t tell you that I can call it out specifically but certainly over time I think it’s clear that when we are able to sell Sysco branded items that that does translate to more leverage on the earnings line.
Okay great thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim.
Bill so couple of things.
If you think about managing the inflation part better is that just kind of a willingness to pass through more and more quickly or is it something different in terms of how you buy source get product into the warehouse which are the two or is it all of those.
Look I know some little bit like a buffer it’s a little at the latter and a lot of the former I think so.
There is always opportunities as we work with our suppliers to make sure that we’re controlling our cost and we do a good job with that and we certainly worked very hard on that.
The flip side of this is I think we are signaling to you in terms of where we’re at and what we need to do is really more about focus I think.
We’ve got the best people in the industry out there we’ve got great presence we’ve got 8 000 sales people they’ve great GSMs working with them.
So it’s essentially what I was talking about earlier which is looking at each customer each territory each operating company and just making good decisions and striking the right balance for in terms of what the customers keeping new jar and what we need and how that translates into moving boxes versus price versus cost efficiency.
So I’m going to just leave that focus internally where we think we can do better than what we have and expect that we will over time.
Have you seen as the inflation dampened yet particularly where we’ve had the 10% inflation or you haven’t seen that yet? No I can’t say that we have seen that we’re seeing pretty good growth in some of those categories.
On the selective price investments so you’ve got double digit case volume improvement.
Does that exceed the amount of price reduction or similar to it or how does that compare? You need more than just double digit to make that working in the short-term.
So what you heard me say John was that I think there is opportunities out there for us but it may take more than a year to get the full payback on that type of initiative.
So it sounds like the investment is in excess of the double digit case volume and you’re hoping to mature into whatever the price investment was? Let me try to be clear here.
What I’m saying is we see opportunities in these particular categories we’re making some investment in it.
We’re rolling it out in different parts of the country at different time.
There is somewhat of a cascading effect here and it’s not a six month payback that’s what I’m trying to say.
Do you expect to get a lift where you’re making those price reductions get a lift not just in those categories but strategically important in terms of lifting the customers total purchases with you or you haven’t really built that into… Excellent point and that’s all part of it.
That’s why we used the word strategic here which is some of that opportunity is to solidify relationships with customers and grow not just on those items but within that category and ideally cost categories.
So that’s exactly what we’re trying to do here.
Final question.
The three cycles you’ve done on the rolling out the enterprise and package what have you learnt is there anything that jumps out negatively or positively that might have been different than you thought? We’ve learnt; its lot of hard work.
We got people working lot of hours down here and there is lot of complexity a lot of detail to it and we are staying the course we’re doing everything we can to minimize the surprises once we go to the first part out here.
All right thanks.
(Operator instructions) And we’ll take our next question from Bob Cummins with Wellington Shields.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
I wonder if you could give us a broad overview on the state of the restaurant industry in general now are we in an early stage of recovery are the operator still complaining is the business still down.
Where are we going are we in up trended as yet? There is a part of me that wants to say yes.
Certainly the signs we’ve seen since late summer Bob are encouraging.
Some reports are coming out and data both in terms of what the restaurants are seeing in terms of their volume and getting folks into their businesses as well as the sentiment we’re seeing the psychology pick up a little bit and the optimism pick up ever so slightly but everything helps here.
I think we are beginning to see some things that we’ll hopefully lead to more positive growth for the industry.
With that said I think what we’re also continuing to see is the strongest operators are doing the best as it is in our situation and the distribution side.
It’s definitely better than it was a year ago and we believe it’s certainly better than it was maybe six months ago.
It’s still somewhat tenuous but if you are good operator out there today I think overall you’re starting to see some good signs.
Great that’s very helpful.
With that being our last question that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Sysco Reports Second Quarter Fiscal 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Neil Russell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jennifer and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
On today's call you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made on the course of this presentation that states the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ in a material manner from those in the forward-looking statement is contained in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to risk factors contained in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 3 2010 and in the company's press release issued earlier this morning.
Also all comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
With that out of the way I'll turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil and good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported second quarter sales of $9.4 billion operating income of $437 million and EPS of $0.44 per share.
Sales grew 5.8% over the prior year while operating income decreased 5.5% and EPS was $0.01 lower than last year's second quarter.
Volume growth was softer than what we experienced in the previous two quarters and expense pressure increased in our selling and delivery areas.
However the primary factor in our producing lower earnings compared to the prior year was the decline in gross margins of just over 0.5%.
For the second consecutive quarter we experienced double-digit rates of product cost increases in three categories: Meat Seafood and Dairy that comprised 1/3 of our total sales dollar mix.
These are key product categories for many of our customers and absorbing steep and rapid price increases is difficult for them especially at this early stage of what we all hope is a sustainable if somewhat uneven economic recovery.
While we actually produce real volume growth in these categories we are unable to increase our case growth enough to offset the fact that our product cost in these categories grew at a faster rate than our selling prices.
While not impacting our earnings as significantly as inflation pressures the strategic pricing initiatives we discussed last quarter also contributed to gross margin erosion in the second quarter.
We are however encouraged by the double digit year-over-year volume growth we are experiencing with the items included in these programs and we remain confident that the long-term benefits of these initiatives will meet our expectations for profitable market share growth.
In assessing our performance for the quarter and for that matter the first half of our fiscal year we clearly struggled to achieve some of our key business objectives.
Market conditions definitely contributed to our struggles.
However there is no doubt that we have opportunities to improve the execution of our business plan as we move into the second half of our fiscal year.
Such improvement is a top priority for me and our entire leadership team.
Looking forward I'm highly confident that Sysco is well positioned to grow our business profitably and at a faster rate than our $210 billion market gross over the longer term.
We do believe that we are in the early stages of an economic recovery based upon our trends throughout calendar year 2010.
However as we saw on the second quarter that recovery and to some extent our financial results may be somewhat choppy due to the economic challenges that consumers continue to face.
Our operating cash flow remains strong and our strategy which we presented in detail at our Investor Meeting in early December is sound.
As you may recall our strategy is customer centric in nature with the strong emphasis on operational excellence.
Our associates throughout Sysco continue to provide dedicated support and excellent service to our customers.
Our business review process is more targeted than ever and the quality of these reviews improves each year.
While fuel cost increases in the impact of nearly 5% inflation in our overall product portfolio created pressure on delivery and selling expenses we did experience productivity improvements in our warehouse operations and administrative support functions in the second quarter.
We're also encouraged by the current level of quality acquisition opportunities in the marketplace.
In addition we recently welcomed Paul Moskowitz to Sysco in the capacity of Senior Vice President Human Resources.
We're excited to have Paul join our team and look forward to his contributions and leadership as we further develop our human capital capabilities.
Two key goals reflected in our strategy are to grow sales faster than our market gross and grow earnings faster than sales over the long term.
Successfully implementing our multiyear Business Transformation initiative is critical to achieving those goals.
We are currently well into the testing phase of our work and are targeting implementation in a pilot site prior to the end of the fiscal year.
Before turning today's call over to Chris I would like to emphasize that we are committed to striking the appropriate balance between achieving both our near-term financial goals and investing in our business in a manner that will allow Sysco to realize its full potential over the long term.
While some of the unfavorable market conditions and operational challenges I have discussed this morning will likely remain with us for the next few months we expect the economy to continue to gradually improve.
Our clear focus as a management team over the balance of the fiscal year is to both support our customers with their operational challenges and improve the execution of our business plan.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he could provide additional details on our financial results for the second quarter.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
For the second quarter sales were $9.4 billion or an increase of 5.8% compared to the prior year driven mainly by the impact of food cost inflation which we estimate to be 4.5% for the period.
In addition acquisitions within the last 12 months increased sales by 0.6% and changes in the foreign exchange rates increased sales by 0.4%.
During the quarter our SYGMA division grew sales more than 13% and Broadline sales increased approximately 5%.
Sales in the quarter were somewhat impacted by a holiday mismatch that's worth taking a minute to explain.
This year's second quarter included two holidays which are typically lower sales volume days Christmas and New Year's while last year's second quarter included only one of these holidays.
At each quarter it had the same number of holidays in other words that they were comparable.
We estimate that sales would have been approximately 80 basis points or $630 million higher year-over-year.
Operating income decreased $25 million or 5.5% to $437 million during the second quarter driven by a decline in gross margin as a percent of sales and an increase in operating expenses.
While gross margin increased 2.8% or $47 million during the quarter gross margin as a percentage of sales declined 55 basis points year-over-year to 18.6%.
Similar to last quarter pressure from high inflation strategic pricing initiatives and changes in segment mix continue to be the main factors impacting gross margin performance.
We estimate that about 10 points of the margin decline related to a change in segment mix as is similar to the decline we experienced last quarter.
As I mentioned earlier SYGMA once again grew sales at double-digit rates during the quarter and since SYGMA operates a lower margin business this mix shift unfavorably impacted total margins.
As we discussed last quarter we do not view this as a negative outcome.
We see a great deal of opportunity on the contract side of the business both in the Broadline and SYGMA segments.
Our aim is to grow both our street and contract sales over time.
The strategic pricing initiatives we discussed last quarter also continue to pressure margins with the magnitude of the impact estimated to be about 15 basis points or slightly lower than the impact we experienced in the first quarter.
As a reminder these initiatives were designed to drive volume increases in targeted categories.
The positive trends we began to see last quarter from these initiatives had continued in the second quarter.
As Bill mentioned we are experiencing double-digit volume increases in markets where the strategic pricing programs have been effectively implemented.
We believe that this initiative while admittedly putting near-term pressure on our margins will create long-term benefits for us in terms of higher volume and increased market share.
The results we're seeing in the early markets demonstrate that we're on the right path.
The last and largest factor impacting gross margin performance this quarter was inflation.
Inflation is measured by the estimated change in Sysco's product cost was 4.5% during the second quarter even higher than the 3.3% reported during the first quarter this year and a significant swing from the 3.5% deflation reported last year.
As Bill mentioned Dairy Meat and Seafood were again the categories that saw extreme levels of inflation with each being in the 11% to 12% range during the quarter.
We estimate the impact of inflation represented approximately 30 basis points of the decline in gross margin as a percent of sales.
While gross margin as a percent of sales was down on a year-over-year basis during the second quarter it's worth noting that total gross margin dollars as well as the gross margin we generate on a per case basis were up.
Turning to operating expenses.
We saw an increase during the quarter of 5.9% or $72 million.
The increase was due to three main drivers: First as we have discussed previously pension expense increased by $15 million year-over-year primarily due to a decrease in the discount rates used to determine pension expense which was in turn driven by the decline in long-term interest rates.
Second salaries and related expense was higher by $13 million due to increases in sales compensation and other payroll costs.
Total headcount was down slightly compared to the prior year.
Third fuel expense increased $10 million over the prior year.
Net earnings for the second quarter were $258 million declining $10 million or 3.8% compared to the prior year.
Earnings per share declined 2.2% to $0.44 which included a $0.02 benefit from COLI.
In the prior-year period earnings per share were $0.45 and included a $0.01 benefit from COLI.
Turning to cash flow.
In the first half of the fiscal year we generated $283 million in operating cash flow compared to $146 million in the prior year period due mainly to lower IRS payments this year partially offset by a decline in working capital.
Operating cash flow during the first half of this fiscal year was impacted by several factors: First during the first half of the fiscal year we paid $106 million in IRS settlement payments.
We also expect to pay $53 million in each of the third and fourth fiscal quarters of this fiscal year for a total of $212 million during the year.
In fiscal 2012 we'll pay the final $212 million in scheduled payments.
Second we traditionally build inventories towards the end of the second quarter for a pickup in Educational business after the first of the year.
Additionally we typically deliver less inventory during the final weeks of the quarter as sales are often lower during the holiday period.
Due to the timing of the end of the quarter this year versus last year the payables related to that inventory build were paid prior to the end of the quarter.
As a result of these factors we saw an increase in inventories and a decline in accounts payable during the period.
Third accrued expenses declined due mainly to the payment of incentive compensation in the first quarter related to fiscal 2010's performance.
Capital expenditures totaled $174 million for the quarter and $317 million for the first half mainly related to facility expansion and fleet replacements and investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project.
In addition we closed two small acquisitions during the quarter.
As Bill mentioned we are encouraged by the current level of quality acquisition opportunities we are seeing in the marketplace.
In closing while we are making progress towards some important initiatives this was without a doubt a very difficult quarter for Sysco.
The management team is focused on improved execution and we are committed to our long term goal of leveraging our sales growth.
We are making investments in our business that we strongly believe will generate long-term benefits to our business and our shareholders.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Meridith Adler with Barclays Capital.
This is Sean Kras for Meridith.
Can you comment on maybe the trends toward change taking share from independent customers which can be less powerful business for you guys? And I guess the company can offset the margin pressure from the mix shift over time? As far as change taking share from independents yes that's been a slow but steady trend really since I've been in the business which is over 20 years.
So I think that continues.
It's not a rapid change but it certainly continues to be the case.
I think if you look at some of the industry data you'll see in terms of restaurant closings most of those are on the independent side you have a net basis.
With that said I just think it's always important to point out that there are a lot of independent restaurants out there and certainly we have tremendous relationships with many of them.
And when you have great operations or if you're a great operator whether you are on our side of the business or whether you're on the restaurant side let's say you're going to do well.
So the better operators are continuing to do well both on the distribution side and on the operator side and we would expect that to continue.
But there currently has been a gradual shift from independent to chain.
But I wouldn't say it's picking up steam or anything like that.
But just maybe how the company kind of offsets some of that pressure over time I guess the margin pressure implied by that? Yes well that certainly plays right to a lot of what we talked about up in New York back in December which is that phenomena as I mentioned has been going on for a while.
For a couple of decades we had great demographic tailwinds in this business and the industry growth had slowed here in the late 90s and most of the new millennium and I think we're all aware of the environment in the last couple of three years.
So essentially our strategy is just two-fold: one is to continue to work as closely as we can with the customers that value a partnership with Sysco become more and more relevant to their success and at the same time continue to take cost out of our system both in the short term through a lot of key operational initiatives that we talked about in the past in terms of managing our miles and looking at our engineered standards in the warehouse and all that type of thing.
But even beyond that over the last couple of years we've committed ourselves to a transformational project here which we believe will position us well to continue to take shares for the years ahead but also allows us to take some additional costs out of our system.
And our next question will come from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Partners.
LLC</strong> If you look at that perishable inflation do you that it ultimately get passed through? And I would imagine we're getting to a point it's been out there for a while where it could get passed through soon or is that just something that you're going to have to eat a chunk of that given the macro? Or do you think it does get passed through eventually? Well I think eventually allowed to get passed through John.
We're two two and a half year highs you've got a lot of these commodities that I'm sure you follow regularly as well.
So as I mentioned in my comments these boxes -- these are expensive boxes in these particular categories especially in the Meat and Seafood areas so they're very significant part of the spend budget for our customers.
And so it's difficult for them to absorb price increases in the short term and as a result we've struggled to pass it along in the right way.
So I expect that over time generally and gradually we'll be able to do that but I think it will take a lot longer.
LLC</strong> Do you think you're a price leader? Meaning -- I sort of look at your competitive position versus everybody else and if you're hurting everybody else has to be hurting a heck of a lot more.
Where you could be in a position to push some of this through and others would follow or is that a great concern that maybe others don't follow and you end up losing share? I think you have to kind of look at it in context over the years.
I think how we position ourselves still continues to be the case.
We want to be competitive.
We think if you look at our overall offering to our customers we feel we're competitively priced and the survey work that we get back from the customers that do a fair amount of business through Sysco they see us being competitive.
I don't know that I would characterize ourselves as a price leader per se.
But with that said John in the environment that we've been in as we’ve kind of crossed over into an interesting time now where there's growth in the marketplace but it's modest growth.
The psychology of the market place is probably as good as it's been in some time.
But everything feels a little tenuous.
So it's still very competitive out there.
I think the one thing you're seeing is we're trying to strike the right balance between obviously growing our earnings but making sure that we hold our position with our customers and find a way to grow share where that make sense.
Case-by-case maybe a little bit more on the aggressive side here over the last six to nine months.
LLC</strong> And if I look at the 1/3 so the other 2/3 it looked like inflation there is 2% or less.
Are you having any trouble passing that through or that's going through pretty much as you get it? I mean you're right.
I think it's pretty moderate in the other categories.
Other than  the -- I'd say in the core Grocery category let me focus on that which is a good percentage of what we sell it's modest and we've been able to pass out a lot.
I think we have opportunities to grow our volumes on those categories and that's something I think that when I talk about us being more and more focused on executing our business plan I think there's opportunity there.
LLC</strong> One final thing on the -- you've taken pricing on those specific items and are getting double-digit volumes is that following through and you're seeing increases in the drop size or total purchase the baskets that include those items? Or was it not yet generating increased share kind of across somebody's purchasing book? You're talking about the pricing initiative? LLC</strong> Yes.
Tough to answer.
We certainly -- as I said we're seeing the volumes as you point out.
Our drop sizes I can't tell you that they have improved appreciatively but I don't know that it has anything to do with that.
I still think that's it's a low-volume growth it's going to be tough to improve your drop size.
We've done a lot of good work in that area over the last two or three years.
So I think that's -- the whole key to that John is we want to grow those categories in those particular product lines but to your point we want to become more relevant in those areas to our customers.
So I'd say that's more of a medium to long-term goal.
So I think we've seen it in pockets but I can't tell you that's moving the needle at this point.
Next we'll take a question from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
First on the 80 basis points from the holiday swing I gather that means on New Year's Day the restaurants are closed and maybe some of the fast food restaurants are open some.
Just trying to -- could we just put that all in Broadline or should we sort of spread it out pro-ratably between the segments? Or somewhere in the...
It's an estimated calculation and it's across all of our business.
So we just put it across everything.
Do you think it's more in Broadline given that those independent stores are also the most likely to be absolutely be closed or some of the fast food stores are still open at least or am I just trying to make it more fine than you're willing to because it's an estimate? I think you're looking really really hard.
I don't think we would say that.
I think it's more about people being out and about Andy than it is who's open who isn't.
I guess last quarter you're feeling pretty good.
You said it was the best quarter in a couple of years or so or maybe more in case volume.
And as I look at this quarter it seems like a fairly abrupt shift.
I know you're not saying it's completely rolled over but it's rolled a lot.
So what do you -- I guess my question really is do you think that's more something competitively going on where maybe you're being undercut in price or something or is it more the behavior which I think you alluded to in your press release but I just want to hear you talk about it the behavior the restaurant tourists how they're ordering maybe they're being more cautious with supply or maybe it's a trickling down to their customers is the marketplace actually starting to change a little bit in terms of restaurant trips? I think Andy if you go back the last three quarters representative.
I think these are -- I'm thinking I’m in the ballpark here check with Neil you can look it up later but if you look at the fourth quarter our real growth was around 2% 3% in the first quarter 1% this quarter if you adjust for what Chris was talking about there and if you give us that on the holiday phenomenon.
So it's falling off some.
I mean you're talking about gradations of a point.
Comparisons are tougher.
We're now beginning to wrap at least a flat quarter whereas in the first quarter we were going against the down quarter.
Some of it's in the math and some of it is the environment.
And we're out there with 8 000 salespeople every day and with our account execs working with our top customers and all of our customers across the country and trying to strike the right balance between price and growth and supporting their efforts to run their business.
So I think it's more the choppiness that I referred to that you're in a recovery right now that depending on what you pick up and who you read the psychology is better the underlying growth is a little uneven depending on the source.
You have seen a big pick up in traffic but you are seeing bigger tickets when people go in.
The QSR seems to be doing a little bit better.
As you broaden the discussion to some of the articles you see on Retail there's a little bit of a bifurcated recovery going on here with your higher-end consumers spending more than the regular people.
That's a formidable expression there.
So I just think there's a lot of different things going on here.
And while we are we believe in the early stages of recovery it's uneven and I think you're going to see some uneven results.
But all in all I'm still feeling good about certainly our people and the effort and our ability to improve as we go forward.
And so in the press release just to read from it it said inflation I think caused a -- significant food cost inflation negatively impacted our customers' purchasing budgets.
So I understand that for a consumer the price of something goes up a lot they've got to cut back elsewhere.
But I guess for a restaurant operator if the price of meat goes up why would they but less canned goods or something unless demand was down less people are coming to the restaurants.
So I'm just trying to -- or is there some shifting in their buying habits or did they sort of get cautious I'm just trying to understand what that means actually.
So what I was trying to explain there is about a third of what we sell in terms of dollars and for the operator what I was talking about earlier these cases or boxes in these particular areas they're expensive boxes.
When you see 10% and 12% increases in significant cost items in terms of your inventory it does force you to take a hard look at your spend budget in an environment where even if things are picking up you're still extremely cost-conscious.
It's just a general observation I think that the people I think you agree with this are still very very focused on their bottom line and making sure that they're taking as much cost they're managing their cost as well as they can.
So we just have to high cost items their commodities it's very easy to identify what's going on in these marketplaces and so they tend to be highly competitive items.
That did clarify it.
Because I know how much rapid inflation does change behavior until people sort of figure out where it's all going to spread out.
And our next question comes from Ajay Jain with Hapoalim.
Bill I just wanted to follow up on that the earlier question about in terms of whether there's anything specific you're seeing that's causing your customers to buy less than compared to the last couple of quarters? And I wanted to ask you specifically if you're getting the same type of customer response to the strategic price investments as you did earlier in the year? Let me be clear Ajay.
I'm not saying that our customers are buying less.
What I'm saying we believe we had real volume growth and what I'm saying is they're very focused on their spend budget and they're very meticulous in terms of how they do spend their money.
So on average I'm not saying that they're spending less I'm just saying that they're pretty locked in on what they're going to pay and all that type of thing and rightfully so.
As far as the initiatives can you give me that question again? Yes I mean do you think that you're getting the same type of sales lift or customer’s response to the strategic pricing investments as you did when the program was first initiated earlier? Well again these are different programs and there's different parts of the country that we’re rolling these out in.
So I would say in the early stages we're still seeing similar results.
You heard me mention the word execution here a few times so I mean it does come down to how well we roll it.
So it's not constant in every rollout.
But generally we're still seeing good results as you expect Ajay the competition does react to things.
So to some extent we've seen some reaction and we had to deal with that but we're pleased with what we're seeing at this point.
And from looking at Sysco for a while I don't think it's totally unprecedented for you guys to have negative case volume trends when you're dealing with high single-digit inflation.
So I'm just wondering if you can offer any comment on whether the inflationary pressures have gotten any worse in the current quarter and is there a potential that negative case volume trends could be a reality in the near term? Well we hope not.
I mean what we're reading and what we sense is like I've mentioned here a couple of times is actually the psychology in the restaurant community and the operators is as good as it's been here for two or three years.
We certainly hope that that translates into higher purchasing levels over time.
Yes we're not at a negative level right now.
Again we're barely positive if you just look at the map.
Maybe about 1% positive if you adjust for the holiday phenomenon.
So I still think that we'll have a good opportunity to see volume growth through all the second half of the year.
As far as this quarter in particular I think as you know from following us from a long time the month of March is a really important month as far as this quarter both on the top line and the bottom line because of a lot of the seasonality.
So that will drive a lot of results and you haven’t heard us made a lot of excuses so far in this call but I think the bigger issue we're dealing with right now in the short term is weather.
Obviously last week was a very difficult week in a good part of the country including down here Texas believe it or not actually saw in Dallas.
We had some issues in the Southeast early in January.
So we're actually  -- when it's kind of a level playing field we're pleased with the start in January but there are some weather issues out there and the reality is that March is really going to drive the quarter.
I know you've been hiring some more marketing associates and making some adjustments in your headcount.
But it looks like payroll costs were still up in the second quarter but at a lower rate than in Q1.
So can you just talk about the pace of hiring right now based on the market conditions and whether you might be looking to cut back on payroll costs even further over the back half of the year? The payroll costs were up I think we've been pretty candid I think with everyone that if you go back and look at the last couple of years we've taken a lot of headcount out of this company over the last few years.
And so there's some limit on how much of that you can do in an environment where you still expect to grow albeit on a moderate level.
With that said we continue to prune and there's been some modest reductions throughout Sysco late fourth quarter early first quarter.
So we continue to do our job and certainly look at headcount and productivity and all that type of thing.
As far as sales in particular there's some operating companies where they have great opportunity relative to the market or perhaps they cut too far in the sales side and we have invested in those companies a little bit more than say the rate of growth this year necessarily so.
And I would certainly expect as we go into the new year in our planning process that our investment in sales people will be more commensurate with what we expect our growth to be.
Next we'll take a question from Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
This is actually Joe Parkhill in for Mark.
I was just wondering I don't know if you mentioned this already.
But in the categories where you're seeing double-digit inflation are you seeing any volume responses when you are passing some of the pricing through? Can you be a little more specific you mean in terms of growth? So when you're passing through a portion of that double digit inflation are your volumes getting affected by that? Actually if you look at this on a relative basis we're seeing decent volume growth in those particular categories maybe even a little bit better than the other categories.
I think we're out there very aggressive.
These are standard play items.
These are items that typically over the longer term are very important to holding traction with accounts and so yes it's an ebb and a flow and obviously each situation is different.
But generally we've been able to grow the volume.
It's just that the rate of the cost increases is 10% 12%.
And it's hard to -- we're growing the gross profit dollars to your point it's just hard to grow the price point at that level and still make the sale.
So it's a Catch-22 I guess is what I'm trying to say.
I mean it sounds like your volume is doing well where you're making investments in price and then also these categories I mean is there a category out there that's weaker than what you expected? Yes there is but I'm probably not going to get into that Joe.
There's always opportunities.
And then just finally just from a modeling perspective I mean can you help us a little bit on what SG&amp;A will look like in the future? I mean is this something that you're going to grow in line with sales? Or is there some initiatives that you have that could potentially leverage sales in the future? This is Chris I'll jump in.
Obviously you've heard us talk about the ERP implementation and over time we expect that we'll be able to leverage the SG&amp;A line.
That's not something that you should expect from us in the next couple of quarters.
That's only after we roll out the initiative.
I think one of the things you're seeing on the selling compensation line of course is the commission schedule basically pays on sales dollars to a great extent.
And so when you have high inflation you're going to unfortunately be paying more on the commission line and that's part of what's driving those sales costs up right now.
Next we'll take a question from John Ivankoe with JP Morgan.
I remember last year when your sales looked a lot better than the restaurant industry we talked about your non-restaurant accounts which I think are about a third of your business doing a lot better.
If there's some comment on the Institutional business whether we should expect it to grow kind of in line with restaurants over time and just your observations there? And I have a couple of follow ups as well.
Yes John I think you should.
A lot of that business as you know is more on the contracts side than the street but certainly so.
We're seeing good growth in those areas.
We've got great relationships with some of the big players in those areas and we certainly expect to grow those segments at least as fast as the traditional restaurant side of the business.
Just looking at the second quarter relative to the first quarter in terms of the real sales much of the reported restaurant industry actually and I think you're sensitive to this did show some improvement in the second quarter relative to the first quarter.
And I'm sorry if you kind of touched on this a number of ways.
Do you think competition is even more aggressive incrementally? Is there feeling better about their businesses I mean are you noticing an uptick in competition? I don't think I can say that.
I mean it's been pretty acutely competitive out there for the better part of a year and a half two years.
So I just think it hasn't subsided.
I wouldn't want to say that it's stepped up at all but it's...
Sometimes you tend to think when the volumes come back and people start feeling a little bit better that the competitive forces might lessen some.
We're not seeing that.
And the final question if I may regarding some of the things that really hurt you on the gross margin line in the second quarter arguably gotten worse in the third quarter I mean some Dairy certain Meat certain Seafoods are kind of setting new all-time highs.
I mean should we just accept gross margin decline for the back half of 2011 or is there anything that you can do to perhaps with your pricing architecture with your customers to allow you to get back some of that lost margin? Well we're not accepting it.
To the degree that we can mitigate it that'll be the tail of the tape here.
But there are some structural things in the marketplace and just some basic market conditions that we've alluded to.
But certainly half a point of erosion for six months is not how we plan the year and that's not how we plan the second half of the year.
So yes we'll continue to look for improvement on the initiatives that we’ve talked about.
We'll continue to work very closely with both our suppliers and our customers to find the right balance here on how all those pricing works its way through the system.
So I would certainly hope that we've improved I wouldn't expect it to totally dissipate.
John one of things we're watching for and you're starting to read it in the press a little bit is about the restaurant operators' willingness and ability to pass on some price increases to the ultimate consumer.
That's not something that I think they were prepared to do during the very early stages of the recovery.
You're starting to read in the press for some of them at least are thinking about doing that in 2011 and as part of that shift that I think we'd all like to see because that allows the supply chain to start passing through some of the cost increases as well.
[Operator Instructions] And next we'll take a question from Greg Badishkanian with Citi.
Just wondering in the second fiscal quarter how much does weather have an impact on your sales volumes? There were some weather Greg.
I think you saw in some of the restaurant reports in I think the Northeast in particular bore the brunt of it in December.
It's hard to compare whether year-over-year I'm sure we had some weather last year in December.
I'd say it was a minor factor certainly not big enough to call out in terms of the quarterly performance.
But like I alluded to I think so far in January it's been big enough to call out.
Kind of looking out when you do your price initiatives in certain segments what's the competitive reaction to that? Is there like a delayed reaction within a maybe a step-up pricing or do you just gain the volume and over time does something else happen to change that? Well I think anytime a company that's positioned the way Sysco is in the industry does something in a very focused way there's going to be a reaction.
So I think it takes a while probably.
These are done like I mentioned in different parts of the country at different times.
And we're essentially talking under a street type of business.
So I think sometimes it takes a while for the customer I guess in this case more than the competitor to understand what we might be doing or not doing and then respond.
So a short answer is it depends.
But as I mentioned earlier there's always going to be a reaction especially in this type of climate where the case growth is pretty modest.
Maybe you can just give us a few examples of some of those pricing initiatives that you've done and I know you've talked about some of that in the past.
For example just maybe kind of just to make it a little bit more easier to understand? Actually I don't recall talking about it in the past.
We don't find it too often but there's some competitive issues here.
So I think we'll kind of keep it right where we have it.
And that does conclude our question and answer session for today as well as our conference call.
We do thank you for your participation and have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Sysco Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Neil Russell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Rochelle and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco's third quarter 2011 conference call.
On today's call you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made in the course of this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ in a material manner from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to risk factors contained in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 3 2010 and in the company's press release issued earlier this morning.
On the call today we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find the reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures on our Investor Relations website at sysco.com.
Also all comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
With that out of the way I'll turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil and good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported third quarter sales of $9.8 billion operating income of $427 million and EPS of $0.44 per share.
Sales grew more than 9% over the prior year due mainly to higher prices and increased case volume.
Higher prices were driven by an increase in our product costs of just over 5% compared to last year.
Gross margin trends also improved compared to the first half of the year.
Operating expenses increased year-over-year due in large part to a $36 million charge related to the withdrawal of one of our operating companies from a multi-employer pension plan [MEPP] higher fuel prices and higher pension expense.
Earnings per share on a GAAP basis increased nearly 5% compared to last year's third quarter.
However excluding the multi-employer pension charge and a one-time tax benefit that Chris will discuss in a few minutes adjusted EPS increased nearly 10%.
Amidst a slow industry recovery our associates did a very good job supporting our customers while producing record third quarter results for Sysco.
These results reflect both improved execution by our operating companies in a modestly improving market environment.
While the foodservice industry and overall economy continue to recover slowly we and our customers have also been faced with the dual challenges of product inflation and rising fuel costs.
While not yet appearing to a significantly dampened consumer demand these unfavorable economic factors do create ripple effects throughout our business that may continue to create choppiness in our near term results.
With that said I want to emphasize our commitment to successfully executing Sysco's long-term strategy.
The majority of our resources and activities remain centered on optimizing our core business.
Our recent results reflects steady progress on this front.
Specifically we've had success in improving our customer retention and we have also increased contract sales this year in both our Broadline and SYGMA units.
One of the most critical aspects of optimizing our core business is successfully carrying out our Business Transformation Project.
We have made good progress during the last few months and we recently achieved a major milestone by going live at our pilot facility in Arkansas.
Just reaching the point where we were comfortable going live was a huge accomplishment.
However we're even more pleased that the implementation was such a success.
Implementations like this rarely if ever go off without a hitch but the team was ready for the issues that did arise and they worked quickly and effectively to find solutions.
So it's an appropriate time to pause for a moment and acknowledge all those on the team who have been working so diligently and effectively to ensure that this project is a success.
We began this journey 2.5 years ago and an extraordinary amount of work has gone into the project thus far.
While there remains a great deal of work ahead of us I'm very proud of the team's efforts and appreciative of their dedication.
Now that the pilot side is live our plan is to take some time and evaluate the new system's performance.
We will reassess our rollout plan in light of everything we learn make necessary adjustments and then move forward with implementing the business transformation initiative at our first wave of operating companies.
In addition to optimizing our core business we're also committed to looking for acquisition opportunities both in and beyond the core.
We're doing this mainly through building a pipeline of high-quality potential domestic acquisitions and also by looking at adjacencies in new geographies.
We continue to make progress in this area and Chris will update you on our recent transactions in a few moments.
We believe that all of these efforts strengthen our strong commitment to supporting the successful growth of our customers.
The investments we are making in our business are meaningful both in terms of their inherent financial commitment as well as the benefits we expect them to produce.
As the industry continues to recover I am confident that we are taking the right steps to secure a strong future for Sysco.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the third quarter.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
For the third quarter sales were $9.8 billion or an increase of 9.1% compared to the prior year driven mainly by increased prices and case volume.
Impacting prices was food cost and inflation.
We estimate it to be 5.1% for the period.
In addition acquisitions within the last 12 months increased sales by 0.6% and changes in the foreign exchange rates increased sales by 0.6%.
We mentioned the last quarter a holiday shift that impacted the second and third quarters.
As a brief reminder last year's third quarter included the New Year holiday which is one of our low-volume holidays while this year's third quarter did not.
We estimate that our reported increase in sales year-over-year in the third quarter would've been about 70 basis points lower on a comparable holiday-adjusted basis.
Taking the holiday shift into consideration we estimate real sales growth which is sales growth adjusted for the impact of inflation acquisitions and foreign exchange rates to have been 2.1% in the third quarter and is an improvement over the second quarter.
Gross margin increased 7.6% or $127 million during the quarter while gross margin as a percentage of sales declined 27 basis points year-over-year to 18.6%.
Strategic pricing initiatives continue to impact margins but to a lesser extent than in previous quarters with the magnitude of the impact estimated to be about 10 basis points this quarter down from 15 basis points last quarter.
So if you've been following this issue the impact has declined each quarter as benefits from the program continued to build.
We believe this confirms our view that these strategic pricing initiatives will increase our market share and grow our gross profit dollars over the long term.
The remainder of the impact to gross margin was largely driven by high inflation although to a lesser extent than we've seen over the last 2 quarters because of better execution.
As I just mentioned inflation as measured by the estimated change in Sysco's product costs was 5.1% during the third quarter which was an increase over the 4.5% reported during the second quarter of this year and a significant upswing from the 0.8% deflation reported last year.
The inflation we experienced this quarter was mainly driven by increases in the Meat Seafood and Canned &amp; Dry categories.
While we experienced increases in many of our other product categories these 3 represent about 40% of our sales and therefore had a larger impact due to the volume of business in those categories.
While you've heard us talk about Meat inflation for some time now the most significant change we saw in category inflation this quarter was driven by the severe cold weather that impacted crops in major growing regions such as Florida and Mexico.
While gross margin as a percent of sales was down year-over-year in the third quarter once again gross margin dollars and gross margin on a per-case basis increased.
The latter is a clear indication that we are passing through inflation.
Additionally gross margin dollars per stop which is generally speaking one of the most significant metrics we use to manage the business also increased.
The trend for this metric has been steadily improving for us over the last 5 quarters.
Also of note Broadline sales accelerated in the third quarter and so we didn't have a segment mix impact to gross margin as we did in the first half of the year.
Before we leave the subject of gross margins I wanted to discuss fuel costs for a moment.
Fuel costs have consistently increased throughout this fiscal year and in the third quarter our average fuel price was up nearly 30% year-over-year.
In response to this dramatic and sustained increase in fuel cost we made the decision in March to implement a fuel surcharge in the street side of our business.
The vast majority of our contract sales already have fuel surcharges built in.
As a reminder fuel surcharges are recorded in sales and therefore impact gross margin.
Due to the timing of adding the surcharge the impact was not significant during the third quarter but we expect surcharges to offset a substantial portion of our projected fuel increase in the fourth quarter.
Turning to operating expenses we saw an increase during the quarter of 10.6% or $132 million.
As we mentioned in our press release this morning one of the most significant drivers of the increase was a $36 million charge related to the withdrawal of one of our operating companies from a multi-employer pension plan or MEPP.
Without this charge operating expense would've increased 7.7% and operating income would've increased 7.3% versus the 1.1% decline we reported on a GAAP basis.
For those of you who may not be familiar with the MEPPs they are essentially pooled pension plans that are union-sponsored.
Each plan is funded by more than one employer and each employer funds the plan according to its Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If one of the employers in the plan is unable to meet its obligations the others may be required to make up the difference.
This is the second time this fiscal year that we've been able to withdraw from an MEPP.
From a strategic perspective withdrawal from these plans reduces the long term financial risk that is inherent in multi-employer arrangements.
At the same time we can continue to provide competitive benefits by moving the impacted employees into our corporate-sponsored pension plan.
Other drivers of the increase in operating expense included higher payroll pension and fuel expense.
Payroll costs increased $36 million for the period.
Higher case volume and pay rates drove some of the increases and similar to last quarter increased gross margin drove higher sales compensation.
However total headcount was down about 1% compared to the prior year so we're pleased with the way our operators are managing in this area.
Also similar to the last 2 quarters pension expense increased $15 million.
Lastly fuel expense increased $14 million in the quarter.
We currently anticipate the increase in fuel expense in the fourth quarter to be of a similar magnitude.
Income tax expense during the quarter decreased $9 million or 5.6%.
This equated to a tax rate of 36.3% or 2.4 percentage points lower than last year's rate.
During the quarter we developed plans that will allow us to utilize more of our deferred tax assets resulting in a benefit to us this quarter of about $10 million.
Net earnings for the third quarter were $258 million increasing $11 million or 4.4% compared to the prior year.
Earnings per share increased 4.8% to $0.44 including a $0.04 negative impact related to the multi-employer pension charge and a $0.02 tax benefit related to the recognition of deferred tax assets both of which I mentioned previously.
Excluding the impact of these 2 items the MEPP charge and the tax benefit adjusted EPS would've increased 9.5% which we are relatively pleased with.
Turning to our business transformation plan for a moment Bill noted the major milestone we achieved recently of going live at our pilot facility in Arkansas.
Let me take a moment to give you an update on this strategically important project from a financial perspective.
We put together the budget for this project roughly 3 years ago based on our best estimates of costs benefits and scheduling at that time.
As we move through the various phases of the project we're finding as you might imagine that some of our estimates and assumptions were pretty good and others we've had to revise along the way.
For example as we mentioned previously the testing phase of the project that we just completed was extended to incorporate a fourth round of testing.
This was the right decision because we believe the additional testing had a lot to do with our success in Arkansas.
We had built a measure of contingency into our $900 million project budget to handle just these types of situation.
Thus far we have consistently reported that we're on schedule and on budget and that's generally still the case.
However we're going to continue to emphasize that this is unlikely to be the first IT project in history to finish precisely on schedule and on budget.
We are currently evaluating everything we've learned through the rollout in Arkansas and what changes if any we need to make to our overall development plan.
We will provide you an update of our fiscal 2012 expectations in August when we speak to you about fourth quarter results and we'll plan to update you on our 5-year outlook as we have done in the last 2 years at Investor Day in December.
Coming back to the near term I want to update our estimates of the EPS impact of the project on this year's numbers.
We now expect the impact to EPS for fiscal 2011 will be in the range of $0.02 to $0.04 per share compared to our previous range of $0.06 to $0.09.
As a reminder this impact is the incremental cost net of the benefits from the project.
Reduction in our estimate is due mainly to our ability to capitalize more project cost.
Our overall cash expenditures were generally as expected but the extended testing period allowed us to capitalize a larger portion of these expenditures.
Turning to cash flow in the first 39 weeks of the fiscal year we generated $666 million in operating cash flow compared to $477 million in the prior year period due mainly to lower IRS payments and pension contributions this year partially offset by a decline in working capital.
Operating cash flow during the first 39 weeks of the fiscal year was impacted by several factors: first we paid $159 million in IRS settlement payments compared to $475 million in the prior year period.
We expect to pay $53 million in the fourth quarter this fiscal year for a total of $212 million during the fiscal 2011.
In fiscal 2012 we'll pay the final $212 million in scheduled payments.
Second we experienced a decline in working capital driven mainly by the increase in sales and case volume during the year.
Third accrued expenses declined due mainly to the payment of incentive compensation in the first quarter related to fiscal 2010.
Lastly cash contributions to our Retirement Plan have been lower in the first 39 weeks by approximately $100 million.
As you may recall we paid our fiscal 2011 contributions early in June of our last fiscal year and as a result we haven't made the quarterly contribution this year that we typically would have.
Capital expenditures totaled $137 million for the quarter and $454 million for the first 39 weeks mainly related to facility expansion and replacement fleet replacements and investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project.
At the beginning of our fiscal year we had expected to spend roughly $700 million to $750 million during fiscal 2011 on CapEx.
However due to timing changes for some of our facility expansions and foldouts we now estimate total spend for the year to come in at around $625 million to $650 million for the year.
As we enter the fourth quarter it is important to remember that last year was a 53-week year for Sysco.
So our fourth quarter this year we'll have 13 weeks versus 14 in the prior year.
As Bill mentioned we remain focused on building a pipeline of quality acquisitions.
We are pleased by the current level of activity we are seeing in the marketplace and we've recently closed or expect to close in a matter of days acquisitions of companies that represent approximately $200 million in annualized sales.
These transactions combined with the Lincoln Poultry transaction we announced in the first quarter mean we have acquired companies this year representing approximately $420 million in annualized sales.
In closing we are encouraged by the results announced this morning.
And while consumer confidence housing and unemployment still have a ways to go before reaching pre-recession levels there are continuing signs that the general economic picture is improving.
Our financial results may continue to be a bit choppy reflecting the uneven nature of this recovery but we believe that the business is improving.
At the same time we continue to make investments in our business that we strongly believe will generate long term benefits to our business and our shareholders.
With that Operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Greg Badishkanian from Citi.
This is Jeff Hans actually on behalf of Greg.
Can you guys talk a little bit about your case volume growth and improvement through the quarter?  I think you've mentioned last quarter that January was hurt a little bit by some bad weather.
So did you see any sequential pickups in Feb [February] and March? And then just curious what type of momentum you're seeing already in April and early May? Jeff it's Bill.
Case volume movement it's really hard to characterize that on a month-to-month basis.
If you go back to the second quarter as reported it was soft compared to the quarter before if you adjust for the holiday week still a little less but not quite as much of a gap.
So I would say this to you the -- we're pleased with the volume.
We did see pretty good consistent growth throughout the quarter.
We saw in some places we haven't seen it in 2 or 3 4  years like Florida which was really encouraging to see.
We saw in most of the country -- we were hurt by weather in January in the Northeast which -- we don't talk a whole lot about weather in the Northeast in the winter time.
But we were actually hurt in the Southeast in Atlanta and that part of the country.
But I'd also have to tell you that with the late Easter this year that probably more than offset or at least equally offset it.
So I think with the call-out that Chris made here on the favorable benefit of not having a holiday week it's pretty much straight up what we're reporting in that 2% range.
And then on one last one I guess inflation on "center of the plate" items.
Are you seeing that inflation subside?  Or have you just been able to pass more of that through to your customers? We saw its subside a little bit in the Dairy area.
It's kind of coming back some but we're not seeing it subside at all in the Beef and Meat area or the Seafood area.
And what we're also seeing now is it's starting to broaden out into other categories.
Produce there were some weather issues there produce is obviously very volatile.
I think Chris mentioned our Grocery Dry Grocery or the Canned &amp; Dry the increase wasn't as much as what we saw in the Meat area but that's a very significant piece of our mix.
So I think this inflation all of the commodities and I think it's working its way through the whole supply chain right now.
You're starting to see it be positive in more areas whereas a couple of quarters ago it was really driven pretty much by 3 areas for us 3 categories.
So you guys basically have been able to pass a little bit more of that through this quarter versus last quarter basically? Yes.
I mean when you hear us talk about execution I mean that's 3 pieces.
I think we're out there every day trying to grow cases in the right way take share pass along what we can and do that in the right way and obviously keep working on our productivity and our cost structure.
So I would say we did a better job clearly in the third quarter in passing it along.
And next we'll move to John Ivankoe with JP Morgan.
A question again on the overall industry.
Many restaurant companies are talking about taking more pricing in fiscal '11 than they give in '10 and I think even at levels we haven't seen for at least half a decade or so.
I mean what are you seeing in terms of not only their receptivity in terms of higher prices but I think more importantly as kind of the industry overall improves are you seeing some of your foodservice competition getting more competitive on price? Or is that something because of cost inflation and fuel that you're seeing even less competitive on price? And obviously what I'm trying to understand is how via strategic price investments were less in the March quarter than the December quarter while you were expanding in case volume.
I mean does that say something specific about your competition? I'll start and let Chris finish maybe on the strategic pricing issues.
I would say John those are 2 different issues.
On the strategic pricing initiatives that those are some areas where we chose to go at some things in an aggressive way where we feel that we have an opportunity to take share and it's going to take a couple of years to get a payback on that.
To the broader question of taking price increases in the industry we're seeing what you're seeing.
In terms of what -- the restaurants are beginning to be more receptive and to pass it along.
This is just my view.
I mean I think that's a combination of 2 things.
One the nature and the level of the inflation is getting higher and higher and is more broad as we just mentioned.
So on the one hand I think we're all at a point where we have to pass it along to some extent.
But I also think it tells you that they're feeling little bit better about their business and some of the surveys we see would confirm this.
So I think as people get more confident that the growth albeit modest that they're seeing in their business is going to be able to sustain itself that does give you the confidence to pass along increases in a way that maybe you wouldn't have been so comfortable doing 6 or 9 months ago.
So I think more broadly there's just a need to pass along because all of our costs are going up.
But I think people are modestly more confident right now.
And Bill in terms of your competition and this is obviously a marginal change question.
I mean are you seeing your competition more or less price-aggressive in this current environment? Again with inflation fuel cost and improving in case volumes I mean are you sensing that they're increasing [indiscernible] the pressure on you or perhaps even decreasing the pressure on you? Obviously it depends on the competitor.
But I would have to tell you that the sense of competition on the price line value item right now it is as intense as it's been.
I don't think it's getting more intense but we've been in a pretty acute level here for the last 1.5 years and we're not feeling it subside at all.
And next we'll move to Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to dig in a little more on the inflation issue.
When you talk about executing a little better is it just that you're more on top of the increases as they're coming through and the marketing associates are better manned to deal with that?  Or characterize what was different in the last couple of quarters versus this quarter on the pass-through of inflation.
Well I think Mark some of it is what I just went through which is the environment that we're in.
So while on the competitive side it remains very intense and very competitive on the customer side I think we are working more effectively with our customers and helping them find ways to pass these increases along in the right manner.
So I think that's part of it.
But lookit the other part of it is just -- we're more pleased with our results in the second quarter and we went back to the drawing board and looked at everything we're doing and we got 80 Broadline Companies out there and SYGMA and a bunch of specialty companies.
So there's no magic buttons we're pushing from here.
But I can assure you that the focus on striking the right balance between case growth and margin management expense control has been heightened and we're encouraged with what we saw this quarter.
So it's a combination of things.
Were you actually getting any pushback from customers saying "Look these increases are too big I just can't take them " or how was that going? I'm sure our marketing associates get that pushback every day.
And that's -- I think you work through it  and you try to make good decisions each day and -- depending on the customer and their particular set of circumstances.
So ultimately our job is to get our customer to understand what it takes for us to be successful.
And in the end we're only successful if they're successful.
So at some point we're trying to paint a picture for them on how they can manage their menu more effectively and pass these increases along to their customer in the right way.
But as we all understand it's not easy.
The biggest difference -- we've managed through inflationary times before as we've discussed in the past.
What make this one different is the environment that we're still coming out of.
And when you hear us talk about choppiness or uneven recovery that's kind of what we're getting at which is it's hard to categorize where we're making improvements or how our customers are dealing with those in a consistent way because it's case-by-case and one month might be a little bit better than next month.
That type of thing.
And lastly on headcount you said you were down 1%.
Are you still working to add back MAs in certain areas for strategic reasons? We're looking to adding MAs relative to what our expectations for growth are over the next 12 18 months.
So yes our MA count is up slightly and we'll continue to try to strike the right balance there.
And next we'll move to Ajay Jain with Hapoalim Securities.
Inc.</strong> I just had a question on ERP.
I think Chris you mentioned that the non-capitalized portion was going to be down relative to what you budgeted before.
Can you just confirm the actual dollar amount that was expensed in Q3? And based on what you're expecting right now can you give the outlook for the fourth quarter? Yes Ajay we actually don't talk about the specific dollar amounts to be expensed.
The guidance that we've given is that and I think it goes back to the 10-K we expect expenses to be about $25 million to $45 million higher for the year and we're not updating that guidance at all.
We expect the cash outlay to be $260 million to $280 million for the year.
And again we're not updating that guidance either.
All we've really said is that our guidance that we gave early in the year of $0.06 to $0.09 we've adjusted down.
And this is incremental impact so it's not the same as cash outlay.
We've adjusted that down to $0.02 to $0.04 and the difference in the entire adjustment was the fact that we were able to capitalize more than we originally thought because testing ran longer than we had originally planned.
Inc.</strong> And then can you also talk a little bit more about the multi-employer pension?  To what degree was this plan that you just exited an isolated issue and is there any potential that you might take another earnings hit if you decide to exit another plan in the next year or so? Yes I hesitate to call it an isolated incident as we obviously have other multi-employer pension plans out there.
Our general strategy is we look at all of these plans one at a time.
Some of them are we'll say in worse shape than others.
They give us some concern.
And this is one that frankly we had some concern about.
We look for opportunities to exit those plans when we get them and this was an opportunity we had and we took it for strategic reasons.
We've got some multi-employer plans that are in good shape and then again we've got some that aren't necessarily as bad as this one but we'd prefer them be in better shape.
I think one of the points to remind folks of and we did put this in our 10-K but it bears reminding the data we get on these multi-employer pension plans is very outdated.
I think the latest information we have on these plans right now is December 31 of 2009.
And so we don't have performance for 2010 or 2011.
And so whether it's well-funded or underfunded is -- you're really looking back a year and a half and making a best guess.
And the charge that we take this year will be trued up for actual performance through the end of this fiscal calendar year.
It's the best guess we have at the time and frankly we're hopeful that their performance has been better during the last 18 months of market.
Inc.</strong> And if I could just ask one final question.
If you look at the comparisons for incentive compensation in the fourth quarter to what degree could that be a material issue in the fourth quarter? Is that a potential headwind? And then also do you expect any anomalies with the tax rate this quarter based on your current expectations? I'll try both of those and Bill may wade in.
On incentive compensation for the third quarter one thing again you'll see in it in the Q when we file it tomorrow -- I don't know that we break this out or not but the $36 million of payroll incentive comp increase about 1/3 of that was an accrual for a corporate bonus incentive.
And frankly it's a catch-up.
We did not have an accrual for the year based upon the first 2 quarters for the first half-year performance.
And so we've effectively put on 3 quarters worth of accrual in one quarter.
So from that basis it was probably a little heavy in Q3.
If it goes up in Q4 frankly it's due to performance.
And I'll say the same thing about the field compensation.
It that number is heavy in the fourth quarter again it's going to be driven by case growth and gross profit growth which is a good thing.
Ajay this is Bill.
I don't usually hope for headwinds but I'd love to have one in the fourth quarter.
But I think we have pretty full accruals last year so I don't think that's going to be a big issue.
As far as the tax rate no we don't have anything on the horizon that would cause me to think that we're going to have anything significant on the tax line.
That can change very fairly quickly.
The thing that we normally are talking about is COLI and again we can't predict what's going to happen with COLI during the course of the quarter.
And next from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Bill I just wanted to get back to Greg's question on how the business trended during the quarter.
I just want -- did you say it got up to a little over 2% and that's sort of where it's at or was there any cadence to it that we should -- that you'd like to tell us about? Yes I think I acknowledged that when you go through all the adjustments that we've verbalized here that you'd be around 2% the way we recharacterize volume growth or real growth I guess.
And the only point I was trying to make is it's very difficult to describe a cadence a month at a time.
I didn't comment on April because we don't do that as you know during the quarter.
But April happens to be a month where we had a late Easter.
That's good but at the same time Mother's Day is falling on a different week.
So it's really hard to stall [ph] on any one quarter.
What I'll remind you and I know you know this is in the third quarter in particular March is a critical month.
So we had a good March and we needed to to have a good quarter.
Any noteworthy changes in your customer segments?  Were the higher-end restaurants starting to do better or continuing to do better? Anything? And the 1% or so sequential pickup in real sales? It's hard for us to kind of tell that from here.
To be honest with you.
We certainly have some perspective but we also look at everything that you look at.
And the best I can ascertain at this point there's some I won't call them conflicting but there's some contradictory data or anecdotal views out there but I think the quick-serve side continues to do well and their traffic appears to be up a little bit.
I'm not really sure what's driving that necessarily but it seems to be good.
I think as you get into casual dining family dining the traffic isn't up that much if at all but as people go out today they seem to be spending more than in the past.
So for the most part those folks are seeing a little bit of an increase.
What's harder to gauge is just the overall industry number because we go to different sources there.
And some people believe right now that the market is still relatively flat.
So in a few months we'll know that a little bit more accurately.
So I'd say the family casual dining is holding its own maybe up a little a little bit based on increased purchases.
And the high end I would say that that's doing better.
And this might be for Chris.
On the fuel the $14 million in this quarter and your expectation we'll see where that goes.
But was any of that recaptured through the contract pricing? I know Bill said you're going -- or you said you're going to institute surcharge against -- for independents.
But is that $14 million I'm not sure I heard it right was any of that we got recaptured due to contract pricing this quarter?  Or is that the amount that wasn't? No I mean we actually note fuel costs separately from fuel surcharges.
Fuel surcharges go through gross margin.
And so what you'll see in the Q tomorrow we'll break that out for you.
But fuel expenses on the cost side was up $14 million.
Fuel surcharges are always on for the contract side of the business.
So there was an offset there.
On the street side of the business that's where I said we put in a fuel surcharge starting in March they had very little impact for this quarter.
But we do expect it to have a good offsetting impact in the fourth quarter to the increase.
And we will be -- I think we do this in our Q tomorrow updating some credits on Q4.
I mean as I've said in my statement we expect fuel cost for the fourth quarter to be up $15 million to $20 million.
We expect the fuel surcharge to be up $10 million to $15 million.
So those will substantially offset.
Just on other income there was a big pickup there.
Could you just tell us what the source was or just...
Yes it was actually 2 transactions.
In the third quarter of fiscal '11 so this third quarter we recognized a gain on the sale of a facility up in Canada that was about $4.5 million.
In the third quarter of last year we recognized a loss of about $3 million on the sale of our Jamestown New York facility.
So the year-over-year lap of that looks pretty big.
Actually one more.
And then also housekeeping COLI was pretty de minimis looks like stock market foreign about the same in both periods isn't that right? Yes we don't talk about COLI unless it has a significant year-over-year impact.
So we didn't talk about COLI.
And next we'll move on to John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC</strong> A couple things.
So Bill it seems very encouraging that price pass-through is picking up and there has been no sign of demand dampening which I think maybe most of us might have expected some of that.
Are you seeing that anywhere?  If you look at categories geographies is there any early sign of demand getting hit a little bit by inflation or no not yet? John I think I'm not going to call of them out but I think there are some geographies and you'd probably guess where they are where the economy is still on a tougher place and maybe some others whether you look at it on an absolute sense or relative to a year ago where you have high unemployment that type of thing -- higher than average obviously it's pretty high in general right now.
So yes there's one or 2 markets that we see where we don't see as much growth as we might see in some other areas.
But generally I would say it's been pretty consistent across the country.
So far as categories no I wouldn't say that I've noticed anything there that's worth getting into.
I think again these things need to be managed.
There's always pushback.
We try to make good decisions with our customers through our MAs and that's our job to manage it.
So these high-inflation categories that's typically where you're going to see the pushback.
It's big increases and often it's on items that cost a lot.
So we're continuing to work through that and like I said earlier when you hear us speak about execution that's just we're -- we feel like we're managing it better.
But lookit there's still work to be done here I can tell you that.
LLC</strong> Does the fact that the volumes are behaving as well as they are give you more confidence to put more pricing through than if -- I would imagine that if volumes were negative so we should see more of that? Yes I think it does.
And I'll give you the same answer I gave in the context of our customers.
It gives you more confidence but we're also at a point where we need to.
And again the key and I've said this couple of times now it's really important.
The key is how we do it.
It's just not necessarily just passing along a price increase.
I mean it's working with the customer on their menu working with them on different items perhaps substitute items.
Work with them on specials.
Those types of things.
All those things that our MAs are trained to do.
Business reviews.
All that type of thing.
So you try to do it in the context of how can we help get through this together and still both of us run our businesses better? LLC</strong> The other thing inventories were up a decent amount year-over-year.
Is there a lot of forward-buying taking place? And do you think that's an opportunity to offset margin going forward? No we don't generally do a lot of forward-buy activity.
I wouldn't say that that's coloring the numbers.
The inventory increase is really driven by the case and overall performance.
And then we did have -- DSOs went slightly the wrong way on us this quarter and so that accounted for a little bit of the inventory as well.
LLC</strong> I mean is forward-buy an opportunity? I mean you got inflation for the first time in a while you're carrying cost is pretty low.
Do you -- is it more you really don't want to take advantage of it or you don't see the opportunity from the vendors? Well I don't think we have any great expertise to begin with in terms of forward-buys.
We do a little bit John in certain commodity areas.
So generally we just philosophically don't believe that that's part of our value package to be honest with you.
So we try to be smart and where there's opportunities we'll take advantage of them.
But our role we see as being a marketer and a distributor and we don't really -- we don't go real big into that area at this point.
Frankly John we don't have -- we'd have to do a lot more work in the whole risk management area I think to take a bigger step in that area.
LLC</strong> Then finally with the Arkansas test what one or 2 things kind of surprised you?  You mentioned issues that you resolved maybe surprised you negatively what one or 2 things surprised you positively as you go forward to a bigger test? Yes I think there's really no negative at this point.
There's delays there's performance issues that type of thing.
So I'd say on the testing side Chris alluded to this we did extend testing and we pushed the go-live date back appropriately.
So because [indiscernible] do more testing.
So I wouldn't call that a negative.
I think I've made the right decision but I -- trying to give you some color on how these things play out.
The thing we're working on right now is what we call performance.
So more consistent response time shorter waits more of the time that type of thing.
We've made great strides -- just getting through the weekend as I mentioned was a huge stride and we've made good strides in the last 3 weeks.
But there's still work to be done on that.
There's some work to be done on the reporting area.
But the bigger issue and I apologize if the people from Arkansas are listening right now the broader issue for us is to take stock of what we're learning through this pilot and understand what that means as we go forward with this first wave.
So we've got to do everything we can to help Arkansas operate their business at a high level but at the same time we're taking a step back and look at different things that we've learned from the processes that we put in place and the feedback we're getting from our MAs and customers.
John I thought I'd weigh in just with my own thoughts.
It's a bit of a shout-out to the teams here but I think one of our surprises was how fairly quickly we were dealing with what I'll call moderate issues instead of really big issues.
After 2.5 years of this journey as Bill described and the massive amount of people that we've had working on this project you build up this expectation just from fear that something horrible is going to wrong and you're going to have to go backwards or you're  going to be able to ship groceries.
And even though we've talked about mitigation strategies every time we've talked about such a big project you don't know how all that's going to work until you flip the switch.
And I would say that we didn't have a problem shipping groceries and the teams did a fabulous job of tackling the issues as they came up.
And as I said fairly quickly we were down to what I'd call moderate and then down to -- I don't want to say anything is a minor problem but in a pilot site frankly I think we expected worse.
The other thing just to note is we've talked a lot about turning on the pilot site in Arkansas.
We also turned on our Sysco business service center here outside of Houston in Cypress Texas which is our frankly our shared service center our back-office function.
So a ton of work is going into preparing that group for the change-over as the operating companies go live.
So again flipping that switch and seeing the success was a very welcome thing.
Yes I think John just to maybe crystallize the thought the way we define success on this thing was we were able to ship groceries on time and accurately on Monday morning.
And so we had some bumps along the way and we're still working through some things.
But that's how we define success and that's why we're calling this a successful launch.
LLC</strong> Just lastly have the MAs there fundamentally changed how they're spending their time? And is it too early for that to increase productivity? Where has that gone? Again it's a pilot site.
So I would say it's a little early on that front.
Right now we're trying to get the MAs through the transition.
Certainly some of them are I'm sure but I would say those are things that we'll look at over the next 90 to 180 days.
Right now we're very focused on the system and all that goes behind the system.
So I'm sure there's some of that that's happening.
Chris' point the SPS is a new environment for them and they're adjusting to that.
But I would expect you or us to be able to see that improvement as we get 3 to 6 months into it.
But that probably is more relevant as we get into the first wave and the subsequent waves.
This is truly a pilot.
We're trying to learn as much as we possibly can before we go forward any further.
Meredith Adler with Barclays Capital will have our next question.
I want to go back to something Chris said about having paid pension early at the end of last year.
Did that change the way pension was expensed or  only a cash impact? It's only a cash impact Meredith.
We still expense it quarterly.
We just sent the cash early frankly to take advantage of what we thought were good market conditions and given the result of our pension investments for the year we're pretty happy we did it.
And then I'm assuming that if you've been able to apply fuel surcharges in this latest quarter then the competitive environment must be allowing you to do that? But others are also taking fuel surcharges.
Is that fair to say? Well we've done this in the past Meredith.
And then we've unwound them on the street as well at the appropriate time.
So we did some surveys if you will or analysis and different competitors are doing different things.
And so essentially this is an example of something we're -- if someone's going to do it consistently around the country it's going to be Sysco and so we did it.
We really didn't think so much about the competitors.
And then I know that you got a question about forward-buy which it doesn't sound like you want to take that risk really.
But often distributors just naturally have inventory profits for when there's inflation in the Dry Grocery category obviously not in perishable because it turns too quickly.
Is them is there some reason to believe that you will be able to realize some inventory profits? We typically have that running through in our variance every quarter to the extent prices are going up of course.
Whether you'll see significant quarter-over-quarter improvement one it's hard to say and 2 I wouldn't expect it.
So yes I don't think you'll see much from us in the way of significant increases from inventory valuation.
I mean our inventory turns on average around every 20 days Meredith so there's not much time for that.
No I guess but some categories are slower than others I would think.
You're right.
There would be in some in the Nonfood categories.
Yes.
But again the average days on hand that we have across all categories including the slowest of categories is not significant enough that we would -- we could roll that much of an improvement around.
And then I have a question about -- you talked about because the testing went on a little bit longer you were able to capitalize more.
Can you give us some sense -- I don't think you want to tell us how much has been capitalized but can you give us some sense of what the depreciation period would be for when you capitalize those things? Yes.
Generally sometimes I've had my team when I do this but I call it the machine.
So when we capitalize stuff we're basically saying we're building the machine and at some at some point we start depreciating the machine.
We did that when we turned on Arkansas effectively and generally that's going to be capitalized over 7 years.
And when does it start being capitalized? I mean when will that 7 -- it's already started presumably.
It has now started yes.
Okay.
And the others' investment for the business transformation process are most of them going to be 7-year depreciation? No it's going to vary.
I'd say on the short side there'll be some things we do that are 3-year investment or a 3-year depreciation period.
And some of the SPS investment which is building plant equipment will be materially longer than that.
And next we'll move Colin Guheen with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> A question on inflation and the real growth dynamics that are going on now.
I guess historically at a 5% inflation level you would expect some demand destruction.
Are the operators out there saying or feeling that they have some pent-up pricing given the deflationary environment and thus we're seeing a stronger pricing power halo maybe coming forward?  Or is that not the way to look at it? Can you give me that one again? I'm not sure I understood the question.
LLC</strong> Yes I mean normally when you're seeing 5% inflation you would think that they have some demand destruction if you look historically I think at the business with this inflation levels.
Are the operators feeling because you're lapping over deflationary period that they have some pent-up pricing ability and therefore are willing to take price and they do have that with the consumers? Or how would you characterize I guess the willingness to take price right now at the operator level? I think going back to some of the earlier questions I would say that they're reluctantly taking price increases right now because they know they have to to run their business.
But I think it has very little do with the fact that are there was deflation a year ago.
The memory bank in this business is not that real long.
So I think it's just more of a perception of what they need to do to run their business and a little more confidence than maybe couple of years ago that their business is going to be in better stead than it would have might have been before.
So I think there's a higher degree of confidence on the -- modestly higher degree of confidence on the next few months.
And just the reality that that's what good business people do.
And our final question today will come from Bob Cummins with Wellington Shields &amp; Co.
I have to say as a long-time shareholder I'm pleased to see your stock up $4 to a new 12-month high today in case people haven't noticed.
And I wonder if you could elaborate somewhat on your acquisition strategy.
I see for the year-to-date you've spent quite a bit more on acquisitions than you did a year ago during the same period.
But is that likely to be stepped up further? And in particular are you emphasizing regional acquisitions to strengthen your position where you maybe don't have the market share that you would like? And to what extent would your expansion translate into more international operations as you go forward? Let me start with the domestic stuff.
We've talked about pretty much everywhere we've gone.
Most you that cover the industry know that there are a few large players but when you get down half maybe number 15 the numbers drop off even though we've got over 16 000 competitors in the industry the size of those competitors drops off fairly quickly.
We decided that we can wait around and try to strike relationships and hopefully get some opportunities to acquire some of the biggest players in the industry or frankly we can go out and do what's Sysco's always done extremely well which is form relationships with all of the other companies that are out there at least as many of them as we can and build what Bill referred to as a pipeline of quality transaction.
So people that we meet today may not have any interest in selling today but if they get to know us we get to know them 3 or 4 or 5 years down the road they may have a family event that causes them to want to sell.
Hopefully we get the phone call.
We've been building that pipeline.
It takes a while to build that pipeline.
So the answer to your first question is we've actually now closed or within days of closing about $420 million worth of -- I should say that differently.
Acquisitions that represent $420 million worth of sales.
And so that's I'd say an increase in performance and tempo.
We've said publicly that we'd like to do at least a half-point of sales generation every year through acquisitions.
Internally we'd like to do even better than that.
But you've got to have a willing seller as well as a willing buyer.
So we'll take them as they come.
So we're going to work on the smaller transactions.
We're going to keep working on regional opportunities to your point where they make sense for us and where we have an interested party on the other side we'll build those relationships and we'll try to work through those deals if they're available to us.
Moving to the last part of your question we've said that the 3 strategic streams that we're working down one being broadening our U.S.
and Canadian opportunities the core as we call it 2 being adjacencies the third one in there is international.
We continue to look at other geographies and try to understand where we might find something that would be a good fit for Sysco where we could add some value and we could set up Sysco for long-term growth and new markets and we'll continue to look at those opportunities.
Being a Texas-based company is Mexico an option? Mexico is always an option Bob.
It's just a little bit of timing.
We've looked at Mexico before.
I think when you look at countries like Mexico maybe other developing markets one of the questions becomes how would you go in and that would probably be a market where we'd want to affiliate ourself with a partner that type of thing.
So we have some good relationships with a couple of organizations in Mexico and we'll continue to look at that.
And to Chris' point we're right now how we focus on the quarter but at the same time if we can find some strategic opportunities that will either help us better differentiate ourselves with our customers i.e.
the adjacent side for example or provide a broader platform for growth in the future then we'd like to do that.
But it's a whole different approach and assessment process and highly strategic.
And how is your Irish operation performing? Well they're performing great.
I mean I was over there Chris and I were over there for some investor meetings a month and half ago and we stopped by and spent an afternoon and evening with their people and their management team and when you factor in what's going on in that country we're exceptionally pleased with the effort enthusiasm.
They're growing the business.
There's a lot of pressure as you would expect on the profit line but they're performing very well and we couldn't be more pleased with the people in that company.
Just one final question.
I see that your share buyback expenditures so far this fiscal year are way up from the prior year and that's understandable.
And I'm not going to ask if you're going to cut back on that.
But would be your strategy between stock repurchases and keeping that money on hand to use it for acquisitions? Actually Bob our strategy in share repurchases as we've talked about has been really just to offset dilution from options issuances.
The reason it's heavier this year is as we entered the year with the share price where it was and the plan that we have in front of us we set a target for how many shares we thought we need to buy back.
Then the share price declines and suddenly we didn't need to buy back that many shares.
And so we haven't had a lot of activity here recently.
But our strategy right now is not to increase in the share repurchase program it's not to spend a certain of amount of money.
It's frankly just to offset dilution.
And that will conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Sysco Announces Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2011 Results Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Neil Russell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you James and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2011 Conference Call.
On today's call you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made in the course of this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ in a material manner from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to risk factors contained in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 3 2010 and in the company's press release issued earlier this morning.
As disclosed in our earnings release this morning our operating results last year included an extra week of operations due to the timing of the last day of our fiscal year.
As a result the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 included 13 weeks of operations compared to the fourth quarter last year which included 14 weeks and fiscal year 2011 included 52 weeks of operations compared to the prior year which included 53 weeks.
On the call today we will discuss year-over-year comparisons that include the impact of the extra week of operations.
However to provide financial results that are more comparable on a year-over-year basis certain metrics will be provided which remove the estimated impact of the extra week.
These adjusted metrics are non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find the reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures on the Investors section of our website at sysco.com.
Also all comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
Lastly we ask that you reserve December 9 on your calendars for our Investor Day in New York.
Additional information will be provided in the next couple of weeks.
With that out of the way I'll turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil and good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported record sales for both our fourth quarter and fiscal year of $10.4 billion and $39.3 billion respectively.
EPS for the quarter was $0.57 which was flat on a GAAP basis compared to the prior year.
However excluding the impact of the prior year's extra week of operations adjusted EPS grew by 7.5% for the quarter.
For the year EPS was $1.96 compared to $1.99 last year.
Similar to the quarter adjusted EPS grew by 4.2% for the year after excluding the impact of the prior year extra week the current year's $36 million multiemployer pension plan charge and the year-over-year effect of certain net tax benefits.
Focusing on the fourth quarter for a moment volume growth was positive but remains at modest levels.
At the same time food cost inflation in our product mix remained high and in fact was higher than each of the previous 3 quarters this year and the prior year.
Thus due in large parts to these 2 factors we grew our gross profit dollars but once again experienced a decline in gross profit as a percentage of sales.
Turning to the fiscal year we grew our case volume and generated nearly $40 billion of sales in a market that most industry observers believe is currently flat resulting in about half a point of share gain.
We generated $1.9 billion of operating income produced cash flow from operations of $1.1 billion and distributed nearly $600 million in dividends to our shareholders.
In addition we invested significant capital in our ongoing business improved our customer retention performance and improved productivity in our operations.
We're also pleased with our progress to date in better integrating our specialty Meat and Broadline operations in a manner that more cohesively addresses our customers' needs.
Turning to our multiyear business transformation initiative for a moment.
On our last call we had just recently gone live at our pilot facility in Arkansas.
We were pleased with the initial results of the go-live but as we've moved into a more of a steady-state mode we have identified some performance issues.
We plan to take additional time to further assess the new system's performance and make sure it meets our expectations before the initial wave of operating companies go live.
We are evaluating the financial impacts of the delay but expect the result will be extended time and costs to complete the project.
We remain firmly committed to a successful business transformation implementation but as we've said all along we won't roll this out until we are confident the system will perform as intended.
In just a moment Chris will provide an update on the project's impact on fiscal 2011 and our expectations for fiscal 2012.
Taking a step back and looking at the overall business landscape for sometime now we have characterized the current economic recovery as slow choppy uneven and even fragile.
Our fourth quarter results and the events that played out in Washington and in the financial markets over the past 2 weeks certainly support that outlook.
Nevertheless we continue to believe that our industry will experience modest real growth over the long term and that Sysco is particularly well positioned to build upon its industry leadership position over time.
Specifically our commitment to enhancing our service to customers improving productivity in all parts of our business and broadening our foundation for future growth are key to Sysco's ongoing success.
In closing I would like to thank our entire leadership team and all of our associates for their efforts and engagement over the past year.
Their commitment to the success of Sysco's customers is unsurpassed in our industry.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning everyone.
What I'd like to do first this morning is provide a brief summary of the formal GAAP results.
As Neil just mentioned fiscal 2010 was a 53-week year compared to our typical 52-week year.
GAAP results include the impact of that extra week of operations last year which means the results that I will discuss compare 13 weeks of operations in the fourth quarter of 2011 to 14 weeks in the fourth quarter of 2010 and similarly 52 weeks of operations in fiscal 2011 to 53 weeks in fiscal 2010.
On a GAAP basis for the fourth quarter sales were $10.4 billion an increase of 0.7% compared to the prior year.
Gross profit declined 2.3% to $1.9 billion and operating expenses declined 1.5% to $1.4 billion.
As a result operating income was $561 million a decrease of 4% compared to the prior year.
Net earnings were $336 million a decrease of 0.4% and earnings per share were $0.57 which were flat compared to the prior year.
For the full year on a GAAP basis sales were $39.3 billion an increase of 5.6% compared to the prior year.
Gross profit increased 3% to $7.3 billion and operating expenses increased 5% to $5.4 billion.
As a result operating income was $1.9 billion a decrease of 2.2% compared to the prior year.
Net earnings were $1.2 billion a decrease of 2.4% and earnings per share were $1.96 compared to $1.99 in the prior year or a decrease of 1.5%.
As I mentioned these year-over-year comparisons on a GAAP basis are not comparable because that extra week of operation in last year's fourth quarter impacts all the year-over-year comparisons so what I'd like to do next is discuss our results for the quarter and the year excluding the impact of last year's extra week.
That means these adjusted numbers compare 13 weeks of operations in both quarters and 52 weeks of operations in both years.
This should give you a better sense for what's going on in our business and at the same way the management team tracks and analyzes our financial results.
These numbers are detailed in 2 tables we included in the earnings release that I think you will find helpful.
On an adjusted basis for the quarter sales increased 8.5% compared to the prior year due primarily to the impact of food cost inflation which we estimated at 5.9% for the period.
In addition compared to adjusted sales in the prior year sales from acquisitions increased sales by 0.9% and changes in foreign exchange rate increased sales by 0.7%.
This equates to real sales growth of 1%.
Adjusted gross profit increased 5.3% during the quarter.
However gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased 57 basis points year-over-year to 18.6% due in large part to high inflation rates and fairly stagnant industry growth during the period.
In addition while strategic pricing initiatives were also a factor they were largely offset by the fuel surcharge benefit.
As Bill mentioned the 5.9% inflation rate was higher than any of the 3 previous quarters this year and significantly higher than the 1.5% deflation experienced in fiscal year 2010.
Adjusted operating expenses were higher in the fourth quarter by $78 million or 6%.
The increase was driven by several factors.
First salaries and related expense increased $24 million.
The increase was due to higher delivery payroll costs payroll from newly acquired companies foreign exchange translations and sales compensation.
These additional expenses were partially offset by a decline in annual incentive compensation.
Second fuel cost increased $17 million.
However the fuel surcharge we implemented late in the third quarter was designed to mitigate this increase and did so.
As a reminder fuel surcharges are reflected in gross profit.
Third as we've seen all year expenses related to the company's corporate-sponsored pension plan increased $15 million.
Fourth expenses related to the company's Business Transformation Project were $12 million higher.
This number represents the increase in gross project expenses which is all project expenses including all employees and consultants working on the project severance costs and depreciation without any offset or credit for any benefits from the project.
Adjusted operating income increased 3.4% in the fourth quarter.
Adjusted net earnings for the fourth quarter were $23 million compared to the prior year and adjusted earnings per share increased 7.5%.
Turning to the year-over-year comparison.
Sales increased 7.7% or $2.8 billion for the year on an adjusted basis.
Food cost inflation was estimated at 4.6% for the year.
In addition compared to adjusted sales in the prior year sales from acquisitions increased sales by 0.7% and changes in foreign exchange rate increased sales by 0.5%.
This equates to real sales growth of 1.9%.
Adjusted gross profit increased 5.1% during the year while gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased 46 basis points year-over-year to 18.6%.
The decline in gross profit as a percentage of sales was due to high inflation rate strategic pricing initiatives and fairly stagnant industry growth for the period.
Adjusted operating expenses increased $358 million or 7.1% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.
The increase in operating expenses was primarily the result of: one a $129 million increase in sales and related costs due to increases in delivery and sales compensation foreign exchange and acquisitions; two a $60 million increase in costs related to the company's corporate-sponsored pension plan; three a $36 million charge related to the withdrawal of an operating company from an MEPP; four a $37 million increase in fuel expense; and five $25 million in higher gross project expenses related to the company's Business Transformation Project.
As a result adjusted operating income was essentially flat for the fiscal year.
If the MEPP charge had been excluded operating income increased 1.7%.
Adjusted net earnings for fiscal 2011 decreased $4 million or 0.3% compared to the prior year.
Fiscal 2011 EPS was $1.96 which included a $0.04 negative impact from the MEPP charge and a $0.02 tax benefit.
Adjusted EPS from the prior year period was $1.95 which included a $0.05 benefit from the company's IRS settlement.
Excluding the MEPP charge and tax benefit in the current year and the IRS settlement gain in the prior year adjusted EPS increased 4.2% year-over-year.
Turning to a brief update on our business transformation initiative.
We have previously estimated that the incremental EPS impact from the project which is the incremental cost of the project net of estimated benefits for fiscal 2011 would be from $0.02 to $0.04.
The actual impact for the year came in at the low end of the range at $0.02.
For the past couple of years we've provided the estimated impact from the Business Transformation Project to our EPS using this incremental net of benefit concept.
Going forward we're going to use a different basis of presentation to give you more visibility into both the total project expenses and the underlying business performance.
We will provide expenses and capitalized costs as we typically have.
However instead of providing the EPS impact of incremental expenses net of benefits as we've done in the past we will provide gross project expenses.
Now gross project expenses include all expenses related to the project including all the employees and consultants working on the project severance costs and depreciation without any offset or credit for any benefits from the project.
They also include additional costs such as those for our shared business services.
We're sharing the numbers this late because we want you to be able to see and track the total cost of the project which will decline over time as well as how the underlying business is performing.
So using our new dimension for fiscal 2011 results gross expenses related to our Business Transformation Project totaled $102 million.
In addition we capitalized $196 million related to the project.
The total cash outlay during the year which of course is different than expense was $279 million roughly in line with the guidance we've previously provided.
However as we discussed throughout this year the nature of the work actually performed allowed us to capitalize more than we had originally anticipated.
As Bill mentioned earlier we have experienced some delays on our rollout schedule for the project.
As we discussed in the third quarter we extended our testing phase by about 3 months to ensure a successful go-live in Arkansas which we achieved.
Now that we are close to a steady-state environment in Arkansas we have identified some performance issues.
We plan to take some additional time probably as much as 3 months to assess and enhance the system's performance.
Looking forward we now believe it's more prudent to roll out only one of the wave 1 companies initially to ensure we can operate successfully in multiple locations and then we'll roll out through the rest of wave 1.
That will probably extend the timeline another 3 months or so.
As a result we are probably 6 to 12 months behind.
These delays will increase the total cost of the project.
We're in the process of reevaluating the long-term costs benefits and timing of the project and expect to provide updated guidance at our Investor Day in December.
For fiscal 2012 we expect gross project expenses to total approximately $280 million to $300 million.
In addition we expect to capitalize approximately $100 million to $120 million related to our Business Transformation Project.
So if you look back at 2009 we reported EPS of $1.77.
Our gross business transformation expenses in that year were $0.04 per share so adjusted EPS without these gross project expenses would have been $1.81.
In fiscal 2010 we reported adjusted EPS of $1.90 excluding the extra week of operations and the IRS gain.
Our gross business transformation expenses that year were $0.09 per share so adjusted EPS without these expenses would have been $1.99.
In fiscal year 2011 we've just reported adjusted EPS of $1.98 excluding the MEPP and tax benefit.
Gross business transformation expenses were $0.11 per share so adjusted EPS without these expenses would have been $2.09.
So the way we look at the underlying business performance over the last 3 fiscal years EPS on an adjusted basis excluding the costs related to our Business Transformation Project has grown from $1.81 to $1.99 to $2.09.
This is during one of the worst business climates any of us have ever experienced.
While we've indicated our business transformation expense will be higher in fiscal 2012 by between $0.18 and $0.20 per share we believe we will continue to grow our underlying earnings excluding these gross project costs.
Going forward we'll continue to provide our results with and without gross project expenses so that you will be able to see that progress.
We remain firmly committed to a successful business transformation implementation and we continue to believe that it will provide significant benefits to our customers and our business.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations for the fiscal year was $1.1 billion reflecting IRS settlement payments totaling $212 million.
In fiscal 2010 cash flow from operations was $885 million and was net of IRS payments totaling $528 million and an extra pension contribution payment of $140 million.
We have now paid the majority of the total IRS settlement amount and we'll pay the final $212 million in this fiscal year 2012.
Capital expenditures totaled $182 million for the fourth quarter and $636 million for the year.
Spending for the year included investments in technology including our business transformation initiative fleet replacement the renovation of our shared services facility and replacement or expansion of facilities in Pennsylvania California and Central Texas.
Looking ahead into next year there are several important items that we want you to keep in mind as you think about fiscal 2012.
During fiscal 2011 we recorded $28 million in COLI [Corporate Owned Life Insurance] gains.
We haven't talked about COLI much this year because the year-over-year variances have been immaterial.
Going forward we do not expect to record any substantial gains or losses related to COLI as a result of changes we made during the fourth quarter and the underlying investments.
While there will be a notable year-over-year COLI variance in fiscal 2012 of $28 million we're pleased to be able to remove this volatility from our financial results going forward.
In addition we are also providing a few guidance metrics for the year ahead.
First we expect capital spending for fiscal 2012 to be in the range of $750 million to $800 million as we continue to invest in our business.
This projection includes $100 million to $120 million related to business transformation capital spending as well as capital related to a number of facility expansions and new facilities in Southern California Boston Long Island and our third RDC.
We expect pension expense for the year as measured on June 30 to be approximately $25 million lower than fiscal 2011.
This decrease is primarily due to improved performance of our planned assets during the year.
Third we expect fuel expense which impacts operating expense to be approximately $35 million to $45 million higher year-over-year but we expect that increase to be substantially mitigated by fuel surcharges.
And finally we expect share buybacks to increase next year to offset dilution from option exercises but expect the diluted shares in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 to be similar to diluted shares in the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
In closing while the business environment in fiscal 2011 was challenging our operating companies did a great job of managing through those challenges with a strong focus on serving our customers growing cases managing costs and improving productivity.
And although the macroeconomic outlook remains uncertain we are confident that our strong balance sheet industry leadership position and solid strategy for the future provide us the resources and capabilities to drive continued success.
With that operator we will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question today from Meredith Adler with Barclays Capital.
I'd like to just ask a couple of -- maybe these are sort of housekeeping questions.
Sales got a benefit from fuel surcharges.
How much of a benefit was that? Meredith for whatever reason you were breaking up.
This is Bill.
Could you just repeat that? Sure.
I'm just wondering how much benefit to sales came from the fuel surcharges as a percentage of growth? I wouldn't say it was overly significant to the sales line.
I think as Chris pointed out it helped to defray our fuel expense in terms of the delta there but I wouldn't say it was a big part of the sales percentage.
And can you talk a little bit more about the performance issues you're seeing at the Business Transformation Process? Sure.
Essentially I would say to you that we like I said in my prepared comments we got into the pilot site in Arkansas in April.
As Chris pointed out we did do some additional testing so we're probably 3 months delayed getting into that.
And as we got into the conversion weekend as you can appreciate there's always a lot of things that go on in those weekends but we got through it.
We delivered groceries.
We've ordered product and we're taking care of our customers.
As time went on it became clear that we were still having issues with the ease of taking orders the ease of processing orders both on the buy and the sell side.
We have some speed issues from a performance standpoint in terms of how long it takes for the customer or for the salesperson to put an order in.
We've also had some issues with reports that type of thing.
So obviously as we went into this initiative Meredith we've cautioned ourselves and everyone that we talk to to be prepared for the unexpected.
And so while we were generally prepared for some challenges these were things that we couldn't really anticipate until we got into the pilot.
So those are examples kind of high-level examples of some things we're running into.
And where we are right now is we're very focused on a combination really of a couple of things.
One is pardon the expression we're fixing those things and so to the extent that they were designed and that they are working close to how they're supposed to work we're attempting to make them work better and more efficiently for our customers and for our sales people and for all of our associates.
To the extent that we've tripped into some design issues or flaws we're going back and relooking at that.
And then to the side there were several what we call enhancements or additional features that were never targeted to go into Arkansas being a pilot and we're also working on those.
And we would hope to have all that worked into the Arkansas company here as we get into November and early December.
I mean obviously you had some issues and you need to fix them.
But would it be fair to say that the environment has turned out to be much more challenging than you thought it would be at this point in time and that it just is prudent to slow down this project because the expenses are very high? I mean if you kept ahead the gross margin being this weak aren't you -- weren't you running the risk of pretty weak earnings overall? Well I don't think it's gotten to that point.
What I would say to you is basically what I said in my prepared comments which is we need this system to work better before we roll it out to additional companies.
And that's really what our focus is which is to get it working as well as it needs to work.
That's why you do a pilot and that's where we're at.
I don't think -- what you see Chris trying to do here in his comments is we're going to do as diligent an effort as we can as we go forward to separate for you how the core business is running and then what the project is costing us at any point in time.
So clearly we have to be aware of the project cost and sensitive to that.
But at this point I wouldn't say we're at a point where the expenses of the project are that big of a concern.
We just want to roll it out in a way that our operating companies will embrace it and engage appropriately and that it serves our customers the way it's designed to.
Meredith I'll jump in also.
I mean just taking on your question.
I mean it's a classic issue of "do you slow down a long-term strategic project because the short-term expense implications are too high?" And clearly the answer we're going to give you is no.
It is a very important strategic project to us.
We're tripping over some of the steps that frankly we expected would be there eventually.
You just don't know where they're going to come from but you know they're going to come out of the woodwork once you turn the thing on.
And we'll work through those and we'll work through the expense related to any delays.
But we're nowhere near a point where we would say "we should slow this thing down because it's costing us in the short term in a difficult operating environment".
Great.
That's a good way of thinking of it in my view.
And then just finally are there any benefits at this point in time to the Business Transformation Process? Yes.
Look the way we measure benefits which you've got to find some science to measure benefits and so the team established some science behind it the way we measure benefits.
Yes there are benefits what we call the hard dollar benefits.
And to do that you basically start with a point in time and you measure your headcount in the affected areas those areas where you're going to be making some fairly dramatic changes and then you track the headcount reductions over time and that's how you measure benefits.
Well we have some of those benefits.
But the struggle is some of those benefits come from attrition as well as other means and you may get some attrition before you're expecting it and you just choose not to replace those people.
So you're getting some of that benefit early.
That doesn't necessarily mean it's going to stick because the system is only in Arkansas right now.
So anything we have right now is one small and two it's going to fluctuate because of the way we're measuring it.
The real proof will be frankly as we start to roll this thing out and we start to look at the overall expense reduction out in the field and the affected areas that's where we're going to have the hard dollar benefits as we continue to talk about those.
And that's going to be a little while.
And benefits in terms of revenues? Nothing that we could even begin to measure no.
Again Meredith to take you back to the business case we've been really clear on this.
There's a hard dollar business case here that's driven mostly by headcount reduction I mean the administrative side of the business and by leveraging our headcount more effectively as we grow the business and sales.
So Arkansas is a pilot and at this point we have our hands full in Arkansas and in the shared business center essentially getting through this transition.
So we're not really -- we never were really looking for significant benefits at this stage of the project in Arkansas.
That's why we call it a pilot.
The benefits Chris was alluding to are some more structural things that we've done to prepare in terms of overall headcount management-wise and organizationally heading into this transition.
Next we'll hear from Neil Currie with Dahlman Rose.
I just wanted to first of all talk about the inflation trend.
Obviously inflation was a little higher than it was in the third quarter but you have more of a struggle passing it through than you have in the third quarter.
So I was wondering what changed so meaningfully to put that much pressure on your gross margin compared to the third quarter which looked as if it was very much an improving trend? I'll take a shot at that Neil.
Essentially you're right.
I mean what we've seen is increasing levels of inflation in our cost of goods as the year's gone along and it was at least a point higher I think in the fourth quarter versus the third.
In terms of the reasons for that a lot of the same categories that have been high all year the Meat the Dairy the Seafood they've remained high and some other categories that represent a significant amount of our purchases Canned &amp; Dry comes to mind have also begun to absorb higher increases in our purchasing costs over the last quarter or 2.
So that's pretty much been the consistent trend.
In terms of why we struggled more in the fourth quarter versus the third that's a difficult thing to answer in terms of specifics.
I would tell you that as inflation goes up it is harder and harder to pass that along as you can appreciate.
And I would also tell you that we see all the data out there that comes with the economy and some of the restaurant surveys and that type of thing but we felt we certainly felt our people felt that after Mother's Day the business slowed down a little bit flattened out some in May maybe picked up in June hard to tell depending on who you're talking to and what sources you read.
But I would say the market environment itself got a little tougher here as the quarter went along.
Okay.
And without a crystal ball it must be hard but do you have a view on when inflation may peak? Well we've got a crystal ball.
It actually just doesn't work.
And it's hard to tell.
What I would tell you is it doesn't appear to be leveling out.
As we sit here today everything you read and feel is that it's probably going to be with us here for the foreseeable future.
We'll have to communicate that with each quarter that type of thing.
But looking out the next couple of quarters I certainly expect it to stay relatively high.
Okay.
And looking at your 2-year real -- your real sales growth trends it actually looked a pretty good quarter.
You saw some continued improvement in the 2-year number.
Did you say earlier that through the quarter that sales moderated and then improved towards the end of the quarter? July was better than June is that right? Did I hear you say that? No we actually didn't say that.
Yes I think what you're referring to is the 2-year year-over-year-over-year is actually fairly good on a real basis and I don't think we actually looked at that number in the last couple of days but you're probably right.
Despite the fact that as Bill said the industry is very stagnant right now the calculations that we've done using external sources says we actually grew our share in here during the course of the year we grew our share by another half point which we manage to do consistently.
So we continue to find growth even though the market is not helping us.
Yes I think -- I went back and looked at some of that as well.
If you looked at the 4 quarters for the year our best quarter for the real growth was the first quarter.
I don't know.
I think things may have felt a little bit better at that point in time but there's some math in that number too.
We were comparing off of a very weak time from the year before.
So when you look at this thing over the last 4 or 5 quarters it really is hard to draw a conclusion from one quarter to the next in terms of the divine growth.
But intra-quarter did you see -- what was the sales trend in the fourth quarter? How did that progress? It's a tough quarter as you saw in terms of our numbers.
All I can tell you is what -- and this is anecdotal.
And then what we all read is that we felt like we started to flatten out a little bit here in May compared to April.
And others are saying there's some surveys out there that talk about the restaurant business numbers improving somewhat in June.
I don't know that we experienced that in June.
So I would say it's soft in beginning of May and stayed that way at least from our perspective through the end of the quarter.
Our next question comes from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
I wanted to circle back and kind of follow up on Meredith's question on the business transformation costs.
I just want to make sure I understand number one if the gross cost was $0.11 and the net was $0.02 that's a $0.09 per share differential.
But I'm pretty sure it wasn't what you guys would call benefits from the project so could you kind of just tell us what is in most of that $0.09? Is it really the kind of the accounting that's been -- you talked about in the Q that is allowing you to capitalize more of the costs and things like that? No.
And actually I'm glad you asked the question because you're tripping over frankly the reason we're changing the method in which we report this.
I got to take you back in history.
We reported this from the beginning as incremental cost to the company net-of-benefits.
So let me take first the incremental.
That meant only the additional costs to the company so all these people internally and we have a large number of people that are dedicated to this project that were Sysco employees that we transferred into the project we did not count as an additional expense.
So when we added up the expenses it wasn't $100 million in that particular way of accounting for it and then we've netted benefits against that and you're right the benefits were not $0.09 a share.
So that's where we got to our estimate most recent estimate of $0.02 to $0.04 on an incremental-net-of-benefits basis.
The problem with that is it doesn't give you full visibility to the actual cost of the project.
So we just pushed that away.
We said "Look we're just going to disclose everything".
So it’s all categories all functions that are directly related to our Business Transformation Project that's the $102 million that you're seeing today.
I'm not netting the benefit to get that.
As I said to Meredith earlier they're not very large at this point in time.
Okay all right.
So I need to look -- what was the fiscal '10 gross spend so we can look at the net number there? Fiscal '10 gross spend on a per share basis...
Well that's the $0.09? Yes that's the $0.09.
You got to go back to $0.09.
Yes $0.09.
And again Andy what we're trying to do in that is take you backwards so that you got the same basis that we're reporting now.
You've got it for 2009.
You got it for 2010.
That's the gross expense not the gross spend per se.
That's right.
That's the gross expense.
It doesn't really apply to cash.
Got it yes.
And Bill as you're talking about slowing things down on functionality I mean it's kind of normal for IT to have that.
But as you talk about just things like order entry for example is it -- the issue is more around the employees needing to get familiar with what they're doing and a new way of doing things and being trained or is it more kind of substantive that you feel that maybe the pages they're looking at on the computer or whatever actually need to be redesigned? Or are you still -- or is it somewhere in between? I'm trying to figure out if the actual heart of the programming is something that is not performing or is it more around sort of normal things in IT? I get it.
That's a good question Andy.
So I would say look there's always opportunities I think to improve how we train and prepare people for these changes and conversions and our change in [indiscernible] process.
We felt we did a pretty good job there and I think if that was the only issue we had we probably wouldn't be having a delay right now.
So there's always issues like that.
Some of it's screens.
I think to give you an illustration of an example I guess of what it would be is we built this thing.
And obviously keep in mind that what we -- the whole mantra for this thing is we're trying to build a platform here that will help us be more productive in the selling exercise and help our customers be more productive as well and have the experience be more positive experience.
So as we went down that road and built in some of these enhancements what's turned out to happen is in certain instances those have worked or most of them have worked but there's been residual effects say on processing time or on the ability for the MA or the account exec to see the orders as well as they'd like or maybe to modify the order those types of things.
So it's kind of a cause-and-effect thing.
We did this to enhance it but there is a side effect that we could have anticipated so we got into the pilot and so we're working through that.
But there's enough of that that we need to slow down here and address it.
That flavor is helpful.
And just lastly as it -- you've been talking previously about acquisition pipeline getting a little better.
And does this delay in the ERP and business transformation would that affect that or do you think that's something you could kind of carve out and do some acquisitions either minor or major regardless? No.
The way we think about acquisitions there's the kind of the small step we do every chance we get and that anything going on with our ERP project wouldn't affect that at all.
We continue to do those.
I think we grew sales last year.
The amount of deals we closed last year represented a little over 1% of sales.
We're reporting about 0.9% impact in the fourth quarter.
So we're going to continue to do those without regard to the timing and sequencing and all that from the business transformation.
When you start to talk about larger transactions that would affect our Broadline company we are cautious about that.
We've talked about that before.
This is a very important strategic objective for us this business transformation.
We're not going to take risks and screw it up and so we're being very careful that anything we do would not get in the way of that rollout and that will continue to be the case as long as necessary.
I think just to amplify that Andy we've been real clear on this.
We would not take on a major acquisition that we felt going into it would significantly impact our core business in the near term as we're going through this 2012.
So I guess to put my color on it to the extent that we've got a delay here that will extend that period for a little bit.
Great.
I really appreciate the added insight and clarity into the business.
Our next question comes from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC</strong> A couple of things.
When is the first wave now scheduled that you guys think to be completed with the SAP rollout? We don't have a point estimate for that John at this point.
Where we're at right now in order is we're very focused on Arkansas and the shared business center and getting that up to as I said earlier to where it's working the way we designed it to work or at least very very close to how we designed it to work and secondly to get our enhancements in as well as the fixes that we've tripped over here going through this pilot.
So those are the 2 priorities getting Arkansas and SBS working and getting the fixes and the enhancements in.
We hope to be in a position to have accomplished a good part of that by the end of November early December.
And then right now our plan would be to go to one site.
You could almost call it a second pilot John at some point after the first of the year.
And the whole goal of that site would be strictly to see that this system can support multiple or in this case 2 operating companies.
And if all goes well there then we'll come up with a revised schedule for the remainder of wave 1.
And John just a little more color.
To the extent we can when we get together in December we'll give you additional color.
To the extent we have at that point in time we'll give you everything we know.
LLC</strong> Because you do think you will get to a point where all of the kinks are worked out so you can go fairly quickly at the subsequent waves that there will not have to be learnings new learnings with each wave or do you think there will be? Look it's the good news/bad news of having 85 Broadline operating companies that eventually we're going convert.
While they're all a little bit different what they do out there is generally the same.
And so I'm not going to say that what happens in Arkansas is exactly the same thing is what happens in Dallas is what happens in L.A.
But the underlying business processes are generally the same.
And so going to one and working out the majority of the kinks makes it much more probable that number 2 and number 3 will work just fine.
The reason that as Bill said and I've amplified also that we've decided we're going to one more operating company next is we actually want to nail the fact that we can do this that it's up and running and works just properly at multiple operating companies.
That's why we're going to take that added step in there.
We know it's going to cost us a little more time but that's why we're going to do it.
But there's nothing that we've seen that tells us that this thing is not going to work.
These are problems.
They can be fixed.
They all have solutions.
It's just a matter of getting the solutions implemented and tested and rolled.
And I'm just going to keep coming back to the same statement.
We don't want to roll this thing before it's ready because a problem in Arkansas while it's a real problem for Arkansas does not disrupt our business.
What we can't afford to have is a problem when we've rolled it out before the operating companies and we're just not going to take that risk.
LLC</strong> As a follow-up to that if you think about and maybe it's too early to get your arms around this but when you think about the ultimate benefit has that changed at all? And then when you think about -- you guys have sort of laid out how this would roll through the P&amp;L and there was a point at which I think it was 2013 but a point at which where the benefits would begin to ramp.
Is that all basically in place just later? So I guess 2 related questions.
But can you get your arms around that yet or it's too early? Well let me tell you what we know.
Again we're trying to be as full disclosure as we can.
One do we still believe in the benefits of the project? Absolutely we do.
Two is it fair to say that those benefits are probably delayed to the extent that the project is delayed? Yes.
And the third point is do we have a time frame for those yet? And we don't.
That was my comment.
We're reevaluating based upon everything we're learning in Arkansas.
We're reevaluating the long-term costs and the benefits and the timing of that.
And again to the extent we can we'll give you more insight into that in December.
LLC</strong> But the magnitude of the benefits whatever you thought would exist in whenever 2015 or '16 is it too early to tell whether that magnitude has changed? Yes we don't sit -- as we sit here today we don't feel there's a significant difference in the magnitude of the benefits.
Now the timing of the benefits of course will change.
But there's nothing that causes us to believe that we can't get the benefits that we set out to achieve.
And John I would just add to that.
When we went into this thing we were talking about a business case which I took you through earlier.
But we're also talking about a transformational case here which we've chosen not to quantify because frankly it's impossible to quantify because you have to compare it to something that you didn't know what it's going to be.
So if anything look this is a little frustrating for everybody but we knew these things are going to happen at some point in the project.
But in terms of where we are and in terms of our commitment to it the only thing I wish I just wish we had started this a year or 2 earlier because the marketplace we're in today requires us to be much more nimble and requires us to be even more customer-focused and engaged than what we've been historically.
And that is the transformational case of this work.
So we're very very committed to it.
LLC</strong> And then one final thing on inflation.
How do you get your arms around elasticities and knowing whether taking pricing will -- it would seem to me like you could take more pricing than you have.
Is there a way to get more comfortable with that and get a better sense of elasticity on the volume side so you can take pricing more quickly? Well to be honest with you and I think you know this John we don't talk a lot about elasticity.
We're sitting on a table and certainly our opcos don't talk a lot about elasticity.
Where we're at today we're in a market right now that isn't growing.
We're taking share but we've got to make an investment to take share.
So I would tell you my view on this thing is that for the foreseeable future it's about gross profit dollar growth and it's about cost per case.
And if we continue to grow the gross profit dollars we need to do somewhat better than what we did here this past quarter then we'll be fine.
We've got to manage the cost per case and it's very difficult right now to determine how much of that gross profit dollar growth is going to come from inflation come from case growth come from margin mitigation whatever you want to call it.
And that's the charge that we put out on our operating company presidents and their management teams and probably their people their sales managers and their marketing associates as well as the account execs.
We're all in this together here and we're just trying to make good decisions on a day-in-and-day-out basis at the customer level to strike the right balance between case growth pricing and margin.
And so again where I come out of this thing is we're very locked in right now on our gross profit dollar growth and managing our cost per case.
LLC</strong> But you seem as if you don't really want cases to go negative meaning if you took more -- if you got more price pass-through say gross was down 15 20 basis points but case growth went negative that would be in your mind a worse outcome even if it had the same gross profit dollar performance a worst outcome than where we are today.
Is that fair? Well it's a little bit of a loaded question.
I think what I'm saying to you is first of all we've been very focused this past year and will continue to be on improving our customer retention performance.
It's good.
It needs to be great.
And so that ties in your cases that type of thing.
So I would say yes.
I mean look it's a very competitive world out there today and we've rolled up our sleeves and we're grinding out there with everybody else but not if the cost of doing things that we think are shortsighted or unintelligent.
So I wouldn't say -- it just depends on the situation in terms of that trade off.
But certainly long term our DNA and our whole mode of operating is to grow the business.
But we think we're making intelligent decisions out there.
It's just from quarter-to-quarter you are going to see some volatility.
Next we'll hear from Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to ask a little more about the nature of the inflation.
You had hinted like the last quarter that there might be a broadening of inflation into some other areas beyond really the Meat and Dairy and Seafood.
Can you talk about that a little bit? And as we are getting into the first and second quarter where you lapped the big gross margin declines last year is it that you have really already taken those body blows in Meats and now we shouldn't see as big margin declines? On the first part of your question Mark we are seeing broader inflation and by that I mean across more categories.
It's difficult the way we define the impact from inflation.
We basically look at which categories saw the most significant increase in terms of our product mix and our basket of goods and we define those as the high-inflation categories.
And when we talked about how much of our gross margin decline is attributable to inflation we point at those categories and all the rest kind of balance out some are up some are down.
This quarter was not the case.
We looked at the high-inflation categories and then you looked at all the rest and they were still up.
And so we've got inflation across a broader spectrum not nearly as high as the ones we're calling out but across a broader spectrum.
So that's the first answer to your question.
Second looking ahead is very very difficult for us to do.
On the one hand you'd like to say "It's very rare for us to go year-over-year with a decline in gross margins".
At the same time we're looking at inflation and as Bill said earlier "We don't have -- well our crystal ball apparently is not working very well".
We can't tell you what's going to happen to the inflation rate.
All we know is what we're seeing right now is it's not going back down.
And so that's going to play into the next quarter quarter 1 2 and 3.
Okay.
And maybe just talk a little more of what you're seeing anecdotally out there.
The Knapp-Track data I guess turned negative in late July and are you getting any feedback from the operators out there what they're hearing after the stock market correction? Has there been any change in restaurant demand? Well it's only been a couple of weeks and I would say it's probably too early to make that call.
Obviously we're concerned about it but the other thing I would say is "I think to some extent this market is reacting to things that our customers and the consumer and our people have already experienced over the last year which is this choppiness of the recovery.
And again I'm not an economist or politician or anything but I think what you're seeing in the market is just a lot of uncertainty from day to day.
There's not going to be any great solutions coming in the short term and I think the market is kind of focused on that as well as some things beyond the U.S.
So we're concerned about what's going on in the market but I think we need to take a few weeks and just see how this plays out because I don't know that in terms of the world we work in that all that much has changed.
You have a question from Greg Badishkanian with Citi.
So I guess over the last 2 weeks or so it really doesn't sound like it's changed all that too much for you even with the stock market volatility? Well we don't typically comment Greg on interim quarter results.
I'm trying to paint you a picture here where so far I think it's just too early to make that call.
Right right.
Okay that's helpful.
And just in terms of gross margins sort of the impacts like this quarter what was the biggest impact? Was it the high-inflation certain categories certain customer product mix changes or just discounting by either you or your competitors? Was there one thing that was the biggest factor? I think it just goes on.
It's more and more difficult to attribute it to any one factor.
What we're trying to articulate today is -- Chris talked about the strategic price initiatives.
There were still some of that the fuel surcharge offset most of that if not all of it.
I think my message to you today is it's 2 things.
One is the environment where the continuing and now the acceleration of inflation does make it difficult as well as the market environment where essentially you're flat to no-growth type of low growth environment.
It just makes it tougher and everyone is out there competing from our customer to the suppliers to ourselves and our competition.
So I think part of it is the environment that is continuing to really not improve a whole lot.
It's better than it was 2 years ago but it's not an easy environment to operate in.
And then second there's areas where we just need to execute better and I touched on those earlier.
We need to do a little better job growing our gross profit dollars relative to our expectations and we need to manage our cost per case better.
And those are the things we're very focused on here as we start the new year.
Our final question will come from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
It's Amod Gautam on for John.
The past couple of quarters you guys provided a breakout in terms of the gross margin impact between strategic pricing and commodity inflation.
I was wondering if you could do that for the latest quarter? We really didn't break it out for the quarter.
And I'll be honest.
The reason we didn't is because the inflation broadened so much that the way we were coming up with the numbers we didn't have as much confidence in.
As we've said in the script inflation was a significant impact of it and then the strategic pricing initiatives were still there but they were offset by the fuel surcharge.
So that's the best breakdown we can give you.
For the year we're basically -- I think the numbers add up to about 2/3 of it is what we would call kind of inflation and the related issues around that and about 1/3 of it would've been strategic pricing initiatives for the year which is I believe 46 47 basis points.
Okay that's helpful.
And just in terms of building off of that I mean the strategic pricing initiatives if you could just give some qualitative color about how those have played out relative to what your expectations were when you implemented them? And then second to that is how much longer you expect the pricing initiatives to continue to impact year-on-year margins.
Yes I think we've said in prior quarters we continue to get the benefit that we sought from strategic pricing initiatives which is we're growing cases in the specific categories that we targeted there.
We also acknowledged that if anything it's going to take longer to get the case growth that we originally had set out to achieve.
Whatever estimate we did originally it's just going to take us longer to get that so you're going to still see the impact in our numbers.
At some point there will be a lapping effect to that.
I'm not going to try to predict that for you here but it's still in our numbers.
There will be a lapping impact that will make it less of an issue and we certainly aren't sitting here today designing any new strategic pricing initiatives that we put in place quickly.
So hopefully we'll continue to get the benefit as we go forward.
Thank you.
That will conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation and have a nice day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Sysco Reports First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Neil Russell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
On today's call you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made on the course of this presentation that state the company or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ in a material manner from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to risk factors contained in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 2 2011 and in the company's press release issued earlier this morning.
On the call today if you've joined us via webcast you will notice that we have -- that we are augmenting our comments with a slide presentation.
You can download a copy of the presentation by going to the Investors section of sysco.com.
This presentation was also filed with the SEC on Form 8-K this morning.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in the presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation and can also be found in the Investors section of our website.
In addition all comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
Lastly as many of you know we recently rescheduled our Investor Day to May 17.
We expect that the Investor Day will be held in New York City but we'll provide an update on meeting location early next year.
With that out of the way I'll turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil and good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported net earnings of $303 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and earnings per share of $0.51.
Sales increased 8.6% for the quarter driven mainly by food cost inflation of 7.3%.
This represents the sixth consecutive quarter of sequential increases in inflation.
Case volume for the quarter was positive but the growth rate remains modest in this difficult macroeconomic environment.
Operating income for the quarter was $509 million our highest first quarter on record.
We're encouraged with these results at a time when the industry's as competitive as it has ever been.
Our first quarter performance demonstrates our associates' commitment to focusing on our customers and managing costs.
To get a clearer view of our underlying business performance we believe it's helpful to exclude gross business transformation expenses and the impact of COLI.
Looking at the results in this way you'll see that while reported EPS was flat year-over-year adjusted EPS grew 7.8% for the quarter which is a result we are reasonably pleased with.
We continue to believe that the food service industry will experience modest volume growth over the medium term.
With that said current industry trends appear to be flat at best.
Thus the approximately 2% case volume growth that we generated during the quarter in our business is encouraging.
Looking forward our focus remains on striking the right balance between volume growth managing margins and controlling cost.
Turning to our multiyear Business Transformation Project for a moment we are implementing this month a significant system enhancement at our Arkansas location.
We will then assess performance address any concerns and move forward to our second facility.
Once we have achieved a successful implementation at the second facility we will update our rollout schedule and long-range projections of the cost and benefits of the project.
It is imperative that we remain disciplined in our approach as we move forward to ensure that the larger rollout of future waves will be successful.
Sysco is fortunate to have an outstanding leadership team.
In that regard last week we announced changes in the responsibilities and the reporting structure for several of our senior executives.
These changes reflect the strength and depth of the team and will enhance our ability to successfully execute our annual business plan effectively implement our Business Transformation Project and accomplish our key strategic objectives.
The changes include: Mike Green Executive Vice President and Group President will assume responsibility for leading all Sysco operating companies.
And Larry Pulliam also Executive Vice President and Group President will lead several key business support functions including supply chain information technology and business transformation as well as contract sales and distribution services which he currently has responsibility for.
Both Mike and Larry will continue to report to me.
In addition we also recently announced that Fred Lankford who previously served as President of Sysco Eastern Maryland was promoted to Senior Vice President Distribution Services for Sysco.
Fred has over 30 years of operating company experience and will lead the development of an enterprise-wide approach to enhance our operational execution.
In this new role Fred will report to Larry Pulliam.
In closing I should note that while the pace and extent of the economic recovery remains uneven and difficult to predict we are committed to being our customer's most valued business partner and to invest in the future growth of Sysco.
This focus will serve us well by strengthening our competitive position and providing a strong foundation for success over the long term.
We believe that Sysco's capabilities are unique in the industry and position us well to achieve our financial and strategic goals.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the first quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the first quarter sales were $10.6 billion or an increase of 8.6% compared to the prior year driven mainly by higher prices.
Prices were higher due to increasing levels of food cost inflation which we estimated to be 7.3% for the quarter.
In addition acquisitions within the last 12 months increased sales by 0.7% and changes in foreign exchange rates increased sales by 0.7%.
As Bill discussed a moment ago case volume for the quarter increased nearly 2% year-over-year including acquisitions or a little more than 1% excluding acquisitions.
SYGMA's case growth was flat compared to double-digit growth in the prior year quarter so all of the case growth we saw this quarter came in our Broadline organization.
Turning to gross profit.
I'd first like to make you aware of a change that is reflected in the results we announced today.
Last year we made the decision to reorganize our buy-in cooperative to streamline certain business functions and help us achieve the goals under our business transformation initiative.
We completed the reorganization at the beginning of this fiscal year and the buy-in function now operates as a shared corporate cost center.
As a result we have reclassified certain centralized procurement costs from cost of sales to operating expenses.
This change has the effect of enhancing transparency into our gross profits and operating expenses.
The net effect of this change is an increase to both the gross profit and operating expense lines averaging roughly $15 million to $20 million per quarter.
Because these 2 increases net out to 0 there is no change to operating income or earnings.
We have made these reclassifications retroactively so the year-over-year variances previously reported on the gross profit and operating expense lines are not materially different.
These changes are reflected in all financial information disclosed today.
Tomorrow morning shortly after filing our 10-Q we'll also file an 8-K that provides our financial results on this new basis for the last 3 years.
Gross profit increased 5.5% during the quarter while gross margin decreased 53 basis points year-over-year to 18.4%.
The decline in gross margin was due to high inflation rates combined with only modest volume growth.
However gross profit dollars per stop and per case increased once again.
We remain focused on our cost structure.
We understand that slow growth and high product cost may be a trend that stays with us for the foreseeable future so we are committed to finding ways to improve our profitability in this environment.
Managing our cost very tightly is one area of focus.
Historically Sysco has done a very good job of reducing its cost structure and we believe we continue to have opportunities to do more.
Operating expenses increased $98 million or 7.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to the prior year period.
The increase in operating expenses was primarily the result of a $40 million increase in salaries and related costs due to increases in delivery and sales compensation acquisitions foreign exchange and growth in our Canadian Broadline operations a $16 million increase in gross project expenses related to the company's Business Transformation Project and a $14 million increase in fuel expense although it's important to note that fuel surcharges offset this increase entirely.
In addition as we discussed last quarter we recently made changes to the investments underlying our COLI policies which significantly reduce the volatility to our earnings.
As a result we had a $1 million gain this quarter which was a period during which the market declined significantly.
If we had not made this change the impact from COLI during the quarter would have been substantially negative.
While this is a positive result the $1 million gain compares to a $14 million gain last year creating a negative $13 million year-over-year variance for us this quarter compared to the prior year.
The operating expense items I just discussed were partially offset by a $7 million decrease in expense related to the company's corporate-sponsored pension plan.
Reported operating income increased $3 million or 0.6% for the fiscal quarter.
As we discuss during our fourth quarter call we believe it is important to focus on the performance of our underlying business excluding the impact of the Business Transformation Project.
Excluding gross business transformation expenses and the impact of COLI adjusted operating expenses increased 5.3% and adjusted operating income increased 6.1%.
Net earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 were $303 million an increase of $3.6 million or 1.2% compared to the prior year.
EPS for the first quarter was flat year-over-year on a reported basis at $0.51.
Excluding gross business transformation expenses and COLI gains adjusted EPS grew 7.8% to $0.55 compared to the prior year.
So to summarize the first quarter performance in our underlying business sales were up 8.6% driven mainly by inflation; gross profits were up 5.5%; and adjusted operating expenses were up 5.3% meaning we were able to leverage the gross profit growth and deliver more dollars to the bottom line.
Adjusted operating income was up 6.1% and adjusted EPS was up 7.8%.
As Bill said we're reasonably pleased with these results given the current environment.
Turning to the impact of the Business Transformation Project for a moment in the first quarter gross project expenses totaled $37 million and we capitalized $45 million related to the project.
In the prior year quarter gross project expenses totaled $21 million and we capitalized $53 million related to the project.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations for the first quarter was $255 million.
In the prior year period cash flow from operations was $227 million.
We will pay the final $212 million in IRS settlement payments during the remainder of this fiscal year with $106 million to be paid in the second quarter and $53 million to be paid in each of the last 2 quarters of the fiscal year.
Capital expenditures totaled $227 million for the first quarter compared to $143 million in the prior year.
The increase was primarily driven by investments in facilities.
This year we are in the midst of constructing new facilities in Long Island Boston and Central Texas as well as a major expansion in Lincoln Nebraska compared to having only one such major project underway a year ago.
There are a few guidance metrics for fiscal 2012 that I'd now like to update.
First as the price of fuel has eased somewhat over the last couple of months we now expect an increase in fuel expense of $25 million to $35 million this year which is roughly $10 million lower than our previous guidance.
As a reminder we implemented a fuel surcharge late during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 which is intended to mitigate the increase in fuel expense.
Second we continue to assess the appropriate timing to start construction on our third redistribution center or RDC.
Given the macroeconomic conditions as a result it's unlikely we'll spend as much on it during the fiscal year of 2012 as previously anticipated.
We are therefore reducing our CapEx estimates for the year by $50 million to a range of $700 million to $750 million.
Lastly we now expect our gross business transformation expenses for the year to be in the range of $250 million to $275 million.
We expect the impact will increase each quarter such that more than half of the total expenses will come in the second half of the year.
In closing while the macroeconomic environment continues to pressure our business we are focused on managing our margins and costs and also on productivity improvements to mitigate these pressures.
Sysco has built a seasoned team of professionals over the years that has the skills and experience to manage through these types of challenges.
We believe that our capabilities and the investments we're making in our business will enable us to build on our industry leadership position over the long term.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take a question from Karen Short with BMO Capital.
Maybe can you just talk a little bit about more of an update on the pilot in Arkansas and just talk about some of the kinks that you obviously were focused on in the fourth quarter how those have worked out? And then also maybe some update on the timing of the rollout to the second opco? Karen it's Bill.
We can tell you some things and we're obviously right in the midst as I mentioned of putting in some of these enhancements this month in Arkansas.
So the last time we would have talked with this group and internally for that matter we said we were going to focus on Arkansas.
We had some performance issues there which kind of mean speed in terms of order process and that type of thing and as well as some report issues and some inventory replenishment issues.
So those are 3 basic things that we're addressing.
And we're not addressing them all at this point in time.
We've got a couple of those 3 that we're working through this month and we hope to see some good progress there.
And like I said in my prepared talk we'll assess it at that point.
And when we think we that we're ready to go to the second company in a way that will work for our sales people and our employees and our customers then we'll go.
But I would hope it would be at some point early in the new calendar year.
And then once we go through that pilot really the key to that pilot is just to confirm how well the system supports 2 companies and the hope would be to get through that in good shape and then we'll reestablish what our rollout schedule would be.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just talking about sales throughout the quarter I know you've kind of talked about the cadence in sales in the fourth quarter.
Maybe it was looking a little bit better in June but it wasn't clear.
Can you just talk about your sales cadence throughout this quarter? Yes I think what we said last time we saw -- generally I mean it's never the same in every company or every market but generally we saw a little bit of a flattening or a leveling out after Mother's Day and it really didn't pick up in June.
And I'd say that's continued into this quarter.
What we were also concerned about is we got into this quarter when certainly the consumer sentiment that I spoke to from the standpoint of what went on in Washington in July and all that type of thing.
So you guys all follow the consumer and many of you follow our industry so if you've looked at that over the last 2 3 months you've seen the optimism of the consumer decline to some extent and that's been a concern.
So we've experienced some of that although we're a little bit encouraged by what we've seen here in the last month that some same type of surveys where it appears the consumer is becoming more optimistic again.
So that's critical to us it's great.
We need the economy to grow and that's very important but what's critical to our customers is that the consumer be in the right frame of mind to go out and enjoy a meal away from home and hopefully people are gaining confidence again here ever so gradually and that should bode well for us and for our customers.
We'll take our next question from Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a 2-part question on the current incentive structure for your marketing associates.
So the first part of the question is can you just maybe clarify some of the operating metrics that you think are the most relevant on how the marketing associates are incentivized right now? And then the other part of the question is whatever those metrics might pertain to whether that's gross profit per delivery or cases per trip or pieces per trip did you see any improvement last quarter sequentially? And also based on your earlier comparisons is that something you can comment on at all? Let me take the first one Ajay you may have to come back to me on the second one.
So really the way we compensate our MAs hasn't changed dramatically.
And it does coincide with what at least what I would view as one of our top key economic metrics for the business.
So there's a lot of key metrics but certainly one of the top 2 or 3 would be gross profit dollars per delivery.
And our MAs once they reach a point that they're on full commission they are paid off of gross profit but off of gross profit per delivery.
So they're pretty well aligned in terms of the basic economics.
Certainly there's opportunities over time to continue to assess that.
And in addition to how we compensate people we also recognize people and that's a big thing within Sysco and it's certainly a big thing with our sales managers our MAs.
So certainly growth and quality growth at the territory level has always been very much emphasized within Sysco and we continue to look for ways to keep that at the top of our list as well.
The second question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So Bill I think in terms of your prepared comments you mentioned that volumes are -- it sounded like they decelerated a little bit since last quarter.
So I guess in that context the metrics by which you incentivize the MAs have those metrics improved like both in the context of last quarter...
I try to be a little more bullish here in my comments but actually don't think I said that.
I think what I'm trying to say is we saw some volume growth and we're pleased with that.
And we saw some -- the real volume growth as you can calculate was flat but we did try to show you that we saw some case growth in the core business and that's encouraging.
But at the same time it remains very competitive out there.
So I would say to you going back to Karen's question that the volume trends we're seeing in our business are pretty comparable to what we've seen in the last couple of quarters.
The market is -- the market's I would say also about the same and the consumer sentiment like I mentioned really did tail off here in July and August and it appears it might be coming back a little bit.
So we didn't see any material changes in terms of gross profit per delivery or miles or any of that type of thing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in relation to ERP it looks like even based on your updated outlook for this year looks like you're already on track to maybe exceed that original $900 million budget by the end of fiscal '12.
So it looks like between the operating expenses and CapEx the cumulative total would be in -- it would still be in excess of $1 billion by the end of the year.
Is that correct? You're kind of comparing apples and oranges there Ajay.
The $900 million which we used to refer to was an overall cash number but there were a number of things as we've talked about including our Sysco Business Services that weren't included in that number because we always assume there'd be a netting against them from benefits.
So what we're talking about -- obviously we've spent an amount of cash already.
We're continuing to spend cash on the project rollout but it's very difficult to compare where we are versus that number and draw a conclusion.
That's one of the reasons why we went to the what I think is a totally transparent here are the gross expenses and we'll update you on the benefits as we go forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But on a gross expense basis is that -- am I still conceptually right that it's -- you're sort of on track to be in a $900 million to $1 billion range by the end of this year? The gross amount of expenses that we've incurred for the projects will obviously be over $900 million yes.
All I'm saying is I'm not comparing them back to that original $900 million.
It's a bit of a -- again it's comparing it against something that wasn't reflective of what we're now telling you the numbers are.
Yes Ajay I would just take you back to our last call where we talked about our timeline and we're 6 to 12 months behind and more than likely that could translate into additional cost.
But until we get through Arkansas and the next pilot facility it's very difficult to address that question with any accuracy.
We'll take our next question from Ed Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry for this question upfront but I actually don't understand.
So you're talking about case volume growth in the core business so 1% 2% whatever that number is but real growth is being flat which you can see if you take your sales and adjust for inflation and acquisitions and currency.
So what's the difference between the 2 of those? They're just different numbers.
The real growth is an industry calculation that we had heard for years and years.
We actually started putting it into our releases about maybe about 3 or 4 quarters ago because we knew everybody did the calculation so we thought we'd make it easy.
It's not perfectly reflective of case volume growth.
It's always directionally correct.
It's sometimes very close but it's just not the same number.
Case growth is a real number that we look at that just is a -- we calculate how many cases we deliver this year versus the last year and what you're looking at is just again a definitional calculation which is sometimes pretty close.
I think I guess as the long-term guide here for years we've talked around real growth in terms of inflation and the impact of acquisitions and once we have Canada the FX impact.
So it's a long-running statistic or set of statistics that we've always provided.
We've run the business off the cases and so we're just trying to give you a couple of different ways of looking at it.
To Chris' point they're not significantly different but we thought it was worth at least sharing that with you.
Yes.
I mean one of the things not to belabor it but one of the things that's in that real growth calculation is ForEx and you really have to scratch your head and think about whether ForEx should be in a calculation that tries to get underlying case growth.
But again we've provided you what we think you all calculate in the past and this time we thought we better provide you the real volume growth because it is pretty different.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you update us on your outlook for inflation over the next few quarters? Sure.
Well let's get out the crystal ball.
That won't take long.
Now look you've seen it gradually trend up from 3% to 5% to 7% and it was -- we had it across many categories again this quarter.
Certainly the dairy and meat and seafood led the charge.
But our largest categories are canned and dry and frozen and we saw meaningful inflation there as well.
So that's how you end up with a number as high as 7%.
So our best sense and I wouldn't go out anymore than a couple of quarters is that it's with us here for a while.
I wouldn't be surprised if it mitigated somewhat but I wouldn't expect it to dramatically decline here over the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> And where do you see inflation from a product standpoint? Does that impact your ability to pass it through? So for instance there's been some talk about I guess meat pricing going up beginning of the year.
Is that a more difficult category to pass it through for you or is it pretty much the same everywhere? Well meat's tough just because those cases cost a lot to begin with.
Those are expensive cases.
So when you have 6% 8% 12% inflation that just makes it a bigger ticket item for the customer.
But in general they're all -- it's all difficult when you've got 6% or 8% or sometimes by category double-digit price increase or cost increases for us at a time when our operators are still struggling to get traffic into their businesses.
So we're in a different time.
We've managed inflation of this type in the past we've managed it well.
It's harder this time and as I said before I think there's an obvious reason for that which is just the what we're coming back from in terms of the economy people's psyches it's just more difficult.
So I don't know that it's category-specific but when you get into high single-digit low double-digit cost increases those are difficult for people to swallow in a short span of time.
We do pass it along over time but the bigger the number the longer it takes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question for you your D&amp;A was down I guess modestly year-over-year.
I don't know if you can help us there.
And then you've been capitalizing costs on SAP and I was curious as to when the amortization on that would actually end up starting? Yes the way we're looking at the project or the machine as I keep referring to it is once we're out of the pilot stage and we're actually into the implementation stage we will begin to amortize it.
I mean internally we've assumed that when we get past the second pilot that that's when it will happen.
And I think I've said in the last call that in our internal plans we do assume that we'll start depreciating it this year.
So in the numbers that we've given you we do have an assumption that we'll start depreciating the project this year.
We've not been specific about what month but we've said it will begin this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But that's when the second pilot is complete that's right? Yes when we've put the second pilot in and we've assessed that it does indeed work and we're going to start a rollout process and that's when we'll declare the machine to be ready and fit for implementation.
We'll take our next question from Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just to stand back here.
If you take the business transformation cost out do you think you can actually grow earnings this year? Yes.
I mean we grew it this quarter.
That's the plan I guess we're trying to make Mark that we did grow operating income about 6% this quarter.
If you take that and the COLI out which I think is fair in terms of this type of a perspective.
So I'm a little cautious in terms of the environment and that type of thing but that's certainly what we're planning to do.
Research Division</strong> And if you leave them all in if we leave -- it's like almost a $0.26 to $0.28 drag you leave that in versus the $0.11 drag last year do you think the earnings numbers is up on that basis? Mark that's not fair.
I'll let Chris take that one.
Yes I think we call that guidance.
Mark look I'll go back to your first question.
You're hitting on the point that we've been trying to make which is we understand we're responsible for business transformation and we've got a lot of very very quality people working on that we're managing the costs appropriately but we're not going to avoid spending money and do the wrong thing on that project.
What we're trying to make sure people understand and remember that there's an underlying business here and we have to keep that underlying business growing.
And so we're trying to give you the numbers you need to show that we are indeed continuing to grow the underlying business.
It's hard but as Bill said we do believe we can continue growing the underlying business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And by quarter here so it sounds like a big back half weighting here on the remaining business transformation for the year.
Can you give us any help on the individual quarters on what those are going to look like? No we're really not going to break it down by quarter.
Look this is just me talking.
We've been doing pretty good to give you guys rough estimates for the year and some would say we haven't done that good a job at that.
So to break it down by quarter the ranges would be very very wide.
Look the meat of this year will be when we get through the pilot and we start to roll out.
That's going to be where the expense picks up because that's when we'll have both depreciation kicking in and implementation teams kicking in.
So that's why we make the comment we'll be heavier in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And do you think the high watermark for expense is going to be next year or is it this year? I'm going to have to hold off on that one only because we continue to relook at the number.
And it may sound like it's taking us a while.
The reality is we need to get through the second pilot and reassess the implementation plan the rollout schedule before we really have a good view on the next few years.
And our goal is to be able to talk about that in the spring as we said the last time around.
So maybe you can give us a little more time before we can give you a multiyear look on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just outside of the gross margin pressure from inflation how do you think the other factors there? What's going on with price competition and just the overall competitive environment? Look it's very hard to separate inflation from price competition from the challenges in the marketplace that our customers are working in.
So I would stick with what we said here Mark which is -- I would characterize the competitive environment as as strong as it's ever been and I probably have been saying that for the better part of the 1.5 years to 2 years and I don't think it's let up.
We'll take our next question from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things if I may.
Firstly I mean I guess it looks like I mean I guess being a restaurant analyst I mean what you're seeing is your customers are ordering less expensive food this year versus last year.
And that would explain the difference between case volume and real sales I suppose? I mean is that a phenomenon that I mean that you're kind of seeing across the industry? I mean is it located in certain pockets? I mean maybe on the lower end and is there anything that you can do to kind of prevent that perhaps some investments in the types of products that they're not ordering year-on-year? John I'm Bill.
I think from a logic standpoint your theory is plausible but it certainly is not necessarily the whole reason why you might see a difference.
Again we're not talking about a large difference so I would say over the last 2 to 3 years our customers have taken a very hard look at their spending budgets and have focused very much on being economical with their purchases and still having a consistent quality of offering for their patrons.
So I don't know that I can tell you that they're offering less expensive food this year.
There's other things that can be driving that as well like mix.
And these calculations we do them across all of our companies.
They're not precise like a scientist would be precise.
So I wouldn't overplay that difference there too much.
So that could be a contributing cause but if that is I don't think it's a new phenomena I guess is my point.
The second part of your question? Research Division</strong> Regarding SYGMA.
I mean I'm assuming that inflation number is somewhere near right for SYGMA.
I mean it does look like it was -- I mean if that's flat probably negative case volume or real sales whatever you want to call it in SYGMA in the quarter.
And it's not really what we're seeing in the industry.
I mean it seems like traffic is at worst about flat across the industry for the September quarter.
So I just wanted to get a sense of whether there's -- whether you're intentionally giving up some business or if there are some flow of from customers in and out of that segment that we should be aware of.
No I think our SYGMA business is in line with what you just said in terms of if you will our comp for same-store sales that type of thing.
With SYGMA we've had a nice little spurt here over the last 1.5 or 2 years.
We've brought on some customers.
We're running the business a lot better and SYGMA is going to ebb and flow a little bit based upon bringing in new accounts and that type of thing.
So we haven't lost any major customers.
We just kind of wrapped the period of time and we haven't bought any large ones on either.
But I would agree with you that kind of the same-store part comp if you will is about flat in what we're seeing in that side of the business.
Our next question comes from Greg Badishkanian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Why do you guys think maybe the Broadline business did a little bit better particularly with soft consumer confidence? I mean are those some of those I would think some of the pricing might be a little bit higher than kind of the more of the chain business? Better than SYGMA is that what you're getting at Greg? Research Division</strong> Yes yes better than yes I would think just from a pricing perspective maybe there's a little bit price points in that Broadline business.
Yes I think I'll stick with the answer I just gave John.
I don't think it's -- they're just 2 different businesses in terms of we're always bringing on new business in the Broadline and SYGMA tends to be a little bit more volatile as far as that goes.
So I don't have a great insight in terms of that.
It's not that much difference to be honest with you in terms of how we look at the numbers.
But we're pleased with what the Broadline is doing.
We're growing it both on the contracts side and in the street.
We're just not seeing the volume growth that we'd like to see.
Research Division</strong> Right right yes.
And just from a business transformation purpose is there anything next quarter that's different than this quarter? I mean is it going to be around $0.04? Or without giving guidance but I mean is there anything that we should consider if there's any type of step up next quarter? We're not going to give any guidance.
So it's really hard for me to answer that question.
I'll go back to what I said earlier and I'm sorry but we just can't give you much guidance.
But as we said and I'll now weave in what Bill said earlier we are this month making some upgrades and enhancements to Arkansas and he said early in the calendar year we would hope to go into our second pilot site so that actually gets you past the second quarter.
And what I've said is that once we go into pilot side and we make sure that that works then we would start amortizing and then we would reassess the rollout and that's where the expenses would really start to kick in.
So to the extent that you want some sort of insight that's probably the best we can give you.
Research Division</strong> Yes all right okay.
And then just generally in terms of -- were there any changes in terms of mix or menu price over the last few months? Or has it been pretty kind of status quo versus kind of what you saw in the second calendar quarter? I don't think there's any big changes one way or another.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on the trading down and the differential and I know -- it was nice of you to give that information I know there's some estimation in such large organizations.
But I think from your answer to John I would take away that you're probably saying there's a little stickiness in passing through some of this rapid inflation? Is that fair to say and that's sort of market driven? Say that again Andy? Research Division</strong> Well the 1% differential that you talked about in case volume to the calculated real sales? If it's not from trading down I was thinking about this too.
If it's not from trading down then it's probably because the inflation you're actually increasing your cost your pricing by is a little lower than your product cost.
Possibly.
I think all I'm saying is we're talking about a directional move here that's comparable and the difference between the 2 is not to me overly significant.
So I wouldn't overanalyze that particular difference.
We're just trying to give you a feel for cases and so I guess I'll just leave it at that.
I think we're seeing some case growth we're having to invest in price a little bit to get it and we're managing our expenses reasonably well but as I said in my comments we have an opportunity to do all 3 a little bit better here as we go forward in the year.
Andrew I want to jump in because I don't want folks to fixate on some 1% number.
I think when you back out ForEx we're talking less than half a point that is explained in terms of the difference between those 2 numbers.
And as we keep saying they're never exact they've never been exact as long we have watched them they're usually directionally correct.
So I wouldn't spend too much time trying to explain away the half-point differential.
Research Division</strong> But you do think the 1% real case estimate for the organization is pretty close? We don't have to -- we should consider that right? I'd say that's closer than the other because we actually can see that.
Yes I mean it's a little better than a point after excluding acquisitions and that's our real volume.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And is that coming more from penetration or new customers or could it just be your customers are doing better than the industry and you have good selection positive selection volumes.
We'd like to think that but when you do the amount of business that we do our overall results are going to reflect the industry to a large extent.
I'd say when you take it down to cases I'd go back to what would appear to us that the market's relatively flat we're seeing that at the customer level and so what you're seeing here is the new cases coming in and faster than loss cases are going out which is a good thing.
I mean we're working very hard on that.
Research Division</strong> You think it's your lines as you look at invoices are the amount of lines going up penetration? We don't really show that number probably any of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And I just wanted to ask the inflation question.
You're not the only folks.
Some of the food retailers are also talking about mitigation and some are using the word hope and you guys talked about a crystal ball and I mean I don't blame you for nobody really knows especially where things are at.
But is there any -- first of all when you define mitigation are you talking about just a lower rate of inflation or are you actually think there could be some sequential lower prices maybe in some of the big commodity groups? Which -- what would be mitigation to you? I said mitigation and I'll see it in the transcript here at some point I probably should have said that it would subside the rate of inflation.
We would hate using that word hope so I think the best case for us as you know very well best case for our customers and for us is 2 or 3 points of inflation.
I don't see that coming in the next couple of quarters but it would be nice if the 7% turns out to be the high watermark and that it subsides here as we go through the next several months.
It's really hard to predict beyond that though.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are any of the futures markets are in forward contracts that you can enter into? Are any of these at kind of lower inflation rates? Is there any hard evidence at this point that there might be some? Well in some of the commodities if you go out and if you look at the numbers year-over-year there's a little bit of a lessening I guess if you will the inflationary pressures but not a lot.
And so we typically don't go out and do a lot of forwards on commodities and I don't expect that we'll do that anytime soon.
Again our whole model is predicated on as a marketer and distributor being able to pass along these cost increases.
And to some extent we're in unprecedented times here but I wouldn't expect us to start doing a lot of forward speculating.
Our next question comes from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a couple of things.
The lower business transformation expense this year is that simply a timing issue that it gets pushed out to next year? Or is that a true reduction in cost? That's really just firming up our estimates from earlier in the year.
When we were putting together our plans and guidance for the year we were kind of in the middle of still reading the results from Arkansas.
So we put together the best numbers we thought and as we've gone through the first quarter we've been able to true those up.
So at this point I'm just going to say the true up in the numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> But you were conservative -- or you were conservative before that -- this is where we're coming out now? I would say we were probably erring on the side a bit on conservatism and I'm not going to say that it won't be a timing issue.
Again we're holding off on giving you further out guidance until we got a chance to read the second pilot and finish our rollout.
But right now I'll just say it's a true up for 2012 and that's pretty much the best view I've got.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Now Bill on price elasticity if we end up a year from now with inflation of 2% or 3% or something like that what's your sense on price elasticity and how much of that helps unit demand? Or in this macro does it not help much? Well historically it's helped John as you well know.
Historically whether it's a mindset or elasticity or whatever when you have lower levels of inflation our trends would tell you our historical trends would tell you we're able to grow our boxes a little bit more.
I think that's though because that the operator that we're selling to is in a better place in terms of their business and in terms of their outlook.
So time will tell but I would still say that we would be better served and our customers will be better served if we can get to that lower level of inflation the 2 or 3 points.
And I just think people's outlooks will be better in that kind of environment.
So I would much rather see that.
It would be good to get there in the right way and not get there too fast but I would think that that's a better scenario for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> But there's not a 1:1 relationship right? If inflation backs off 400 basis points we'd probably don't see a 400 basis point improvement in unit demand? No I don't think you do.
And I would double on what I had given -- just given the world that we operate in today which is much different than one we operated in 4 or 5 years ago so I would not make that leap.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Then finally if you think you just talked about other opportunities to reduce cost.
When you look at the growth in payroll is that primarily is that hours is it cost per hour and where is there opportunity if you think there is to bring that increase down? I think there's a couple levels of opportunity.
One is I mentioned Fred coming on board here and working with Larry on rolling out this enterprise-wide enhanced operational support work if you will.
So you watched us over a lot of years so we've gone from basically pretty much letting the operating companies do whatever they want to do operationally to best practice websites to integrated delivery models to now we're just kind of trying to strike a better balance between what the OpCos can see through their prism locally where they can make improvements in terms of the productivity and what we might be able to see across the entire enterprise.
And so I think over the medium-term there continues to be opportunity like we've created over the last 3 or 4 years where you've seen our productivity improve nicely both in the warehouse and in delivery and I think that continues to be that type of opportunity going forward.
And keep in mind that was all part of the umbrella -- under the umbrella of business transformation.
It just didn't happen to be part of the SAP component of it.
So I think that's a kind of a medium-term opportunity ongoing for us.
And then secondly I've said this before and I don't mean to be oversimplified or trite but I think anytime you've got 500 people coming to work together every day anytime you got 200 people in operations and a sales force of 100 people there's always opportunity to mobilize those folks in a more efficient way.
So we do a great job I think we do better than most if not all.
But when you have that many transactions that many cases and pilots coming in and going out every day there's always opportunities to manage the business and little bit better and that's certainly what we're working on very hard here.
We'll take our next question from Meredith Adler with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about your staffing for marketing associates.
There was a time where I think everybody thought the economy was going to improve more quickly and I know you didn't want to be behind in terms of training marketing associates.
When you look where you are now do you just think that you need to make some changes in the staffing? Meredith it's Bill.
I actually think we're in a pretty good place right now.
We have gone through a transition to your point over the last 12 to 18 months.
Where I think some of our operating companies got behind or maybe cut a little bit more than in retrospect than we would've liked to have cut.
But as I look at our numbers today we're up modestly in terms of MAs and we're up about what the cases are up and we're up about what our expectations for case growth are so I think we're in a pretty good place there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then I think this is beating a dead horse but if you were to start depreciating the business transformation cost saying let's just make this up in the fourth quarter and you were also going to start to have the actual expenses of the rollout should be running through the P&amp;L.
Can you give us some idea of based on what you know today what that would do to earnings per share? Well we've given you the full year guidance on that Meredith which includes both those items.
So we updated it today of course $250 million to $275 million of expense for the year.
You can make your own assumption on how much of that is the first half versus the back half of the year.
Included in that is depreciation and the expensing of the items and so roughly $10 million per $0.01 per share that would be the impact on our earnings per share.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'm sorry I didn't realize that that included the D&amp;A component in it.
Yes it's all expensed.
We'll take our next question from Erin Lash with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> I had -- I wanted to go back to some of the strategic pricing initiatives that you've talked about over the past couple of quarters.
I don't think that you mentioned it this time around and I was wondering if you could give us an update or a little bit more detail on that.
Yes Erin this is Chris.
I didn't mention it frankly because it wasn't a significant impact at all.
We -- that number or the impact of that number on our gross margin has declined the last couple of quarters as we've discussed to the point where it's not really it's not something we're going to call out because it's not material.
So the translation -- we're starting to see the impact that we wanted to see.
We're starting to see the benefits on those geographies that were rolled out earlier offsetting the geographies that we rolled out later in the process.
Research Division</strong> Right thank you that's helpful.
Following up I'm pretty sure that you mentioned this about a year ago.
But could you remind us what the impact is regarding the timing of the holidays meaning with Christmas and New Year's falling on Sundays for the upcoming -- in the current quarter how that impacts your case volumes versus if they were to fall on a weekday? Okay I'll take a shot at that one.
It's actually better if it falls on a Sunday because that's a normal day off obviously for most of our people.
The reality is though that they get holidays.
There's the expense side of this so we'll incur some extra cost anytime you have a holiday week especially a big one like Christmas or New Year's the following week.
So the reality is Christmas in particular is a time where at some point that weekend people stop going out.
So in the case of Sunday we'll do a little better because you'll have Christmas Eve most people though pretty much shut it down by noon on Saturday.
So it could help us a little bit.
I think the holidays fall at the same time this year as last year.
I'll have Neil come back to you on that if that's different.
But I think in terms of what weeks they fall in it's the same.
And Erin that's probably more important to be honest with you in terms of the week as opposed to the day of the week.
I think that's where we gave you some guidance a year ago because actually one of the quarters had one less holiday than the prior year one had one more holiday than the prior year so we did the adjustment to help you out with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just finally any update on the acquisition pipeline or premiums that sellers are potentially looking at? Or should we assume that most of your focus is going towards the business transformation and not on the acquisitions at this point? No we continue to spend a great deal of amount of time working on acquisitions.
We've got a small team of people and then we've got a large group of people out in the field that one of their roles is to continue to source potential acquisitions.
So the pipeline is reasonably robust.
We don't announce every deal that we do.
We tend to make an announcement involving 3 or 4 deals that we've done.
We'll continue to say that most of these are smaller-ish transactions given our size.
Most things are going to be smaller transactions but we'll keep doing them.
And the first part of your question in terms of pricing it's really about the same.
We're pretty disciplined in our approach.
We don't feel we overpay for anything.
We like to be fair but we continue to see owners of companies that are at a point where they're ready to exit the business come forward and we're typically able to get to an agreement on pricing and we move on down the path towards closure.
We'll take our next question from Bob Cummins from Wellington Shields &amp; Co.
My question just happened to be also on acquisitions.
I see that you did spend $36 million on acquisitions in this quarter so you're not standing still.
But it also occurs to me in the current environment that there might be and particularly in areas of the country where you have a relatively small market share there may be more acquisition opportunities and perhaps of a larger size that you might consider doing.
Can you kind of give me a sense of whether you see more people looking to sell out their businesses around the country and what your strategy would be? You still have a relatively small market share nationwide.
Bob thanks for pointing that out.
But the reality is the market share moves around depending on the market.
So as you go to 17% nationwide statistic there's markets where we have considerably more than that and to your point there's markets where we have less.
So we are seeing to Chris' point we are seeing and have seen over the last year or so and I think we're being more effective and proactive some fold-in opportunities which Bob I think could be the more likely scenario for us.
So there are some bigger players out there.
We don't have the sense that they're overly interested in selling their businesses right now but certainly we'd be open to talking to them.
But I think the bigger opportunity is on the smaller to midsize competitors.
And to your point in markets where we do have more opportunity to grow our share.
Yes I'll weigh in there Bob.
I mean we're looking everywhere.
We have folks working everywhere.
I hate to say it like this but we'll talk to anybody if they're interested in selling.
So we don't necessarily focus on areas where we've got low market share although in certain markets Los Angeles or Southern California we're under-penetrated we announced a deal there within the last year a decent sized deal to help us out.
We'll certainly look in those areas but we don't look exclusively in those areas.
We'll look at transactions anywhere we can find them.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Sysco Corp.
Fiscal Report Second Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Neil Russell.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco's Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
On today's call you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made in the course of this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ in a material manner from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to risk factors contained in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 2 2011 and in the company's press release issued earlier this morning.
On the call today if you've joined us via webcast you'll notice that we are once again augmenting our comments with a slide presentation.
You can download a copy of the presentation by going to the Investors section of sysco.com.
This presentation was also filed with the SEC on Form 8-K this morning.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in the presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation and can also be found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volume growth include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
Lastly as many of you know we will be hosting our Investor Day on May 17 in New York City.
Additional information will be provided in the next couple of weeks.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil and good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported sales of $10.2 billion for the second quarter a 9.2% increase.
Net earnings for the quarter were $250 million and EPS was $0.43.
Excluding the year-over-year impact of gross business transformation expenses and COLI investment income EPS was $0.46.
On this basis which we believe is more representative of the performance of our underlying business EPS grew 2.2% for the quarter.
Overall market conditions remained soft for much of the second quarter but appeared to strengthen during the holiday season.
Our case growth trends improved as the quarter progressed as we aggressively supported our customers protected our business grew our share of wallet with existing customers and brought on new accounts.
As a result case volume growth during the second quarter was 2.8% excluding the impact of acquisitions and 3.6% including acquisitions.
Based on recent industry data we believe we grew our market share by about half -- excuse me by about 0.5 point during calendar year 2011 to approximately 17.5%.
Food cost inflation remained at historically high levels and approximated 6.3% for the quarter.
While slightly lower than the level we experienced in the first quarter this type of inflationary environment is difficult for our customers and provides us with significant pricing challenges.
Although we are encouraged by our recent volume growth trends earnings growth from our underlying business for the quarter fell short of our expectations as expenses grew at a faster rate than did gross profit dollars.
Our leadership team is addressing the internal factors that limited our earnings growth and we expect to see gradual improvement over the next few quarters.
In addition we are currently developing several key strategic initiatives that will better position Sysco to profitably grow our market share in the years to come.
One such initiative that is now in the early stage of implementation is our multiyear Business Transformation Project.
Last April we went live at our pilot facility in Arkansas.
Following a successful weekend cutover we subsequently experienced several system performance challenges including the following: timely order entry processing; effective balancing of service and inventory levels as well as efficient and user-friendly reports.
This past November we implemented several enhancements and Arkansas has subsequently seen improvement in all of these areas.
We are now more comfortable with the system's performance and recently went live at our second pilot facility in Oklahoma.
The key goal of this pilot is to ensure that the new system can support multiple operating companies.
While we are still assessing early results preliminary indicators from Oklahoma are encouraging.
Assuming system performance remains satisfactory we will continue our preparation to launch the first wave of multiple operating companies before the end of the fiscal year.
Upon concluding that the system is capable of supporting a broader rollout we will update our timeline and long-range projections for the cost and benefits of the project.
We hope to provide that update at our Investor Day in May.
Reflecting for a moment on the first half of fiscal 2012 we are most appreciative of the efforts of our 47 000 associates who support the ongoing success of our broad and diverse customer base.
To a large extent our performance in the second half of the year will be heavily influenced by how much the recent uptick in consumer confidence translates into increased consumer spending on meals away from home as well as our ability to better leverage our case growth.
Looking beyond the current fiscal year we remain bullish about our opportunities as the pre-eminent leader in the $225 billion U.S.
and Canadian foodservice market.
Specifically we remain committed to strengthening our customer relationships reducing our cost structure and pursuing attractive opportunities to expand beyond our core business.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the second quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the second quarter sales were $10.2 billion or an increase of 9.2% compared to the prior year driven mainly by food cost inflation which we estimated to be 6.3% for the period.
In addition acquisitions within the last 12 months increased sales by 0.7% and changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 0.1%.
Case volume for the quarter increased 3.6% year-over-year including acquisitions or 2.8% excluding acquisitions.
We saw solid increases in volumes across all areas of our business.
Gross profit increased 4.8% during the quarter.
Even though gross margin decreased 75 basis points year-over-year to 18% gross profit dollars per stop and per case increased once again.
Operating expenses increased $94 million or 7.1% in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to the prior year period.
The increase in operating expenses was primarily the result of a $58 million increase in salaries and related costs.
The most significant factor impacting this variance was an $18 million increase in management incentive accruals.
And last year's second quarter we had reduced these performance-based accruals which now creates a meaningful year-over-year difference when compared to this year's accrual.
In addition we saw increases in salaries and related expense due to delivery and sales compensation acquisitions and volume growth that has increased pay for activity-based positions.
Also impacting operating expenses were a $12 million increase in gross business transformation expenses a $10 million increase in fuel expense.
It's important to note that fuel surcharges offset this increase although they are reflected in gross profits and a $9 million lower benefit from COLI.
These operating expense items were partially offset by a $7 million decrease in expense related to the company's corporate-sponsored pension plan.
Reported operating income decreased $10 million or 2.3% and net earnings for the second quarter were $250 million a decrease of $8 million or 3.1% compared to the prior year.
As we discussed during our first quarter call we believe it is important to focus on the performance of our underlying business excluding the impact of the Business Transformation Project and the impact of COLI which had a minimal positive impact this year but had a significantly more positive impact in fiscal 2011 periods.
Excluding gross business transformation expenses and the impact of COLI adjusted operating expenses increased 5.5% and adjusted operating income increased 2.5%.
Net earnings on this basis grew 3.3% to $272 million and EPS grew 2.2% to $0.46 per share.
Turning to the impact of the Business Transformation Project for a moment.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2012 gross project expenses totaled $36 million and we capitalized $33 million related to the project.
In the prior year period gross project expenses totaled $24 million and we capitalized $51 million related to the project.
As Bill discussed earlier we have made a lot of progress over the last few months.
We installed enhancements to the system in Arkansas our first pilot location.
We went live in Oklahoma our second pilot location and we have begun preparations to move forward with our first wave of multiple operating companies which should occur prior to the end of our fiscal year.
While we are continuing to assess the results of the Oklahoma implementation which will ultimately determine the timing of our deployment plan I wanted to remind you that once we are confident that the system in Oklahoma is operating as intended and it is ready to deploy more broadly we will begin to depreciate the project costs that have been capitalized to date.
We currently anticipate that we'll reach this point late in our third fiscal quarter.
Once we do project expenses will ramp up quite significantly and capitalized costs will similarly decline significantly.
I will provide our latest estimate for 2012 expense and capital in just a few minutes.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations for the first half of the fiscal year was $539 million.
In the prior year period cash flow from operations was $283 million.
As a reminder we are paying the final $212 million in IRS tax settlement payments during this fiscal year.
Due to the timing of these payments during our fiscal year there was no cash impact on our first fiscal quarter a $106 million cash outflow occurred in the second fiscal quarter and a $53 million cash outflow will occur in each of the third and fourth fiscal quarters.
Cash flow from operations improved by $227 million in the second quarter compared to the prior year due mainly to improved working capital and the redemption of COLI policies.
Working capital improved during the quarter due mainly to improved days outstanding for accounts payable.
The redemption of the COLI policies was an element of our previously discussed plan to reduce the market-driven COLI impact on our earnings.
The redeemed COLI policies were replaced by less volatile corporate-owned real estate assets.
Capital expenditures totaled $207 million for the second quarter and $434 million for the first half.
This year we are constructing new facilities in Long Island Boston and Central Texas as well as a major expansion in Lincoln Nebraska compared to having only 1 such major project underway a year ago.
During the quarter we renewed our unfavorable terms our $1 billion credit facility which supports our highly rated commercial paper facility.
Before closing there are a few guidance metrics for fiscal 2012 that I'd like to update.
First we now expect an increase in fuel expense of $30 million to $40 million this year which is roughly $5 million higher than our previous guidance and is primarily driven by higher projected fuel prices.
As a reminder we implemented a fuel surcharge with a broader customer base late during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 which is intended to mitigate the increase in fuel expense.
Second we now expect the capitalized spend on our Business Transformation Project this year to be $125 million to $145 million.
This is roughly $25 million higher than our previous estimate primarily because we have been able to capitalize more costs than anticipated and we're purchasing more hardware than originally forecast.
In addition we expect gross business transformation expenses for the year to be approximately $230 million to $250 million which is roughly $20 million lower than previous estimates because of a slower ramp-up of our shared services center requiring fewer resources than originally projected in this fiscal year.
Increased capitalization of costs also contributed to this decline in the estimate.
In closing while trends in our business continue to be uneven and difficult to predict we are encouraged by the level of case growth this quarter and our continued ability to increase our market share.
We are taking actions in many areas to improve profitability in both the near term and the long term and believe Sysco's unique capabilities and commitment to ongoing investment in our business provide a solid foundation for future growth.
With that operator we will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll have our first question from John Heinbockel Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
So first thing so business picked up towards the end of the quarter.
Has that continued thus far in January? Obviously weather has been good in a lot of parts of the country and sentiment has been good.
So has that persisted here or have we slid back? I'd say it's persisted.
It's early John.
You know us real well so you know this quarter is a hard quarter to trend line anything this early.
March drives the disproportionate amount of the volume and the earnings for the quarter.
But there's some phenomenons going on.
You haven't heard us talk much about whether last year or this year in terms of it hurting us or helping us.
I would say a couple of things this year we had some bad weather where you normally don't have bad weather last year in the south so that's going to help us here or did help us in January.
We did have the holiday kick in into the first quarter so those kind of offset.
So I'd say net-net the weather has been good relative to last year.
The only caveat to that would be we haven't seen a lot of snow in some of the ski resort areas.
So some of those opcos that depend on that business side they're not seeing that.
But net-net I would say the trends have continued on the top line.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then the -- so you talk about things you can do to improve profitability near and long term.
So talk about 2 things one away from SAP where do you think there might be some cost containment opportunity? And then secondly is there anything pre-SAP that can be done on pricing in terms of well you may not be optimizing your pricing geographically by customer category whatever? Okay.
Well those may connect here.
If I don't handle the second one come back to me on that.
So what I'm really alluding to there John as you look at this thing clearly this isn’t a typical Sysco quarter in terms of what we were able to leverage or not leverage.
And so in the short term there are just some basic things that we need to readdress and to bring a little bit more intensity to.
So basically we need to flip the gross profit dollar growth and the expense growth.
So if we can get to where the gross profit dollars are growing 5% to 6% to 7% and the expenses are growing 4% to 5% then we'll be fine.
Now how do you do that? Clearly we need to continue to work really close with our customers and understand that the value package has worked in both ways in terms of the service and the pricing.
And then internally we saw pressure on productivity in operations in particular in the transportation side even x fuel and to some extent in selling.
So selling potentially some of that has continued to invest in the sales force.
But there's opportunities for us just to manage the business a little bit better here I think on the cost side and get our productivity improvement to go along with the cost improvement.
So I don't want to sound too cliché-ish here but there are some blocking and tackling fundamentals here that we need to improve somewhat here over the second half of the year.
As far as the pricing we are in different ways and have been for the last year or 2 working with some different forms of what I guess would be characterized as scientific pricing.
We have -- as we have moved into this stage of the business transformation work we have looked at opportunities to decouple some of the things that were essentially integrated into the software whether it be CRM -- we've talked a little bit about inside sales.
Pricing would be another one.
I'm not going to tell you today that there's anything imminent there but that's certainly -- I would put that more into the long-term strategic initiative bucket that I talked about along with strengthening some of our supplier relationships a more fundamental look at our cost structure overall as well as obviously what I did speak to which was business transformation.
I also think you'll see us continue to improve our understanding of our customers and customer engagement.
We hired a gentleman here this quarter Bill Goetz who's going to start up our marketing department with a lot of focus initially on the customer side of things.
So there's several things we're working on there for the medium term and we'll be able to explore those a little bit more with you here later in the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up to that to what degree are you still doing reviews with your customers? And is that -- are you still getting a top line benefit like -- it probably is not what you were getting but some kind of benefit from that process? We definitely are.
I’d say that's an area where we're very pleased.
We continue to do them.
I think we're doing them better in terms of the planning the targeting of the actual review itself.
A lot of these people have been through this now several times so you need to raise the quality of the review each time as well as the follow-up.
So we definitely get better retention which is the main goal here and ultimately penetration with the folks that we do review.
And those tend to be our larger accounts and/or accounts with high potential.
So that's definitely a positive for us right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Then one final thing.
First wave remind us that's going to be how many operating companies per week or per month? Per week? LLC Research Division</strong> Again well I guess it's per month right? It's per cycle.
I'll let Chris kind of jump in there John.
We haven't actually talked about how many and to be honest John that's something that we're still working through.
But ultimately we'd like to be able to get to more than a handful per wave.
I would guess -- I would say that the first one is probably a bit smaller than that but it's going to be enough to prove the next set of things we need to prove which is we can roll out multiple companies at the same time.
We'll go next to Greg Badishkanian Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First is just when you talked about taking some share and being aggressive how much of that is due to price versus maybe having your reps out there just maybe calling on customers more? And is there -- have there been any reactions in the marketplace from your competitors? Okay Greg I'll start with that.
So I think it's more of just an attitude or mentality.
We -- if you go back and look at the numbers as I'm sure you have we have seen kind of a plateau-ing out in terms of real growth over the last 2 to 3 quarters at pretty low level.
And we just -- we've mentioned here for the better part of a year or 2 that the pricing environment is pretty acute.
And our whole business model is predicated on case growth and in terms of driving productivity driving -- strengthening relationships with customers and that type of thing.
So I think it's more of an internal mentality across our geography that we were just going to get more aggressive.
And when people are coming after our business in aggressive ways we I think have fought back a little bit harder than maybe in the past and maybe in ways that we don't really like in the short term.
But the bottom line right now for us is I would have liked to have seen a better bottom line this quarter but it's better for us to get the cases and over time work on improving our productivity than to continue to accept the kind of real growth that we were looking at in a market that's -- it looks like it's growing a little bit right now but it's still going to be we think somewhat uneven.
So we're just trying to be more aggressive out there in a smart way.
There are certainly things that we need to improve upon but we just felt that we needed to kind of take it to the market a little bit here.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Is that more in the street or more on kind of multichain or multiunit chains? It plays out different.
I mean in the street you have 8 000 sales people.
And on the big CMU accounts you tend to be working one-off with the larger customers.
But I would say it's both.
I mean what I'm really trying to say here is we're trying to be highly responsive to our customers.
This inflation environment doesn't appear to be going away anytime soon.
That's very difficult for the customers.
From the data that we see it would appear that the inflation at the operator level that they're absorbing or passing along to their customers is 2% to 3%.
You see our numbers around 6%.
So that's something that we have to work through with the customer level.
But to answer your question it's on both fronts.
Research Division</strong> And what do see your customers as doing to absorb some of the higher costs that they have besides trying to push back on you? Are they menu or are they -- what are they doing to be more creative? Well I think all the things that they've been doing I mean certainly the menu analysis and trying to work with us and work within their own shops in terms of how to make the menu more attractive more profitable.
They're trying to find ways to -- there's a lot of different vehicles out there to increase traffic in their restaurant manage their labor staff more effectively all the things that you would expect a good business person to do in that type of operation.
We'll go next to Meredith Adler Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'd like to just continue a little bit on this theme.
I have heard that maybe some of the very largest of your competitors were not feeling quite as much pressure as you are.
Do you have any sense if that's true? And do you have any sense about your positioning that might make things a bit more competitive for you right now? Meredith what was the second part of the question? Research Division</strong> If it's true what is it about your business the way you're positioned that may make you have to be more competitive right now? Well I don't know that it is true.
It's hard for me to comment on what we may have heard from other sources given that they're all private sources.
So I can't really comment on how they're doing.
I can tell you that this market if it's growing at all it's growing very little and we just put up 2.8% to 3.6% growth depending on how you look at acquisitions.
So like I said I mean this quarter we're not pleased with the bottom line but we feel we're doing what's right for Sysco and our customers and our shareholders.
And we're in this thing for the long term so we've got a lot of different competitors out there with different time horizons and I really don't know what they're feeling or seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on some of the smaller competitors we thought they would get hurt during '09 because business was really weak but we had deflation so it probably benefited on the working capital side.
Do you think that they're under more pressure now because working capital is going up significantly? And are they having trouble getting financing? Meredith this is Chris.
I'll try to take that one.
Again it’s hard to make generalizations across the pool of some multiple thousands of smaller competitors.
But as sales go back up re-inflates as we like to say if they want to participate in that growth if they want to sell more boxes they're going to have to find the financing for the working capital somewhere.
I don't know if they have access to that capital or not to be honest with you.
They may not be participating in the growth.
I mean one thing you kind of have to look at if Technomic is saying that the market grew last year I think basically 0.1% or flat and we know we grew our cases and you're at least implying that others may have grown their cases some of the big guys that kind of lead you to believe that somebody out there is shrinking we just don't have visibility as to who it might be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess I'm just trying to understand better.
It is an extremely competitive environment.
And do you have a sense where that competition particularly might be coming from? Or is it just very competitive in every market from lots of different competitors? Yes I think it's a continuation of the theme that Bill and I have talked about here for several quarters.
You've got a very very high inflation coupled with stagnant growth.
And when you get those 2 things together it is just highly competitive.
Everybody is used to growing wants to continue to grow and they've got to fight out there on the street to find that growth when it's not coming organically.
And to compound that Meredith I know you know this your customers are dealing with the same issues as are your suppliers.
So that's what we mean when we talk about the pricing being acute and all that type of thing.
It's acute at every level of the chain here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how long do you think it really takes to kind of get expenses and productivity in line with the gross profit dollar growth? Like I alluded to I think you'll see us improve there.
I think it will be gradual.
This quarter a little cautious in this quarter.
Just from a standpoint we had a pretty good bounce back quarter last year in the third quarter and it's just hard to predict like I was saying earlier because March drives us so much.
But I think as the rest of the year plays out you'll see improvement there.
We'll go next to Karen Short BMO Capital.
I guess it sounds like maybe you were a little surprised by what it cost you to drive the improved volume or case volume growth.
So I guess I'm wondering would you say you reacted more to an acute pricing environment in the quarter? Or did you lead the more competitive environment? We probably have reacted in some particular instances Karen.
And as I've mentioned earlier I think internally we just got a little bit more connected and coordinated on the fact that -- I don't know if you'd call it leading but we're just -- we're not going to sit back in a flat environment and just hope that we get some case growth.
You’re going to have margin pressure whether we grow 0% or whether we grow 2% or 3%.
And the part that we know for sure in our model is that when we grow cases and there's a good balance of that growth between street and contract over time we'll be able to make money.
And that may be not as much on the delta as what we've seen in the past but it's certainly better for us than accepting flattish type growth.
So I wouldn't say we were surprised.
Frustrated might be a little better word in terms of that we weren't able to take more of it to the bottom line.
But we're being very I think appropriately aggressive out there.
And obviously over time the investment that we're making needs to turn off -- turn into some positive margin -- operating margin enhancement.
And I think it will.
I just think it's going to take a little longer than maybe what we've seen in the past.
Okay that's helpful.
And then any color on how much the timing of the holidays this year maybe helped your top line? I realized you'd probably give it back in the next quarter but...
I don't think I can quantify that but certainly the calendar played to our favor this time and I think it was more that than anything.
I mean basically what we saw in terms of the retail we think we saw in our business.
December was a better month for us meaningfully better than what we saw certainly in October and the first part of November.
So I don't know about the numbers but I can tell you it was much stronger the last 5 or 6 weeks.
Okay.
And then just kind of looking forward I don't know if you have any update on what you think the inflationary environment is going to be looking like.
Obviously there was a slight improvement this quarter.
Yes.
It's really hard to predict and a lot of different views on that.
I don't see any views out there that say it's going to subside significantly the next 3 to 6 months.
Hopefully it will come back a little bit but you've seen it go from what 4% to 5% to 7% back to 6%.
So a lot of commodity pressure a lot of pressure in the meat area.
I'll let Chris speak to some of the other categories in terms of what it means to our business.
But we're not really looking for a whole lot of relief here over the next couple of quarters.
No that's right.
I mean I keep saying we may have a crystal ball but we don't know how to read it.
It's -- it eased off.
I'd like to say it was easing off throughout the quarter.
That would not be factually correct though.
It didn't ease off throughout the quarter.
So it's hard to say where it's going to go.
And then I think one of the things we've talked about in the past not so much recently is it used to be just a few categories.
Now it's pretty broad-based.
It continues to be fairly broad-based.
Bill mentioned meat.
That's been a category that's been under inflationary pressure for a while.
And if you just look at supply and demand it looks like it's going to continue to be under pressure for a while.
Other categories may have the opportunity to ease off faster.
Should we get some help in the commodities market we'll just have to look at that.
My best guess is we'll get back to a place where we have some categories that are highly inflationary and others that are more normal.
And so the overall rate may be high but it will only be across certain categories.
That would certainly be better than the situation we're in today.
But again that's crystal ball type stuff and I can't tell you how long it takes to get there or even if we're going to get there.
Okay great.
And then just last question.
Any initial comments on how the second opco is doing on the new system? Yes.
I thought we made some comments on that.
I'll try again here Karen.
Look we just went live there last weekend.
So we're into early part of week 2 and it went well.
I mean it went well from an operational standpoint and some of those things I alluded to in my comments in terms of where we had some struggles.
Certainly on the order entry and on the reports we're off to a much better start there.
And like I said we saw those improvements already in Arkansas back in November.
Now as you can appreciate in the cycle of our business it takes 2 3 4 weeks to go through an inventory turn and all that type of thing to get a full handle on how some of the demand planning and the ordering and reordering systems and all of that will work.
And so we'll be watching that real close here over the next 2 to 4 weeks.
We'll go next to Ajay Jain Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to reconcile the sequential improvement in volumes with your gross margin performance.
So just based on the magnitude of the volume growth in the quarter can you comment on whether there was any greater emphasis on price investments that might explain some of the variability in the top line and your gross margin performance? Ajay it's a great question.
I understand it from your perspective.
It's just not exactly how we run the business here or how we’d think about it.
What I'm trying to articulate to you is we did -- we had our presidents in for our regular fall council here in the middle of November and we talk a lot about the business.
And I think coming out of that meeting we probably did take a little bit more of a cohesive approach to being more aggressive in terms of protecting our business supporting the customer base and going after new business opportunities.
So it wasn't like okay we're going to invest x in price to get to that but we saw some pressure on margins as we did that.
But to be honest with you I can't tell you if the margin pressure really exacerbated that much the second half of the quarter.
So I think my point is the pricing pressure is there.
We're going to go out and get cases while it's there and learn how to manage it as best we can.
And at the same time there's a learning here that's been with us for some time.
And certainly our strategy which I feel very good about is addressing it which is in the world that we're in and that we're going to be in for the foreseeable future we need to continue to work on our cost structure.
And it goes well beyond cutting and slashing.
I mean it's just a fundamental a more cohesive approach to productivity opportunities in all parts of the business: operations selling and admin.
And you see us over the medium term beginning to address some of that with the business transformation work.
In the shorter term when you have 70 Broadline operating companies and 8 000 sales people on the street and 47 000 employees there's always opportunities to improve productivity in a business.
And those are the things that we're working on today.
And clearly there's opportunities for us to assess where we are in our pricing and tweak that as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think you confirmed just based on the general operating environment and the read-through for your case volume trends it looked like you did see some pickup in number [ph] and you're seeing some similar improvement in volume trends in the current quarter.
It doesn't sound like things have tapered off -- correct me if I'm wrong -- things have tapered off over the last month or so.
But can we infer from that that your volumes or case volumes are still in the 2% to 3% range through the first 4 weeks of the quarter? I think what I said Ajay was that the trends that we saw in the latter part last quarter are continuing.
I just want to be a little cautious here is that you've followed us for a long time.
January even February are not that relevant in terms of this quarter.
The month of March is kind of the month where you have the -- you still have the seasonal business in the South but people start getting out again in the North.
So yes so far we've seen continuation in the trends but March is going to drive this quarter.
And as I mentioned in my prepared comments I think that the real key for us in the second half of the year is improving in the areas that have been questioned on and that we've addressed this morning.
But we need to see a continuation of those trends.
And if we do I think we're well positioned.
Research Division</strong> And if I could I also wanted to ask a question about the facility in Indiana.
I know that the timing has gotten pushed out a few different times over the last few years and each time it seems like the main reason cited for the delay is just the lack of industry growth.
So I just wanted to confirm if the business decision to build out the third RDC is purely a timing issue from your standpoint.
Or is there any kind of a scenario where you might feel that the capital investment just simply isn't warranted? Well I mean Ajay as you might imagine those are all coupled together.
When we build facilities we expect to get a return.
And when we first looked at that facility just like the other 2 a lot of the return came from what we call the avoidance of capital which is as cases grow we won't have to build out facilities around that new facility because that facility will take up much of the volume.
So it helped with the return.
So when you get into a low case environment you're not seeing the same return on the facility.
So we said you know what we need to push this thing off a little while and keep looking at it.
We continue to look at it.
Case growth here is certainly helping the case for that facility but it's also causing us to be a lot smarter about what other benefits can we derive from that facility how can we work with suppliers better in terms of inbound transportation et cetera to get more return out of that facility if we don't think we're going to get the return the same way as we did in number 1 and number 2.
So it's really all of the above.
It's certainly not something we've taken off the table.
We just continue to evaluate it.
And we said we'd look at it again in the spring and that's our plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one final question if I could.
Just based on your update for the ERP guidance of I think the new range is $2.30 to $2.50 how much of that is if you can comment Chris is depreciation? I can't really comment specifically on the depreciation number.
What we have said is that if everything continues to go well with Oklahoma as we read the assessment if we're prepared to roll out the first multiple wave we would expect our depreciation to start somewhere in the latter part of the third quarter.
And that is factored into the updated expense guidance that we've given you.
We've not broken out how much it is at this point.
We'll go next to Ed Kelly Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to get a sense for what real underlying market growth is doing here and what the cadence is for Q2 versus Q1.
If you had not been call it a bit more aggressive in terms of growing volume would your case volume growth have been similar to Q1? Would it have been slightly better? How should we be thinking about that? Yes it's another one of those really good questions.
It's hard to tell.
I think what you should be thinking is for the calendar year the early estimate is that the market was flat.
I think we said up 0.1%.
I think at the same time it was probably better than that in the December quarter for the reasons that we alluded to and certainly what you've seen in other businesses.
So I think you probably would have seen better growth in the second quarter -- our second quarter than the first even if we hadn't maybe gotten a little bit more aggressive in terms of our approach and mindset but I don't think you would have seen what we put up.
So that's the best I can conjecture on that Ed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm trying to see if I'm reading you guys correctly here but you sounded a little frustrated about the flow-through on the bottom line of the volume growth.
But it doesn't sound to me like you really plan on changing how you go after volumes.
So if you're going to improve that flow-through was it really all about the operating expense line and how you get that done? Yes.
Look I used the word frustrated.
Maybe I don't know depending on the day that could be a little strong or it may not be.
But the bigger point here I think from our standpoint is when you look at our business model it's predicated on growth whether you're talking about building RDCs whether you're talking about growing the earnings and that type of thing.
And we know when we grow boxes that over some period of time generally we can leverage that into earnings growth.
And that's what the goal is.
So yes we acknowledge here that the number on the bottom line didn't come in where we expected it to for the quarter.
So that's disappointing on one level but I'm not disappointed in the sales.
I mean we feel good about how we're going after the business.
I feel very good about our people and the effort that we're seeing there.
I feel very good about the cash flow of the company.
I mean we put in this IRS thing -- after this year that's behind us.
I think you'll see our working capital management improve somewhat over time.
And I feel good about the strategy.
So overall I feel good.
The frustration is -- look we're competitive people.
We know that we have shareholders that are looking for certain numbers and we just came in a little bit short of what we expected to come in at.
But I'm not frustrated in terms of the business or the people.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then related to the business transformation costs I know you're obviously not prepared to give numbers beyond what you've given this year.
But do you think that the peak year in spending on business transformation costs will be fiscal '13? Or will it be the current year? When we had originally put up numbers for -- I'm going to try to answer your question not by looking forward but by reminding you of what we said before.
When we first put up numbers we showed the peak year being I think either fiscal '12 or fiscal '13.
Since then we’ve talked about the delay that we've experienced.
And so I think you can make a reasonable assumption that the peak year got pushed out.
So my best guess and I don't have numbers to share with you yet but we do believe we'll have quite a bit to talk about in May.
My best guess is peak year is going to be fiscal '13.
Research Division</strong> And just last question for you.
Can you help us with how much you've capitalized to date? And then as you think about that line item beginning to amortize over what time period should we be doing that on average? Yes.
So we're going to issue our Q tomorrow and I think you'll be able to -- with that number and previous numbers you'll be able to come up with the total capitalized number.
I don't have it in front of me or off the top of my head Ed but you'll be able to see what it is.
And then in terms of the timeframe some of the stuff that we're capitalizing is at 7 years some is at 5 some is at 3.
Ball-parking it not knowing the number off the top of my head you can probably take an average around 5 years and you will be -- plus or minus a year you're going to be accurate.
We'll proceed next to Andrew Wolf BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Bill I know it's -- I don't blame you for being a little cautious on sales.
But given the macro backdrop got a little better and your sort of -- your internal numbers got a little better in sync and I know you're going out and getting share too.
But you also characterized I guess your outlook is -- you still think the market is going to be choppy.
What would -- what might make you turn to a little more -- saying something like cautiously optimistic? Would it be a good March or -- for Sysco and the market? Or are you just -- that's your outlook? You just think it's going to be choppy? And if that's the case could you explain why? I let Chris use the word choppy this time.
I didn't say choppy.
So I'm trying to be optimistic here Andy.
So yes I think a couple of good quarters in a row would be all I need to be honest with you.
And so I think we had a nice finish to the last quarter.
How much of that was driven by holidays is to be determined.
I just think if you take a step back and just look at the economy in general and the mindset of the consumer every piece of data that you're seeing right now on the consumer side is increasingly positive.
So if that can continue and if that translates into people going out to eat a little bit more as I said in my prepared remarks then that's a good thing.
So it's just -- it would be nice to see a trend over 2 or 3 quarters where you see that.
And then I think that -- then that would really validate the approach that we've taken which is to get more aggressive in the marketplace and to be well positioned when the volume picks up then we can leverage a lot of our scale at that point in time.
So I feel like we're doing the right things.
It would be nice if we saw the results a little faster.
We haven't.
I think we will see them gradually.
And yes I think cautiously optimistic is where we're at but all that really means is we need to see a couple -- maybe 3 good quarters together.
And it really comes down to what's between the years of the consumer and are they to a point now where they're going to start going out to eat a little bit more.
We're seeing a little bit of that more at the quick service side.
But what we've consistently seen over the last few months is that the tickets the size of the purchases when people go out to eat that is increasing.
So we're seeing signs and we just need to see them I think for a little bit longer.
Andy I'll jump in since I'm the one that used the word choppy.
The economist in me just continues to remind myself that we're comparing these latest quarters to a historically bad point in time.
And by any measure the economic -- the macroeconomic [indiscernible] still say that this economy is very fragile.
So while we're -- Bill's words I'll echo while we're feeling a little bit better you do have to sometimes pull back and remind ourselves that this economy overall is still very fragile.
If we get some rhythm to it the consumer confidence picks up the jobs data is certainly helping here that stuff starts to build momentum you'll hear us starting to be a lot more confident about it.
But we're not very far from the trough that we were in.
I mean the one thing -- I know you know this Andy.
But I mean the one thing we have to remind ourselves and we've been in this period here for an extended time now is going out to eat is still a relatively low-cost form of entertainment and I've been saying that off and on for 25 years here at Sysco.
And we certainly have had to deal with a new environment the last 3 years but once that mindset turns we think that that will be helpful to our business.
We just haven't really seen it turn in the business as much as we'd like to see yet.
Research Division</strong> Good.
That helped me.
A couple of housekeeping questions.
Did you have a similar bonus increase accrual in Q1 that you called out this quarter? Yes it's a little bit of a mismatch.
Last year in the second quarter based upon our full year forecast and the bonus plan and targets we had in place at that time we reversed the bonuses basically back to 0.
That's just what the forecast was telling us.
We were not going to hit the grid.
We had a good third quarter as Bill alluded to earlier though and that put us back in contention.
This year is a slightly different bonus plan.
There are different targets and objectives because you change those year by year depending on your plan.
And we did not reverse -- we do not take our bonus accrual down as low as last year hence you have a lapping effect of $18 million.
Research Division</strong> And lastly actually do have a follow-up on gross margin which I thought was exhausted.
But -- and you might have mentioned this but was there a mix aspect to it too? Are you growing a chain type or non-street type of business that might be lower margin at a greater rate? And is that just part of what is going on with the gross margin? Or was it mostly on the price side? No we really -- I mean we've done the same analysis on gross margin that we've done every quarter to try to ferret out is it mixed is it this is it that and really nothing.
The thing that stands out most is the category we've been calling inflation which is just in the high inflationary product categories.
That's where we're seeing the most margin.
That accounts for the vast majority of the 75 basis points.
Yes I think the only other thing I would add to that is as you read our material and as we speak here today we're talking a lot more in terms of deltas on dollars piece growth sales dollars in particular gross profit dollars expense dollars that type of thing.
Look we have concerns about the margin as you can expect.
But the percentages are not as relevant.
When you've been through a period -- extended period here now of several quarters of inflation whether you're looking at expense percentages or gross profit percentages I don't know that that's as meaningful a way of looking at it as it might have been historically.
But clearly what is meaningful is the dollars that we're taking to the bottom line.
So that's how we're evolving here in terms of how we look at the business internally which is our gross profit dollar growth versus our expense growth.
And we'll have our last question today from Shaurja Ray JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm on for John -- I'm John Ivankoe.
Just a quick housekeeping one first.
Did you quantify how much the weather and the calendar shifts were to the sales growth for the quarter? No we did not.
Research Division</strong> Could you? Or is that...
I don't think it was a big deal to be honest with you.
I wouldn't try to be short with you.
We didn't quantify them because frankly they weren't a big deal.
They weren't enough to call out.
We had some bad weather last year I think in the North but we don't -- I don't really count that because bad weather in the North in December is not a big deal.
Yes.
It's kind of something you expect year-after-year and you never know what day it's going to hit.
I think the one thing that did help but we didn't quantify it was the way the calendar fell with Christmas and New Year's Day being on a Sunday.
That did I think allow people to get out more.
But I think we benefited more and our industry benefited more from just what you saw in retail and everything else which is business just seemed to pick up throughout the holiday season.
But even with that I feel like we were able to grow our business better than others.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of I think longer term you've talked to maybe 0.5 point or 1 point of sales growth coming from acquisitions.
Could you just talk a little bit about how you guys see the acquisition pipeline going forward if you still have kind of confidence in your ability to roll in maybe some smaller companies? Yes I mean that continues to be our goal and our plan 0.5 point to 1 point.
We've got a very robust pipeline.
We're trying as we've said in prior calls to go back to kind of the way we used to do things in the past which is just build relationships with the families that are out there.
And when it comes time for them to exit the business for whatever reason we're a phone call away and hopefully we can put together a transaction.
So we have a pipeline of folks that are thinking about exiting the business either now or sometime in the near future and we try to turn that pipeline into actual transactions.
We've done a number of deals this year.
They’re usually pretty small.
We don't announce every one of them because of their size.
But in aggregate we hope they add up to 0.5% to 1% every year.
That concludes today's Sysco Corp.
Conference Call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Sysco's Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
We will begin today's call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would like to turn the call over to Neil Russell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Casey and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
On today's call you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made in the course of this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ in a material manner from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to risk factors contained in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 2 2011 and in the company's press release issued earlier this morning.
On the call today if you've joined us via webcast you'll notice that we are once again augmenting our comments with a slide presentation.
You can download a copy of the presentation by going to the Investors section of sysco.com.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in the presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation and can also be found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volume growth include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
Lastly I'd like to remind everyone that our Investor Day event will be held at the New York Grand Hyatt Hotel on May 17 beginning at 8:30 in the morning.
If you would like to attend and need information about how to register please contact us for details.
We hope that you will be able to join us.
The meeting presentations will be available to view via the webcast and will also be posted on sysco.com in the Investors section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil and good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported sales of $10.5 billion for the third quarter a 7.6% increase.
Case volume grew 3% including acquisitions and we believe we continue to gain market share in the industry which has shown little to no real growth for a number of quarters.
Net earnings for the quarter were $260 million and reported EPS was $0.44.
Adjusted EPS was $0.49 and excludes several items including gross business transformation costs.
On this basis adjusted EPS grew 2% for the quarter.
We believe this adjusted amount is more representative of the performance of our underlying business.
The modest improvement in market conditions we experienced in the latter portion of the second quarter continued through the third quarter due in part to an unseasonably mild winter in much of the northern part of the geography we serve.
Our volume growth for the quarter was solid across nearly all of our business segments as we improved our customer retention increased our overall account penetration and attracted many new customers to Sysco.
Our cost control performance at the operating company level was very encouraging during the quarter as well.
Excluding the impact of fuel prices and prior year multi-employer pension plan charges we reduced our cost per cases shipped.
Conversely gross margins continue to be a challenge.
While 5.5% inflation and some difficult prior year comparisons contributed to the margin erosion we experienced during the quarter we must execute more effectively in that area of our business.
This area is always one of keen focus and we have several initiatives in various stages of development that are designed to mitigate this pressure and still permit us to be highly responsive to our customers.
Turning to an update on our multiyear business transformation initiative and as we discussed on our second quarter earnings call we implemented a new technology platform at our second pilot facility back in Oklahoma back in January.
While we saw significant improvement in the system's performance compared to our early experience in our first pilot in Arkansas we did identify certain processes that require additional assessment and enhancement.
We are addressing those opportunities now and are targeting a third rollout early in fiscal 2013.
Successfully implementing this technology platform is a critical component to our transformation of Sysco.
Effectively driving our transformational change in a company such as Sysco which has enjoyed a great deal of success over the past 40 years can be challenging at times.
However in our case we absolutely need to embrace such change if we are to continue to perform at a high level in a world that is much different than just a few years ago.
Notwithstanding the predictable bumps that come with this type of journey we remain highly focused on positioning Sysco to be a top-performing company for years to come.
In that regard we recently announced that Manny Fernandez has agreed to expand his role and become Sysco's Executive Chairman of the Board.
Manny is an outstanding business leader with a deep technology background.
His experience and capabilities will enhance the execution and expedite the implementation of our business transformation work.
I've worked closely with Manny for the past 3 years and look forward to his input and support as we build an even more customer-centric and operationally excellent Sysco.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the third quarter sales were $10.5 billion or an increase of 7.6% compared to prior year driven mainly by food cost inflation which we estimated to be 5.5% for the period.
In addition acquisitions within the last 12 months increased sales by 0.7% and changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 0.2%.
Case volume for the quarter increased 2.9% year-over-year including acquisitions and 2.3% excluding acquisitions.
We completed several acquisitions during the quarter including European Imports which we announced in late February and enhances our ability to address the specialty foods market.
So far this year we've completed 8 acquisitions representing roughly $260 million in annualized sales.
We are on track to achieve our goal of increasing sales by 0.5% to 1% through acquisitions.
We have a number of additional acquisitions at various stages of completion in our pipeline that we hope to close in the coming quarters.
Gross profit increased 2.1% during the quarter.
Gross margin decreased 95 basis points year-over-year to 17.8% pressured by an intensely competitive market and high levels of inflation.
Operating expenses increased $28 million or 2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to the prior year period.
The increase in operating expenses was primarily the result of a $29 million increase in salaries and related costs due to higher delivery and sales compensation and acquisitions.
Also impacting operating expenses were a $24 million increase in gross business transformation expenses and a $10 million increase in fuel expense.
It's important to note that fuel surcharges offset this increase although they are reflected in gross profits.
These operating expense items were partially offset by a $36 million charge in the prior year related to the withdrawal of one of our operating companies from a multi-employer pension plan or MEPP.
Reported operating income increased $11 million or 2.7% and net earnings for the third quarter were $260 million an increase of $1 million or 0.4% compared to the prior year.
As we have discussed on previous calls we believe it is important to focus on the performance of our underlying business excluding the impact of the business transformation project and the impact of COLI which had a minimal positive impact this year but had a significantly more positive impact in fiscal 2011 periods.
In addition last year's third quarter included the MEPP charge I just mentioned and a $10 million tax benefit.
Excluding these items adjusted operating expenses increased 2.6% and adjusted operating income increased 0.9%.
Net earnings on this basis grew 2.8% to $290 million and EPS grew 2.1% to $0.49.
Turning to the impact of the business transformation project for a moment.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2012 gross project expenses totaled $49 million and we capitalized $39 million related to the project.
In the prior year period gross project expenses totaled $25 million and we capitalized $42 million related to the project.
Now turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations for the first 39 weeks of the fiscal year were $908 million.
In the prior year period cash flow from operations was $666 million.
As a reminder we are paying the final $212 million in IRS tax settlement payments during this fiscal year.
We have paid $159 million in cash in the first 39 weeks of the year and we'll make the final payment of $53 million in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year.
In total we will have paid the IRS $952 million over 12 quarters including this final payment.
Cash flow from operations improved by $242 million in the first 39 weeks compared to the prior year due mainly to improved working capital management the redemption of COLI policies changes in accrued expenses and a lower pension expense.
Working capital has improved year-to-date due mainly to smaller increases in accounts receivable and inventories this year compared to the prior year.
This is due in part to improvements in DSOs receivables and inventories and in part to changes in inflation trends.
Last as we discussed on the second quarter call we redeemed some COLI policies which benefited operating cash flows.
This was an element of our previously discussed plan to reduce the market-driven COLI impact on our earnings.
Capital expenditures totaled $199 million for the third quarter and $633 million for the first 39 weeks of the fiscal year.
This year we are constructing new facilities in Long Island Boston and Central Texas as well as a major expansion in Lincoln Nebraska compared to having only one such major project underway a year ago.
Our new facility in Central Texas opened recently which allows us to consolidate our facilities in Austin and San Antonio.
With this move we have the dual benefits of lower facility costs and a room for growth in this important market.
Before closing there are a few guidance metrics for fiscal 2012 that I'd like to update.
First we now expect an increase in fuel expense of $35 million to $45 million this year which is roughly $5 million higher than our previous guidance and is primarily driven by higher projected fuel prices.
As a reminder we implemented a fuel surcharge with a broader customer base late during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 which is intended to mitigate the increase in fuel expense.
Fuel surcharges are recorded in sales and therefore benefit gross profit.
We've wrapped the implementation of this surcharge as I mentioned late in the third quarter so the year-over-year benefit from the surcharge will not be as apparent in changes in gross profit and gross margins going forward.
Second we now expect gross business transformation expenses for the year to be approximately $175 million to $195 million which is roughly $55 million lower than previous estimates.
We had previously expected to begin amortizing project costs late in the third quarter but this did not occur.
We now expect amortization to begin in early fiscal 2013 with our next planned conversion.
In addition we expect the capitalized spend on our business transformation project this year to be $145 million to $165 million.
This is roughly $20 million higher than our previous estimate primarily because of the timing of our next conversion in early fiscal 2013.
As a result we will continue to capitalize more of the project's spend than originally planned.
This increased CapEx spend on the project has impacted our overall expectations for CapEx for this year.
As a result we now expect total CapEx to be approximately $775 million to $800 million in fiscal 2012 which is back in line with the original guidance we gave in our 10-K.
In closing while we are encouraged by improving industry trends we are taking action in many areas to improve profitability in both the near-term and long-term and believe Sysco's unique capabilities and commitment to ongoing investment in our business provide a solid foundation for future growth.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Michael Kelter with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the gross margin pressure.
Is there a way that you might be able to tease out how much of that is from food inflation versus competitive pressures versus mix shift to lower-margin business? And kind of I guess as a second part of that is if the current food cost environment holds meaning the basket probably going to be down a bit next year based on the spot market will GM rebound in fiscal '13? Mike it's Bill.
Obviously I mean I think you know us enough well enough now to know that I probably can't answer with the kind of precision you'd love for me to answer it with.
But let me try this.
I would say to you that it's clearly coming from multiple places all right? So you've got -- first and foremost you've got our customers who are feeling a lot of pressure to continue to create traffic in their establishments and that's where you see this difference in inflation with inflation at the restaurant is we believe running 2% to 3% and ours has been in that 5% to 7% so far this year.
So there's that kind of challenge that you work through there with your customer each and every day.
There's certainly the typical type of competitive pressure that goes along with that.
There's -- that's on the sell.
Now there's also on the buy where I think we have opportunities there to continue to find ways to work more effectively with our suppliers and that type of thing in terms of how we purchase the product.
And then I think the third thing and I think this is a little more clear this quarter is there's us in terms of our mindset and our approach to pricing and trying to strike the right balance between being responsive to our customers and write an appropriate margin and that type of thing.
So it comes from all 3.
The reality from where I sit that makes this quarter a little different than the first half of the year is I just feel like we didn't do as good a job on the margin line in terms of what we can control and what we can influence in the short term.
And I would just use an example and don't -- I'm not putting a pencil to this but I think we're in an environment today with -- if you just listen to everything I just said and look at everything that you all look at the environment today I don't think is an environment where anytime soon we're going to see margins turn around and necessary grow.
I do think there's opportunity to mitigate that pressure.
And if we had just had maybe 1/2 of the erosion that we saw on the margin line maybe even just 2/3 of it I think we -- the tone of my comments and the tone of the release would've been a little different where our earnings would've -- they would've been good to maybe not great but they would've been a very acceptable quarter from our perspective.
So I think we're in a mode right now where our job is to continue to certainly be sensitive to our customers work closer with our suppliers.
But we've got to do a better job managing the margin.
And I think from a messaging standpoint when you're selling a box of food and say our average box costs $30 $35 but some of the boxes in the area where we're seeing the most inflation poultry meat those boxes can cost $45 and $55.
It's very -- I don't think it's practical to expect that that is going to be passed along in a short period of time on a proportionate basis.
But I certainly think it's appropriate to expect us to do a better job managing the pricing on that.
And that's obviously what we're working on.
Research Division</strong> And you mentioned -- you actually referenced in your opening remarks several initiatives to improve gross margin.
Could you maybe to the extent that you're able give us an idea of what kind of things you're thinking about and if there are any 1 or 2 that we should have our eye on? Well I think it's going to be hard for you to have your eye on it but I think the things that we have our eye on is there's certain things that we do in terms of how we approach pricing and where we might make exceptions and that type of thing and how we work with customers and suppliers.
We just need to be more consistent throughout the organization.
And so it's not 1 or 2 things.
It's several things that go into how we price both -- with both our large contract customers and also with our street customers how we buy product and how we manage that process internally.
And what I'm really alluding to there is we have opportunity to execute better and in particular more consistently throughout the company and just make some better decisions there.
So I can't give you a lot of granularity for obvious reasons but I can tell you there's opportunity there.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly maybe if you could talk about -- a bit about the cadence of sales in the quarter.
And I know it's not one -- I hate to slice things so finely.
But the change in casual dining sales trajectory intra-quarter this particular quarter was pretty significant where you had a decent January February and then a much weaker March April.
So curious if you can give us any color as to what you saw for the quarter.
Well we don't typically comment on cadence of growth month-to-month.
And obviously we read a lot of what you all write and we have a sense for what you're saying which is I believe the industry view is that things did slow down in terms of growth in March and April.
This quarter as we talked last quarter it was just a back-ended-weighted quarter for us.
March is always going to drive our numbers.
So anytime you've got a bigger denominator I think sometimes that will affect the growth rates as well.
But certainly the things that helped in January and February were the calendar.
I believe we had -- I think the holiday helped us early off -- early on in the quarter.
In the scheme of the overall numbers that's not that big a deal.
I think weather was probably the biggest thing.
And we've kind of gotten to where we stopped whining about weather.
But at least on this call I'm at least acknowledging that it clearly helped the industry and it helped us from the standpoint that I think in some of your more metropolitan markets in the north we saw and felt better volumes.
Now I'll quickly add and I'm not whining about it as I said we were hurt in areas where you would expect winter to be beneficial.
So the big ski areas in Colorado and Utah and Florida we did not do as well in those areas.
And so I'm not going to say it netted out but it wasn't a totally positive thing from a weather standpoint.
So not trying to dodge the question too much here but we saw good growth in the first couple of months.
It continued maybe at somewhat of lower rate.
But I'd have to tell you the biggest thing I think we're beginning to see and we don't comment on this on a month-by-month basis either is I think the rate of inflation is subsiding and that's going to affect the top line as well.
And hopefully over time it will subside to a level where it's more in sync with what our customers can absorb.
We'll take our next question from Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> My first question is just on the operating expense leverage which I think was somewhat commendable.
But you clearly benefited from the cycling of last year's charge for multi-employer pension expense.
And then just wanted to ask if there are any other factors that you can talk about behind the cost savings and whether or not any of the SG&amp;A improvement has spillover effect into the fourth quarter.
Ajay it's Bill.
Again yes I think we did some good things on the expense line.
We tried to call out the things that I would characterize as nonrecurring or unusual.
So the business transformation expense because of where we are in the timeline was a little less than what we originally thought and we did have the credit last year.
The point I made was that at the operating company level our cost per case was down slightly which is a big deal.
I mean to manage your cost per case flat to down is something we're always trying to do and at times we do it better than other times.
So I think if you go and look at our first half of the year certainly we had margin pressure.
The first quarter we didn't see the type of volume growth we would've liked to see in that.
We did do better in that area in the second quarter.
But we had opportunities just on execution in terms of the expense side in the business.
And I just felt that our folks did a better job managing expenses throughout the company in all facets SG&amp;A and operations.
So I think we just executed better on that line and that's a line we're going to have to continue to address both structurally as well as just day-to-day management to mitigate the margin pressures that we can't totally overcome.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you confirm if there was a significant payroll or headcount-driven benefit this latest quarter? I'll let Chris take that one.
Got it.
Really nothing to be called out Ajay.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as far as the change in the outlook for pension expense Chris can you confirm what's behind the updated guidance and if that's on the multi-employer side or presumably with your corporate-sponsored pension plan? Yes Ajay.
I may not be understanding your question.
We actually didn't change our pension guidance.
It's been the same all year.
Was there a different question? Research Division</strong> No.
I'm sorry I was just -- I was going off of your presentation materials.
I thought the pension expense was indicated to be $25 million lower than fiscal '11.
Yes.
And that's been the case.
For the year we said it'd be down about $28 million roughly about $7 million per quarter and that's been consistent during the year.
That's one of those items you set in the beginning and it's pretty much -- it's set for the year so I was just calling out that on a year-over-year basis it is lower and it's one of the reasons why the costs are lower.
Research Division</strong> Okay sorry my bad.
Finally I understand that you were able to eke out some gross profit dollar growth this last quarter.
But assuming that you are going to market now with a more aggressive pricing structure the gross margin impact seems to be increasing each quarter.
So even as inflation seem to be moderating do you have any color about the gross margin outlook for the current quarter in June? I mean could the impact be more than the 100 basis points from Q3? The only color I have Ajay is we need to improve as I said a couple of times now.
So I certainly hope not.
And as I mentioned in my prepared comments that's an area of keen focus here.
So we need to bring that number back.
As I said to Michael at this level of inflation I don't know that it's realistic that we can totally reverse it but we certainly need to lessen that variance.
We'll take our next question from Ed Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe talk about what the impact was in the quarter from the net impact of I guess the New Year's Day shift and the leap year on the volume front? I think it helped.
I'm trying to be as descriptive as I can here.
Leap year is always a good thing.
You get an extra day.
So I'm sure that helped but -- and the holiday thing.
But I think when you line that up with -- over a 13-week period and if you look at in those months I don't think it's that big a deal to be totally honest with you.
Yes Ed this is Chris.
We did take a look at that.
And frankly we didn't think it was enough to call out specifically.
I think Bill's right.
It helped a little but it's really not material.
I think the weather was probably a bigger help than anything.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could we come back to the gross profit again? And I want to try to approach it a different way because there's a lot of questions on margin and I'm not so sure how -- and I know margin's relevant.
But maybe we could look at it a different way right? If you think about gross profit dollar growth which was a couple percent this quarter your business is really all about driving more cases through the network right? And gross profit dollar growth was less than real kind of volume growth if you thought about it for the first time in a while.
So I wanted to get your thoughts on going forward is that how we should be thinking about this business? Can you grow gross profit dollars faster than volume? I'm just trying to figure out the best way to model this because up until now you've actually been doing a pretty good job there.
Yes.
I think I'm happy to come at it any way you want.
We certainly look at it every way we can.
I think it's a good callout in your point there and that's the unacceptable part of it.
We can't grow gross profit dollars at a lower rate than what we grow cases.
What I'm trying to acknowledge is what we've seen here the last few quarters and what I think we may see for a while is GP dollars may grow somewhat slower than the sales dollars grow but that's I think where we're not pleased with the quarter.
We should have -- we certainly sought to grow gross profit dollars at a higher rate.
And I think if you looked at first half of the year it was closer to mid-single digits that type of thing.
So that was our callout and I think that's a very fair way of looking at it.
But no I would not -- we're certainly not planning the business around growing gross profit dollars at a lower rate than case growth.
That's not acceptable.
Research Division</strong> Is that something that you can fix quickly meaning like over the next quarter or so? Or does that take longer? I think it's just something that you fix each and every day in our business and you bring focus to it.
And I think at the operator level our operator level we don't necessarily talk about it quite like that.
We try to get people just more focused on their categories on their customers and so on.
But I take your point.
I actually agree with it that when I look at our business I look at everything clearly.
But if there's kind of 3 lines that jump out one is volume growth two is gross profit dollar growth and three is cost per case.
So those are the 3 things that we're very focused on.
And I think again in terms of how I approached my comments we're pleased with the volume growth we're pleased with the cost per case performance and we're not pleased with the gross profit dollar growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Bill could you give us your assessment of sort of business transformation so far? I mean we've got Manny coming in.
It looks like there's been some delays in the rollout again.
Just help us understand I guess what's happening and where the project is today versus kind of where you thought it would be.
Well we're going to we talk at length about that next week.
But I'll kind of dive in here and try to give you some color.
So essentially we've had some delays and we've had another delay here after Oklahoma.
We're not happy about that but the reality is this is new ground for us.
And it's better to deal with these issues now in terms of getting the system to perform at a level or at least close to the level that it's going to need to perform.
So you state then [ph] to get too deep into this and then have to fix a lot of things after the fact.
Now with that said I think what you're seeing from the board is we certainly can benefit from Manny's input and Manny's experience and the relationships he has in this area.
And so he's going to work closer with our team and with me personally to make sure we're striking the right balance here in terms of driving this out at appropriate pace but also in a way that it delivers the benefits that we expect it to.
Ed let me jump in there too.
We've talked about today business transformation primarily around the rollout of our new ERP system.
And I think one of the messages you're going to hear from us next week pretty loudly is really helping the audience understand that business transformation is very very broad and it includes a lot of stuff that's going on inside the organization one stream of which is the rollout of this ERP system.
And again we're going to give you as much color as we can about all of the different things that we're working on.
We're going to try to help you understand better which of those streams of initiatives have benefits that can be achieved in advance of an ERP and which of those are really tied to an ERP implementation et cetera.
So I'm saying all this only because when we think of business transformation around here it's much more than just how quickly can we rollout the ERP system.
As Bill said it's a critical part of the future success of the organization so we're frankly solidly supportive of it and we've got to get it done and all those things.
But at the same time we're not waiting to do everything that we need to get accomplished for that ERP system to be fully rolled out.
And again we hope to give you a lot more color on that next week.
Research Division</strong> Do you think -- you had mentioned in the past that fiscal '13 would be the peak year for expense for the project.
Is that still the case? I think going back 1.5 years and 2.5 years ago at Investor Day the numbers clearly showed that the peak year would be 2013.
Now when I've been asked about that since that time what I've said is we've not put out new guidance for cost and expenses yet.
We will get into some of that next week and we'll update you on where we think the peak is et cetera.
I think again the way to -- you didn't ask me; you asked Bill.
But if you ask me how I look at this at least from a cost perspective is we're going to have costs for the ERP rollout and additional business transformation stuff for the next several years obviously until we get this thing all the way completed.
We're also going to have benefits from business transformation that we're going to start to realize throughout this.
I don't want to go back to talking about the net -- cost net of benefits.
We hope to be able to show you those kind of independently.
But I don't want to just fixate on the cost side of the equation.
We really want to give you more color around what we believe the benefits are going to be as well.
Yes.
I think just to kind of wrap it from my end here Ed and we will talk obviously more next week business transformation is just something we need to do.
And that's what I was trying to talk about.
We need to go to market.
We need to make some changes in terms of how we go to market and that's a big deal in terms of how we've been running the company here for the last several years.
And we need to do that because the landscape in the world that we're competing in and servicing customer in is a lot different than it was even 3 to 5 years ago.
The technology platform as you hear us talk about that is a very critical foundational part of the entire spectrum of business transformation.
But as we get deeper into this thing and as we hit some bumps here and there we also have the opportunity to adjust our thinking on what defines business transformation what other things can we do to create some benefits along the way.
And those are some of the things we'll talk about next week.
Ed I feel like I dodged your question so let me answer a little more directly in terms of the cost.
While I can't tell you where the peak is yet here's what I think we have said and will continue to say: 2013 will be more expensive than 2012.
That should not be a surprise.
As we start to depreciate this thing we ramp up our shared service center more 2013 will definitely be more expensive than 2012.
What I don't have visibility on for you as I sit here today is whether '14 or '15 will be higher or lower or the same as 2013.
Again we hope to be able to talk more about that next week.
We're still looking at all of that data as it flows in.
We'll take our next question from Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Bill maybe you could talk a little bit about the competitive environment and what do you think your competitors are feeling.
Obviously you've had a gross margin hit this quarter and case-wise have gotten a little better.
But what do you think is going on for the competitors out there? And are you seeing any further weakening that may cause some of them to exit the business? Great question hard to answer because we don't obviously get a lot of visibility to their -- we don't get any visibility to their financial results so a lot of what we get is somewhat anecdotal.
My sense is that the larger players the better operators of scale are doing okay.
I think this kind of market over time will be good for the people that have scale and who have the capital to invest in the business.
So my sense is they're doing fine.
I'm sure they're having to compete very hard on the margin line as well but obviously I don't have visibility to that.
I think maybe we're beginning to see and I'll let Chris speak to this there's thousands of competitors out there.
As we've talked before I think perhaps some of the smaller ones are beginning to think even harder about what their future is in terms of the industry and that type of thing.
I'm not saying it's a large-scale phenomena but I think it is probably getting harder both for our smaller competitors as well as for some of the smaller operators in the space.
Yes I'll add to that.
I mean one of the things that we sense from the market and again it's more anecdotal than anything is everyone is highly focused on cost right now.
So that should tell you something about where the top line is with some all of our competitors.
It is easier if you've got some size and scale to get some cost structure improvement.
I think the smaller players while they may be great companies and they're highly competitive in their own markets it is harder for them to get their cost structure down significantly and it's becoming harder for them to -- I believe harder for them to compete and frankly we're starting dialogues with more of them these days than we have been.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a question on the road map here on the business transformation.
So I think the plan previously was you would do the second market and then do waves of openings.
So now you're inserting one more third market test and then the waves of openings come.
And is that moment where you hit the waves of openings is that when you start depreciating at that point? Yes actually -- and I don't know exactly what I said on our prior calls so I'll just say it new and fresh is we will start depreciating when we go to the next company.
Now you're right.
Originally we thought we would be going to a small wave of companies next.
We're actually going to go to we believe one additional company as Bill said in the early part of the new fiscal year probably a month or so later than we had originally intended.
So that would trigger depreciation.
And that's an accounting determination of when we're putting the machine into service.
And so that is still the plan.
And that's the only reason frankly the depreciation didn't start in the third and fourth quarter is we weren't -- we had not rolled to that next conversion yet.
Thereafter we're not really commenting yet about what the conversion cycle or rate or run rate or road map was going to be at this point in time.
We'll give you again more color on that next week.
But it's not our goal to put out there a set number of companies for next year or a pace.
It's more along the lines of here's the progress we hope to make in the next year and it will almost certainly be a range.
If we've learned anything about this it's that the best-laid plans don't always come to fruition and so we'll range it appropriately.
Research Division</strong> And are the cost savings more linked to the number of operating companies that are using it? Or is it there are other activities that might generate cost savings as well? Yes.
So let me go back to the comment I made earlier about business transformation in general.
Again as we've gotten into this thing over 3 years now there's quite a bit that we've been able to identify in terms of cost savings other enhancements that are not directly tied to a new ERP system being rolled out into our company.
As we've identified those and we've discovered how we can accelerate those we're obviously going after those sooner rather than later and they're not tied to any number of companies being converted.
There are obviously other benefits opportunities that are still tied to us having a new ERP system in all of our operating companies.
That of course -- or those of course would be weighted more towards the more companies you have the more benefits you get.
Those are things that primarily are tied to the types of business processes and functions that will be put into our shared service operation.
So the more companies you roll out the more of those functions we can consolidate into our shared service operation and begin to realize some of the benefits.
We'll take our next question from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Bill a couple of things.
Where do you think you are with your analytics around pricing? And then getting back to the gross margin question with respect to demand elasticity right and an ability to forecast or tell what the elasticity is per item in certain geographies so where does that capability stand? And if it's not where it needs to be what would you do to make that more robust? Great question John.
I would say to you that -- in terms of the way I'm interpreting your question I'd say we have a lot of work to do in that area of pricing in terms of more sophisticated or scientific pricing.
But we have done some work there and we'll continue to look at it.
The balancing act here is again -- don't hold me to these percentages.
But let's just say that roughly 1/2 of our customers have some form of contract and the other 1/2 don't.
They work with a marketing associate and that type of thing.
So what we're always trying to do is balance the value of having say a more scientific approach to pricing with the value of having that marketing associate in front of the customer taking that order and really understanding what's important to that customer today in terms of their order and frankly down the road over the next 1 to 3 months in terms of running their business.
So our marketing associates typically and even our presidents probably typically don't think in terms of elasticity but that's what they do.
I mean they're making a judgment call every time they take an order: what's the right balance in terms of maximizing that order supporting the customer in terms of what they need and striking the right overall price not necessarily per line item but for that order in general? And so that today and as you well know historically has been handled in a very decentralized way through our sales folks and through the operating companies on that large segment of our customer base.
I believe there is opportunity to do more sophisticated work in that area but it's work that's in its formative stage with us at best right now.
And I think that will be one of our key -- that is one of our key initiatives that we've called out and that we'll talk a little bit about next week.
But frankly it will take some time to develop.
So I guess my answer is there's opportunity there but I don't necessarily see a scenario where you go all the way to one extreme and you want to be totally pulling levers from a centralized location on a group of customers that still are going to be somewhat -- their decisions are going to be driven what's happening in that local marketplace what's happening in their establishment.
So I still think that local salesperson and local operating company visibility is going to be very important.
LLC Research Division</strong> So to follow on then the -- and I agree you can't measure from Houston.
But having said that do the systems exist today to give the marketing associate more information on that? Do they have it -- can they access it? And then is it more an issue of training so that they are more familiar with how the elasticities work? Again I'm going to stay away from the word elasticity.
They have more visibility.
They have a lot more visibility today John than they did say 5 or 7 years ago to certain things in terms of cost movements and that kind of thing.
They have more visibility today than they did to some other things 1 year or 2 ago.
I'd say 2 things.
One is our ability to your point to train effectively that will lend itself to execution.
And then secondly what else can we provide them in terms of not just maybe what's happening with our customers within what we see but what else is happening in the marketplace? And that's a whole different level of analytics that is very difficult to get to but may provide us an opportunity down the road.
So they certainly have more information than they've had in the past.
But your point is a valid one.
There's training opportunities here and there's execution opportunities and then there's a whole other body of work which is what else can we provide both at the central location as well at the local location to make smarter decisions that are in the best interests of both our customers and ourselves? So we're making progress John.
I'm not trying to dodge here.
We're making progress.
But this would be -- this is a big opportunity for us over the next 3 to 5 years.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then when you think about tying that back into the macro then if we're going to see disinflation here which we probably should that 5.5% should be a year from now from or quicker what do you think the elasticity is that that in itself creates demand right? So we'll -- we lose a couple hundred basis points in inflation.
We gain some percentage of that in unit demand.
And I assume would you agree that it's not one-for-one right? Yes it's not one-for-one.
I'm not even sure that's a key variable anymore.
I think if you and I were having this conversation 5 or 10 years ago we'd be talking about that.
I think what's more important is the mindset of the consumer and how our customers see that and their ability to absorb price increases and to get traffic to make themselves more profitable.
So I think it's actually the psyche of the consumer is more important than that right now.
But where the lowering of inflation if it happens gradually would be beneficial is it just creates less of a gap between what so far we've had to absorb and what we're able to pass along.
Now look I would also echo what I said earlier: gross profit is a function of a lot of things.
You've got to move boxes.
It's a function of how we price.
It's a function of how we move prices within our system transferred pricing if you will.
And it's how we buy.
So there's other things we need to do on the buy as well.
And that really comes down to reassessing how effective some of our strategic relationships are with our suppliers.
And we're beginning to do that.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then lastly right now the plan for the third operating company is to be in test for roughly how long? And then when you start the rollout what's the capacity within the organization to do this meaning I don't know how you -- whether you're going to measure it by quarter or what.
But what do you think capacity is to get companies rolled out? Well we're going to roll out as we said the third conversion in the early part of fiscal 2013.
We don't really have any intention of having a set period of time to watch the system before we make additional determinations.
We'll actually put in place a schedule that says "Unless we find something that is material we'll keep going and we'll do more." We're not really again commenting about how many more of these things we'll do.
We'll talk a little more about that next week.
But I'll plant kind of a concept is that in the past when we've talked about the rollout for the ERP system we've -- frankly we've put out there what we hoped to be able to accomplish which ended up being a fairly aggressive rollout schedule.
And we've put the numbers out there appropriate for that rollout schedule and we're learning a lot in the process that tells us that it is aggressive or it was aggressive and we might want to be a little smarter about how we roll this thing out.
The way we'd hope to be able to talk about it next week is look this is a process that is going to be continuing for a while.
There's a pace that we need to do that's a relatively conservative and smart and prudent pace.
But if we get legs underneath us if we start seeing great responses from the first few rollouts we'll be ready willing and able to go faster.
But that's not going to be the way we plan it.
We're just going to be ready to do it if we start getting some great news out of the system.
So again I think we'll talk a little bit more about that next week.
But right now we're not talking about any number of companies per quarter or per year.
We'll take our next question from Karen Short with BMO Capital.
Just a couple of questions on gross margin.
And I want to kind of focus on Broadline versus SYGMA and maybe I'll separate this out into sales and -- or case volume in Broadline and SYGMA and gross margin.
Can you maybe just talk a little bit about each segment directionally which is seeing slightly better than you might have expected case volume growth and which is seeing less gross margin erosion? Maybe just kind of talk directionally about each of those.
Well let me take the first part.
I don't know that we can say a whole lot about the second part Karen.
But in terms of growth I would say and I alluded to this in my comments as well we saw good growth in all the segments I would say with the exception of our FreshPoint.
The produce markets last year were a lot more volatile and so that created some challenges this year in terms of both top line growth as well as margin management in that area.
So I'd say the Broadline with the exceptions of some of the -- maybe the weather-sensitive areas where we had some -- perhaps some better performance in places that characteristically we wouldn't see in the winter up north and some weaker performance in some of the more vacation spots I'd say generally the case growth was good throughout.
It was good in Canada.
SYGMA had good case growth.
The earnings pressure -- they did have earnings pressure more -- they've had more pressure on earnings this year than the last 2 years where they've had really strong years.
Meat companies we've integrated into the Broadline now so I don't want to call out too much here.
But I would say it's generally pretty good with the exception of the produce side of business.
But would it be fair to say that SYGMA has gotten more competitive directionally than Broadline? No I wouldn't say that.
I mean I think we've tried to be competitive on both.
I think probably one thing I should say because sometimes I think it gets misunderstood we've seen good growth and pretty comparable rates of growth both on the contract side of the business including SYGMA as well as the street side of the business.
So I think -- sometimes I think people think all of our growth is coming from the contract side.
But the reality is it's pretty balanced.
It might have been slightly steeper on the contract side but not that much.
Now we've invested in margin to get some of that to be fair but we're seeing good growth on both sides of that equation.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just looking at gross margin if you said this I didn't catch it.
Is there -- can you kind of give a directional split between the competitive environment and inflation on the gross margin pressure you saw this quarter like 50-50? No I tried there and I obviously didn't do very good.
I'm almost looking at it in a different way.
So I think in one bucket you can put the customer and what they can absorb you can put the competitor you can put the supplier relationships and you can put for lack of a better term what's in between our ears in terms of what we think we can do.
All right.
So that's what the bucket is.
It's impossible for me to tell you how much is one or the other.
That's why you hear us talk about competitive pricing environment as opposed to competitive competitor environment.
The other bucket I think is just the math of inflation which is what I was trying to bring out which is at this rate of inflation I don't know -- percentages are not quite as relevant as they are when you have 2 to 3 points of inflation whether you're looking at margin or whether you're looking at costs.
Dollar growth -- at the gross profit line dollar growth of that operating income line becomes very important.
So the way I'm just trying to compartmentalize in my head is what level of margin erosion could've still provided a quarter that would've met our expectations? And again I'll let you do the math on that because I don't know what your expectations specifically were.
But I would say if we had 1/2 of the erosion on a percentage basis we would've probably been pretty pleased with the quarter.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I just was curious on the CapEx.
Your CapEx for the year comes up about $50 million to $75 million.
I think you called out $20 million was business transformation.
What was the remaining bucket? Actually the increase on the annual CapEx is really almost entirely made up of the increase on the ERP system.
It's the comparison between the quarterly and the annual.
But going back to the range of $775 million to $800 million from where we were last quarter is almost entirely made up of the ERP increase the amount of additional capitalization there which is $20 million year-over-year I believe but it's about $40 million quarter-to-quarter.
We'll take our next question from Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> We talked a lot about inflation and passing it along.
But maybe you could talk about -- I think you said you got some business by being aggressive.
Could you talk a little bit about sort of what you're doing to go after business? And are there particular customers or segments of the business that you're being particularly aggressive about? I'll start with that one Meredith.
I think what we've -- what I've tried to say is that we've been aggressive in growing our business in terms -- and I think in a market like this we certainly should be.
I don't know that any of the issues that we're talking about today whether margin pressure or managing costs or business transformation I don't think any of those would be a whole lot better if we didn't grow the cases.
And I would argue that they'd be even more acute challenges.
So the first place we start and we've had to do a little more of this over the last year or so than in the past is we're kind of defending our own turf a little bit more than we've had in the past.
We have a lot of different people that come after our customers obviously.
And we have a lot of customers.
We have a lot of good business out there.
So we certainly have I think dug in over the last several months and tried to work with our customers in every way we can in terms of drop size; in terms of delivery days; in terms of products; and ultimately where necessary in terms of price points to give ourselves every opportunity to retain business.
And then our most profitable business beyond what we retain is the business that we grow within the account.
And so as we see opportunities where we might have 23% share of wallet and we see opportunities to grow that business we certainly -- and this is not something new.
I think maybe the degree of it's a little greater than in the past.
We go after that business hard and we find creative ways that make sense for the customer and us.
And sometimes that may result in price accommodation with the expectation that we'll get more business and larger drops and that that should fall to the bottom line on the expense line.
That's why traditionally I've always focused more on the sales line and the operating income line and then tried to explain those deltas between the 2 lines above gross profit and expenses.
And of course the third area is an area where we're always I think very proficient which is going after new accounts.
And our best reference for new business is current customers and I think it's just -- that's just the environment in terms of what it takes to go after -- if we're going to after business we don't have that's typically somebody else's gold account.
So we're coming at it from all directions but I would tell you they're all important.
But I think if there's a little bit more emphasis than the other in the last 12 15 months it's been more on making sure that we don't lose business with the quality customers that we do have and we find acceptable ways to retain that when other people come after us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question about the business transformation process.
You folks did actually invest in a shared services facility in Houston but obviously I don't think it is being fully anywhere near fully utilized at this point.
I was wondering whether there are dis-synergies caused by the delay in rolling out the ERP system.
Yes.
I think absolutely correct Meredith.
I think we've talked about that on a previous call that one of the reasons why these numbers these expenses are high right now is that we've got significant costs out at our shared service center because you have to ramp up in anticipation of additional converted companies.
And so you don't get to kind of scale if you will until you're pretty far down the road.
Now we've tried to be sensible -- once we got more of an idea about the pace of conversions et cetera we tried to be sensible about not getting the ramp-up -- or getting too far ahead of the ramp-up curve.
But even still in the early days of these things they cost more money than the benefits that they derive for you and that's going to continue to be the case for a while.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And actually I want to go back to Bill and sort of follow up with my first question to you.
I guess you made a comment I think last quarter about the most important thing was to drive case volumes.
And if you were successful the profits would come.
And I don't know.
I've been around a really long time and my experience is that you may drive volume but sometimes the profitability of an industry just goes down permanently after that kind of aggressive behavior.
And of course it sounds like everybody's being aggressive.
Could you comment on whether this is a phase for the industry? Or have we set a new lower bar in terms of profitability? I think as far as I'm going to go today Meredith is I think what we've acknowledged for quite some time now is that we expect the rate of growth in this industry to be modest at best perhaps even flat.
And that we believe that our abilities and capabilities and scale should translate into us being able to grow faster than the market.
Clearly as I've mentioned here even a couple of times today we're in a different environment than where we were 3 or 5 years ago.
So I think a lot of industries are going to be challenged with profitability.
So let me try to connect the points.
So I think you've quoted me pretty accurately.
I do believe that we should be out growing cases and growing volume not at the expense of profitability at all levels.
But I guess I'm confident in our people and in our systems that we will turn those sales and those incremental business into profits.
Now in the short term obviously we're seeing some pressure there and there's some execution issues and that type of thing.
The connection I guess would be that doesn't mean that we don't have to do some things differently.
And we'll talk some more about that next week as well.
But it connects to some of the things that Chris alluded to in terms of what is business transformation? So certainly -- I don't think I can just say it's a phase.
I think we have moved into a part of the time in terms of the business world our industry is no exception where the consumer expectations and our customers' expectations are more acute and more specific than they've ever been.
And so price product quality are always going to be important.
So I think it's all of the above.
We need to continue to grow our volume.
We need to grow it the right way.
We need to continue to take our cost structure down both in terms of our day-to-day execution as I mentioned earlier but also looking at our structure overall in terms of operating costs our product costs how we work with suppliers and all that as well so -- and we clearly need to manage our margins along the way so it's not one or the other.
But no I don't think it's a phase.
I mean I think we're in a new normal so to speak and we need to do all of the above.
My only point is to just cut and -- or to try to squeeze too much out on the margin line at this point in time I'm not confident that that takes us where we need to go as a company.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our Q&amp;A session and our presentation for today.
We appreciate your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Sysco Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2012 Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
We will begin today's call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would now like to turn the call over to Neil Russell Vice President and -- of Investor Relations.
Thank you Danielle and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2012 Conference Call.
On today's call you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made in the course of this presentation that state the company's or management's intention beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ in a material manner from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to risk factors contained in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 2 2011 and in the company's press release issued earlier this morning.
On the call today if you've joined us via webcast you'll notice that we are supplementing our comments with a slide presentation.
You can download a copy of the presentation by going to the Investors section of sysco.com.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in the presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation and can also be found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volumes include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
Lastly I encourage you to download our new Investor Relations app from either the Apple iTunes store or for Android at Google's Marketplace store.
Just search for Sysco IR app to have easy access on the go to all of our filings and important investor material.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil and good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported sales and net earnings for the fiscal year of $42.4 billion and $1.1 billion respectively.
Earnings per share was $1.90.
Excluding certain items adjusted earnings per share for our underlying business was $2.13 representing a 4.4% increase year-over-year.
Sales grew 7.8% for the year as case volume growth of 3% and product cost inflation of 5.5% contributed to the highest annual sales level in our history.
Earnings growth was not as strong as pricing pressures resulted in only modest gross profit dollar gains.
However we did experience improved expense management in the fourth quarter and expect to continue that trend in the new fiscal year.
Cash flow from operations approximated $1.4 billion a significant improvement over our performance in the prior year.
On the capital investment front we recently completed construction and began shipping from 3 new and more efficient distribution facilities a 420 000-square-foot facility outside of Boston a second 420 000-square-foot facility located between Austin and San Antonio and a 240 000-square-foot facility on Long Island.
All 3 of these operating companies are located in large markets that provide tremendous growth opportunities for Sysco.
Looking forward we remain totally committed to profitably growing our business in the $225 billion market that we serve today.
While industry growth is expected to remain modest we are highly focused on strengthening and expanding our customer relationships as well as reducing the cost structure of our underlying business.
To do so requires transformational change in all aspects of our business.
Successfully deploying a new and enhanced technology platform is a foundational component of such change and we continue to progress on that front.
Specifically we recently converted our East Texas operating company to our new ERP system in late July our third location to go live.
We are pursuing a market-based approach for our rollout schedule which we believe will enhance the conversion process in 2 key ways: First we have more -- we will more effectively leverage our market leadership team; and second the close geographic proximity of the operating companies will permit us to utilize all of our resources in a more flexible and efficient manner.
As a result our next 5 planned conversions will be facilities in Texas and Louisiana all of which are expected to occur this fiscal year.
As conversions have occurred we have become increasingly encouraged with the ramp-up in services provided and the quality of service at our Shared Business Services center or SBS here in Texas.
SBS is staffed and effectively supporting our 3 converted companies with multiple centralized functions including financial support replenishment national account pricing and a customer support call center.
We have also begun to make progress on our key business transformation cost reduction initiatives.
These initiatives focus on improving productivity in our operations selling and administrative areas as well as lowering product costs.
For example each of our Broadline operating companies has already taken action in a variety of areas and begun to implement processes designed to enhance productivity in delivery and warehouse operations.
On the SG&amp;A side after careful and thoughtful analysis we have elected to restructure our domestic nonunion retirement programs.
Specifically effective December 31 we will significantly enhance our 401(k) plan and freeze our nonunion-defined benefit pension plan.
The enhanced 401(k) plan will provide benefits to our associates that are highly competitive in the marketplace in a manner that results in meaningful cost savings to Sysco over time.
Chris will discuss the financial savings in a moment.
On the product side we are moving forward with developing our category management process including preparing to pilot several food categories.
Returning value to our shareholders remains a top priority for Sysco.
We recognize that our dividend represents a significant component of Sysco's shareholder return especially as we navigate through the transformational changes I noted earlier.
Accordingly we increased our dividend during this past year the 42nd time since our founding in 1970.
In total we distributed $623 million in dividends to shareholders during fiscal 2012.
Looking back on 2012 it was clearly a year of transition for Sysco.
While fiscal 2013 will undoubtedly provide its share of challenges we are excited about the opportunities that lie ahead to profitably grow our core business and expand beyond the core over time.
In closing I want to thank all of our associates for their efforts this past year in supporting our customers.
Their contributions going forward are critical to fully realizing Sysco's vision to become our customers' most valued and trusted business partner.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the fourth quarter sales were $11 billion or an increase of 5.9% compared to the prior year driven equally by case volume growth of 3.4% and food cost inflation of 3.3%.
Excluding acquisition case volume increased 3.3%.
In addition acquisitions within the last 12 months increased sales by 0.6% and changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 0.5%.
During fiscal 2012 we completed 9 acquisitions representing nearly $270 million in annualized sales and met our goal of increasing sales by 0.5% to 1% through acquisitions.
Nearly 20% of our new case growth came from acquisitions in fiscal 2012.
We have a number of additional acquisitions at various stages of completion in our pipeline and are targeting to increase sales in excess of 1% through acquisitions in fiscal 2013.
Gross profit in the fourth quarter continued to be pressured by an intensely competitive market.
Gross profit in the fourth quarter increased 2.9% but gross margin decreased 54 basis points year-over-year to 18.2%.
Fuel surcharges provided no benefits to year-over-year comparison as surcharges were comparable in both periods.
Gross margins have historically increased in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter but we broke that trend in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We are encouraged the gross margin increased 39 basis points from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of this fiscal year which is more in line with historic trends.
Operating expenses increased $103 million or 7.4% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to the prior year period.
This increase included $23 million in certain charges that were mainly related to the withdrawal of one of our operating companies from a multi-employer pension plan or MEPP.
Excluding these certain charges operating expenses increased $80 million or 5.7%.
Operating expenses were also impacted by a $38 million increase in gross business transformation expense and a $20 million increase in salaries and related costs.
Operating income decreased $45 million or 8.1% driven by a decrease in gross margin partially offset with gains in case volume.
Excluding the certain items that I mentioned previously operating income decreased 4%.
Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $309 million a decrease of $27 million or 8% compared to the prior year.
Diluted EPS was $0.53 a 7% decline compared to the prior year.
Excluding certain items diluted EPS was $0.55.
As we have discussed on previous calls we believe it is important to focus on the performance of our underlying business which not only excludes certain items but also excludes business transformation expenses and the impact of COLI.
As a reminder COLI had a minimal positive impact on our results in fiscal 2012 but had a significantly more positive impact in fiscal 2011.
Adjusted operating expenses which excludes these items and better reflects our underlying business performance increased 3.3%; and adjusted operating income increased 2.2%.
Net earnings on this basis grew 3.7% to $367 million and EPS grew 3.3% to $0.62.
Turning to the year-over-year comparison.
Sales increased 7.8% or $3.1 million due mainly to inflation of 5.5% and case growth of 3%.
Food cost inflation declined steadily throughout the year from 7.3% in the first quarter to 3.3% in the fourth quarter.
Excluding acquisitions case volume grew 2.5% for the year.
In addition sales from acquisitions increased sales by 0.7% and changes in foreign exchange rates did not have a meaningful impact.
Gross profit increased 3.8% during the year while gross margin decreased 69 basis points year-over-year to 18.1%.
The decline in gross margin was due to high inflation combined with weak restaurant traffic competitive pressures segment mix and a more aggressive go-to-market strategy.
Operating expenses increased $323 million or 5.9% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011.
Operating expenses for both years were impacted by certain items primarily consisting of MEPP withdrawals.
In fiscal 2012 these certain items were approximately $13 million lower compared to the prior year.
Excluding these certain items operating expenses increased 6.2%.
Operating expenses also included $147 million increase in salaries and related costs due to increases in delivery and sales compensation increased volume in acquisitions a $91 million increase in gross business transformation expenses and a $40 million increase in fuel expense.
These increases were partially offset by a $27 million decline in corporate-sponsored pension plan expense.
Cost per case in our Broadline Companies was up $0.04 year-over-year.
This was mainly due to increased delivery costs including a $0.02 increase related to an increase in fuel price.
Operating income declined $41 million or 2.1% for the fiscal year.
Excluding certain items operating income declined 2.7%.
Net earnings for fiscal 2012 decreased $30 million or 2.6% compared to the prior year.
Fiscal 2012 EPS was $1.90 a decline of 3.1%.
Excluding certain items EPS was $1.93.
To summarize the performance of our underlying business adjusted operating expenses increased 4.1% adjusted operating income increased 3% adjusted net earnings grew 4.7% and adjusted EPS grew 4.4% to $2.13.
Turning to the impact of the Business Transformation Project for a moment.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 gross project expenses totaled $70 million and we capitalized $23 million related to the project.
In the prior year quarter gross project expenses totaled $33 million and we capitalized $49 million related to the project.
For fiscal 2012 expenses for business transformation are $193 million compared to $103 million in fiscal 2011 and total capitalized amounts were $146 million compared to $196 million in the prior year.
As we discussed during our Investor Day we expect cash flows to improve significantly over the next several years due to our business transformation initiative and improved working capital management.
Cash flow from operations for fiscal year 2012 was $1.4 billion an approximately $300 million or 29% increase compared to $1.1 billion in the prior year period.
This improvement was due mainly to improved working capital management and lower tax payments during the year.
Working capital has improved year-to-date due mainly to smaller increases in accounts receivable and inventories this year compared to the prior year.
This is due to improvements in DSOs for receivables and inventory partially offset by a decline in accounts payable DSOs.
Of note we paid our final IRS tax settlement payment during the fourth quarter for a total of $212 million during this fiscal year and $952 million over the last 3 years.
The completion of these settlement payments will have a significant positive impact on our cash flows in future periods.
Capital expenditures totaled $152 million for the fourth quarter and $785 million for the fiscal year.
We had 4 new facility projects during the year including the facilities Bill discussed earlier which were completed during the year as well as a new facility under construction in California that we expect to be complete late this fiscal year.
This is compared to having only one such major project underway in the prior year.
In addition capital expenditures related to our Business Transformation Project increased by $50 million year-over-year.
Free cash flow increased 36% or $165 million to $620 million.
During the quarter we accessed the capital markets with very attractive rates completing a bond offering of $750 million.
The transaction was completed in 2 tranches $300 million of 3-year securities at 65 basis points the lowest rate ever achieved for a 3-year deal at the time and $450 million of 10-year notes at 2.6%.
The effective rate for the entire issuance was around 2% a continual reminder of the strength of our balance sheet and cash flows.
Before closing there are few guidance metrics for fiscal 2013 that I'd like to provide.
First based upon current market conditions and external forecasts we expect fuel expense to be relatively flat year-over-year; second regarding business transformation.
As we shared with you at our Investor Day we expect gross business transformation expenses net of direct benefits related to SBS to be approximately $300 million to $350 million for the year including the amortization of project costs.
As Bill mentioned we are now in the deployment phase of our new ERP system.
And so this month we began to amortize the capitalized costs related to the development of this system over a roughly 7-year period.
The majority of work occurring going forward is expected to relate mostly to conversion and training which is expensed for accounting purposes.
As a result you'll see a decline in the amount of capitalized spend on our Business Transformation Project going forward.
This year we expect to capitalize roughly $5 million to $20 million which is $130 million to $140 million lower than our capital spend for fiscal 2012.
As we outlined at our Investor Day we expect that we'll achieve $550 million to $650 million in annualized benefits from business transformation by fiscal 2015 of which we expect to achieve roughly 25% in fiscal 2013.
As Bill said earlier we have begun to make progress on all of our key business transformation initiatives.
Third total CapEx for fiscal year 2013 is expected to be approximately $600 million to $650 million which is substantially lower than the $785 million we spent in fiscal 2012.
Lastly I want to address pension expense for fiscal 2013.
As we were developing our 2013 financial plan we learned that we were facing more than $100 million in additional pension expense for next year primarily driven by continuous declines in interest rates.
This substantial increase would have been in addition to the significant increases in 2 of the last 3 years.
We determined we needed to carefully review our retirement programs.
As a result of our analysis as Bill discussed earlier we announced this morning that we made the decision to freeze our defined benefit pension plan effective December 31 and simultaneously enhance benefits to employees under our 401(k) or defined contribution plan.
The net impact of these changes will result in the roughly $25 million in additional retirement expense in fiscal 2013.
While still an increase this represents a more than $80 million cost avoidance.
It's important to note that the net impact of these changes in our retirement plans will not be even across the quarters during the year.
Retirement plan expense in the second half of the year will be higher than the first half.
Because these changes become effective at the midpoint of fiscal 2013 we estimate that our retirement plan expenses will be lower in 2014.
In closing while fiscal year 2012 was a year of transition we continue to stay focused on our future.
Fiscal 2013 will be another critical year for us as we work through the first round of ERP deployment and begin to realize benefits from several areas of our business transformation plan.
Sysco has been a leader in the industry for over 40 years; and while the change we are undergoing is difficult and requires a substantial investment it is important to the future success of this company.
All of us here at Sysco are focused on transforming the company and believe that this will enable us to further strengthen our financial results over time and enhance our industry leadership position.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's actually Steve Forbes on for John today.
Just a couple quick questions.
The sequential improvement in gross margin this quarter is that tied to getting more pricing through or a conscious effort to pull back on some promotional spending? I think Steve it's just some modest improvement on our part in terms of execution.
As Chris pointed out in his comments there's a seasonal flow that we tend to participate in as you go into the summer and I think that helped as well.
So I think we're executing somewhat better.
I don't think there's anything dramatically different in terms of the promotional spending.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now when it comes to the inflation and pricing for next year how do you keep your marketing associates focused on gross profit dollar growth and/or case growth? Well the way our commission program works the bulk of our marketing associates are paid on commission and the biggest factor in that commission is gross profit dollars per delivery.
So we continue to tweak that particular model as time goes on to do just what you're suggesting here which is to keep us focused on growth and quality growth.
But the bottom line is they're highly incentivized to service our customers well but at the same time to strike the right balance between sales and gross profit dollars.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on case growth.
Did you see any change from June to July in case volume growth I guess after what some of the restaurant operators reported last week? We don't comment on inter-quarter type of developments but I would tell you that certainly we service pretty much the whole spectrum of the marketplace and you can see that we saw somewhat of a slowdown in the fourth quarter.
Pricing eased a little bit as well which was good I think but at the same time our top line fell off some and I think we're going to experience to some degree what you're seeing from some of the other people in the space.
And our next question will come from Greg Badishkanian with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Alvin Concepcion for Greg.
Just wanted to ask another question related to the margin gross margin.
Sounds like there hasn't been much of a change in the promotional spending.
What's your outlook on promotional spending in fiscal '13? And would you expect a year-over-year improvement in gross margin next year? Okay.
Maybe I should take a minute and let's talk about promotional spending because that's 2 questions right off the bat.
As far as I know we don't really talk about promotional spending.
So the bottom line is we do promote -- we have various marketing vehicles that we promote locally and to some extent here at corporate.
That hasn't changed to any large extent over the last quarter over the last year.
I think as we've talked about margin pressure over the last 12 to 18 months we've attributed a lot of that to the challenges of passing along mid to high single-digit rates of inflation in a marketplace that's still pretty fragile and just kind of an uneven business recovery on top of that.
So I think -- I don't think this really has much to do with promotional spending.
The bottom line is we're out there competing.
We feel very appropriately and very aggressively in a pretty challenging marketplace.
And we saw improvement as you saw and pointed out in the fourth quarter and certainly as we talked about in May we expect to continue to improve those trends.
But I don't believe that we've indicated in any way that we would expect to be over last year's gross profit.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And on the promotional spending front again I mean that's from your end what about from the competitive standpoint? Are you seeing any changes there relative to last quarter? I'm sorry could you repeat that question? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just wondering if the competitive promotional environment has changed very much relative to last quarter.
I don't think so.
Again I'm going to just attribute that to kind of the competitive environment.
And we see different things in different parts of the country and frankly we see different behavior with different types of competitors.
As you know we deal with very large regional national-type competitors and then there's a lot of niche players as well.
So I have to tell you that the environment remains very challenging from a competitive standpoint and we expect it to continue that way.
But I wouldn't say it's changed a whole lot.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the case volume growth in the quarter it accelerated relative to last quarter and obviously I think you mentioned that you might see some more -- the weak restaurant traffic impact your results.
I mean can you talk about what some of the drivers were in the quarter in that accelerated improvement in case volumes? Well I think in this particular quarter I don't know if there's anything particularly different than any other quarter.
We're highly focused as we've talked about at length over the last several calls and in our public presentations on the importance for Sysco as a leader in the industry to continue to take share and to do that profitably.
But we've got 8 000 marketing associates out there on the street.
We've got a strong sales management team.
We have great leadership throughout the country and in Canada and we work very hard in staying close to our customers.
All the basic things that we talk about every time we have an opportunity to speak publicly from menu analysis to good quality business reviews to a very focused time with our salespeople spending with their customers.
Those are things that we feel we do better by and large than our competition.
And as a result that allows us to grow the business.
So with that said still very competitive and we still have some opportunity to work on our pricing and margin management.
And next we'll hear from Ed Kelly with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can I just start on the volume side that 3.3% case volume growth.
Can you talk about how that compares to sort of like the true underlying trend and what I'm getting at is an easy comparison this quarter versus last year.
Did that play a role? Does weather and calendar play any role in this? And just could you just give us a sense as to where you think the true business is running sort of underlying all that today? Is it really that level? Well yes it is at that level.
We'll take credit for it.
I think going to your point as you go back and look at the latter part of last fiscal year maybe even the first quarter this year the volume trends were a little bit more modest.
And frankly that led to us becoming more aggressive as we've talked about here in the last 2 or 3 quarters.
So I would tell you that yes we grew the cases 3%.
Part of that was acquisitions which we feel is a big part of our arsenal.
And I wouldn't overweight comparisons when you're talking about the difference of 1% maybe from 1 year to the next that type of thing.
So we feel good with the volume and we'll take credit for it.
Research Division</strong> And it sounds like and I don't want to put words in your mouth Bill but it sounds like so far in the current quarter things just generally speaking haven't been great but maybe haven't gotten worse.
Is that how I should read that? Things are always great here at Sysco.
But no look the market what I'm trying to tell you here without getting into a disclosure area that I can't is that we're going to participate in what goes on in the market.
So I expect us to continue to grow cases.
I expect us to take share and to some extent as we've talked about in terms of our medium to longer-term outlook we are going to be impacted by the market itself.
So to the extent that we see a slowdown as this quarter proceeds I'm sure we'll feel that to some degree.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on gross profit dollar growth relative to case growth this was another quarter where it was slightly less and I know that's not your long-term goal.
So could you maybe just walk through a little bit what was the driver there? And then how long do you think it takes to get us to the point where gross profit dollars maybe are doing a little bit better than volumes again? Well we need to get there.
It's the bottom line.
It's a very fair question.
So the way I look at it is we did better in the fourth quarter than we did in the third in terms of that particular relationship but not good enough.
So we need to continue as I mentioned a question or 2 ago to strike a better balance between the case growth and the gross profit dollars.
So I'm encouraged that we saw some modest improvement but there's a ways to go.
And all I can tell you is that we're highly focused on it here as a management team and throughout the country into our sales management and into our sales force.
So it's a delicate balance in terms of the economy and the marketplace and trying to be responsive to the needs of our customers but we certainly see that as an issue and an opportunity for improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the MEPP side maybe could you give us a little bit more color on the charge this quarter? And then within your 10-K last year you disclosed about a couple hundred million dollar withdrawal liability.
And I'm just curious as to how that's calculated.
Is that your actuarial value of the underfunding? And could you also give us some sense as to what you think the fair value of the underfunding might be at this point? That question just got worse and worse.
Time for Chris to answer a question there.
Started off I said I can do this one and then you just took it down the rabbit hole.
Let me see if I can help.
The charge this quarter was related to Cleveland.
So 220 employees at our Cleveland operating company withdrew from the Cleveland Bakers and Teamsters plan and therefore we recorded a withdrawal liability of approximately $17 million.
We did have some liabilities earlier in the year that were basically true-ups of prior year withdrawals.
And the way that works is you have to record the liability at the value that you know when the withdrawal was actually made.
But then each quarter thereafter there are going to be true-ups until you actually are allowed to withdraw from that particular plan which can be 1.5 years later.
So I think that's the first part of your question.
The second part we've generally recorded in our 10-K roughly $200 million of liability.
I wouldn't call that an actuarial.
That is basically our assessment of the materials that we get from those plan trustees about the status of their plans.
We don't manage those plans we just get materials.
And unfortunately it takes a long time for us to get those materials.
We're still stating that liability based upon materials that are as old as year-end 2009 to 2010 so they're just not given to us very timely.
And the 10-K that you'll see in a couple of weeks we'll update that number which is just as we described it it's the total withdrawal or the potential liability if we withdrew from all the plans which is of course not something we would ever foresee doing.
But then under new guidelines we're required to put down a number that we believe is related to plans from which we would reasonably possibly either voluntarily withdraw or there would be a mass withdrawal.
That number is about half that $200 million.
It's about $100 million.
Did that get close to answering your question? Research Division</strong> Yes I think.
And I think when your K comes out we'll probably be able to do more work on that as well.
Another question for you on the national account pricing.
I don't -- I'm not sure if I heard this correctly but it sounded to me like you had suggested that pricing would be moving to the SBS level.
Is that right? No not the negotiation of pricing or the relationships.
We handle our contract customers in various ways but we have a significant group that works out of the corporate office that covers what we call corporate multiunit and then we obviously have regional and local chains that we tend to handle those relationships locally through the operating companies.
What's going on at SBS is more just the facilitation of the processes themselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question for you here.
Your CapEx guidance I think was a little bit higher today than at the analyst meeting.
And then related to that with the IRS payment being done you should start generating some free cash flow again.
So the question is what do you guys plan on doing with that free cash flow? The CapEx actually is in line with what we talked about at Investor Day.
You're focused on the $600 million that I showed at Investor Day but right underneath that was a line for business transformation capitalization which was a range of $5 million to $20 million.
So depending on where you are in that range we just put a range around CapEx $600 million to $650 million.
Nothing has really changed in the assumptions that we're using for this year.
We just put a range around it so I think it's generally in line with what we talked about.
We do intend to generate additional free cash flow this year.
We've not changed our posture with regards to how we view our cash.
We're reinvesting into the business.
We're certainly making sure that we can have a substantial and growing dividend and we're looking for additional acquisitions as much as possible.
If we start to generate significant additional free cash we'll take a look again at the shares.
But right now that's just not the case.
And the next question comes from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> On the -- I wanted to ask did the lower rates of inflation did that help with the gross margin management? I know you said sounded like you're just getting a little more acumen with managing it.
But I just want to -- in relation to lower inflation did that help? Do you think a lower inflation had any effect on the case growth? Andy I'll start there.
Sure it helps.
I mean as we've talked over the last 2 or 3 quarters there's a certain math to this whole inflation discussion.
So when you go from 5.5% to 3.5% give or take that definitely helps.
And it goes category by category that type of thing.
So there's no doubt that that contributed to it as well as I do think we executed as I said modestly better and there's plenty of room for improvement there.
I think as far as case growth I don't know that that happens quite as fast.
I know there's kind of this analytical way of looking at it.
The key for us I think as it relates to the inflation is over the medium to long term we've been very consistent on this and we truly believe it is that it's just better for our customers and our customers' customers if we can see a more moderate level of say 2 to 3 points of inflation over time.
That's just a better environment for business and whether it be our customers or ourselves.
And so I think if we can stay there and be relatively consistent and not have too much volatility in the respective categories I think that's more of a medium-term benefit for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the case growth getting better how do you -- how do we look at that or how do you look at that? Was any of that improvement or at same customers? Or was it really mainly new customers and really taking market share in that way? It's a combination of 3 things.
We continue to improve our customer retention.
That's had a lot of focus here and we've talked about it somewhat publicly.
So our customer retention numbers have improved over the last year or 2 and that certainly helps.
We have seen penetration.
That's obviously going to vary by customer and be somewhat dependent on how healthy their business is but overall we've seen some case penetration.
And yes largely or not largely but we tend to do a good job on new business as well.
So it comes from the 2 that you mentioned which is new business as well as penetration.
But also again just an environment like this we just need to stay closer and closer to our customers and just minimize lost accounts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you willing to say if it's more one than the other? I'd be willing to say if I knew.
I mean it's actually -- it's hard to kind of get precise information on that but I actually think it's a little bit of all 3 Andy.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
My last question is back to the pension freeze.
I had to drop off the call for a second.
Could you just give the swing what this year's swing for that? I think you gave the numbers in --  or the numbers that get us to the math either way.
Yes.
And actually I think we flashed the chart on the screen as we were going through it.
But the net-net is an increase of about $25 million for this year and it would have gone up over $100 million save for the freeze and then we expect it to be lower in '14.
I think there's a broader issue here though Andy.
And obviously this is a very sensitive issue internally and it's just being announced today clearly throughout Sysco.
So we've been looking at this for a period of time and the reality is as growth has slowed industry-wise and even for Sysco we've continued to see the liability of the pension plan grow meaningfully faster than the business is growing.
So the broader picture here is that we needed to address that in a prudent way and we feel that we have and we feel as we communicate the new planned structure with the 401(k) I think our folks will find that it's a very competitive plan and provides a lot of opportunity to appropriately save for retirement.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
I mean you definitely were one of the last companies with a generous pension plan.
I just wanted to ask us one last thing about that then I'm going to drop off is from my understanding of these plans is they have different vesting 20 25 years and so on.
And obviously that helps to keep senior management in place.
What's going to happen with those provisions? Are those also frozen or does the vesting continue just with no more increased contribution? Which plans are you talking about Andy? Research Division</strong> So your plans are fully vested without relation to time of service? No the pension plan you do vest over time in the pension plan.
What we're doing is we're freezing the pension plan.
Whatever benefits you have today you retain.
All of your new benefits will come from a 401(k) defined contribution plan going forward.
So upon retirement what you'll have is the vested benefits in your pension from the date at which we froze it plus your defined contribution benefit that grew from that point going forward.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So if somebody's a year away from the hurdle for vesting next year it'll vest it'll just be on today's amount.
That's correct.
And just a point of interest I mean our plans I don't have the specifics but our vesting tends to be pretty much 100% within 5 or 7 years something like that.
So you vest relatively quickly here.
So most of our people are vested and then it will work like you say.
And then what we'll be doing over the next few weeks is communicating the components of the 401(k) plan and so on and so forth.
And the next question comes from Michael Kelter with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I recall you guys saying in the past that 1% to 2% inflation is a sweet spot for you and it appears like we're heading there.
And I guess my question is why won't your gross margins be up in 2013 if that happens if we hit your sweet spot? Or are gross margins going to keep going down regardless of the level of inflation because of the broader industry conditions? Well obviously Michael we don't have the answers to those questions.
Those are great questions.
I would tell you we've had now 1 quarter of 3% inflation and it looks like this quarter's starting now in a similar way.
So I mean I think we will see some moderate inflation for a period of time.
We're not clear on how long that'll stabilize given what's going on with the droughts and various things around the world.
So I think we need to wait and see to some extent how this thing plays out here over the next 6 9 12 months.
What I said and what I do believe is I think the lower inflation will take some pressure off of our customers and that will take some pressure off of us so that should support some of the initiatives we have to strike the right balance between growth and margins.
But the other thing I'm saying is what I also said pretty consistently is this is different than 2 years ago or 4 years ago or 5 years ago.
Until this economy shows more consistent improvement and until our customers participate in that there's going to continue to be a lot of pricing pressure out there.
So I'm not saying that we can't improve our margins over time I'm just saying we need to take it one step at a time and right now our goals are -- is to reverse the trends that we saw this past year.
Research Division</strong> And the spike in grain that you alluded to I mean what kind of a lag before something like that will hit your P&amp;L? And when it does whether it's a quarter from now or 2 quarters from now whatever the right answer is there should we expect that the pace of gross margin declines to accelerate again as we get into the heart of 2013? I don't know.
I wish I did know and I wish I could give you more specific answers there.
But typically what happens is it takes a while for it to work itself through the food chain into the meal for the cattle and the poultry and all that so works its way through the feedstock and then into our cost of center of play items.
And I would expect that that will take 3 to 6 months at least for us to see that play out.
And we'll just have to see how the business climate is in general.
So we're not hiding behind that.
We would love to see a nice stable inflation environment but I'm just pointing out that we could see some pressure on pricing here later in the year.
That's all.
Research Division</strong> And kind of switching gears another thing you had mentioned that in 2013 that acquisitions would drive over 1% to sales.
That actually hasn't happened in 7 years and so I thought that was interesting.
I was curious if there was one specific acquisition of size that's in the pipeline that you're thinking about? Or if it's reflective of a bunch of smaller deals? And if it's one of size is it in the U.S.
or international? Is it a traditional competitor or somehow tangential? Just kind of a better idea as to where you guys are going on the acquisition side would be great.
Yes what we continue to talk about on the acquisition side is a string as many as possible of these smaller transactions that are in combination become meaningful to us so that's what we said.
We did 9 transactions for $270 million.
Actually I think last year we were above 1%.
I'd have to go back and check my numbers but I thought we were just above 1%.
But our goal has been 0.5 to 1 point.
What we're really pointing out is we're starting to accelerate that and we're starting to increase our pipeline.
Our goal this year is north of 1% through a combination of these smaller-ish transactions.
I don't want to characterize them as being small and meaningless.
They're not at all.
Every one of them is important to us but they're smaller than the $500 million or $600 million regional-sized transactions that we'd love to get but are just frankly very very difficult to get and they don't come along very often.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly on these changes to the retirement plans.
Just simplistically is your pension expense no longer going to move with interest rates as we look forward? If -- I mean just so I understand when you say a freeze I mean is that -- are interest rates no longer relevant for you? No they're very relevant to us.
We still have a $1 billion-plus pension plan that's out there that has to be revalued every year.
What the freeze does is it stops growing in terms of the assets and the liabilities so that's [indiscernible] the growth of it will now cease.
The next step in managing our retirement plans is starting to go after the volatility of those assets and we do have more work going on in that area as well.
But as Bill said this is something we've been looking at for a while.
Pension expense has been going up significantly over the last few years.
It was growing at a rate that was just frankly not sustainable and so we needed to come up with a different set of plans that would be beneficial to our employees and to help with retention of our employees and help them plan for their retirements while at the same time not causing our expenses to grow at a rate that's frankly our earnings could not sustain.
So we've looked at a number of things.
Step one is we've got to freeze what's there.
Now we've got to go about looking at how we reduce the volatility of the liabilities that still exist on the balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> And are you guys still then at this point looking at what your assumptions are for your existing exposure? And how conservative do you feel like those assumptions are at this point given how long interest rates have stayed low and returns have stayed low? Well so there are 2 separate components to figuring out the pension expense.
Obviously the first one is discount rate which we unfortunately have nothing to do with.
Interest rates drive down the discount rate.
It's declined even more this year from a rate that I didn't think it could even decline from last year so that cost us a tremendous amount of valuation and was driving our interest -- or driving our pension expense to be significantly higher for '13.
The second component is the discount rate that you -- or sorry the return that you assume on the portfolio.
We evaluate that every year.
You look at 70 years' worth of history on a portfolio of assets that you invest in.
Obviously the last 10 years are not good compared to that 70-year history and so we're constantly evaluating are we too aggressive? Are we too conservative? That's something we evaluate every year.
And our next question comes from Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> If you look at the gross margin rate I was curious how your new business wins look versus the existing book on the gross profit rate.
Great question Mark.
It's another one of those ones that when you have as much new business as we have I mean you're talking about double-digit new business it's hard to critique that but I would say it's a mixture.
Generally the new business as it comes these days comes a little bit harder and a little bit more competitively.
So I don't have a lot of data on that in terms of the entire company.
But more than likely it probably comes in a little bit less than the average would be my best judgment on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as we look at the business transformation savings as they come in what kind of timing should we expect on that? Is this something that builds throughout the year? Or do you expect any quarters bigger than others? We've not given any quarterly breakout of that but I think it would be fairly safe to assume it will build over time.
Just as it's going to build over the 3-year period it's going to build during each of those 3 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the inflation what is your protein team saying? It seems like there's a pretty good chance you're going to be looking at much higher inflation next year.
I'm curious what your thoughts are there.
Well we're seeing higher prices now in beef and poultry.
And we're seeing deflation actually in dairy and produce right now and then everything else is kind of around the average.
So they're pretty much saying what we're reading and what I tried to say earlier which is that we should expect to see some pressure as the year goes along.
And next we'll hear from Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just wanted to get some more color on your outlook your near-term outlook for ERP in fiscal '13.
So could you maybe talk about how much your guidance is in related as far as expenses and the projected cost savings? It looks like $150 million is still what you're roughly expecting on the cost savings side.
But if at some point over the next year it looks like you're not getting the benefits at the rate that you're currently looking for I mean would you still plan on absorbing as much as $350 million on ERP cost? How much variability could there potentially be on the expense side? Yes Ajay those 2 things really aren't tied.
So as we tried to do during the Investor Day we tried to explain that the expenses are primarily due to the technological implementation of our new ERP system.
So the $300 million to $350 million net of direct benefits from SBS that's the expense that we plan to incur as we now implement and roll out the ERP system and we gave guidance of 520 companies during the course of the year.
Bill gave you a little more color about where the next 5 of those were going to be.
So that's kind of part A.
Part B is we also have the business transformation initiatives cost-saving initiatives that do not rely upon that technology to go forward.
And so we're going down the road on a variety of those that we outlined in great detail and that's where we expect to receive the 25% of our overall benefit in the first year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I just had one follow-up question.
It's maybe just a variation of some of the questions that have been asked on inflation.
So just wondering internally how concerned are you guys based on the current weather and drought conditions that a lot of that recent volume improvement case volume improvement begins to slip away very quickly if inflation starts to get out of control? I don't think we're overly concerned at least not any more concerned in the last 2 or 3 years Ajay.
I mean it's part of what you deal within this business and when you put it in the context of some of the other challenges that we have out there in terms of the marketplace and our customers' ability to grow and that kind of thing I think it's certainly -- we take it seriously.
But it's also -- comes into the bucket that we don't really have much of an ability to influence it.
So I wouldn't -- I'd be probably more concerned about the economy and whether we can see a little bit more stability and a little more consistent improvement there because then that creates a mindset in the consumer wanting to go out to eat more and that's always the key I think for our business is that people want to go out to eat and they're not totally focused on what it's going to cost or how many times they go out and all that kind of thing.
I mean right now our information is a little dated but we're still seeing increases in traffic and check size.
And it varies between concept and that kind of thing.
But we just need to see improved -- consistently improving psyche of the consumer and I think we can weather the rest of it.
Research Division</strong> So can you comment as far as quarter-to-date have volume trends deteriorated at all sequentially? I really can't.
As I mentioned earlier we just don't do that.
But again you know us real well and we play in the entire space in this market so to the extent that you're seeing softness out there we would certainly expect to participate in some of that as the quarter goes along.
Research Division</strong> And finally can you confirm if there were any quantifiable ERP benefits in the fourth quarter? We really didn't look at it that way to be honest.
I'm sure they were modest but essentially what we have said is -- what Chris just talked you through is we've laid this thing on in terms of our roadmap and we're looking to knock down about 25% of that cost savings here this year.
And it's going to come from operations it's going to come from SG&amp;A and it's probably going to come a little bit more toward the end of the year than at the beginning of the year.
And our next question comes from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> At this point I think it's fairly short.
You made a comment and I think it was Chris that did I don't remember talking about expending Sysco beyond the core over time.
And I guess is that a 2013 event? Is that the type of technology initiatives that may come from Sysco ventures or are there other things that we should be thinking about in near-term significance just to put some parameters around that? John it's Bill.
I think that was actually in my prepared comments.
So Chris can take a break here.
No it's no different than what we've talked about before.
I think again in terms of our communications and messaging we want to make sure that all of our constituents understand that we're primarily focused on the core right now.
We've got a lot going on a lot of opportunity out there.
But yes we continue to look for ways to grow in an adjacent manner.
And over time we still would like to grow international.
But I didn't put a timeline on that as much as I said.
Over time I think was actually words that I used.
So it's more of a strategic objective here over the medium term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you said outside the core is international as opposed to something within the U.S.? Well it could be -- we could look at adjacencies of the Sysco ventures as you mentioned as kind of bridges both as you start talking to folks who have opportunities for us to partner with in terms of business solutions that are more technology-driven those types of things.
But the attraction there obviously is to create a stronger relationship with our customer base and more traction to help them grow and to solidify our position with our customers over time.
So no it would be both adjacencies as well as international.
And our question comes from Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I first want to just talk about the money the 25% of savings that you're expecting to get this year.
That isn't really part of business transformation process right? Those are a whole set of separate initiatives that you've started working on last year -- or this year I should say this year is that right '12? No we view all of the initiatives that we have undertaken as part of the transformation of our business from what was the old the business model if you will to what needs to be the new business model in order to compete going forward.
Many of them originally were described as being enabled by this new ERP system.
And as we got further and further into the ERP system design and implementation we realized we did not need to wait on the ERP system in order to attack some of these other business transformation initiatives.
So now we're talking about them as separate streams of work but it's all under the moniker of business transformation because frankly most of this is different than what we've done before.
Research Division</strong> So they're not actually benefits from the ERP system there's just other ways to save money? Yes that's fair.
I mean again business transformation is not ERP.
ERP is the technology change that we set out to put in place several years ago.
And again the original plan if we step back before my time but I certainly understand it now the original plan was if we're going to do through all the work to develop and design a new ERP system that changes all of our processes everything about how we go to market let's go and do this operating company by operating company and change the business model one at a time.
So everything was really on one kind of rollout schedule.
As we got further into it we realized it doesn't need to be done that way and especially as the ERP implementation slowed down we realized we needed to go faster on the rest of it.
So we just disconnected them.
Meredith if I could just jump in there I want to -- there's a key point and I think it's key to anybody who would be listening to this call inside or outside Sysco.
If you go back to our May presentation there with all of you we took a fair amount of time to reframe this deal and to if you will rebrand it to some extent from a standpoint of what Chris just took you through.
So business transformation is essentially us coming to grips with what we need to do the changes we need to make in terms of our processes how we go to market to continue to enhance our leadership position in this industry going forward for the next 5 or 10 years.
Now 3 and 4 years ago when we had more of a design than anything else we bundled it all together in terms of one.
So where we sit today we're talking to you about deploying the technology platform effectively throughout Sysco so that's one big bucket.
And then we're talking about taking a look holistically at all of our practices in terms of how we run the business selling general administrative all the different things that we do how we organize the company and revisiting those some of which as Chris said would have been part of the original business case for 2012 a few of which weren't; many of which do not require new technology platform to get those going because a lot of it has to do with a more consistent go-to-market implementation of our business practices.
And then third is sitting down and partnering with our suppliers our product suppliers and finding more efficient and more effective ways of sharing cost savings on product and at the same time doing it in a way where we can grow the business.
So this is a key point.
The business transformation going forward for Sysco encompasses all 3 of those buckets if you will and not just the technology platform.
Now we can't get to the finish line without the technology platform.
So that remains very foundational as I said in my comments.
But it's just one piece of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess where I was confused is I thought some of these new cost saving initiatives truly were new and had not originally been envisioned when you laid this out.
But you're saying it's just an acceleration of how you implement those things.
I'm saying there's a lot of that and then I'm also saying look we're running a business here right so we're somewhat behind on the deployment schedule.
We've got some cost overruns so we're running the business and we've taken stock over the last 6 to 9 months of other things that we can do in the company to offset the cost overrun.
So it's a combination but largely it's an acceleration of the original business case.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very clear.
I have one other question.
This wasn't a great year for the company as a whole and I don't know how that compared to your internal plan.
But I was wondering what happened with bonuses for the company this year? Were they up or down versus last year and kind of how did that play out over the quarters? Well we haven't actually talked about bonuses internally but I can describe our bonus objectives to you.
From the corporate perspective we basically had 3 bonus objectives: The one was sales which we have actually achieved our plan and actually somewhat exceeded our plan in terms of sales.
We had one that was operating profit and that of course was as you -- I'll use your words was not good in terms of the year.
And then one was return on invested capital and that one kind of went the same way as operating profit.
If you don't get your earnings it's very hard to achieve your ROIC objectives as well.
So while we haven't I don't think we fully ruled on what the bonus outcome is to the employees that's the general sense of where we were.
Compared to last year from a corporate perspective I would say we'll definitely be lower than the last year where we had a slightly different bonus plan.
Now the operating companies have their own bonus plans.
Typically they're tied partially to the corporate their leadership team but then also predominantly to their own performances.
So those are going to vary depending upon the performance of the operating company.
Research Division</strong> And have you -- the fourth quarter numbers do those reflect any assumption about bonus for the year or is that something that gets actually recorded in fiscal '13? Yes we had already adjusted and accrued appropriately for where we thought the payouts would be.
So I think Meredith just I'll pile on here a little bit.
You're going to see different results on bonus so you won't see them but obviously we had some operating companies that performed well above plan and plan and those folks will make some bonuses and some who didn't.
To Chris's point overall we didn't achieve our earnings goals for the year so we will not hit our target bonus but we will pay bonuses this year.
I don't know what it is compared to last year to be straight with you but as Chris also pointed out we moved to more of a plan-based bonus structure this year and I think in the end I think you're going to find it to be very appropriate.
And with no further questions we'd like to thank you all for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to Sysco's First Quarter Fiscal 2013 Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
We will begin today's call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Neil Russell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
On today's call you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made in the course of this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ in a material manner from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to risk factors contained in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30 2012 and in the company's press release issued earlier this morning.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in the presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation and can also be found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volume growth include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil and good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported record sales of $11.1 billion for the first quarter and net earnings of $287 million.
Earnings per share was $0.49 and adjusted earnings per share representing our underlying business performance was $0.58 or a 3.6% increase year-over-year.
Sales grew 4.7% for the quarter driven mainly by case volume growth of 2.9% which contributed to the highest quarterly sales level in our history.
While we believe restaurant spending trends may have softened somewhat as the quarter progressed we are pleased with our overall volume growth during the quarter.
Acquisitions contributed 0.5% to sales growth during the first quarter and we have completed or announced thus far this fiscal year the acquisition of companies with annual revenues totaling approximately $560 million several of which expand our presence in geographic markets that we currently serve outside the United States.
The acquisition environment is currently favorable and we have a number of potential opportunities in the pipeline.
Product cost inflation moderated to 2.2% for the quarter which is beneficial for both Sysco and our customers.
While our growth in adjusted operating income was modest we are encouraged by our expense management performance in most areas of the business.
Specifically we experienced lower cost per case in our selling and administrative areas as a result of enhanced business practices and effective leveraging of this quarter's volume growth.
Conversely higher fuel prices labor shortages in some markets that we operate in and execution issues on our part led to higher year-over-year delivery cost per case.
We are fully committed to both servicing our customers at a high level and improving productivity in all parts of our business as we move forward.
Turning to our business transformation efforts.
We continue to make progress on deploying our new and enhanced technology platform.
Just prior to last quarter's call we converted our East Texas operating company to our new ERP system our third location to go live.
That conversion went very well and we moved forward with our planned conversions at our operating companies in North Texas and West Texas last week.
The early results in both locations are generally favorable and we will continue to assess the performance of these 2 companies closely over the next several weeks.
These 2 deployments represent a critical step in our technology implementation timeline for 2 reasons: One it is the first incidence of multiple operating companies converting simultaneously; and two the North Texas location is one of our largest operating companies and services a significant number of our corporate multi-unit customers.
We are pursuing a market-based approach for our rollout schedule.
As a result we expect to move forward with our next planned conversions in Texas and Louisiana in the coming quarters.
As we prepare for these conversions we are also evaluating the possibility of potentially accelerating our pace of deployment in fiscal 2014 and beyond.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the many associates that are engaged in this project including those at the operating companies that have or are preparing to convert to the new technology platform as well as those at SBS IT and across the company.
The very real progress we are making in transforming our business would not be possible without their hard work and dedication to the success of this project.
I also want to acknowledge a new member of the team.
We welcomed Wayne Shurts in October as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer.
Wayne brings extensive experience in both the food business as well as the deployment of large technology projects.
His capabilities complement our team as we work to increasingly leverage the opportunities technology can bring to our business.
Beyond the technology deployment portion of our business transformation journey we are rapidly rolling out several other key initiatives.
For example we are building the foundation for enhanced customer insights through direct feedback from our customers prospects and associates.
We have also recently rolled out our first-ever customer relationship management or CRM platform which will permit our sales managers and marketing associates to service their customers more effectively operate more efficiently and accelerate our sales growth over time.
In addition we're exploring multiple ways to reduce our operating cost structure and have recently identified significant potential savings in our IT support function.
Regarding Hurricane Sandy.
While it is difficult for us to accurately estimate the full impact to our customers I do want to provide you with some relevant updates: First our employees are safe; second we know that many of our customers were impacted more severely than us and we're doing everything we can to help them; third there was no substantial damage to any of our facilities.
While we did have some intermittent power outages our backup generators operated effectively and as such our inventory is secure; fourth due to on-site fueling capabilities we have adequate fuel supplies to make deliveries; and finally obviously there were initially some road closures and power outages that limited some deliveries.
However our operations have recovered relatively well and we are ready to serve our customers as they are able to get back to business as usual.
In closing it seems appropriate and timely to remind all of us that Sysco is in the midst of a great deal of change.
Not only is this change necessary at this point in our 40-plus year history as a public company but it will result in a much stronger Sysco for years to come.
We will build upon our industry leadership position by becoming a much leaner more agile and easier company for our customers and suppliers to do business with.
We are most fortunate to have 47 000 highly committed and capable associates to lead us through this exciting period in Sysco's history.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the first quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the first quarter sales were $11.1 billion or an increase of 4.7% compared to the prior year driven by case volume growth of 2.9% and food cost inflation of 2.2%.
In addition acquisitions within the last 12 months increased sales by 0.5% and changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 0.3%.
Gross profit in the first quarter increased 2.9%.
While gross margin in the first quarter declined 33 basis points to 18.1% it's important to note that this performance significantly improved as the quarter progressed.
Operating expenses increased $87 million or 6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared to the prior-year period driven mainly by a $41 million increase in business transformation expenses and a $30 million increase in salaries and related costs.
As a result operating income decreased $31 million or 6%.
Net earnings for the first quarter were $287 million a decrease of $16 million or 5.3% compared to the prior year.
Diluted EPS was $0.49 a 3.9% decrease compared to the prior year.
As we have discussed on previous calls we believe it's important to focus on the performance of our underlying business which not only excludes $6 million in certain items such as severance but also excludes business transformation expenses.
To summarize the performance of our underlying business adjusted operating expenses increased 3.2% adjusted operating income increased 2% adjusted net earnings grew 3.2%; and adjusted EPS grew 3.6% to $0.58 per share.
As Bill mentioned the acquisition environment is currently quite favorable and we have been very active in this area.
To date in fiscal 2013 we have completed or announced 6 acquisitions of annual revenues totaling approximately $560 million including 2 transactions which occurred subsequent to the end of the first quarter.
As a result we expect to exceed our goal of adding 0.5% to 1% in sales from acquisitions this fiscal year and we still have a number of additional potential transactions in the pipeline that we are working to complete over the next few quarters.
Building on our successful 2009 acquisition of Pallas Foods we've recently added 2 new distributors to our family of companies in Ireland.
We acquired Crossgar Foodservice a Broadline distributor during the quarter and in early October completed the acquisition of the foodservice distribution division of Keelings a specialty produce company.
Both of these companies have great people and we are excited to add them to our Sysco family.
We believe that building a market leadership presence in Ireland similar to our efforts in the U.S.
and Canada provides us strategic advantages and offers our existing and potential customers a broader choice of products and services.
In addition to Ireland we continue to expand in Canada.
Over the last year we have been strategically building our presence in the province of Québec.
This is a well-populated area of Canada home to roughly 8 million people and we believe we have significant opportunities to increase our market share here.
As a result we have completed several acquisitions in Montréal including a company specializing in Italian imports; a meat processor and distributor; and a seafood company.
In addition in late October we announced our agreement to acquire Distagro the foodservice division of a Montreal-based grocery retailer.
This is our largest acquisition so far this year and is designed to complement our growing presence in this highly competitive market.
The Distagro transaction is subject to Canadian regulatory approval and we expect to complete that acquisition by the end of the calendar year.
Turning to the impact of the Business Transformation Project for a moment.
In the first quarter project expenses totaled $78 million and we capitalized $3 million related to the project.
In the prior-year quarter project expenses totaled $37 million and we capitalized $45 million related to the project.
As Bill mentioned considering the successful implementation of our third operating company and dependent upon how the next few weeks go for North Texas and West Texas we have begun to explore what is necessary to potentially accelerate the deployment schedule beginning next year.
We continue to make progress on our other key business transformation initiatives as well.
In the first quarter we announced our decision to outsource a portion of our IT resources to a third party.
The changes in the organization will result in significant financial benefit over time and is included in the total business transformation benefits that we expect to achieve.
Due to our progress on this and other initiatives we believe we are on track with the business transformation financial objectives we provided at Investor Day last year.
Turning to our cash flow performance.
Cash flow from operations for the first quarter was $213 million a decline of $42 million driven mainly by increased tax payments and lower earnings partially offset by increased depreciation and amortization.
The IRS settlement payments we paid last year will begin to impact the year-over-year operating cash flow comparison beginning in the second quarter.
As a reminder during fiscal 2012 we paid a total of $212 million in settlement payments none of which was paid in the first quarter $106 million that was paid in the second quarter and $53 million that was paid in each of the last 2 quarters.
Capital expenditures totaled $156 million for the first quarter this year compared to $227 million last year.
The $71 million decline in capital spending is driven in part by a reduction in business transformation capital spend and in part by a reduction in the number of major facilities -- facility projects this year compared to last.
As a result of the reduction in capital spending free cash flow doubled year-over-year to $58 million.
We expect the effect of lower capital spending this year combined with the completion of the IRS payment last year will result in an improvement in free cash flow in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.
Before we close I wanted to update you on our fuel guidance for the year.
Our process each quarter is to project the impact of fuel prices using among other inputs forward fuel prices.
While we are hearing continued discussion in the market about a potential decline in fuel prices there has been little impact yet in the forward prices.
As a result our current and projected rates for fuel had increased since our last forecast which result in an estimated increase in fuel expense for the year of $10 million to $20 million.
In closing while fiscal year 2013 is a critical year for us as we begin -- as we work towards significant milestones in our ERP deployments and begin to realize benefits from several areas of our business transformation plan we are beginning to see a consistent uptick in momentum underlying our efforts.
This is evident in the increased confidence throughout the organization in particular as it relates to the deployment of our new technology platform.
I believe this favorably positions us to take advantage of opportunities to grow our market share and expand upon our leadership position in the industry.
With that operator we'll take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Karen Short BMO Capital Markets.
This is actually Ryan Gilligan on for Karen.
We wanted to ask you about the inventory opportunity in terms of reducing SKU counts in your categories and the progress you've made so far specifically in the categories that you've approached already.
What has been the response from customers and what has been the impact on cost of goods? This is Bill.
I'd say on the SKU opportunities we have kind of a 2-pronged approach right now.
We from an operational standpoint have a lot of activity going on in our operating companies where basically it's what I would characterize as good old-fashioned inventory management where we see opportunities to reduce SKUs that are not critical to customers and which are slow-moving then we do have -- brought a lot of focus to that particular an issue.
So we've actually made good progress on that side of things.
And generally that's being handled well with customers.
And any time you have a situation where you're reducing a SKU that -- or taking away a SKU that sells often there will be some type of discussion with the salesperson or the customer.
But we're working through those and I feel pretty good about that.
As part of our lower costing products initiative we've talked about exploring category management.
And that will bring a much more integrated and smoother approach to how do we optimize our assortments throughout the enterprise and manage SKUs more effectively at the same time.
So that work has not yet begun in terms of being live but we're doing a lot of development work on that front as well.
Great.
And can you talk about the cadence of sales trends throughout the quarter and into the second? I would characterize sales trends pretty much what I said in my prepared comments.
We certainly read a lot from you folks in terms of softening in the restaurant industry and we think we've seen some of that as the quarter's gone along and that's continued here somewhat in the early part of the second quarter.
So the good news for us and this is just something we always try to remind everybody restaurants are obviously a big part of that $225 billion market but we have a lot of other business beyond the restaurant business with colleges universities health care hotels basically any establishment where food is prepared and eaten away from home.
So we’ve made some good strides with some of those customers and that's serving us well right now.
Great.
And sorry last question just to go back to the opportunity with reducing cost of goods.
The estimate that you outlined at the Analyst Day could that possibly be conservative or how are you guys thinking about that right now? It's not conservative until we beat it so I think at this point that's our best guidance for you.
We'll take our next question from John Heinbockel of Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Bill a couple of things.
One of the reasons gross margin had declined over the last 1 1.5 years had been some proactive price investments you guys had made.
Where do you stand on that? And assuming that that's moderating is there a possibility here that gross margin turns positive some time in '13? I certainly hope so John.
We're pleased that the trends have improved but obviously they're still below last year.
And I think in this type of market where the inflation has moderated as we called out we would expect to continue to see improvement in those trends.
So we're highly focused on that is about all I can tell you.
We've done a lot of work internally John outside of the big initiatives in terms of providing what we call more market-relevant costing to our operating companies through our purchasing organization here.
And I think as we continue to provide better and more market-oriented market-relevant transfer costing and that gives the OpCos a better cost base to price off of.
So there's a lot of different things going on there.
So I'm going to answer it similar to your earlier question.
We need to improve continue to improve in that area.
And as we get closer to year-over-year being flat then I'll be more optimistic about improving year-over-year.
LLC Research Division</strong> You also talked about the acquisition environment being very favorable.
Now is that -- I guess it's a combination of these 2 things but in terms of quality of companies available versus the price that you're having to pay is 1 of those 2 much more favorable than the other? That's an interesting question.
I'll start and let our acquisition guy here probably clean it up here a little bit.
I would say there's a couple of things going on right now.
I think the environment is good.
There's a little bit I think of a year-end phenomenon going on with concerns about tax code and that kind of thing so I think that has helped at least in this country.
But I would also tell you that this interest rate phenomena I think works both ways.
So for us it helps the deals look more attractive obviously since our borrowing costs will be a lot less.
But the sellers know that as well.
So I think for good value in terms of quality companies you're going to pay an appropriate multiple today and we're willing to do that because we can see the benefits financially and otherwise.
So hopefully that's a response.
So I think that's a better environment but we're not stealing any companies right now.
We're talking about good companies and pay reasonable value.
I don't really have anything to add Bill.
Bill kind of couched it.
The only thing I'll amplify is we have seen substantial increase in inbound phone calls because of the potential for tax rate increases in the beginning of next year.
So you’ve got a little bit of that rush to get it done phenomena.
But we're fortunate; we're seeing a lot of good companies that haven't been interested in talking before coming forward and wanting to have discussions and some of those will result in transactions soon and some may result in transactions later.
But we're happy to talk to everybody.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Then last on ERP.
So Chris you said none of the financial objectives have changed.
I assume the costs and benefits you'd outlined for '13 none of those have changed? That is correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then accelerating it in '14.
How many of OpCos do you think you have done by the end of fiscal '13? And then what's the capacity if you look at it per week per month however you want to look at it the capacity the organization has to do those? And if you do accelerate it what do you do to enable you to accelerate it? Well John first I mean our guidance for the year was 5 to 15 companies and we're certainly comfortable with that guidance.
If I were going to shade it I mean on the pace that we're at as long as things continue to go well I think we'll be towards the higher end of that guidance.
But we're very comfortable with that.
As Bill said and I repeated we are looking at now what it would take to accelerate that based upon us starting to feel better about our deployment capabilities.
I think it's premature to give you more guidance as to how fast we could go or how many we could do at a time until we finish that work.
And up next is Edward Kelly of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could we maybe go back to ERP? And I was hoping you could maybe give us a little bit more color around the decision that you're potentially making I guess to accelerate the rollout.
So what are you seeing today in the most recent rollouts versus what you've seen over the first couple that gives you a little bit more confidence? And then the second part of this question is if you did accelerate it and I know obviously there's a lot of variability around the details but what would that mean to the 2015 guidance that you gave at the Analyst Day? I'll tell you what I'm going to try to do a better job than Chris and then I'll let him go back and do this all over again.
We -- I think the biggest thing we're seeing is confidence I mean to be somewhat qualitative.
We -- I mean I think our people are -- we've done a few of these now right? So we've done 5 now.
And each time we do it both the teams on the deployment side as well as the local operating teams the SBS teams everyone it's familiar and it's things we’ve -- we get better each time and so I think confidence coming from improved performance in terms of the deployment aspect of it.
In terms of what we need to see we need to ramp up some resources to be prepared to move at a more accelerated rate.
And we need to see really good transition into the operationalizing of the ERP platform as well.
So those are all things as I said and that Chris has alluded to that we're assessing for over the next several weeks following these last 2 deployments.
Yes I want to go back.
I mean at Investor Day we actually talked about the potential to accelerate once we proved a few things and built up our own confidence.
We just said we'd be looking for that opportunity.
And I think all we’re really pointing out right now is we are now starting to look more seriously at the opportunity to accelerate based upon some early confidence.
The impact of that I obviously can't quote you numbers but conceptually the impact of that is we will accelerate expense obviously inside of the range that we had previously disclosed and that would also ultimately accelerate some of the benefits that were post-2015.
So if you recall when we talked about the benefits from business transformation we said there would be additional benefits beyond the 3-year guidance that we were putting up on the slide and on the screen during Investor Day.
So this would allow some of that to come into that 3-year period but we'd also accelerate the expense to get it done.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then you did mention the $10 million to $20 million increase in the fuel charges.
Is that a gross or net basis because you do have surcharges I think down on a lot...
Yes that's the fuel expense not the surcharge.
I don't really anticipate the surcharge increasing very dramatically so that's the fuel expense.
But ultimately if the surcharge isn't going to grow that's going to end up being a net expense as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And another question is on inventory.
Inventory was up about 11% this quarter.
Inflation's lower; you're doing some SKU actualization although I don't know how much of that's in the numbers.
But could you maybe just help us understand why inventories is up that much? Yes first -- I mean we are moving more cases or still a significant amount of new cases.
We were up 2.9%.
Secondly those acquisitions that we bring online also bring on additional inventory as well.
You still have a little bit of inflation in there; it's not nearly as much as before.
But every quarter we – well actually every month we will analyze how much of our increase in inventory was due to sales versus DSOs.
And I will tell you we're still not hitting on all cylinders on the DSOs.
We have opportunities for improvement there.
But most of our inventory increase was driven by sales growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question for you is a little bit more bigger picture related to CapEx.
Your CapEx guidance for this year is certainly down relative to last year because there's less spending I guess on business transformation.
But if you look back over time you've had years where you were $400 million to $500 million in CapEx.
You're still I think in the range if I remember $600 million $650 million.
Could you maybe just help us understand what the difference is even where you are now versus what that used to be? And is there an opportunity to get CapEx lower in the not-too-distant future? Yes it's a topic we've spent quite a bit of time talking about around here.
I think the answer is yes we can bring CapEx down lower.
We've taken the first step of that which is to look historically at some metrics for capital versus sales for example.
We talked about that at Investor Day and what's the right percentage and I think we outlined 1% to 1.2% of sales.
It's not perfect but it's a good guideline.
Step one is to get us back comfortably into that range and then we'll see where we can go from there.
But the answer to the first part of your question is we're a bigger company than we were 4 or 5 years ago.
We've got more facilities.
We had to -- during the crisis we didn't spend a lot of capital so we did some make-up spending afterwards because frankly we had built up some pent-up demand and we needed additional space.
So there was some catch-up there.
Now we've got those facilities to maintain we've got additional fleet from all of the case growth that we've realized over the last 4 or 5 years.
So we're going to spend more capital to maintain that fixed asset base.
But all of us believe that we've got more opportunities for efficiency.
Yes the only thing I would add is Chris has done a really good job over the last few months of helping us make cash flow and asset optimization asset management optimization in one of our key areas of strategic focus.
We had 3 big facilities that came on board this past year.
We have one big facility that's going to come on board in the current year in Southern California.
Fleet replacement those trucks and power units cost more today; significantly more than they did 2 or 3 and even certainly 5 years ago.
So there's a fair amount of inflation on the construction side and on the fleet side if you go back and compare what we're doing today versus just a few years ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick follow-up and I'm done here.
The cost savings that you guided to for the year I think was in this like $150 million range.
How much of that did you get in this quarter? So your guidance is approximately correct.
We said total run rate benefit at the end of 3 years $550 million to $650 million and we'd realize about 25% of that in the first year so your math certainly holds up.
We believe we're on track for that.
We're not really going to give quarterly guidance as to what we received.
We certainly have internal forecast by category of initiative and we're tracking those very carefully.
We're ahead in some areas; we're behind in some areas; we're on track in other areas.
But all in we're feeling pretty good about the number for this year and that's why we've not changed our forecast for that.
And we'll take our next question from Greg Badishkanian of Citi.
Research Division</strong> This is Alvin Concepcion in for Greg.
I just wanted to ask a little bit more about the slowdown in the restaurant industry trends throughout the quarter and early part of the second quarter.
Is there a major difference you're seeing out there between casual dining chain customers and independents? And also is there any color that you're hearing from your customers on the sales environment? Are they increasingly more concerned and are they making some adjustments to pricing as a result? Let me take the first one and if I forget get the second one let's come back to that.
I'll tell you what; can you just give me the first one again? I want to make sure I answer it right.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Are you seeing any major differences out there between casual dining chain customers and the independents? Well first of all I guess the way we look at it there's a lot of independents that are casual dining restaurants.
Relative to chains I'd say actually the data we're seeing right now is that there's been some growth with independents modest.
It's comparable to the chain growth right now after a couple of years of where independents have been flat to down and chains have been flat to up.
So from that standpoint that might be a promising sign.
We're seeing the same data you all see.
Sometimes we're reading your data.
I think overall there is still very very modest growth there but the trends have softened and it's not what it was a few months ago.
Most of the growth seems to be on the quick-serve side and the casuals are holding their own.
Upscale is up a little bit but I still think that might be off of a relatively easy comparison.
The only other color is I think traffic has softened some but the price of the check so to speak is -- continues to grow modestly.
So we still think there's some very modest growth there; it's not just at the rate of what we saw here just a few months ago.
And again we're splitting hairs here.
It's not like it was robust growth a few months ago.
So I just want to reiterate our point.
We feel like we're doing a good job being responsive and proactive in those areas.
We cover all segments of the restaurant industry.
But again we also have a strong presence in the nonrestaurant side of the foodservice industry and we're doing a really nice job there as well.
Research Division</strong> That's great color.
And I apologize if I missed this but in regards to the sequential improvement in the gross margin I'm assuming moderating inflation was a contributor to that.
Did you also see improvements in the competitive pressures in the quarter relative to last quarter? I think clearly the moderating of inflation was a big part of that.
And we saw a little bit of that in the fourth quarter.
I think inflation came down into the 3s and then this quarter in the 2s.
So there's -- as I've explained before I don't want to sound too esoteric or too passive here.
There's certain amount of math in the relationship between inflation and gross margin.
So yes we've benefited from that.
But our margins were still down 0.3 of a point and so a little bit of that I think was customer mix where our contract customers have grown a little faster than our street customers right now.
We did see our brand grow which is encouraging; that's a good thing on margins.
So yes the competitive pricing environment remains very acute.
But at this point this is really on us to find ways to continue to strike the right balance between growing our business with our customers and still driving out the right type of gross profit dollar growth.
Research Division</strong> And did you see any changes in the environment into October? Yes I would say it softened further in October.
Research Division</strong> With competitive pressures I'm talking about.
That's almost impossible to gauge on a monthly basis.
And our next question comes from Mark Wiltamuth of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Bill if you can give us what your buyers are saying about inflation right now and how are you feeling about the center-of-the plate proteins in particular given the drought we had this year? I think it's mixed.
I believe we saw a fair amount of inflation in poultry this quarter and meat's a big category for us Mark so I think that was 5% or 6%.
So it's hard to get a great handle on where that goes from here but I would expect that to stay up.
Seafood not as much.
Dairy on the other hand we saw a meaningful deflation there in dairy and dairy and a little bit in produce as well deflation.
So actually dairy and produce are probably 2 of your most volatile categories and so they'll go back and forth.
So right now I would say it hasn't changed a lot from what we're showing here for the quarter.
And I wouldn't expect it to change dramatically in the next few weeks or month or 2.
But also we're watching it really close because obviously there's other fundamentals out there in terms of the drought that we experienced throughout summer and what that may mean second half of the year in terms of both products and livestock and all that type of thing.
So bottom line is it's in a good place for us and our customers right now.
I do think there are some pressures building that over the second part of the year we could see a pickup again.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up a little bit on your last comments there on the gross margins getting a little better here as the quarter progressed.
Is that because your efforts to manage inflation were a little better or that you backed off of some of your planned discounting? Where do you think the improvement came from? Well I think we managed it somewhat better but we're still not managing as well as we need to.
I'm just being straight with you there.
But I also think like I said just the math of inflation when your costs are only going up 2% it's not as difficult to manage the pricing off of that than when they're going up 7% or 8% in some categories.
And up next is John Ivankoe of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones I think.
You mentioned Bill in your prepared remarks something that Sysco was doing that was driving up the cost of delivery in the quarter maybe -- I don't know if it was a mistake that you made or maybe there were some initiatives.
I mean -- I guess what were those? And are those now solved for the current quarter? Well let me balance this a little bit John.
What I said is I felt we did a really good job on the SG&amp;A side.
And unfortunately -- and we lowered our cost per case there which is a key metric for us.
And to just have flat cost per case in this business is pretty hard to do so we were pleased with what we did there.
We gave a lot of it back on the delivery side.
Some of that was fuel; some of it was some labor shortages in markets that are particularly robust right now and where some of the oil is being drilled and energy and that type of thing.
So I'm sure we saw the benefit of that on the sales and gross profit line.
And there's just some things we didn't execute as well as could have in several markets and I’ll leave that in-house if you're okay with that.
And look we're running a business here and I wish on a given day or a given quarter we could execute with perfection and we did a lot of things well here I would say to characterize this quarter.
I would've liked to see us perform a little better on the gross profit line and manage our delivery expenses a little more consistently across the company and we're working on both of those.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then secondly I mean obviously you're outperforming the broad foodservice distribution industry as would be evidenced by restaurant sales that -- and especially in casual dining is actually seeing shrinking traffic.
So -- I mean what is your sense that -- where is your share coming from at this point? I mean is it coming from some of the larger competitors or is it the very fragmented industry that you see out there that may finally see some forced consolidation as traffic remains weak and fuel costs goes up for operators that already have extremely low margins? Great question; hard to answer since we don't see the other guys' numbers.
But my best judgment is that more of it is coming from the smaller more fragmented part of the competitive landscape and that the larger players are probably holding their own or maybe picking up a little share.
Research Division</strong> I mean obviously we've been talking a lot about acquisitions but I mean are you beginning to see at the local level some consolidation of the smaller operators? Is there kind of some supply that's quietly coming out that we wouldn’t necessarily see here? Yes I think we are and that's what we alluded to in comments on the acquisition environment being somewhat better.
The challenge for you guys it's there's thousands of them so it's hard for you to see it in terms of how our numbers roll up or the industry numbers.
But the acquisition pipeline we're talking about is more in that middle to lower end of the competitive food chain so to speak.
And our next question comes from Ajay Jain of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> My main questions were already asked earlier but I wanted to just get some clarification on whether the severance costs this latest quarter are related to the cost reduction activities that were already contemplated for the year so even to the extent that your anticipated cost savings are at least somewhat headcount-driven I'm just wondering if the severance represents some upfront investment in terms of the cost reduction goals or if it's totally outside the scope of the planned cost reduction activities that you talked about at your Analyst Day? Ajay this is Chris and you nailed it.
It is related to the initiatives primarily related to the IT initiative that I talked about so there was a fairly large chunk of it this quarter.
We'll probably have some more of it in Q2.
But it's an upfront investment to get to the run rate savings.
Up next is Andrew Wolf of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the segment numbers sales could you talk about just SYGMA why it slowed? Was that what's going on with those customers or did you anniversary some business? We anniversaried some business I've never used that term before but I like that one Andy.
So we've had pretty good growth in the segment the last couple of years and the key there generally is picking up a new customer and obviously not losing any big ones.
So we haven't picked up a large new customer here over the last year.
And we've lost a little business; some of that we wanted lose and some of it not so much.
Bottom line is SYGMA is going to be a little more volatile compared to the Broadline in terms of ups and downs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with -- we don't see the inflation number by segment.
But when I look at SYGMA going down and much more than sequentially in terms of sales growth in Broadline.
Does -- what can we -- can you tell us if Broadline case movement was actually -- I'm sure it was better than the combined number but was it a lot better; was it flattish sequentially or versus down the way it was for the combined 2 segments? I want to be careful here Andy because you know a lot of our people listen to these calls and we're working hard at kind of this One Sysco mentality here.
But when you look at our numbers as the Broadline goes is how the company goes.
So there's never going to be much of a difference between the Broadline numbers and the overall numbers and there wasn't in this case either.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Okay.
And my last question is on business transformation.
Kind of simply put what are the things you're seeing that are -- have the executive -- your folks contemplating accelerating it; what's working? Well we had a similar question earlier.
I'll give you my best shot at that and let Chris jump in here.
Maybe I can help.
Yes Chris can help me this time.
Seriously look we've obviously had some bumps along the way here but we've done 5 of these now.
We've continued to bring in folks to strengthen our team at all levels and we're getting better at all parts of it the prep work the programming the change management work the training.
And as a result each rollout on these conversion weekends has been a little bit better.
East Texas went very well.
We've had good results business-wise since then.
And so as you see that people gain confidence we gain confidence and so that's the first step is to make sure that you can handle the conversion right get the deployment right and begin to hand it off to the business in a way that they run with it.
And -- but you can't wait until you're year end to it to kind of have these thoughts.
So where we're at right now is evaluating the opportunity to accelerate as we get more comfortable that we're executing at a level that's appropriate and that we can mobilize the resources that it’s going to take to do that.
Chris? Yes I think about this in 2 different components.
There's the confidence level on being able to roll it out so the actual implementation and then there's how does it work after the fact.
And while those are tied together in our minds they are kind of distinct parts of the equation.
We're definitely focused in this particular answer to this question on the first part of this which is are we gaining more confidence in being able to roll it out? So I spent the weekend in North Texas during their rollout last weekend.
And when you're actually sitting there watching the large number of people roll this thing out and implement it and it goes incredibly smooth and yes there are issues that come up right and left but the team have gotten so adept at handling the issues.
And frankly they're smaller issues than we were seeing in the other ones that just gives you more confidence that we know how to roll this thing out.
And at the same time we were doing it in another operating company at the same time.
First time we've tried that.
That gives you more confidence that we're going to be able to roll this thing out a little bit faster.
Now we still have to get through a couple other hurdles to make sure that we're going to be ready to do that and that's the work that we're beginning now.
But I'd say that's more color on the whole confidence notion and that's what's causing us to at least look at what it would take to go faster.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the second -- that's sort of where I was -- that answer was very clarifying.
So the second way you look at it the benefits is there any -- is there enough data for you internally to also feel that more confidence about that or is it really just more about the first part the execution of the rollout? Well if you remember some of our previous conversations around the benefits we were only looking at the hard dollar benefits which primarily are driven by reduction in staff and headcount out in the field as we roll these things out.
So as we go back and we look at what was our pre-rollout headcount what did we anticipate getting to after the rollout by a certain amount of time? We're getting close to our targets there.
And the first 3 being pilots and the second 2 -- or the first 2 being pilots; and then East Texas and the second 2 just having gone it's a little early to get a complete read on that but we are getting the headcount reduction benefits that we had anticipated getting in almost all areas.
And the exceptions frankly are areas where as we went through the process we decided that we might have been a little aggressive and -- in our initial estimations and we've pushed back a little bit since that time.
So it's too early to read everything.
We're not going to quote a bunch of numbers but we're feeling pretty good about at least the hard dollar savings that we talked about publicly.
Yes Andy I'd just take a moment here to remind everyone that a lot of what we talked about in May and what we've shared since then is because we have had some delays here we are finding other ways to accelerate these benefits.
We're not waiting to deploy this thing in 70 U.S.
companies and then Canada to get the benefits as we originally designed them in the business case.
So when we talk about improvement in SG&amp;A and when you look at that roadmap to 2015 that we put out there in SG&amp;A and operations some of those benefits were part of the original case and we're going to drive those out now and muscle through them where we need to.
And then to Chris' point there'll certainly be some additional benefits as we deploy and we're able to become more efficient post-deployment.
But there's 2 paths right now: One is the deployment path and the other is muscling through these cost savings even without the system.
[Operator Instructions] And we turn next to Meredith Adler of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit go back to the subject of inflation.
And maybe just talk a little bit about what you're working on.
I think you talked about some systems that would help pass along and were priced better and I'm sure that relates to inflation.
So maybe talk about where you feel you haven't done as good a job and how you see that improving and how quickly can it improve.
Okay I'm not sure what we've talked about in terms of pricing and in inflation but what I try to share with you Meredith is as we've said very consistently for as long as I can remember if we could keep inflation in this 2% to 3% zone that we've had the last couple of quarters and if it was relatively comparable across all categories that's just a much better environment for our customers and therefore it's a much better environment for us.
People can handle modest increases.
Maybe not as easily as I could 3 or 5 years ago before some of the challenges in the economy and the marketplace but certainly better than they can a 5% 6% to 7% increase.
We have pretty good systems today.
I want to be really clear.
We have good systems today on how to manage inflation.
And from that standpoint I think we do a decent job with it.
I think the art to this thing right now is to again strike the right balance as we manage the business at that district level at the OpCo level and then even here on how we interact with large customers and suppliers.
How do we strike the right balance between profitable growth and pricing? And so along the way we have certainly explored some different systems and scientific pricing modules and we continue to assess those.
And I think we will get better in that arena over time.
And we certainly can see analytically that there's probably an opportunity to have less variability in our pricing.
And we'll continue to work on those opportunities.
But I would say to you for now it's kind of good old-fashioned management on our part and attention to detail and striking that proper balance between growth and profitability.
Research Division</strong> So I guess when you have said you did say it on this call about could've done a better job in terms -- you're talking about finding a good balance between profitable growth and pricing when you say could've done a better job? Yes I'm just saying we as a management team throughout Sysco I think could've done a better job.
We did better than we did last quarter and we certainly did better than we did a year ago from a trend standpoint.
But what I'm really trying to say is we see opportunity out there where we could perform even better and that's what we're working on internally.
And we have time for one final question today and we'll go to Erin Lash of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> You commented that the acquisition environment was very favorable.
I wonder -- I was wondering if you could touch on whether there were any differences that you're seeing between the acquisition environment in the U.S.
versus internationally? Well to the extent that in the U.S.
we mentioned the kind of tax rush if you will to get some of these transactions done by the end of the year that does not necessarily apply to foreign acquisitions unless that their ownership may be U.S.-based.
So we're not seeing I'll say quite as many.
The markets are -- just talking about Ireland there aren't as many players in Ireland.
We tend to know who they are and I think these were very targeted strategic transactions for us to broaden our appeal to the customer base there and also broaden our network.
So we've kind of picked what we wanted there I guess if we could say and done it strategically.
Canada we spoke a lot about or at least I talked about our strategic desires in and around Québec Montréal.
And so again I think the team was very thoughtful up there about which acquisitions we wanted to go after.
But in terms of the pipeline we've got stuff coming to us I'd say in all 3 markets and we look at it we evaluate it we first decide whether it makes strategic sense and we start looking at whether the valuations are going to make sense to both us and the sellers and see if we can get a deal done.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then just finally I was wondering if you could provide just a little bit more detail.
You alluded to the execution issues that you're facing.
I was wondering if those were in markets where you've already rolled out business transformation or in markets that haven't been touched by those efforts yet.
Erin it’s Bill.
No they were just -- I'm just trying to give you all some color.
When you look over our business and you're talking about roughly 70 operating companies in the U.S.
and another 10 or 12 large companies in Canada plus Ireland the beauty of this business is there's always things that we're doing well and we can do even better.
And then there's always going to be situations where we're not doing and performing quite as well as we would like.
So the point is is I can tell you without from where I sit and where our management team sits that there are several markets where we probably could have managed the operations side of the business a little bit better and we will.
And we're very focused on that.
And so I share that with you basically to be candid but also to illustrate the nature of the business that it's one of continuous improvement.
With that said we did a nice job on the SG&amp;A side.
And so from the standpoint of looking at it overall that's why you saw in my prepared comments from an overall expense management standpoint the expenses in the core business grew about 3%.
That's pretty good.
We think we can do as well as that or better going forward.
And this concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I'll turn it back to the management team for any final comments.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a good day.
And this concludes today's presentation.
Thanks for joining and have a nice day.
Good morning and welcome to Sysco's Second Quarter Fiscal 2013 Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
We will begin today's call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would like to turn the call over to Neil Russell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
On today's call you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made in the course of this presentation that states the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ in a material manner from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings including but not limited to risk factors contained in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30 2012 and in the company's press release issued earlier this morning a copy of which is contained in the Investors section of our website.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in the presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation which can also be found in the Investors section of the website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volume growth including total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
Lastly we look forward to seeing everyone at the CAGNY Conference on February 19 where we will offer a business update presentation as well as a dinner featuring Chef Robert Irvine.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil.
Good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported sales of $10.8 billion for the second quarter and net earnings of $221 million.
Earnings per share was $0.38 and adjusted EPS representing our underlying business performance was $0.49 or 4.3% increase year-over-year.
During the quarter solid case volume growth contributed the highest second quarter sales level in our history.
This growth was driven by both acquisition and organic growth as we were particularly successful in growing with our large regional and national customers.
Adjusted operating income grew nearly 5% for the quarter.
Gross margin trends improved for the third consecutive quarter but were lower than the prior year due in part to the change in customer mix I just noted.
We were especially pleased with our expense control performance in the selling and administrative areas of our business as we benefited from successful implementation of several strategic initiatives.
However managing our expenses on the operating side of the business was challenging as fuel and payroll costs grew at a faster rate than our productivity improvements.
To date in fiscal year 2013 we have completed 10 acquisitions representing approximately $775 million in annualized revenue and expanding our presence in the United States Canada and Ireland.
The acquisition environment remains favorable and we continue to have a number of additional opportunities in the pipeline.
Our core market potential approximates $235 billion and grew by about 1% in real terms in calendar year 2012.
Based on preliminary industry data we believe we grew our market share this past year at a rate consistent with our strong historical performance.
However consumer sentiment and restaurant traffic trends have softened of late due to ongoing economic pressures reinforcing the need for Sysco to aggressively transform our business so that we remain well positioned to provide greater value to our customers and reduce our overall cost pressure.
Two critical components to deepening our customer relationships are more effectively marketing the Sysco brand and gaining greater insight into our customer's value and how we can most effectively address those needs.
We are making good progress in both of these areas under the leadership of Bill Goetz Senior Vice President of Marketing who joined Sysco about a year ago.
One development that we are very excited about is our recently announced marketing relationship with the Food Network its highly rated show Restaurant: Impossible and its chef Robert Irvine.
This is a first for Sysco and we believe it will enhance our brand strengthen our relationships with existing customers and extend our reach to new customers.
This multi-platform relationship will include TV commercials and show product integration digital integration and personal appearances by Chef Irvine.
Turning to the technology appointment portion of our multi-year business transformation efforts we are making progress at our operating companies in North Texas and West Texas where we deployed our new ERP system in November.
Particularly encouraging has been the improved functionality of the order entry system compared to earlier rollouts.
In addition our shared business service center SBS continues to ramp up to support a broader array of administrative functions in a centralized manner.
We have encountered some challenges however in the recent rollouts and are in the process of proceeding to make additional changes to further enhance the functionality of the system.
We are confident that we will be able to resolve these matters as we move forward and we'll refine our deployment rollout schedule accordingly.
At the same time we continue to move forward with other aspects of transforming our business.
In closing I would like to thank all of our customers for their support as we move through our business transformation journey.
I would also like to recognize all of our associates for their ongoing dedication and commitment to Sysco's success especially those that put forth tremendous effort to service our customers in the midst of Hurricane Sandy and its aftermath.
The transformational change that we are currently navigating throughout Sysco is both extraordinary and foundational to our profitable growth in the years to come.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the second quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the second quarter sales were $10.8 billion or an increase of 5.4% compared to the prior year driven by a case volume growth of 2.8% and food cost inflation of 2.5%.
In addition acquisitions within the last 12 months increased sales by 1.1%.
Changes in foreign exchange rates increased sales by 0.3%.
Gross profit in the second quarter increased 3.9%.
Gross margin in the second quarter declined 26 basis points.
Roughly 1/2 of this decline was caused by a slight shift in customer mix as a result of growth in large regional and national customers.
The remainder of the decline can be attributed to continued competitive pressure and a difficult sales environment that softened further during the quarter.
Operating expenses increased $116 million or 8.2% in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 compared to the prior-year period driven mainly by a $45 million increase in business transformation expenses and a $17 million increase in salaries and related costs.
In addition during the second quarter we recognized $22 million in charges from certain items related mainly to severance from the restructuring of our IT function which we discussed last quarter and the restructuring of our executive retirement plan which we discussed in the 8-K we filed on January 16.
As a result of all of these items operating income decreased $44 million or 10.4%.
Net earnings for the second quarter were $221 million a decrease of $29 million or 11.5% compared to the prior year.
Diluted EPS was $0.38 an 11.6% decrease compared to the prior year.
As you know Hurricane Sandy had a devastating impact on a large part of the country during the second quarter.
We have been deeply saddened by the tremendous personal and professional toll it has taken on our customers and the communities we serve.
Our operations and crisis management team did a tremendous job protecting our assets before the storm and in helping our customers recover afterwards.
In addition as in many natural disaster events Sysco played a key role in ensuring first responders can serve the community.
While we avoided substantial asset losses we estimate that the storm and its aftermath cost us about $0.01 a share during the quarter.
As we have discussed on previous calls we believe it is important to focus on the performance of our underlying business which not only excludes the $22 million in certain items I just mentioned but also excludes business transformation expenses.
To summarize the performance of our underlying business as we go through our business transformation: adjusted operating expenses increased 3.7% slightly lower than the growth in gross profit dollars; adjusted operating income increased 4.6%; adjusted net earnings grew 4.7%; and adjusted EPS grew 4.3% to $0.49 per share.
As Bill mentioned the acquisition environment is currently quite favorable and we have been very active in this area.
To date in fiscal 2013 we have completed 10 acquisitions with annualized revenues totaling approximately $775 million.
As a result we have already exceeded our goal of adding 0.5% to 1% in sales from acquisitions this fiscal year and we still have a number of additional potential transactions in the pipeline that we are working to complete over the next several quarters.
Turning to the impact of the Business Transformation Project for a moment in the second quarter project expenses totaled $81 million and we capitalized $3 million related to the project.
In the prior year quarter project expenses totaled $36 million and we capitalized $33 million related to the project.
We continue to make progress on our other key business transformation initiatives.
With regard to our initiatives to reduce our operating costs we have completed the implementation of the SAP maintenance module throughout our U.S.
Broadline Companies and we have also created specific action plans for every OpCo to implement best practices in warehousing and delivery.
On our initiatives to reduce our SG&amp;A cost we have completed the rollout of our sales productivity initiatives including the deployment of our new CRM tools throughout our U.S.
Broadline operating companies; we've implemented substantial changes on our IT function outsourcing our managed services work; we have begun to implement the SAP Human Resources module throughout our operating companies; we restructured the retirement benefit plans for associates and executives; and we have begun the process of centralizing some of our field finance work to our shared services center.
And finally with regard for initiatives to reduce our product costs we have progressed our 4 pilot categories through the category management process to the point where we are now awarding new contracts to suppliers.
Even though there is a lot of hard work left ahead of us we are pleased with our overall progress today on our key transformation initiatives.
Turning to our cash flow performance at our Investor Day last year we discussed our plans to reduce capital expenditures in both our underlying business as well as for the Business Transformation Project.
We've made good progress on that objective with CapEx declining $172 million in the first half of this year compared to last year.
We've seen a decline in capital spending related to the Business Transformation Project mainly driven by the fact that we began implementation of the new technology earlier this year.
In the underlying business we've seen lower capital spending because of a reduction in the number of major facilities project this year compared to last and a more disciplined capital allocation and approval process.
As a result of the reduction in capital spending free cash flow increased 20% year-over-year to $125 million.
We expect the effect of continued lower capital spending this year combined with the completion of the IRS payment last year will result in an improvement in free cash flow in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.
The other component of the free cash flow equation cash flow from operations declined year-over-year in the first half by $152 million or 28%.
Increased inventory levels drove about 1/2 of this decline.
We also had an increase in certain current period tax payments mainly due to timing.
Before I close I want to remind you of guidance we have provided previously on a few significant items that will impact the second half of the fiscal year 2 of which we discussed in more detail in our 8-K filed in January.
We believe our transformation initiatives will provide meaningful long-term benefits to Sysco.
However as we discussed at our Investor Day some of the initiatives will result in onetime charges.
I discussed a few minutes ago a $12 million charge we incurred in the second quarter related to the restructuring of our executive retirement plans.
The total charges are estimated to be $24 million and we expect to incur the remaining $12 million in charges related to this action in the second half of the year.
This restructuring more closely aligns the executive retirement plan with the employee retirement plan.
And we believe over the long term will reduce the volatility retirement-related expenses as well as the total cost of retirement-related expenses.
On our fiscal 2012 year-end call last August we discussed the more than $100 million potential increase in pension expense we were facing as we were developing our fiscal 2013 plan.
In response to this potential significant increase in expense we restructured our employee retirement plans to freeze our defined benefit pension plan and subsequently enhance our defined contribution or 401(k) plan.
As I mentioned a few moments ago during the second quarter we recently completed the restructuring of our retirement plans by also restructuring our executive retirement plans.
The net effect of all these changes is that we now expect pension expense to be lower in fiscal 2013 by $21 million with $15 million of this decrease occurring in the second half of fiscal 2013.
The additional expense in fiscal 2013 related to the increase in 401(k) and other retirement plan changes will be in the range of $55 million to $65 million all of which will impact the second half of this fiscal year.
These 2 components together will result in a net increase in retirement-related expenses for the full year of between $35 million and $45 million.
This includes amount that we categorize as certain items.
Finally in the third quarter we expect to incur a $40 million charge related to the withdrawal from an underfunded multi-employer pension plan.
This withdrawal will help us mitigate our exposure to multi-employer pension plans and underfunded status.
In closing fiscal year 2013 is a critical year for us as we work towards significant milestones in our business transformation plan and begin to realize benefits from several areas of our company.
The work we are doing will favorably position us to take advantage of opportunities to continue to grow our market share and expand upon our leadership position in the industry.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
Is there any update on either the rollout schedule where you expect to be by fiscal year end in terms of OpCos or the benefit because I think it's 25% of the ultimate benefit would be seen this year.
Is there any update on either one of those? John no I don't have an update for you this morning.
What we're telling you I think in our prepared comments is we're in somewhat of a delay here from what we originally anticipated in terms of rollouts and we're going to take the next few weeks to continue to assess the things we need to improve in terms of the functionality of the system.
I think over the next month or 2 we should have an update on the rollout time line.
As far as the 25% of the benefits I want to just keep reminding everybody and I'll let Chris speak to this because he's the one that's really managing this pretty well that is off of a overall targeted savings of $600 million give or take over a 3-year period which incorporates not just the technology side of it but some big initiatives we have going on which Chris referenced in detail here today on the SG&amp;A side of the business as well as the product cost side of the business.
So I think we're in a good -- pretty good place there.
And I'll let Chris provide some color for you.
Yes John with regard to both parts of your question on the rollout plan I won't add any color to what Bill said other than the guidance that we have out there right now is 5 to 15 operating companies being converted this year.
I think it's fair to say we're going to be at the lower end of that range but as Bill said we're working through whatever revisions we might need to make to our plans right now.
But that's the current guidance.
On the savings again as Bill said it's across all of our business transformation initiatives.
I kind of walked you through where we made progress on many of the others and frankly we feel pretty good about where we are on our overall cost saving initiatives for this year as well as going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just as a follow-up on I guess ERP 2 key things the functionality challenges are coming primarily where? And then as you've rolled out the CRM component have you seen yet much of a benefit to how the salespeople are doing their day-to-day job whether it's calling on more customers or anything like that or is that too early yet? I think we're beginning to see benefits John on the CRM.
But it is pretty early.
I mean we've -- it's a huge rollout for us in multiple companies.
But for us to be able to successfully implement some of the other initiatives in the SG&amp;A side that we've undertaken we're going to need to see effective implementations of CRM.
So I think we're in a good place there.
But that's like a lot of things.
It probably takes a good year to get it out and get people to use the system and to trust it and then to hold each other accountable for results.
So I'd say still early but we're very encouraged and very pleased with the system itself that we're using.
As far as the functionality let me do this.
I went back and I looked at some things we've said to you all in recent calls and I'd like to put it in context.
And I think the first point I want to leave with you is we're very confident in the direction we're going in here.
We're very confident that we are going to be able to resolve some of the challenges that we have right now.
We're just not as confident in terms of the specifics of the near-term time line.
With that said what we've talked about in the past is concerns issues with speed performance in particular with the order entry system.
We had some issues with reports early on and we spoke a little bit in the past about inventory management service levels those types of things.
I would say to you where we are today with these recent rollouts we're pleased with the progress we've made on the order entry and the speed and the performance of that system.
So we've done well there.
We're very pleased with as I said earlier with the ramp up of SBS and that group beginning to take on a broader array of support services even without the technology being as further -- as far along as it will be at some point.
So we're not waiting on the technology to begin to centralize the things that we believe that can be centralized effectively.
Our challenges today we've had some hardware blips to be honest with you around Thanksgiving time.
We ran into some issues there and it took us a while to resolve that.
We've had an event or 2 here of late as well.
So we still got some things to work through on the hardware side highly confident that we will be able to do that.
And then on the well I'll call it again the inventory management service level issues still not clicking here at the level that we need to be.
We came out of the chute pretty well after the deployments themselves but the service levels aren't where they need to be.
We've ran into some issues with connectivity and our system to our large customer systems.
And those are things that we're working through today.
Now I'll remind you that this deployment we did back in early November was very important for a couple of reasons: one it's the first time we deployed 2 companies; but second North Texas or -- essentially Dallas is by far and away the largest OpCo we put on the system and it's one of our largest Opcos overall.
So these challenges we're going into right now well some were frustrating at times not unexpected and we're working through them with our customers and with our people and again really appreciate the patience of the customers and very very appreciative of the efforts our people are putting forth.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just one last thing it looks like the level of price investments have moderated from where they were 9 months ago a year ago.
Is that likely to continue or does that go the other way given the macro and maybe a resurgence in inflation? Do you think the pace of price investments gets more intense on your end the next remainder of this year or do you continue -- think we continue to moderate? John those are your words.
I don't think I've used those words exactly.
I will say about 1.5 years 2 years ago we did talk a lot about strategic pricing initiatives and there were some things we are doing there a category or 2 that we have pretty much cycled through and we're pleased with what we've seen there in terms of growth.
I think the relative improvement you're seeing on the margin trends is a combination of 2 things.
I mean we are working very hard at it trying to strike the right balance in terms of growth and being responsive to our customers.
And secondly is because the inflation has subsided that takes a little pressure off the percentage change issue there.
So we're continuing to try to grow the business aggressively but be smart about it and we need to continue to improve on the margin side.
We'll take our next question from Edward Kelly with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So if we could go back to -- just a quick follow-up on the ERP implementation.
Is there any impact on the cost that you expected to incur this year the $300 million $350 million as well as on capital because I know you talked about some hardware issues.
The second one first.
At this point we don't really anticipate an increase in the cost of capital.
And if it is frankly it's going to be minor.
Hardware really doesn't cost that much in the grand scheme of a project like this.
The capitalization of labor which typically occurs when you're developing a system not when you're implementing it.
So I don't anticipate a significant increase in the capitalization.
In terms of the overall cost to the extent that there's a delay here just like what we talked about the last time when we talked about the more significant delay it's not really in the current year it's just that additional time down the road.
So while there may be some additional costs I don't currently anticipate those being significant.
But anytime you have a delay of course you're adding more time to the end of the deployment cycle and you'll pick up additional cost for a longer period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm just trying to frame sort of like the net cost of business transformation as well as the cost savings that you talked about this year.
And I guess the way we think about it if there's $300 million to $350 million in business transformation and let's call it roughly $150 million in cost saves you're sort of at this $175 million level net for the full year which is lower year-over-year than last year right because you gross cost in those savings.
Are we thinking about that the correct way? You're generally correct.
We gave you a lot of guidance at our Investor Day which I'd encourage you to pull back up there are a couple of charts there that are pretty good.
That frankly if you listen to our calls we try to talk in the same language as those charts every time so you can keep up.
But that's how we outlined it.
We just had gross business transformation cost.
We netted against that some benefits from our shared services center to get to a net business transformation cost and then we also broke it down into cash cost and cash is where we expected to pick up some benefit this year as we slowed down the implementation and started depreciation --  sorry slowed down development and started depreciation.
Research Division</strong> Now on the cost savings side I know in the first quarter you were reluctant to really kind of give any color on where you stood.
I don't know if you could help us understand how much you've achieved today in the first half or how much of that is back half weighted just as kind of how we think about the model here.
Yes we're pretty -- we're going to be very cautious about giving quarter-by-quarter guidance because there's going to be a lot of timing elements to this to be real candid with you.
But look I'm not going to dodge the fact that this whole thing was a build up from one quarter to the next all the way through 3 years.
So we told you 25% in the first year 50-ish range around 50-ish in the second year and all of it by the third.
So you can see the ramp-up.
Throughout the year they ramped up as well.
So if the 25% -- yes more than 1/2 of it is going to be the latter half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Bill could you maybe talk about just general consumer and industry trends? Maybe start with sort of volume growth what was the cadence to that volume growth throughout the quarter? And then it sounds like things have weakened up so far in the current quarter volume standpoint.
I don't want to put words in your mouth so if you could just help us understand what you were sort of referring to there.
Yes sure.
I would say to you that the volume trends have softened I think as we went through the second quarter in particular on the street.
We're doing a really nice job with the large regional national chains that -- Kent Humphries and his group have brought in some great accounts there.
We've been able to grow with some big existing customers so that's been a real positive for us.
I would say on the street we have seen some softness.
And then when Hurricane Sandy came that just exacerbated it.
And things picked up after that but not to the level that we were at before.
I'm not really putting that on the hurricane though.
I just think as you read all the things that come out in terms of economics confidence and you look at some things coming out of our industry in terms of the operators and just looking at a lot of the things that you guys publish in terms of restaurant trends I think you can say that things have softened out there and we're dealing with it.
And bottom line is we're continuing to find ways to stay close to our customers work even harder on retaining the business that we do have and going after new prospects that are good fit for Sysco.
So I think it's going to be soft here for a while from everything I read and that just means that we need to work a little bit harder and continue to as I mentioned in my comments continue to aggressively go forward on some of the transformation initiatives and continue to develop that acquisition pipeline.
Research Division</strong> And i just want to ask you one last question on gross profit dollar growth.
Your gross profit dollar growth exceeded your case growth this quarter for the first time in a while.
Just probably an encouraging sign.
Could you maybe talk about what the drivers of that were? It might be something [indiscernible] at SYGMA but SYGMA didn't grow much.
And then how sustainable that is in the back half? Well to be candid that's not exactly a high bar.
But it's -- we need to at least get to that and we -- fortunately we did.
So it is encouraging.
And again I would attribute that to some modest improvement on our part in terms of managing growth and profitability and we need to continue to improve it or to be totally candid.
So it's encouraging but a lot of room to go.
Research Division</strong> Can you keep that up in the back half though do you think? We're planning to.
Our next question comes from Michael Kelter with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just first off a quick one on the recent delays on the ERP rollouts.
Do you expect the delay to be measured in months or quarters? Right now I'm dealing with the weeks Michael.
All right so basically we're -- as I said we're taking a look at some of the challenges we have and we've got some very capable people internally and externally working with us on that and we're staying close to our customers.
So I think over the next several weeks we'll have a better update for you on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on the business trends commentary that you've given anything you can help us with on the trends you're seeing over let's say the last 4 or 5 weeks in the current quarter? Are they stable or is there any evidence of an impact from the recent payroll tax increase? I -- first of all January's hard for me to make any great commentary on just there's a lot of volatility from 1 year to the next on weather and that kind of thing.
And I don't talk a lot about weather.
But keep in mind this quarter for us March is disproportionately large because of the seasonal changes where you'll continue to hopefully have good business where people go on vacations as well as people up north getting out a little bit more.
So it's hard to draw any conclusions but generally soft.
I will re-announce that.
I don't know that I can attribute any of that to the payroll tax.
What I would attribute it to is confidence just what the countries going through on the economic side and I guess the payroll tax will be a piece of that.
And just everybody is I think continue to be pretty careful with their dollars as they start the year.
But I think our operators I just saw some numbers this morning and these go up and down.
And the outlook from our customer base is a little bit better even though we're not seeing it in the numbers yet.
We said this 2 or 3 years ago and I think unfortunately we were right.
This recovery is slow and it's uneven.
And going back to your earlier question it seems almost to be quarter-by-quarter at times.
So hard to predict but I think comparisons will be a little tough this quarter again.
And I say one more thing on weather and I've seen in it -- some of you guys' reports we did have a very mild winter last year and that did help us in particular in the northern states.
So a little cautious here early in the quarter and certainly hopeful that things will pick up as we get into March.
Research Division</strong> And then on the SYGMA business I know it's not the biggest chunk of your business but it was up less than 1% in the quarter despite the 2.5% pricing which implies that division at least temporarily is actually in decline on a real basis.
Is there anything we should be aware of in terms of lost customers or anything like that or is it just some temporary time shift of some sort of orders anything like that? It's more the latter.
I mean SYGMA's going to have a little bit more volatility on the pipeline because when you bring in a new account or you pick up a significant more business with an existing account that will jump your numbers for a period of time but we've essentially wrapped some of the new business pickup there and there's been some wins within existing customers and some modest losses that type of thing.
But basically it's a function of we've wrapped some of the new business from a year ago and what you're seeing there is a pretty good reflection of the overall growth of the customer mix.
Our next question comes from Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little comment on what was going on with inflation during the call -- during the quarter and also your prospective outlook for inflation here for the rest of the year? Yes the way we measure it Mark I think we said we have about 2.5 points of inflation on our cost.
It's pretty stable with most of the categories.
Meat was up I think poultry is up quite a bit we had some deflation in seafood and the rest of the categories were not overly significant although some were certainly larger categories than others.
So pretty stable from that standpoint.
I would expect certainly to see a modest increase over the second half of the year but I don't know that we've seen enough yet to be projecting more than that.
It's just -- we watch it closely but I guess my best judgment is a modest increase.
We'll take our next question from Karen Short with BMO Capital.
A couple of questions just on the OpCos we rolled out -- you've already rolled to.
Can you maybe talk to what's happening with volumes in general their attention with the customers or anything you can point to that's encouraging? You're talking about the last 2 rollouts Karen? Yes.
Yes I think it's a little early for that but as I said really on we did a great job.
We had a record sales week in one of the companies at a rollout and our leadership team and our sales people and our support people here in the 2012 team and SBS have done a great job supporting our sales people and our customers.
As you would expect I mean as you do run into some of these issues that will spring some relationships and we've had some good discussions with customers that are experiencing some of the same challenges we are.
So they've been very supportive to date and we are working very hard to get the service levels to the level that we have had historically and that they would expect.
So I would say so far good partnership with the customers but as we've noted there are some challenges out there.
Okay.
And then in terms of the categories where you've looked at rationalizing SKUs what about the impact on customers in those categories or on volumes overall in those categories any color there? I don't think that's had a big impact on customers.
It's had an impact internally but most of the SKUs that we rationalized were as you would expect pretty low velocity type SKUs.
So anytime you reduce SKUs it creates some angst and tension in the organization.
But Mike Green and his team have done a great job there and we're down about 10% in our SKUs.
So I think the real test there will be as we go further on the category management work I think Chris mentioned that we're in pilot stage right now.
Part of that whole package is to put together a more optimal assortment that's broader but less redundant.
And that will create some SKU pressure as well but in the right way.
And so our challenge there will be to work through that with our sales force and our customers from a value added perspective.
So all in all I think we've done a good job there and there hadn't been a lot of pushback.
Okay.
And then just last question looking at your cash flow on the acquisition side of it the multiple -- if that dollar amount is actually your total payment for the acquisitions that you made it seems like a pretty attractive multiple of sales.
Is there -- are there any deferred payments or anything that will be part of the acquisition price or is that the actual multiple that you paid for those acquisitions? Typically when we do acquisitions we will have an earnout agreement which will last 2 or 3 years which generally just says that the former management team owners will stay around and help integrate the company and retain as many customers as we possibly can.
And for that if they're able to accomplish that there's a portion of the purchase price that gets paid out over time.
It's not a huge number.
So what you're looking at in terms of multiples is fairly reflective of what we're actually paying for these things.
We don't typically look at it on a multiple of sales.
I know sometimes people do that.
There are a lot of different types of businesses that we look at.
They have a lot of different operating margins.
So that sometimes will cause a pretty broad range if you look at it on a percentage of sales basis.
Right.
Unfortunately that's all I can look at but...
I understand.
We'll take our next question from Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about what you're doing in terms of retirement expenses.
You talked about a pretty big increase in 401(k) expense.
Is that because it's a new program is that kind of an initial expense or will there be continuing -- will that expense continue or will there be incremental higher expenses in the coming years? Yes.
First Meredith we -- I've got to back up and I always have to start with where we would have been this year.
We would have been $107 million more in terms of retirement plan expenses which was obviously not something that we were looking forward to and our shareholders wouldn't have enjoyed either.
For that and many other reasons we look at restructuring our pension plans.
That was something we were always looking at as part of business transformation.
So we think of it in terms of that was the bogey.
We had to do better than that.
Now on a year-over-year basis it is going to be higher so the direct answer to your question is yes within the charges that I've read out earlier there are some what we call certain items which are onetime charges that will affect us this year.
We talked about $24 million in terms of that that will hit us this year and then we'll get more to a run rate.
We're going to give you more color as to what that run rate is.
If not next quarter certainly in our fourth quarter reports that you can model for next year.
We're trying to just give you the visibility for this year.
The reason why we all set ranges around it is 401(k) expenses depend upon participation of course and that's somewhat hard to predict especially with employees' paychecks going down because of tax changes.
So we've got a fairly wide range in those numbers because we're not sure what the 401(k) benefits are going to look like.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think it's great that you froze the defined benefit.
It needed it to be done I'm afraid.
I was wondering if you -- I was just wondering if you could talk about the 10 acquisitions you did and whether there is any commonality or anything in particular you're looking for? Are these filling in geographical holes or line of business or just great opportunities? It varies depending on the acquisition.
So I'm going to say they're across the board.
I'll give you a little color.
In Ireland while we have a very strong business over there and it covers much of the country we were able to find 2 other companies that together with ours now cover kind of all of the whitespace on the map.
We can reach all the way up into Northern Ireland without doing long haul et cetera.
And so that gives us we believe coverage over most of the country not to say we won't look for additional transactions there but those are great transactions for filling out the map.
Canada we still have a little bit of whitespace left and predominantly in some of the larger cities Québec Ontario area there we were underpenetrated and so that gave us the opportunity to increase our penetration or market share in an area where we thought we had plenty of opportunity.
Here in the U.S.
most of what we're doing now are fill-ins and there are companies that's -- and families that we find that we believe have built a great business and a great name and we like the way they operate and we enfold them into our companies.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe just my final question would be obviously inflation is pretty modest right now.
I think there was a time when inflation was a lot higher than when it was just challenging to pass it all along to your customers.
Is there any reason to believe that that's still an issue? I mean 2.5% is kind of on top of big numbers last year or would you say that this is just -- you're not having any issues passing it along? Meredith it's Bill.
I would say this is as good as it gets all right? We're in that 2% to 3% zone.
That's what we've historically have always signaled is best for our customers and for us.
I'm not going to tell you it's easy to pass along but I think we're doing a little better job of it.
It really comes down to the pressure that the foodservice operators are feeling and their outlook.
So I think we're doing a decent job right now.
If inflation were to pick up materially that would put pressure on our customers which ultimately puts pressure on us.
So we'd love for it to stay right around here and  maybe tick up a little bit.
Yes the thing we have to keep reminding ourselves though and helping you all with is at the other end of this equation we still have the problem of consumer demand the ultimate restaurant patron.
They're just not as -- they're not out there as much as they used to be out there.
And that's the part that's never really recovered from the Great Recession if you will.
So as long as we have kind of a weak consumer demand and restauranteurs are trying to get as many customers into the restaurants as possible you're going to have this competitive pressure in the industry.
So it's inflation yes but it's also just weak demand on the other side.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one final question about the things you're doing in your shared services facility it sounds like you've moved a lot of new activities to that facility.
Is there anything that you're doing there that perhaps you hadn't originally contemplated and you've now seen an opportunity to use that facility more effectively? I don't know if there's anything we hadn't contemplated.
There are things we're accelerating because we're not to the point where we thought we would have been originally on the technology side.
So Chris mentioned several of them HR finance we're doing some things in marketing out there.
I'll let Chris add to that but it's more about acceleration I think.
Absolutely right Meredith.
As we've said and tried to explain a number of times rather than wait to get the full technology rolled out one OpCo at a time or 6 OpCos at a time or whatever the original plan was and then bring all of those companies into SBS we've been doing it frankly function by function.
And we talked about maintenance that one's done.
We're starting to prepare ourselves to receive benefit from that.
HR is now being rolled out finance is underway already.
We're just bringing them in function by function everywhere that we do not need to rely upon the big system going into place.
And indeed I think I mentioned and several of these we're using the SAP modules.
We're just turning them on without the overall system being in place.
They work just fine coupled in with our existing systems.
So it's really about accelerating everywhere we can so that we can get the benefit that we originally described.
Our next question comes from Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Yes actually most of my questions were already asked but I just had a question on the payroll increase in Q2 and maybe a lot of this was already covered in the prepared comments from Chris.
So I think Chris you mentioned that there is going to be an additional $12 million of payroll increase in the back half of the year but I'm trying to understand the net payroll impact like what's been cumulative effect on payroll net of the severance charges year-to-date and can you give any similar commentary on the outlook for the back half of the year? I believe we talked about payroll being up $17 million if I recall correctly quarter-over-quarter.
Let's see if I've got any detail on that that I can talk about.
Yes $17 million up for the quarter.
I don't believe actually that number has any of the onetime charges in it.
So what you've got going on in there is we've talked about cost being up on the labor side in our delivery area and costs being down on the SG&amp;A side of the equation.
You've got those 2 things kind of playing together and the rest frankly are just normal increases in payroll expenses as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
I was just trying to understand the net impact of payroll expense year-to-date and what's your outlook for the balance of the year.
But maybe I can follow up off-line.
Yes look we can talk about that.
I think Bill said in previous comments that we haven't been all that pleased with some of the increases on the delivery side of the equation.
We had some overtime issues some shortage of driver issues things of that nature.
Those costs have been higher than we anticipated.
On the other hand some of our initiatives are kicking in on the SG&amp;A side and specifically the sales side and those costs are lower.
So you get a bit of an offset there.
So you're going to have hopefully the latter continuing the initiatives continuing to hold and we actually start  to gain said benefit or frankly just get some control over the delivery side of the equation.
So in terms of what we would like the outlook to be that's it.
If this is where we -- we just have to operate really well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up my understanding was that a lot of the cost savings that offset ERP spending those -- whatever was targeted I think $150 million for this year that was supposed to be heavily headcount-related.
So if that -- if my assumption is correct I mean would it be reasonable to infer the payroll expense goes down even open in the back half if you look at the year-over-year comparisons? Yes let me take that in 2 parts.
Is it reasonable to expect that payroll expense will go down? It will certainly -- it should not go up as much let me put it to you that way without giving you specific numbers.
I want to be careful though I don't believe we ever said that the vast majority of the $150 million was going to be headcount-related.
You may be confusing that with statements we've always said most of the hard dollar benefits from business transformation or the ERP systems would be headcount-related which is a different concept.
The $150 million fell into various buckets we've described including product cost reductions SG&amp;A reductions and lower operating cost reductions.
So it's across the board.
There's a lot of payroll in it I'm not trying to dodge that.
And so we would expect it like I said to at least not continue to increase and hopefully go down a bit.
But there are other cost savings in there as well.
Yes I think the only thing I'll add Ajay is I mean payroll doesn't have to go down for us to leverage our productivity improvement.
And so I would say yes I would echo what Chris said we're not quite where we want to be at this point.
There's different things going on in different parts of the business.
And we have a very aggressive plan for expenses this year.
So if -- I'm not sure you have -- I mean when you look at the expense growth it's not bad.
I mean if you go back and look at it historically it's just we have a very aggressive goal given some of the impact of the initiatives so I don't know that it has to go down.
And I think it needs -- the delta the increase of the delta it needs to continue to come off and that's what we're managing very much focused on cost per case.
We'll take our next question from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Chris I heard some of your prepared remarks regarding CapEx control in general and just some increased discipline in general about how the money is being spent.
I mean have you been able to update kind of fiscal '14 fiscal '15 CapEx guidance? I mean is it still the intention that those numbers continue to come down as ERP gets finished up? We typically update our 5-year capital plan as we go into the end of the year.
So we haven't updated future-looking years.
I will say this alleviate maybe one of your concerns we're not pushing off CapEx this year into next year so that we get a -- gain some benefit this year.
I know sometimes you can play with the numbers that way but we honestly don't feel like we're pushing off just to be making the numbers look better.
We're just hitting a little bit as I said a little smarter about where we spend our money.
I think if you look at last year and this year and pull out the technology and divide it by 2 I think that's a more representative view.
Yes so we're down $177 million on the capital line.
In fact if you double it we're going to be well under our guidance.
I don't anticipate being well under our guidance but we're certainly running at the lower end of our guidance right now in terms of our forecast for the year.
I just don't have a good view of '14 right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly regarding acquisitions I mean it seems like kind of your acquisition are being made almost kind of independent of what's going on the ERP side especially with some of the modest delays that are happening.
I mean is that the case or are you just kind of -- are you conscious of the size and the amount of acquisitions that you can make until your legacy system can be running exactly the way that you want it to be? No so we've talked about $775 million annualized sales across 10 transactions.
So just do an average of $75 million sales per transaction.
They're not extremely large deals that we would worry about disrupting us.
Now that being said I don't think we would be doing a deal in the middle of Dallas right now and trying to integrate it in Dallas.
There's no reason to complicate our lives when we don't need to.
So it's a little of both.
They're smaller transactions in general which we feel comfortable taking on regardless of where we are with the ERP.
At the same time I think we're thoughtful about where we're going to be trying to integrate deals with our ERP rollout schedule.
Our next question comes from Andrew Wolf of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Chris I want to just ask you about Hurricane Sandy the $0.01 impact you called out is that all from forgone sales or was there some inventory involved? It's a little bit of everything so we had a little bit of asset loss.
We moved as much of our equipment out of the area as we possibly could and literally ran out of storage area for some so we had a little bit of asset loss some inventory damage to facilities and then sales loss.
In general what happens is you lose the sales but you don't necessarily lose the expenses.
So you're effectively losing the gross profit on all of that for a period of time.
So we measured it as best we can.
These are more art than science for the quarter.
Some of this impact will last for a while and we're probably going to feel some of the impact when the summer months roll around and some of the businesses that generally will open and thrive during the summer aren't there anymore.
But we're starting to see some recovery in the area.
But Andy I will tell you -- I mean if you looked at our sales that week and I don't think I need to tell you in this call the impact of that hurricane but from the mid-Atlantic right up into Maine and even into the Mideast a little bit it was dramatic and in particular in metropolitan New York New Jersey.
So that week was obviously devastating to people and our people and customers but financially it was a very significant event for that week.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
No just as we're trying to carve out potential sales impact.
That's helpful.
Appreciate that.
And moving onto M&amp;A where you helped by the change in the tax code or do you think this -- the M&amp;A environment still remains equally favorable as it was in the quarter? No.
I mean look we -- towards the -- we had a very busy December.
The teams put in a lot of hours trying to close transactions that needed to be closed by the end of the tax year.
So yes that was the case.
At the same time though I don't think that the pipeline has continued to be rather robust.
It's just the number of the deals were desperate to close by the end of the tax year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is this environment wearing on potential sellers in terms of valuation expectations -- from what you think is that -- if we were to take out the tax part of it what you think of that? I would say -- I'd characterize where we are currently as more normal which means you've got sellers that are at least somewhat reasonable.
Now look in any normal environment you got some sellers that are being irrational with expectations and some frankly that aren't  asking enough for their businesses.
So you've got to range.
But the range is more what I would call traditional and normal than it was say 24 months ago.
That's what we've been seeing.
And that helps us in terms of getting to a "yes" with -- on a deal that both sides win at.
The biggest thing though Andy year in year out it's still going to be the mindset of that owner that family or whoever the decision-maker is in terms of how they see their business over the medium term of 3 5 years and are they prepared to invest in that is this for the other part of the environment which is remains pretty tough market out there.
So as we've said I think we're still confident we'll see some activity here going forward.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just a follow-up.
I know you've been asked about the SAP a lot but I just want to check my understanding.
Is it the hardware issue you're now having is that tied directly to the service level issues or is the service level also go back to the code to the software side of thing? The service level is a result.
And what I was trying to say is we have had some hardware issues.
And again we're confident we're working through them and that we're confident we'll resolve those.
But that will create slowdowns in the system that will create late trucks and that type of things.
So we've had some of that.
But on top of that we continue to have challenges as it relates to the functionality of the inventory management system.
And that's a separate issue that needs to be addressed separately and -- but they've both result in service level variances from our typical levels.
And the biggest issue in hardware is as you might imagine is just stability.
Now if you've got hardware issues you've got an unstable system and that's the part that you've got to resolve before you can gain confidence in the system and then as Bill said everything else kind of drives from that.
So what -- I need to be careful here.
Let me be clear.
We're shipping groceries.
The service levels are not at the level that they historically have been at which is a very very high level all right? So the levels are not quite up to our norm.
The challenges that we have had in particular hardware is -- we might have a day or 2 where we have issues with slowness of the system and we have a hard time getting trucks out on time and that creates its kind of issue.
The other issue is more of if you will steady-state issue that we're working on as well.
So we're delivering groceries it's functioning.
We just have very high standards and so do our customers.
And that's what we need to continue to perfect here.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And the other thing just to take your temperature on this if I can say it that way let's say 9 months ago when you had what's not a similar but you also had a delay and some challenges.
How do you rank this compared to that in terms of your confidence of resolution on getting back on track on a reasonable period of time? How do you felt then? Back then it sounded like it was -- to me it sounded more serious.
I'm just trying to take your temperature on that.
I'm actually much more confident than I was 9 months ago in terms of getting back on track and in terms of taking this system to the level it needs to be to scale it and to provide not just the service to our customers but the efficiencies that we need and some of these are doing business that our salespeople need.
What I'm not as confident on in the short term is the time line.
But that's -- those are 2 different questions.
So I feel better today.
We've got our -- I'm very proud of our people not only are they working hard we're making progress we've brought in some good people internally and externally to help us and each day and each week even good weeks are challenging weeks.
You learn more about it.
So I feel very good about where we're heading.
I wish we could give you a little more definitive update on the time line but I certainly hope we can here over the next several weeks.
Research Division</strong> Just lastly on sales again because -- I understand the weather is -- are you trying to say for a January status it's kind of too light? Too light a month to really say there's a change on trend based on to say that the payroll rate or the payroll tax going up or -- is that what you're trying to say or did you in fact say maybe things have softened? I'm just trying to get some clarifications.
I think I'm trying to say 2 things Andy.
I'll help you work on it.
One is -- the business has slowed especially on the street over the last couple of 3 months and that includes January.
Two whether we have a great January or poor January it's not as material to the quarter as what you see in the second half of the quarter in particular in March.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Thank you for your participation on today's call and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to Sysco's Third Quarter Fiscal 2013 Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
We will begin today's call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Neil Russell Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings.
This includes but is not limited to risk factors contained in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30 2012 and in the press release issued earlier this morning which is posted in the Investors section at sysco.com.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in the presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation which can also be found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volume growth include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil and good morning everyone.
This morning Sysco reported sales of $10.9 billion for the third quarter and net earnings of $201 million.
Earnings per share was $0.34 and adjusted EPS representing our underlying business performance was $0.49 a share a 2% decrease from the prior year.
As reflected in these results the third quarter proved to be very difficult operationally for many of our customers and as a result for the vast majority of our operating companies.
A number of factors impacted consumers' willingness to spend on food away from home including higher tax rates tax refund delays stubbornly high unemployment high gas prices and in some parts of the geographies we service unfavorable weather conditions.
Consumers appear to have become increasingly judicious with their disposable income and it's clear from the decline in restaurant traffic in January and February that going out to eat has not been a high priority of late.
While an extended winter has continued to challenge us in certain markets through April we view most of these trends as cyclical in nature and expect overall market conditions to gradually improve as we move into the remainder of the calendar year.
In assessing our financial performance for the quarter let me be clear on one very important point.
Although external headwinds created significant pressure on our operations we did not execute our business plan across the organization as consistently as we should have.
We must memorize the unevenness of our operating performance within Sysco and we will.
Sales grew 4% for the quarter.
While that growth was primarily driven by the impact of acquisitions and pricing we did experience solid growth with several of our large regional and national customers especially on the institutional side of the business by leveraging our broad supply chain capabilities and geographic coverage.
However many of our restaurant customers struggled to grow during the quarter for reasons I mentioned earlier.
Specifically sales dollar growth with our street customers who are largely independent restaurant operators was soft for the quarter.
This group of customers comprises a significant portion of our overall volume and an even greater percentage of our profitability because of the high level of value-added services we typically provide them.
Thus even though we did a fairly good job of managing gross margins at the customer segment level the impact of customer mix changes contributed to our growing gross profit dollars by only 2% over the prior year.
Notwithstanding what we believe to be cyclical industry headwinds we remain confident in our ability to profitably grow our market share over the long term.
The key to our future success will be driving our strategic initiatives in conjunction with Sysco's overall business transformation efforts.
Turning to our multiyear business transformation initiatives.
To date we have completed the rollout of the full SAP system to 5 operating companies.
All 5 locations are running their business reasonably well and we have seen improved system performance in recent weeks.
As we have further evaluated system performance following our 2 deployments in Dallas and West Texas we focused our thinking on 2 potential paths forward.
We could either one proceed with our previously communicated rollout schedule and continue to work on enhancements at the same time; or two continue to accelerate specific functional initiatives such as human resources and general ledger accounting while allowing the team to focus all of their time and effort on implementing enhancements to the broader SAP platform.
We believe the latter option is the better approach for the following reasons: one it allows us to continue to make substantial transformation progress while making future deployments easier and less complicated; and two it also allows us to more effectively balance benefits cost risk and speed.
It is important to note that the vast majority of the system functionality is performing as designed.
However as we have previously communicated we do have issues that need to be addressed such as pricing complexity and the inventory management functionality before moving forward with a revised rollout schedule.
We have isolated and understand the cause of these issues and are executing against a solid plan to remedy them.
In the meantime we're continuing our efforts to standardize centralize and technology-enable many of our business processes.
As we announced previously we recently completed the rollout to all U.S.
Broadline operating companies of both our CRM and SAP maintenance modules.
Other similar efforts have been progressing rapidly.
We have completed the rollout of the HR SAP module to 26 locations with 4 going live every 2 weeks and expect to complete the transition of our general ledger accounting functions to SBS in 42 locations by fiscal year end.
We expect to complete the rollout of both of these initiatives to all U.S.
Broadline locations by the end of the calendar year.
We've also begun setting up master data files across the enterprise and are bringing locations on to this module in anticipation of the broader SAP rollout.
This prepares us for a more rapid deployment in the future.
To that end we have restarted our operating company deployment preparation process and anticipate the enterprise-wide rollout to pick back up again around the end of the calendar year and we will provide updates accordingly.
Importantly I should note that the revision of the rollout schedule will not impact the timing of the approximately $600 million in annual benefits from operating product costs targeted for fiscal 2015.
Those benefits do not rely on the ERP system.
We believe we are generally on track to achieve those savings within the time line we previously communicated.
Leading our technology transformation effort is Wayne Shurts who joined us this past October as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer.
He has extensive experience in leading IT organizations including large SAP deployments and I'm confident in his ability to lead us through this period of vital change.
Wayne recently began to move forward on a major reorganization which is designed to streamline and more effectively integrate our IT department and technology deployment teams.
In so doing he has and will continue to recruit individuals that are highly experienced in SAP and large systems implementations.
We also continue to make solid progress on several of our other strategic initiatives.
We recently completed the acquisition of Bahamas Food Service which adds another attractive geographic market to our portfolio and provides a solid foundation for future growth.
We are excited about welcoming Ben Frisch and his team to the Sysco family and Chris will provide additional details on all of our acquisition activities in a few minutes.
Our customer insight work continues to identify opportunities to provide enhanced value to our customers and more effectively establish Sysco's corporate brand.
We continue to roll out and train our sales management and marketing associates on our new CRM tool so as to create a more efficient and effective sales process in this critical channel.
We have added to and strengthened our merchandising team at all levels of management in preparation for rolling out our category management process to our customers in the coming weeks.
Four categories comprise the pilot wave and represent nearly $1 billion in annual spend.
A key step in building out our capabilities in this all-important area of our business was the hiring of Tom Bene as Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer.
Tom joined us in mid-April and will oversee our merchandising and supply chain activities as well as work closely with our sales marketing and operations teams.
As I conclude my prepared remarks I would like to leave you with a few thoughts.
Sysco is the clear leader in the $235 billion foodservice marketplace.
While our industry has recently experienced some pronounced short-term pressures and has not consistently participated in the modest economic recovery to date we expect this industry to achieve 1% to 2% annualized real growth over the long term.
We have consistently grown our market share since our inception more than 40 years ago and we are committed to continuing to do so in a profitable manner.
Our industry has and will continue to experience significant change.
We have proactively developed a solid strategy to expand our leadership position over the long term by renewing our focus on enhancing our customers' experience with Sysco so as to create ongoing profitable growth and strong free cash flow for our shareholders.
We are driving our transformational change throughout Sysco.
We must do so in order to realize our full potential as an enterprise.
But such change is difficult and may result in uneven performance on our part in the short term.
Through the exceptional talents and dedicated efforts of our 47 000 associates we remain highly committed to and focused on providing outstanding value to our customers and shareholders as we move forward.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the third quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the third quarter sales were $10.9 billion or an increase of 4.0% compared to the prior year driven by case volume growth of 1.7% and food cost inflation of 2.4%.
Acquisitions within the last 12 months increased sales by 1.8%.
Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 0.1%.
Gross profit in the third quarter increased 2.1%.
Gross margin in the third quarter declined 34 basis points and roughly half of this decline was due to the shift in customer mix as a result of faster growth in large regional and national customers.
The remainder of the decline in gross margin was driven by the difficult sales environment during the quarter and continued competitive pressure.
While we experienced good case growth in our large national and regional customers our street case volume was particularly soft during the quarter.
Overall our case growth excluding acquisitions declined 0.2%.
Operating expenses increased $140 million or 9.8% in the third quarter of fiscal 2013 compared to the prior year period.
Operating expenses for the quarter include $50 million in certain items including a $41 million charge to withdraw from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan and $9 million in restructuring items mainly related to the freeze of our executive retirement plans.
We provided guidance on both of these charges in an 8-K filed in January as well as during our last earnings call.
Compared to the prior year period certain items drove $46 million of the increase in operating expenses.
Increased Business Transformation costs accounted for an additional $34 million of the operating expense increase.
Lastly salaries and related costs increased operating expenses by $22 million due mainly to increased 401(k) expense acquisitions and higher delivery costs partially offset by transformation benefits related to sales organization changes and our IT restructuring.
As a result of all these items operating income decreased $102 million or 23%.
Net earnings for the third quarter were $201 million a decrease of $58 million or 22% compared to the prior year.
Diluted EPS was $0.34 per share a 23% decrease compared to the prior year.
Adjusting for certain items such as the changes related to the MEPP withdrawal and restructuring retirement plans diluted EPS was $0.40 per share for the quarter.
As we have discussed on previous calls we believe it's important to focus on the performance of our underlying business which not only excludes the $50 million in certain items but also excludes Business Transformation expenses.
To summarize the performance of our underlying business as we go through our Business Transformation adjusted operating expenses increased 4.4% adjusted operating income decreased 4.4% adjusted net earnings declined 1.4% and adjusted EPS declined 2% to $0.49 per share.
We continue to be very active in the acquisition arena and have surpassed our stated goal of increasing sales from acquisitions by 0.5% to 1%.
As Bill mentioned in April we completed the acquisition of Bahamas Food Service a Broadline distributor based in the Bahamas.
BFS has annualized sales of approximately $200 million.
This acquisition further expands Sysco's international footprint and provides an even greater breadth and depth of products and services for our BFS customers.
BFS is the leader in the Bahamian market which has meaningful growth potential.
We also believe that there are some synergies to be achieved between BFS and IFG our international division that ships products throughout the Caribbean.
Including this acquisition to date in fiscal 2013 we have completed 11 transactions that in the aggregate approach nearly $1 billion in annualized sales.
Turning to the impact of the Business Transformation Project for a moment.
In the third quarter project expenses totaled $83 million and we capitalized $4 million related to the project.
In the prior year quarter project expenses totaled $49 million and we capitalized $44 million related to the project.
As Bill mentioned although we continue to accelerate specific functional initiatives we are going to implement enhancements to the broader SAP platform before continuing our enterprise-wide rollout schedule.
As a result we will not convert any additional operating companies this fiscal year.
Our rollout schedule in fiscal '14 will be determined once we are able to assess the success and timing of the additional changes and enhancements we are making to this system.
Our prior guidance for the run rate of project costs was $300 million to $350 million annually and we still expect to be in that range for fiscal 2013.
We'll be reassessing the ongoing costs over the next several months as we make these additional changes and enhancements.
I want to reiterate that the changes to the timing of the deployment of the broader ERP platform have no impact on the approximately $600 million of annual benefits targeted for fiscal 2015.
And as Bill mentioned we believe we are generally on track to achieve these benefits.
Examples of our progress so far include: expenses related to our retirement plans are significantly lower than they would have been had we not frozen all of our old plans and we expect them to decline further next year; after restructuring our sales organization expenses are significantly lower than the prior year; after restructuring our IT department expenses are lower year-over-year.
We're also making progress on our category management initiatives as we begin to roll out pilot categories to our customers and the ongoing work of additional waves continues at a good pace.
In addition we are enhancing compliance across the organization with existing sourcing programs.
Finally we are making progress on some of the operations initiatives including implementing our maintenance module and realigning our incentive plans for our driver and warehouse personnel.
Unfortunately this progress has been masked by the current difficult business environment and general operating performance of the underlying business that did not meet our expectations.
Turning to our cash flow performance.
At our Investor Day and recently again at CAGNY this year we discussed our plans to gradually reduce capital expenditures back to historic rates.
We've made good progress on this objective with capital expenditures declining $260 million in the first 39 weeks of this year compared to last year.
We've seen a decline in capital spending related to the Business Transformation Project mainly driven by the fact that we began implementation of the new technology earlier this year.
In the underlying business we've seen lower capital spending because of a reduction in the number of major facilities projects this year compared to last and a more disciplined capital allocation and approval process.
As a result of the reduction in capital spending free cash flow increased 40% year-over-year to $386 million.
We expect the impact of continued lower capital spending this year will contribute to an improvement in free cash flow in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.
Cash flow from operations was flat year-over-year for the quarter and decreased $149 million for the first 39 weeks primarily driven by the decline in net income.
Turning to a couple of guidance items for a moment.
We now believe our capital expenditures for the year will be $550 million to $575 million.
This is lower than our previous guidance of $600 million to $650 million partially due to the timing of certain construction projects which will increase fiscal 2014 as compared to prior guidance.
We continue to expect fuel expense for the year to increase in a range of $10 million to $20 million.
Right now it looks likely that we will come in at the high end of that range although fuel prices have been recently trending down.
In closing the current economic recovery continues to be modest and marked by inconsistent consumer trends and unforeseen headwinds.
The foodservice industry environment and our financial results reflect these challenges.
However we are working to improve on those elements of our business that we can control including enhancing our product and service offering managing our costs increasing our free cash flow achieving our targeted Business Transformation benefits and addressing the requirements of our technology transformation in a prudent manner.
We also continue to ramp up our acquisition pipeline.
The work we are doing will position us to take advantage of market trends as the health of the consumer recovers enhance our ability to grow our market share over the long term and expand upon our leadership position in the industry.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Karen Short with BMO Capital Markets.
This is actually Ryan Gilligan on for Karen.
Can you guys talk about the competitive environment maybe by customer type? Is the weakness with the independent customers due entirely to the environment? Or are you losing some share there? That's -- I would say the competitive environment overall is about the same as it's been the last 2 or 3 years.
It certainly feels a little more acute right now just because of I think the pressure on a lot of our customers but I don't know that it's any worse.
It's hard for me to really measure that.
I would say to you I think the competitive environment may be a little more acute or a little tougher with the smaller restaurant operators that type of thing where they're particularly under pressure but that's more conjecture on my part than anything else.
We don't have great data on that.
Okay.
And switching to the category management initiative.
Can you guys talk about how your customers and marketing associates are reacting to it at least in the pilot categories? Yes.
We've spent several weeks and now months working internally with our merchandising folks here and our operating companies.
We've had meetings at all levels including the presidents and VPs of sales and merchandising.
We've run this out through our sales meetings and that's still going on.
So we haven't launched yet but we would hope to launch these categories here over the next few weeks as we said.
Now it's being very well received.
Obviously people are very interested to see where the pricing is going to come in and that type of thing but we've done a nice job I think in communicating internally.
We're working well with our suppliers.
And again this is a different approach than what we've taken in the past with sourcing whereas we're focusing on the assortment being broader and less redundant.
We're looking to partner with our suppliers and customers to grow the business and take cost out at the same time.
So we're optimistic.
The one caution I guess would be this is something that we've never done before and really no one in this industry has done the way we're approaching it.
So we expect that there'll be some challenges as we go forward but at this point our people are very excited about it.
And we'll now take our next question from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a couple of things.
So first Bill do you think -- when you look at the macro environment what if anything can you guys do to stimulate demand with your customers and be comfortable that the price elasticity if that's what drives it is acceptable? Yes I think John what we have to do is focus on the micro environment.
So the macro -- we've talked for a while now you're very familiar with us and this industry.
What I tried to lay out in my prepared comments is that we still think this industry is going to grow at modest levels 1% 1.5% 2% maybe but there's going to be some peaks and valleys and we're in a little bit of a trough right now especially on the restaurant side.
Last year we saw more growth.
First half of this year we saw more growth.
So I think the key is these strategic initiatives that we've been discussing and this is where we're going places where we haven't been before.
So it starts with the customer John.
We have excellent service levels out there in terms of how our MAs provide support to their customers our on-time deliveries we're in stock all that type of thing.
We perform at a very high level.
Now from the customer's perspective probably the other guys have gotten better over time so that gap isn't as big.
But in reality we're compared to how we did last week.
So we need to continue to do well operationally from a basic service standpoint but we need to also differentiate ourselves more and more.
So it starts with better understanding what's important to the customer.
And we've got some good work going on there with Bill Goetz and his marketing team.
I think that will take us to some segment work where when you look at that 1% to 2% growth probably most of that is going to come in ethnic segments and we're going to have to continue to strengthen our ability to focus in on those groups focus in on certain geographies where we have a lot more upside from a market share standpoint that type of thing.
We believe category management over the long term will be very good for our customers and for Sysco.
And again we're approaching that in a very balanced way both from a growth and from a cost savings standpoint.
And Sysco Ventures while it's still very much in its development stage we're hoping to have a platform in place there soon where we can augment our product offerings with several services and technology-based business solutions that should create greater traction with our customers as well.
So when -- again when I talk about we've got a proactive strategy for a new world a new environment those are 3 or 4 of the things that I'm trying to focus on.
LLC Research Division</strong> What do you think you get most out of category management? Is that more a benefit in terms of purchasing? Is it more getting the assortment right geographically? What do you think are the one or 2 big wins there? I think in the short term there are certainly savings on the gross product cost savings side.
But I think over the medium term it will help us work with our customers and focus more on creating an assortment that is more relevant to their marketplace and will allow them to grow their business more effectively rather than have a lot of redundant SKUs and not just in our warehouses but to some extent in their pantry as well.
So I think it starts certainly with the cost savings but it will only be successful fully successful if we're able to grow our business and support our customers' growth at the same time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Then lastly the $500 million you talked about that's a gross benefit correct? I'm not sure the -- what $500 million are you talking about? LLC Research Division</strong> Well because what I'm thinking about -- as you push out the implementation of ERP do the -- that -- you would -- that pushes out the cost of the program or no? The actual implementation cost yes of course.
Yes.
Yes sure.
But where we're focused on right now -- I'll let Chris jump in here.
But I mean what we're focused on right now John is getting a really good handle on what's the most effective way to go forward here over the next 2 or 3 years in terms of deployment and we'll be assessing the annual cost as we do that.
So we've got to look at pace and we've got to look at annual cost at the same time.
John was your question about the approximately $600 million of annualized benefits we've referred to? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
Okay.
LLC Research Division</strong> What about these...
Yes.
So first and foremost both Bill and I have said that those are not impacted by the timing of our ERP rollout.
Secondly we would -- we actually don't characterize those as gross costs.
To the extent that we have costs associated with implementation we're actually -- we have to cover those.
But we expect that $600 million to be net.
LLC Research Division</strong> Over and above implementation cost? That is correct yes.
And John I'm not trying to confuse this but...
Well hang on John let me -- I can go -- I'm going to cut you off.
They're separate categories.
$300 million to $350 million is an actual operating -- or implementation expense operating expense around ERP we're going to have that and we'll continue to give you annual guidance on that.
The $600 million is a gross benefit yes.
We don't net the 2 together.
If you want to do that feel free to do that.
Right.
But the benefit that we look at is that $600 million which we would hope to be even more than that as we get further out we've only given 3 years of guidance that will be with us forever and ever.
The implementation cost will eventually go away.
That's what I was going to say but Chris said it better.
Thanks.
And we'll now move to Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up on the $600 million savings.
I'm looking at the Investor Day presentation where a little over half was SG&amp;A and the rest from COGS.
Is that still roughly how you're thinking of it? Second Chris you mentioned restructuring sales your retirement plans other things.
Could you give us sort of the run rate of what you have achieved in dollars and I guess build a bridge using the cost of goods sold and category management to get to the $600 million? Yes well I probably won't go so far as to build a bridge for you but let me start with the top of your question and work my way to the bottom.
So we did say $550 million to $650 million.
We're just saying approximately $600 million midpoint.
We said about 25% of that would be in the first year.
So roughly call it the midpoint $150 million-ish worth of benefits for the first year.
We do believe we're on track in the first year.
We laid out kind of how we were going to get there and you obviously have looked at the slides in terms of there'll be a component that's SG&amp;A there'll be a component that's lower cost of goods.
We've kind of said in different calls we're getting to our number.
We're not getting there exactly the way we thought we would get there.
So some of the front-end stuff restructuring our pension plans et cetera very painful very difficult stuff to do but you can do it rather quickly.
So we got to that fairly fast.
The SG&amp;A component and specifically the S part of that the sales component that's work that's been done.
And frankly we thought it would take longer to get to that and it happened a little sooner than we thought.
And then some of the what I'll call operating expense reductions and initiatives out in the field given the environment those are coming along slower than we thought.
They're a little harder.
We haven't tried to give you a bridge on the retirement planning stuff.
That's a little bit difficult.
We did I think telegraph what the overall savings are this year compared to what they would have been which I believe is about $85 million better than what they would have been with the discount rates and the other factors that go into that calculation.
On a year-over-year basis they're $15 million to $20 million worse than last year.
So we've given you that.
And then the only other thing I think we've tried to telegraph to you without numbers is the expenses will be frankly higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year on that increase.
So $15 million to $20 million year-over-year higher but you actually get a little benefit in the first part of the year and detriment in the last part of the year just because of the way the accounting works.
Next year we expect those costs will go down further as the run rate kicks in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the bridge idea I can appreciate you not wanting to update that or spend the whole call on that.
But is it fair to say the cost of goods sold component is the majority or the largest part of what's to come? I would say actually no.
The way we worked out the $600 million it almost equally balanced between the lower cost of goods and then lower operating costs.
The timing of those is different.
The category management initiatives are back-end loaded because there's a much longer ramp-up period there's a testing period there's a pilot period and then you start delivering wave after wave.
So we've talked a lot about the 4 pilot categories.
We're now to the point where they actually get rolled out and then you have waves that come after them.
So year 1 is pretty light in terms of lower cost of goods.
A lot of what we're getting in year 1 we've said would be from additional sourcing initiatives specifically better compliance around sourcing.
We are seeing that.
Category management has ramped up really well and now we've got to see benefits from category management in year 2 and even more in year 3.
So the timing is not equal but the overall benefit from each of those 2 major components is about equal in the $600 million figure.
Yes.
Andy I think the other thing I would add to that is on the SG&amp;A Chris is on point we've -- we're off to a fast start there.
I think you'll see more of that in year 2 on the admin side as some of the pension benefits kick in again next year.
So we're doing a little better there than we planned on the SG&amp;A side.
Not quite as well on the operating cost savings.
That's turned out to be a little more complex than what we thought.
But we are -- we have turned the corner there and we're expecting to see good improvement.
We managed our expenses actually pretty well in the third quarter given the environment at the operating company level and I think we'll see good results there over the balance of this year and next year.
And then the COGS Chris nailed that as well.
We -- the first year what was implied in those savings was pretty modest more about sourcing.
So year 2 becomes the first big year on the category management.
Now look we haven't even launched it yet so we'll talk more about it as we get into it and see what's working and what some of the challenges are.
A little color on that.
It's a massive undertaking.
We've strengthened the team quite a bit as I mentioned in my prepared remarks.
And we feel good about the savings.
But it may take a little longer to roll this out than what we originally thought but we also expect the benefits to continue beyond the third year here as well.
So we're excited about that but again we've got a lot of work to do here over the next few months.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly on the same subject now how do you think about sharing the savings with customers to drive market share or just help their business so they can increase their same-store sales through lower menu prices? And -- or it's sort of being presented at least the way that I'm hearing it as if it's sort of all slated to go to shareholders and earnings power directly.
But could it go more indirectly through supporting your customers? You must be talking to our competitors I guess.
That's not the way we're presenting it.
Look what we've tried to do here over the last few years Andy we are sourcing work as we've further developed our supply chain work and some of our internal transfer pricing.
The whole key here is for us to continue to get better at providing our operating companies with what we call market-relevant pricing.
And that's easier -- that's an easier figure to quantify and determine in some categories than it is in others.
So what we will do is we will lock in some pretty meaningful gross savings.
And as appropriate we would expect to pass along some of those savings to our customers to make sure that our sales people are properly positioned on the street with good solid pricing.
And I think you'll probably see us early days invest some money in promotions too just to help grease the skids here.
Because this is change and we think it's good change but any change is difficult these days.
So I think you'll see us invest in price to some extent to the extent that we think that's appropriate and also some promotional activity.
And Andy as we calculated the potential benefits from category management we made the assumption we would have to need to want to pass through some of the cost savings down to the customer level.
As Bill said some just to get the market-relevant pricing and some just more temporary promotional-type spending.
So those numbers are built into our estimates.
We've already learned in the pilot categories in some places we were a little conservative in some places we were too aggressive.
We expect we'll get that in every wave but we've made an estimate and it's in those numbers already.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're saying the $250 million to $300 million is net of what we're talking about? It is net of our estimate of what we believe we will need to pass down to make this work all the way through to the customer level that's correct.
Now again as Bill said we're at the point where we're going to the customer.
So we're about to see how good our estimates are.
Research Division</strong> Last quick question.
Has volume picked up any in March and in April? I'd say the trends are a little bit better but the problem is February was just ugly.
And so we just saw a significant falloff as you see in some of the restaurant publications in February.
So I'd say it's still been somewhat soft here in March and April but the trends are better than what we saw in February.
We'll now move to Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bill you talked about volume getting better throughout the year.
Is that just based on what you said about sort of March April? Or are you expecting volume to get better incrementally on top of that? I think what I'm trying to say Ed is we got hit with a lot of things our customers got hit with a lot of things in this past quarter and I think some of that will cycle out.
So I mean if you guys go back and listen I've probably done 25 calls since I've been back here 6 years.
I hate talking about weather.
But -- I don't think you'd find that I've talked about it hardly at all.
But we have had weather issues going back to last year where it was a very favorable winter.
This year some strange weather in some different places.
And even in April we've seen an extended winter and all that type of thing.
So I think some of that will run its course and that that should help us a little bit.
I'm not going to say it's dramatic but it's a piece of it.
I think some things I've touched on the -- however you want to quantify the impact of the FICA taxes and that type of thing I think that did impact the consumer.
So the key for us is the mindset of the consumer.
That's what will drive them back into our customers in a bigger way and a more regular way than what we've seen.
I'm not really talking about Friday night and Saturday night.
I'm talking about family specials on Wednesday and business trade maybe a little bit more during the week.
So I just think some of these things we've run into are somewhat more short term or cyclical in nature and I would expect them to ease over the balance of the calendar year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- I wanted to clarify a couple of things on the cost savings program and ERP.
Are you -- I think are you telling us you're still expecting 50% to 70% of the cost savings in 2014.
Is that right? Yes we've not changed our guidance over the 3-year period.
Obviously we're building our plans right now for fiscal '14 so we're going to be taking a much closer look at where we think we'll be.
But our 3-year guidance the $600 million over the 3 years we're good with that.
The pace and sequence of that as Bill and I have both said we're ahead in some areas behind in others.
We've got to take a look at '14 specifically.
We typically provide you guidance.
To the extent we provide guidance we provide it in our fourth quarter call so you can expect some more information from us then if we're going to change anything.
But right now like I say I -- we're making good progress in a lot of areas.
As I've said in my prepared comments it's being masked by a lot of the other stuff that's going on unfortunately.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And to that as well the costs associated with the program it sounds like possibly could be higher in '14 than the $300 million $350 million? Is that a fair way to think about it? I'm not sure what we might have said that led you to that conclusion.
We're -- we-- obviously we've got to take a look at that as we make the changes and enhancements that Bill and I both referred to in the system and start to relaunch.
Look if anything I'm kind of looking at those costs like this.
We took up a lot of pain to get to the place we're at now which is we're at a run rate of somewhere in the $300 million to $350 million range annually.
So that's now built into our expenses as painful as it was to get here.
We're going to be very very cautious about allowing that number to go any higher and we're going to work very very diligently to try to figure out a way to actually implement this thing at a lower annual run rate.
That's work that we're doing right now.
Wayne and his team are working very hard to figure out ways to do it less expensively.
I'm not sure we're going to accomplish it but that's our goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you gave 2015 guidance a lot has kind of transpired between now and then.
Should we as investors assume that that 2015 guidance is good until you were to actively address it? Yes that's kind of a normal -- the normal rule is unless we change the guidance we still believe in it.
Look we're not trying to sugarcoat anything.
It's been tough here.
When you give 3 years of guidance and your first year comes out of the box weak it makes it hard to still see a path to your third year.
But we're one year into it.
So we're going to be relooking at all of that and see whether we still have a path to achieve it.
Again I've talked about the underlying business has to continue to perform.
We've got to hit on all cylinders on the initiatives and the benefits we're going to achieve there to get to that guidance.
We feel pretty good about the initiatives.
The underlying business unfortunately with the headwinds we're struggling with a little bit.
So we've got to hit on all cylinders to be able to get certainly to the top end of that guidance.
Whether we're in the middle or at the low end of that guidance still is something we'll work through as we update our planning.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one last question for you on sort of balance sheet cash flows.
Your working capital to I guess if you look sort of year-to-date it's been a little bit of headwind.
I was hoping you could just talk specifically about working capital management especially as sort of inventory up about 8% year-over-year and I think receivables are up 10% something like that.
So just what your thoughts are there.
Yes it's -- the story has really not changed since my comments last quarter.
We continue to make progress on accounts payable and we actually made maybe another $100 million of ground on accounts payable in this last quarter on a year-over-year basis.
But we lost about $200 million combined between inventory and accounts receivable.
Part of that is we are continuing to grow with our large regional and national customers and they typically have longer receivable cycles.
And so that -- I'll call that a mix issue but it's certainly something that's affecting the number.
We had some preestablished contractual changes that allowed for days to go out a little further on a couple of customers.
So that's in there as well.
Inventory is a tricky issue because while we realize it's going the wrong direction or certainly it's going a way we'd rather it not for working capital purposes you can't just try to shut it down too quickly because it does affect service levels.
So we're being very prudent and careful in how we look at moderating or slowing down the growth in inventory and we're putting in place or at least working on plans that we can put in place to start to bring that back down.
It is going to be slower progress than I had hoped it would be so we're doing what we can which is on accounts payable.
We're trying to make sure we manage accounts receivable and not let it extend further.
And then inventory is something that's going to take a little longer to bring back into control.
Our next question will be from Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to start just with what you said at the very beginning about the change in how you're going to roll out the ERP system.
It might be helpful if you could divide up the functions or the tasks that it will do and tell us what's delayed which I'm assuming is the warehouse management part of it and what parts of it are still being rolled out which I think is HR and general ledger.
Am I understanding that right? Okay.
Let me start here Meredith and I'll let Chris help me out.
So let's go back to the beginning.
Warehouse and delivery are not part of the ERP rollout.
We have excellent systems and from day one we never included those in the deployments.
So those systems are the best-in-breed and operating fine.
Obviously they need to be interfaced with SAP and we're -- so there's no issue there.
The hub of the system the operating system itself is more on the sales inventory replenishment purchasing side of the business as well as over time the financial reporting all right? So what we're saying -- I'm going to go the end first and come back.
So what we're saying is we're making good progress with some things we can do without fully rolling out the entire integrated SAP system with the general ledger system moving into SBS.
With our what we call our human resource module with our maintenance module that we're using in our shops.
And separately from that with our CRM module which we've integrated with -- from Salesforce.com.
So those things are all moving along well and we expect a couple of them are fully deployed already as we mentioned in the U.S.
and the other 2 will be fully deployed we expect by the end of the calendar year.
Where the delay is or where we're doing more work is on the sales purchasing inventory replenishment side pricing side of the business.
Again I would say to you the vast majority of the system is highly functional.
It's just not -- there's pieces of it that are not as functional as it needs to be for us to run this business at the level that we run it at.
And we've made the decision to step back and allow our deployment teams to focus 100% of their time on addressing those issues across-the-board on the SAP platform while the other teams can continue to drive up these other modules.
And we just felt that that's a more prudent way to go to get better depth and better focus in terms of what the issues are and remedy these things somewhat more cohesively.
Rather than try to continue to -- we could have rolled out a few more companies but to continue to do that and work on these other issues with the system just dilutes people's attention and creates resource needs and we felt that that was not the way to go at this stage of the game.
Research Division</strong> And the category management effort you don't need to have the SAP system in terms of pricing inventory management inventory replenishment purchasing.
You don't need that to do category management? At some point it would have facilitated a great deal but we don't need it to roll out category management.
Yes we have systems that we've operated with for well much longer than I've been here for at least a decade that can certainly handle everything that we're trying to accomplish with category management.
It will be easier more efficient and faster when we have the new system in place.
So I mean at some point the reason we're going forward here at some point we do need an end-to-end system to run this business and have visibility to what's gone into a very complex business.
But to begin to roll it out we do not need it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I have a question sort of follow to Ed's question about working capital.
You had a very big sale of treasury stock in the latest quarter bigger -- even if you look at the purchase of treasury stock it was substantially higher.
Could you just talk about what prompted you to do that? And it does seem to me that it helped fund the dividend.
Is that an alternative to borrowing? Yes it's not something we did.
It was the exercise of options.
And so the stock got to a high place it hadn't been in a while and we have a lot of employees that have been sitting on options a number of which were expiring this year.
And so we saw quite a bit of option exercise during the quarter to the tune of I want to say about $500 million or I -- actually I think that's the year-to-date number about $500 million a lot of which came in the third quarter.
So it's not something we did to finance anything.
It's something frankly the employees have the right to do whenever they want to exercise as long as they follow the guidelines.
Research Division</strong> But my -- the second part of my question is if you hadn't gotten that option exercising how would -- would you have had an issue funding the dividend? No we...
We have no issue funding the dividend.
We have a very strong credit rating and we have a tremendous amount of debt capacity.
Yes I mean...
We have fewer shares outstanding.
And Meredith we -- I mean I know you understand our cash flow statements very very well.
We start with just the amount of cash we produce from the business.
And then frankly everything after that becomes a discretionary item and you just determine your priorities.
The dividend is a priority for us.
So a lot of what we're doing in terms of becoming more efficient with our capital expenditure is to drive more cash to the bottom line in terms of free cash flow.
That is just more cash available to do whatever we think the shareholders would like us to do one of which we know is the dividend.
So we have plenty of available cash from operations as well as borrowing capacity.
Research Division</strong> Yes no doubt about the borrowing capacity.
And then I had a question about Mother's Day.
I know you've been kind enough to update us on April.
Mother's Day I believe is one of the very biggest holidays that impact the restaurant industry.
Can you -- and we're less than a week away.
I'm a mother I can say that.
Any comment on how that's shaping up? Or do you think it makes a continuation of the weakness that we've seen so far? Well first of all Happy Mother's Day.
Yes it's -- today's day one of Mother's Day Week for us Meredith.
So a little early to tell.
Neil won't let me give daily guidance on sales.
So typically the way these shape up is we generally have this week and there's a week right around when the schools go back in session maybe the week before Labor Day which typically are our 2 biggest weeks of the year.
So we would expect to have a big week.
But the reality is the toughest comparisons are the big weeks against big weeks.
So I'm not sure to what extent there'll be an increase or how big of an increase.
But the one thing you can pretty much count on is almost everybody goes out for some type of meal on Mother's Day weekend and we would certainly expect to benefit from that.
Our next question will be from Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just get your feedback on the softness that's -- specifically in your street account business that Bill I think you talked about in your prepared comments.
I guess as it relates to the street accounts that has both sales and margin implications.
So is there anything specific you can point to in terms of the underlying volume trends in terms of what was behind the decline sequentially in Q3? And can you also comment on whether you're seeing any pickup in the sales environment in the current quarter? I guess that's another variation of some of the questions that were asked earlier but I just -- I'm asking in the context of your higher margin your independent restaurant operators.
Yes Ajay well I can just try to give a little color here.
And if I'm nailing it just follow up.
But I think the biggest thing we're trying to bring out -- so if you look at the quarter it's a -- I think it's largely a sales story.
We manage margins reasonably well at the segment level.
We actually did a decent job managing our cost per case in the oPCos.
That's hard to see with all the back and forth in some of the expense numbers but I'll share that with you.
But the restaurant segment in particular we saw across-the-board a lot of pressure on most of our restaurant customers whether they were independent or whether they were contract customers.
The difference is that restaurants make up a larger piece a very large piece of our "street business." So I think the big story here is right it was a tough order for restaurants.
That's a big piece of our street business and our street business is a -- has a disproportionately higher profitability in particular on the gross margin line so -- because of the value-added services that we provide.
So if you just do the math I mean if you look at the first half of the year our gross profit dollars were up about 3.5% I think it was 3.4%.
And they're up about 2% 2.1% this quarter.
So I'm not laying all of that on the street side but I think it's a big piece of it.
And so when your street business doesn't grow at the same rate and that in fact has very modest growth that puts pressure on your gross profit dollars and that's what we saw on both of those lines both the top line and the gross profit line.
As far as trends I think I addressed that earlier.
Technically I can tell you the trends are better but that's more  function of February was just very difficult.
It's still somewhat soft in our business right now.
I still think some of that is cyclical.
And to Meredith's question I think May and June will be a much better barometer in our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just shifting gears.
On ERP I think when you gave your preliminary outlook for fiscal '13 it was -- I think it was clear that a lot of the anticipated cost savings were not necessarily related to Business Transformation.
I think you confirmed that today from a longer-term perspective through fiscal '15.
But with 3 quarters in now can you just quantify how much of the intended cost savings you've been able to achieve? And I know you're also confirming that you're on track for $600 million of cost savings by fiscal '15 but can you give some frame of reference for again on where you are year-to-date and if $150 million of cost benefits are -- is that still the right number for this year? Yes Ajay as I think I said earlier we're on track for the 25% of the $600-ish million in year 1.
We're on track to achieve that for year 1.
We're not going to get into the quarter-by-quarter assessment of where we are.
And frankly that's always going to be something hard and difficult to pull out of our numbers but we feel pretty good about where we are for this year.
And as we said we feel good about the 3-year run rate as well.
That's pretty much the extent that we're going to go.
Yes I think Chris said this earlier Ajay.
Look when you look at the 3 big pieces of what we've laid out here in the road map there's an assumption of an underlying growth rate of the business.
We've talked about 4% to 6%.
So if you'd use the midpoint of 5% then there's the $600 million which is as we've discussed now at length half of that give or take is operating cost half of it is cost of goods okay? And then there's the investment we're making annually in the deployment of the technology platform.
So I think we're generally on track on those last 2.
We not as far along as we'd like to be on the deployments but in terms of expense and benefits we're generally on track.
Clearly for this year we're not seeing the 5% growth in the business that's in that road map.
So we either need to make it up in benefits which we're not putting that on the table today and hopefully we'll get a better market environment here and better execution on our part over the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one final question.
Now I know you don't want to get into quarterly projections.
But on the project expenses you indicated that $300 million to $350 million is still the right range for this year.
But that still leaves a lot of variability for Q4.
So is there any way you can give some more specificity on the expenses for Q4? Not on Q4.
I'll tell you for the year based on my current forecast so I got 3 years of -- or 3 quarters of actual and forecast for 1 quarter.
I mean we're in that -- we're in the top part of that range but we're -- right now we're not really at risk of going over that range.
We'll now take our next question from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Amod Gautam filling in for John.
The first question was on the ERP and Business Transformation in terms of how it's affecting -- whether or not you're getting a better view on individual account profitability.
In other words could your number of accounts and/or market share potentially drop but would more efficient pricing and logistics allow increased profitability? I don't think we're far enough along to really give you a great answer to that question.
I think what we will have and certainly one of the benefits of an end-to-end system is we're going to have a better view on what we call or what some people call activity-based costing.
So I think we will have a better view of profitability.
And I'm sure -- well we've done a lot of customer stratification here over the last 5 or 6 years so I'm sure that we will have some earnings there.
I think generally we have a pretty good handle on how we make money.
And so I don't know that there'll be significant falloff there in terms of customers.
There might be an opportunity to sit down and have a more balanced discussion on our costs versus their costs and how we make the whole thing work together.
That's typically how we try to work.
I think the key for us really is as we get better visibility to our costs and what our customers' needs are to continue down that differentiation path and explore different channels that may be more cost effective for our customers.
So we're as you know a very traditional Broadline distributor and there may be opportunities whether it's inside sales or other vehicles for people to purchase food in ways that we typically don't provide to them and perhaps there'll be an opportunity for us to get into those adjacencies.
And that's certainly one of the things that we talked about in terms of how we can grow the potential for the business over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the acquisitional environment I know you've talked -- you've got -- both of you have commented for some time that it's been somewhat a favorable acquisition environment that's driving growth above the long-term 50 to 100 basis points that you've talked to.
Is that something we should continue to expect? Or are changes to the ERP rollout and potentially some pushout of the -- some CapEx is that going to affect your acquisitional strategy in any way? It should not affect it.
The types of deals that we discuss and that we've been talking a lot about this year are kind of our pipeline deals.
They're small enough to where they can be fairly easily integrated into the system.
We're not really concerned about an ERP rollout with those types of transactions.
And then as far as CapEx we actually -- when we talk about CapEx that's kind of a separate line item.
It does not include acquisitions themselves.
So we still intend to -- I'm sure next year we'll probably be giving guidance that at least 1% is our goal and our target.
As we go forward we'll update you to make sure that's -- what our guidance is going to be.
But I think we've built a robust enough pipeline to feel good about maintaining that kind of 1%-plus range for the foreseeable future.
And we'll now move to an Erin Lash with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
So I was wondering if you could talk about the marketing relationship that you've had with Chef Robert Irvine and the Food Network in general and maybe any additional thoughts as to the traction that you're seeing from those efforts or any additional opportunities you see from leveraging that relationship.
Yes thanks Erin.
So we just completed our first season with the Food Network and with Chef Irvine.
As those of you came to CAGNY he's a very compelling speaker and very enthusiastic supporter of Sysco.
We've had very good response.
The goal here going in was to create greater brand identity in terms of the corporate brand.
Our research told us that 70% -- a little over 70% of our customers actually watch the Food Network in search of ideas to help them run their business better.
He has this show Restaurant: Impossible that goes out and frankly does what we try to do it in a different way which is to help our customers be more successful in their business.
So that whole partnership is off to a very good start.
It's created some goodwill I guess for lack of a better term with our sales force and at a time when we're throwing a lot of change at our sales force.
And we've talked a lot about the market this morning so it's been a difficult out there on the street.
So very well received there.
He has done some in-person functions in different locales that we're located in and it's just created tremendous enthusiasm and tremendous goodwill and we do believe that it's resonating with our customer base.
So it's still early but we're very excited about the relationship and hope to continue to grow it.
And with that if there are no further questions I'd like to conclude the conference today and thank you everyone for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Sysco's Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2013 Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
We'll begin today's call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would like to introduce the call -- I would like to turn the call over to Neil Russell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good warning everyone.
Welcome to Sysco's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2013 Earnings Call.
Today you will hear prepared remarks from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings.
This includes but is not limited to risk factors contained in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30 2012 and in the news release issued earlier this morning which is posted in the Investors section at sysco.com and can be found on the Sysco IR app which can be downloaded from the iTunes App Store and Google Play.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in the presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation which can also be found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volumes include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Neil and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
Sysco's financial results announced this morning reflect a year that has both produced several significant successes and provided us with many challenges.
While we have seen a slow and steady economic recovery it is clear that the foodservice industry as a whole has not fully participated in that recovery.
At the same time we are driving on a much-needed transformational change throughout Sysco.
This change has broadened scope will permit us to enhance the products and services we provide our customers and will allow us to build upon our industry-leading position for years to come.
Successfully implementing change of this large scale requires strong leadership substantial effort by our associates and more often than we would like patience from our various stakeholders.
Starting with the market it is clear that certain elements of the overall economy appear to be recovering.
Consumer confidence is near its highest level since 2008 housing sales and prices have consistently improved this year and unemployment levels are declining.
However a deeper look at the data reveals that consumer confidence remains well off its historic highs unemployment levels do not fully reflect the number of individuals who would like to work but have given up and personal income is stagnant.
As a result we believe many consumers have become much more disciplined in their spending habits and this has directly impacted our business particularly our street business with independent foodservice operators.
Today's consumers are more actively allocating their disposable income and eating out has been deprioritized from some consumers' personal budgets.
We believe this trend is more cyclical than structural in nature but acknowledge that greater consumer confidence will be required to reverse it.
Reflecting these factors this morning Sysco reported its sales for the fourth quarter increased 5% to $11.6 billion and net earnings were $283 million.
EPS declined 11% to $0.47 in part due to increased costs from business transformation and restructuring items.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS representing our underlying business was $0.59 declining 6% compared to the prior year.
Sales for the fiscal year were $44 billion a record for Sysco and net earnings were nearly $1 billion.
EPS declined 12% to $1.67 which was mainly due to increased costs from business transformation multi-employer pension plan withdrawals and restructuring.
Adjusting for these costs adjusted EPS representing our underlying business was $0.01 lower compared to the prior year at $2.14.
Cash flow from operations grew by 8% and free cash flow increased significantly to $1 billion.
Our sales growth for the year was driven by case volume growth of 3% and product cost inflation of 2%.
Earnings growth did not meet our expectations as pricing pressures and lighter street sales growth resulted in only modest gross profit dollar gains.
Helping to mitigate these pressures we did achieve our overall targeted business transformation benefits for the year with reduced selling and administrative costs providing the most benefit.
We expect to achieve our overall targeted benefits in the new fiscal year as well.
As we close this fiscal year it's an appropriate time to reflect on our successes as well as those areas where we need to improve.
We should start with the fact that our industry is being impacted by many developing trends and realities.
Growth in foodservice is projected to remain modest about 1% to 2% real growth per annum and our customers are increasingly value-focused.
As a result we expect pricing pressures will likely continue and in addition nontraditional competitors have become more of a factor.
And lastly consumer spending trends in our space are gradually shifting more to fresh natural and sustainably produced products.
We continue to focus on ways to respond to and capitalize on those trends in our own business as well as in partnership with our customers and suppliers.
One of our most significant challenges continues to be gross margin compression.
Several of the trends I know that are contributing to this challenge in addition are shifting customer mix in recent quarters has adversely impacted gross margin as our more value-added local and street customer business has not kept pace with our larger but lower-margin multiunit customer business.
This area has management's full attention and we expect to improve our gross margin trends as fiscal 2014 progresses by effectively implementing our category management initiative and gradually improving our street growth performance.
Another significant challenge during the year was the unanticipated delay in deploying our SAP technology platform.
However we are now making progress in developing required system enhancements.
This work primarily focuses on simplifying certain processes to improve response times and to reduce system loads which will lead to improved system stability and will also lead to improved ability to scale the system as we go forward.
We expect to restart convergence of the broad SAP rollout around the end of this calendar year at our Boise Idaho company.
And as our system enhancements in our 5 SAP operating companies take hold and the products' successful deployment in Boise we would anticipate deploying additional operating company locations beginning early in calendar 2014.
Notwithstanding all these challenges I'm encouraged by several of the key successes we experienced during the past year.
We grew sales at our corporate managed customers by 6% for the year with the Broadline portion of this business up 9%.
We completed acquisitions during the year of 14 companies representing annualized sales of over $1 billion.
These deals contributed significantly to our sales growth during the year and enhanced our international market presence and product capabilities.
We exceeded our targeted business transformation benefits for the year.
The majority of the benefits achieved were driven by changes in our retirement programs and sales and IT organizational changes.
We're making significant progress in our category management initiative.
Our pilot waves include 4 categories: french fries dressings shrimp and tissues towels and napkins.
3 of the 4 categories were launched in the market in June with the fourth shrimp planned to launch in the fall.
Customer acceptance of the new assortments in the pilots has been encouraging.
Conversion rates are running ahead of where we expected to be at this point in the process and our customers appreciate the increased variety and value offered by our new optimized assortment.
Our supplier partners are highly engaged in all phases of the process and also appreciate our approach to this initiative in particular our focus on building strategic partnerships which we believe deliver benefits for all parties.
We and our suppliers are sharing customer insights to enhance product innovation and improve our response to customer trends.
And our ability to commit volumes to our supplier partners allows them to more efficiently service the business.
As is true in all pilots we've learned along the way and we appreciate our customers' and suppliers' engagement as we move through the process.
We have a very aggressive implementation plan and we'll continually improve our processes as we move forward with each successive wave.
Cost per case in our Broadline business declined year-over-year demonstrating our continuing efforts to reduce our operating cost structure.
We reduced our cost in particular in our selling and administrative areas.
Specifically we aggressively drove cost-reduction initiatives in selling by implementing a customer relationship management platform or CRM; flattening our sales management organization structure; modifying compensation plans for our marketing associates or MAs to incentivize growth; and reducing the number of unprofitable sales territories.
Some of our operating companies executed these initiatives better than others.
And while we realized significant cost savings we no doubt experienced some sales loss in certain markets as well.
We believe the impact of all of these changes has now been largely absorbed and that our local sales organizations are well positioned to accelerate growth as fiscal 2014 progresses.
We generated free cash flow during the year of $1 billion exceeding our expectations.
This was a direct result in improvements in working capital trends as well as renewed focus on better prioritization of our capital expenditure opportunities.
We will continue our work to improve our working capital metrics as we believe there's ample opportunity to do so.
We've also made significant progress on many other individual elements of our business transformation initiatives.
Specifically this year we completed the rollout of our CRM module to all U.S.
and Canadian Broadline operating companies.
We completed the rollout of the SAP maintenance module to all U.S.
Broadline locations.
We expect to complete the rollout of the SAP human resource module to all U.S.
Broadline locations by the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2014 and we expect to complete the centralization of our general ledger accounting functions for all U.S.
Broadline locations by the end of the calendar year.
And we have begun implementing enhancements to our routing technology and processes to further improve delivery efficiencies and expect this initiative to be completed in fiscal 2015.
Pilot locations have completed the enhancements of experienced reductions in mileage of approximately 5%.
We increased our dividend during this past year to 44x since we went public in 1970.
In total we distributed nearly $650 million of dividends to our shareholders during fiscal 2013.
We recognize that our dividend represents a significant component of Sysco's shareholder return especially as we navigate through our transformational changes.
Lastly we have strengthened our management team this year in several strategic areas throughout the company.
In addition to other key initiatives -- in addition to other key additions I've mentioned in previous calls we recently welcomed Scott Charlton to lead our Distribution Services team and fill the vacancy left by the retirement of Fred Lankford.
Scott brings significant supply chain experience from the retail grocery industry which will greatly benefit our company over time.
As we look forward we'll be managing our business by aligning around several core metrics: case growth and mix gross profit dollar growth and cost per case.
But we expect a modest level of continuing gross margin compression in the year ahead.
We also expect to grow both our corporate and locally managed customer business and to once again reduce our overall cost per case.
Considering these improvements and additional benefits from our business transformation initiatives we would expect our earnings performance trends in fiscal 2014 to gradually improve.
In closing I would like to leave you with a few thoughts.
With the support of our customers and suppliers and through the talents and efforts of generations of committed associates Sysco has grown into a company that last year produced $44 billion in sales as well as approximately $1 billion in both net earnings and free cash flow.
We are proud to be the leader in the $235 billion foodservice industry that we participate in and take our leadership role very seriously.
We recognized a few years ago that our industry's growth rate would begin to plateau that the industry would undergo significant changes over time and that we would need to change our business model if we were going to continue to expand our leadership position.
We are currently in the midst of a multiyear business transformation that has touched nearly every part of our business sales marketing merchandising operations technology finance and business development in order to continue the success we have enjoyed historically.
We're making good progress on this journey but that progress has not been as consistent as we would like and there had been setbacks along the way.
Driving change at this scope and magnitude is challenging.
While a great deal of work lies ahead I believe our strategy is sound our execution will improve and that we are extremely well-positioned to solidify our foundation for delivering best-in-class customer service and profitable growth in the years to come.
I want to thank all of our associates for their efforts this past year in supporting our customers.
Their contributions are critical to fully realizing Sysco's vision to become our customers' most valued and trusted business partner.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he could provide additional details on our financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the fourth quarter sales were $11.6 billion or an increase of 5% compared to the prior year mainly due to acquisitions which increased sales by 2.1% and food cost inflation which was 2%.
Case volume increased 3% for the quarter; and case volume excluding acquisitions increased 0.8%.
Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 0.1%.
Gross profit in the fourth quarter increased 1.2% and gross margin declined 66 basis points.
Roughly 1/4 of the gross margin decline was due to the shift in customer mix as a result of faster growth in sales to large regional and national customers.
The remainder of the decline was driven by the difficult sales environment during the quarter and continued competitive pressure.
Operating expenses increased $80 million or 5.4% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 compared to the prior year period.
This increase was driven by an $18 million increase in retirement-related expense mainly due to higher 401(k) expenses and an $18 million increase in business transformation expenses.
As a result of all of these factors operating income decreased $56 million or 10.8%.
Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $283 million a decrease of $26 million or 8.5% compared to the prior year.
Diluted EPS was $0.47 an 11.3% decrease compared to the prior year.
Adjusting for certain items diluted EPS was $0.50 for the quarter.
As we have discussed on previous calls we believe it is important to focus on the performance of our underlying business which excludes certain items as well as business transformation expenses.
To summarize the performance of our underlying business adjusted operating expenses increased 4.9% with the increase in retirement-related expense accounting for roughly 1 percentage point of the increase.
Adjusted operating income decreased 7.3%.
Adjusted net earnings declined 4.2% and adjusted EPS declined 6.3% to $0.59.
Turning to the year-over-year comparison.
Sales increased 4.8% or $2 billion due mainly to inflation of 2.2% and acquisitions of 1.5%.
Case volume increased 2.6%; and excluding acquisitions case volume grew 1.3% for the year.
Changes in foreign exchange rates did not have a meaningful impact.
Gross profit increased 2.5% during the year while gross margin decreased 39 basis points year-over-year to 17.7%.
Approximately 1/3 of the decline was due to the shift in customer mix mentioned earlier.
The remainder of decline in gross margin was due to weak restaurant traffic and competitive pressures.
Operating expenses increased $423 million or 7.3% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.
The increase in operating expenses was driven by several factors: first business transformation expenses increased $137 million; second certain items increased $58 million mainly due to MEPP withdrawals and restructuring items; third payroll costs excluding retirement-related expenses increased $48 million driven by acquisitions increased volume and higher delivery costs partially offset by lower IT and sales costs as a result of our business transformation initiatives; fourth depreciation and amortization expense excluding business transformation expenses increased $36 million due mainly to facilities and fleet put into service as well as amortization on acquired intangible assets; fifth fuel expense increased $19 million; and lastly retirement plan expenses increased $10 million due to higher 401(k) expense partially offset by lower pension expense following changes on our retirement programs that became effective this year.
With regards to the last point on retirement-related expenses it's important to recall that we had previously estimated that the pension expense would've been more than $100 million higher this year.
However due to our retirement plan restructuring actual pension expense was more than $30 million lower year-over-year.
While expenses from our enhanced 401(k) plan offset this benefit somewhat overall retirement-related expenses which includes both pension and 401(k) increased only $10 million this year.
Our operational focus on expense management resulted in good cost per case performance for the year.
After adjusting for certain items cost per case in our Broadline organization declined year-over-year by more than $0.03 which is very difficult to do.
Operating income declined $232 million or 12% for the fiscal year.
Excluding certain items operating income declined 9%.
Net earnings for fiscal 2013 decreased $129 million or 11.5% compared to the prior year.
Fiscal 2013 EPS was $1.67 a decline of 12%.
Excluding certain items EPS was $1.78.
To summarize the performance of our underlying business adjusted operating expenses increased 4.1% adjusted operating income decreased 1.7% adjusted net earnings grew 0.1% and adjusted EPS declined 0.5% to $2.14.
Fiscal year 2013 has been a very active year for us in the acquisition arena and as a result we surpassed our stated goal of increasing sales from acquisitions by 0.5% to 1%.
We completed 14 acquisitions during the year that in the aggregate totaled more than $1 billion in annualized sales.
These acquisitions will enable us to better serve our customers further expand our product offerings and service footprint and profitably grow our business.
Each transaction has expanded our footprint in both current and new geographies with 6 acquisitions in the U.S.
5 in Canada 2 in Ireland and 1 in the Bahamas.
They also spanned a number of different service capabilities with 6 Broadline companies being acquired 5 seafood specialty companies 2 produce specialty companies and 1 systems distributor.
Turning to the impact of the Business Transformation Project for a moment.
For the fiscal year project expenses totaled $331 million including $77 million in depreciation and amortization expense.
We capitalized $20 million related to the project.
The cash outlay on the project was $274 million or $48 million lower than prior year.
All 3 of these metrics expense capital and cash were in line with the guidance we gave for the year.
As Bill mentioned although we continue to accelerate specific functional initiatives to advance our business transformation efforts we plan to implement enhancements to the broader SAP platform before continuing our enterprise-wide rollout schedule.
We expect our next conversion to occur around the end of the calendar year.
Our rollouts scheduled beyond that time will be determined once we are able to assess the success of the additional changes and enhancements we are making to the system.
The transformation benefits achieved this year include significantly lower pension expenses which we expect to decline even further in fiscal 2014.
After restructuring our sales and IT organization SG&amp;A expenses are significantly lower than the prior year.
We also enhanced compliance across the organization with existing sourcing programs.
In addition as Bill mentioned we made substantial progress on our category management initiative and expect to see specific benefits from these efforts in fiscal '14.
Finally we made progress on some of our operations initiatives including completing implementation of the SAP maintenance module beginning the realignment of incentive plans for our driver and warehouse personnel and beginning the implementation of enhanced routing processes to reduce miles traveled.
As you'll recall we had stated that we would achieve approximately 25% of the total targeted benefits of $550 million to $650 million in the first year fiscal 2013.
We actually exceeded our targeted business transformation benefits for the year.
Unfortunately this progress has been masked by the current difficult business environment and general operating performance of the underlying business that did not meet our expectations.
As a result we no longer expect to achieve our previous EPS guidance of $2.50 to $2.75 by fiscal '15.
Turning to our cash flow performance.
Total capital expenditures were $512 million for fiscal 2013 in line with our guidance.
We made good progress on our objective to better prioritize our capital expenditures this year enabling us to reduce our spending by $273 million compared to last year.
We've seen a decline in capital spending related to the Business Transformation Project mainly driven by the fact that we began implementation of the new technology earlier this year and stopped capitalizing much of the expense.
In the underlying business we've seen lower capital spending because of a reduction in the number of major facilities projects this year compared to last and a more disciplined capital allocation and approval process.
In addition a few construction projects moved from fiscal '13 to fiscal '14.
As a result of the reduction in capital spending and increase in operating cash flow free cash flow increased more than 60% year-over-year to $1 billion.
Cash flow from operations was $1.5 billion for fiscal '13 compared to $1.4 billion in the prior year.
Now turning to fiscal 2014 guidance for a moment.
Regarding our acquisition activity we expect acquisitions to add at least 1% to our sales growth each year going forward.
Due to the amount and timing of acquisitions during fiscal '13 we will exceed this goal during fiscal '14.
We expect just a carryover effect of deals done during fiscal '13 to add approximately 1% to fiscal '14's sales growth.
And of course we also expect to complete new transactions in fiscal '14 which will add additional sales growth during the year.
We believe retirement-related expenses will decrease $75 million to $85 million overall in fiscal '14 versus fiscal '13 and $50 million to $60 million net of certain items which we recognized in fiscal '13.
As a reminder the change in retirement-related expense includes the impact of our defined benefit pension plan and our defined contribution or 401(k) plan.
As you'll see in the chart provided in our slide presentation the majority of the reduction in the adjusted portion of these expenses or the portion of the expenses excluding certain items will occur in the second half of fiscal 2014.
We expect fuel expense for the year to increase in the range of $10 million to $20 million.
We currently have about 2/3 of our anticipated fuel needs locked in at prices lower than fiscal '13.
We also expect to continue our trend of strong expense management in fiscal '14 with cost per case in our Broadline companies expected to decline by $0.05 aided by the reduction in retirement-related expense.
We expect our capital expenditures in fiscal '14 will be $550 million to $600 million including business transformation CapEx.
This is somewhat higher than our actual spend this year and the guidance we've provided earlier this year because a few projects were reprioritized and shifted from fiscal '13 to fiscal '14.
We currently expect business transformation expenses in fiscal '14 to be in the range of $300 million to $350 million capital spend to be in a range of $5 million to $20 million and cash outlay to be in a range of $225 million to $275 million.
All 3 of these ranges are consistent with our prior long-term business transformation guidance.
Lastly we continue to expect the approximately $550 million to $650 million in annual business transformation benefits to be achieved in fiscal 2015.
As mentioned earlier we exceeded our goal of realizing approximately 25% of the total benefit during fiscal '13.
This increases our confidence in achieving our long-term guidance which is to deliver a cumulative benefit of approximately 50% to 70% of the total targeted benefits in fiscal '14 and 100% of those benefits in fiscal '15.
In closing while we have seen recent positive developments in the overall economy the recovery continues to be modest.
We believe that as a result consumers had not yet fully recovered from the economic downturn.
The foodservice industry is continuing to feel these effects seen in generally low growth and strange traffic patterns.
While our financial results reflect these challenges we are working to improve on those elements of our business that we can control including enhancing our product and service offering improving our execution on the gross margin line managing our costs increasing our free cash flow achieving our targeted business transformation benefits and addressing the requirements of our technology transformation in a prudent manner.
The work we are doing will position us to take advantage of market trends enhance our ability to grow our market share over the long term and expand our leadership position in the industry.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things for you.
I was just hoping maybe we could start with the guidance and the 2015 guidance not being valid.
You haven't really changed much.
I don't -- from a business transformation standpoint from a cost saving standpoint so it sounds like it's I guess more sort of industry-related.
When you gave the guidance things weren't great right? So I'm just trying to figure out what the moving pieces are on the difference today.
Maybe you could just sort of help us frame that.
Thanks Ed.
I'll start.
I'll let Chris kind of get into it in a little more specific way.
Obviously we've given that a lot of thought as well.
So if you go back to the way we've presented it we had 3 buckets we said A plus B equals C and with A being a view of what we felt we could continue to grow the underlying business at a steady state.
And that the implied guidance there was 4% or 5% growth.
And then we had the $550 million to $650 million in cost savings both on the operations side as well as product with the goal being to get back to what Sysco's historically been has been a company that's been able to produce consistent earnings growth.
I would say this to you obviously the market's been difficult but we've had some execution challenges as we've acknowledged here today.
I think the biggest thing I would say to you is the market and just the environment itself I think has just proven to be a lot tougher than what we thought it was going to be.
We had baked in like I said 4% to 5% expectation that we would be able to continue to grow the business x the transformational cost savings and that's not the case.
So sure there's been a lot of distractions and a lot of change going on.
But on the one hand it's disappointing to pull the guidance back.
On the other hand I think it reinforces the direction we're going in which is we have to change this business model because if we hadn't gone down this road with business transformation in the broadest sense we'd probably be looking at flat to very modest single-digit earnings growth.
So I don't want to put it all on the consumer or the economy but clearly this market is tougher than what we anticipated at the time we put the guidance out.
I'll let Chris give you his insights.
Yes the only thing I'll add is unfortunately just math which is as Bill said A plus B has to equal or should equal to C.
We didn't expect A to be stagnant or go backwards.
And so when you lose a year on a 3-year guidance it just means your growth rates have to be that much higher.
And when I just do the math with everything we've got going on we expect to do good things.
We expect there to be improvement but I don't expect to see enough improvement to overcome that first year.
So as I said we don't expect to achieve it in fiscal '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you say sort of lose a year is that kind of how we should think about setting our expectations? And from a -- I know you're not giving a number but is it more or less kind of like a year delayed is that how to think about it? Ed I'm going to go with the comment you made.
We're not giving a number at this point.
Look we're -- we've been at it doing long-term projections.
There's still a tremendous amount of uncertainty in what's going on out there right now so we're not prepared at this moment to put a new set of guidance on the table.
Look what we said a number of years ago I think is still true today.
We're trying to set this company up for long-term sustainable growth of a certain level.
We've never really said what that level is because we've got to get at least some way through this business transformation to know what we're capable of achieving.
But the whole goal is to set us up for long-term sustainable growth not to hit a particular number but to be able to grow a certain percentage or a certain amount every single year regardless of what goes on in the market and what we're doing.
And that's where we're trying to get to.
So we're reassessing what we can achieve and by when and we'll certainly come out and talk about that probably at the next Investor Day.
Ed I would echo that.
The only thing I would add to it is we've talked about '13 being a year of transition.
And as I think about it I think you need to look at '14 as the year that we begin to turn this thing all right? So while we are not giving you specific guidance I think we're signaling to you that we expect to see better trends on the top line and the bottom line.
We've got our challenges certainly on the gross margin line.
We've got a lot of good things going on we think in expense initiatives.
So we feel good about the direction we think we'll begin to turn it here this year.
But to Chris' point we need a little more time deeper into the year to see how we start the year out get further along on the technology deployment and the CatMan working.
We hope to come back with you with a little better perspective here later in the year.
Research Division</strong> And then if I could just had one follow-up on that Bill thinking about gross profit per case which I know is a metric you guys care a lot about I mean the best way we have to look at this right is to just look at volume growth versus gross profit dollar growth.
And this quarter we haven't seen it at this level really kind of since we saw deflation.
So I was hoping you could just maybe talk about -- you mentioned competitive pressure in the marketplace talk a little bit more about that.
What's going on from a pricing standpoint on your end of the new business that you're bringing in and just how you get this to improve next year.
Sure.
So if it's okay I'm going to really combine the last 2 quarters I think.
So if you look at the third and fourth quarter they were more similar than they were different.
Things kind of bottomed out in February I think in terms of the market from our perspective in the third quarter; it began to trend up a little bit in terms of March and April; and we saw a fair amount of softness in June in terms of restaurant numbers and that kind of thing.
So again we're talking about a very choppy market here but the reality is we only grew our gross profit dollars 2%.
So while gross profit per case is an important metric I would say again what I look at the most is volume and the mix of that volume locally managed within that street and then corporate managed and then look at gross profit dollar growth.
And the reality is the first half of the year we grew it over 3%; in the second half of the year only 2% or maybe even a tad less; and then cost per case.
So all those go together but those are 3 high-level metrics I would continue to look at.
And as you saw we gave you a little more color on some of those this particular earnings release.
I would say as we start out the new year there's tremendous emphasis within the company on that top line.
I mean you can grow your gross profit dollars in a lot of ways.
So right now we're very focused on the top line.
We're focused on reenergizing our local and street sales growth while still maintaining very strong corporate managed -- some of those high-volume chain business.
So we need to keep the top line going in order to leverage the business.
We need to drive our category management very effectively.
We're off to a good start and it's early.
We've got some other things that we're working on that we think over time not so much this year but in subsequent years can help us mitigate some of the margin pressure.
And we need to continue to look at the cost structure of the company.
So again I think you'll see gradual improvement this year.
And to Chris' point and my point I think we'll create the foundation for that to become more consistent in the years to come.
And we'll go next to John Heinbockel with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bill a couple of things with regard to pricing.
So it looks like things got a bit worse this quarter.
Was that -- do you find your investments are they more proactive or reactive? And then maybe talk a little bit about analytics and ROI because I always hit you guys on price elasticity.
Did not look like a good ROI this quarter how can you manage that better and maybe not make some price investments that are not productive? So that's kind of the big question.
So John when you say ROI you're talking about the ROI as it relates to pricing? Is that what you're getting at? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes so when I think about it you gave up 66 bps and what you got back for it it doesn't look like you got back what you'd like for it.
No we didn't.
I mean that's very fair we didn't.
And again I would just repeat what I said a moment ago that that has not escaped us.
And we thought we were beginning to make some progress but as the quarter unfolded June in particular we fell back there.
So the way we're structured today John there's 2 ways to go at it.
One is to continue to standardize and centralize more and more of what we're doing in terms of how we source the product how we work through category management how we create [ph] transfer pricing within the company to give our operating companies and our sales people as true a cost as we can and as competitive a cost as we can to price off of over time.
Driving out these initial waves in category management will help us a great deal.
And as I just alluded to there are some other things we just need to do over time very early days very early exploratory work where we need to bring more consistency to how we price.
Not take pricing -- so think about it this way.
A little under half of our revenue stream is priced by our marketing associates so they have a fair amount of latitude there.
And we want that because they're dealing with different customers at different points in time with different priorities so we don't want to overly limit their latitude.
At the same time if you could see what we see which I'm not going to let you see totally there's a fair amount of volatility in those -- in that pricing that doesn't need to be there.
And so I think not so much this year but over the next 2 to 3 years we have an opportunity to standardize that with some things like scientific pricing I will use that term for today but there's other things as well.
And so the idea would be to take some of the volatility out of the pricing have more consistency but still position that marketing associate to adapt to the needs of the customer locally.
We don't want to move away from that because that is our bread and butter and that really is part of how we think we differentiate ourselves.
But no doubt about it tough quarter tough couple of quarters and we're just going to have to dig ourselves out of it.
And as I mentioned in my script I think that gradually you'll see the trends improve.
And look the bottom line here John is we need to do all that and continue to grow the top line and take cost out of the business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think the MA pricing volatility is that more then being reactionary or proactive? And how good a visibility do you think they have into their competitors' pricing? I don't know that much about the latter.
Certainly most of the accounts they call on are probably -- use probably 2 or 3 other competitors so I certainly -- they certainly have some sense of it depending on the Items obviously the more competitive items.
I don't know that it's proactive or reactive.
What I'm getting at is not so much the volatility with a given MA although there's some of that.
What I'm talking about is the volatility -- or the variability maybe is a better word between MAs between OpCos and similar items and that just comes from having 7 000 different people pricing.
So we need to strike a better balance between that variability but still being responsive to the needs of the individual customer.
And we will but it's going to take some time.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then lastly on category management do you think -- is one of the thrusts here going to be fewer SKUs you buying -- giving more volume to certain vendors plus your costs going down and your ability to take pricing down along with that.
Is that a key thrust to you or is that secondary? I wouldn't say it's secondary.
I'd say it's in tandem with a broader goal.
There's different ways to go at this and different people call category management or define category management in different ways.
We've taken a more deliberate what we think very thorough approach which starts with gaining insights from our customers from our suppliers in terms of what the needs are in the market what the trends are in the market and using that as an opportunity to not just eliminate SKUs but to create new SKUs as well.
So certainly there will be a SKU reduction aspect to it but that should be more of a benefit as opposed to a targeted goal as we position our inventory to be more in sync with what the marketplace demands.
And then as you go through that that should allow us to grow more effectively with our customers bring more innovation to the work itself address some of these trends more effectively that I mentioned in my prepared remarks.
And certainly along the way when you're able to identify those supplier partners who want to make the commitment to go down that road with you you're able to identify shared savings that are good for both us the supplier and the customer.
So it's all of the above John.
To do this just to save money for 1 year or 2 is not enough.
We need to do it don't get me wrong.
It's part of our cost savings initiative but we need to do it in a way that we can grow the business over time as well.
And we'll go next to Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I would like to chat about cash flow.
You did increase your free cash flow this year but you also increased your spending on acquisitions which was clearly a driver of revenues.
So I'm just wondering about one of the benefits in the fourth quarter was working capital.
How long do you think that lasts? What kind of -- what were the drivers of the better working capital? And is it a concern at all that if you take out of free cash flow the dividend and the acquisition costs you really were almost flat here actually slightly negative I think.
So first working capital and then the overall thoughts about cash flow.
Yes I'll start in your order.
So on working capital we did see some improvement in the fourth quarter.
On a full year basis just looking at it year-over-year it was actually pretty close to flat for the same type of discussion we've had before.
Our trends prior to the end of the year we're going the wrong direction.
Said another way accounts receivable and inventory we're going the wrong direction.
We were making up for some but not all of that with accounts payable efforts.
At the -- by the time we got to the end of the fourth quarter we had balanced it out.
And I believe working capital was a positive of only about $10 million at the end of the year.
So working capital wasn't a significant driver on a year-over-year basis.
And Meredith I don't spend a tremendous amount of time looking at the quarters because there's seasonality in those numbers for working capital from one quarter to the next.
But year-over-year it was basically flat.
Your -- second part of your question do I have concerns about free cash flow being able to support dividend and acquisitions? I look at it differently.
Acquisitions we're actually adding EBITDA.
As we bring those acquisitions then and we integrate them with the company early in the standalones whatever they are they generate additional cash flow which supports additional debt if we want to maintain the same debt to equity and debt ratios if you will.
Said another way unless we're planning to continually reduce debt over time we actually have the ability to leverage against acquisitions.
So I look at acquisitions as being something we can buy with cash we can borrow money that's more of a financing discussion.
That's why free cash flow doesn't take a deduction for acquisitions because you're actually buying new cash flows into the future.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
Maybe you just talk a little bit then about buybacks.
It doesn't look like you did much this year.
And you do -- not only are you buying additional EBITDA but you're not a very leveraged company.
Is there any thought about leveraging up a bit to buy back stock? Yes we have and we'll continue to look at our capital structure to make sure that it's appropriate for where we are and our strategies et cetera.
As I've said and Bill has said as we've talked on these calls and at conferences we expect to generate additional free cash flow.
You've seen it this year.
We'll see it as we continue into the future.
And we're constantly evaluating how we're going to put that new cash flow to work.
Our goal would be to find strategic opportunities for that cash to put it to work for future growth.
Barring that we've got to look at other options.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just had one sort of housekeeping question.
You had an unusually large amount of other income I believe this quarter.
Was there anything in there that was unusual? Or should we expect a higher run rate of other income going forward? Now the only thing in there that was different if you will is we had an equity investment in a small company HotSchedules which we divested and that was a gain -- there was a gain on that sale of I want to say $6 million $6.5 million.
Other than that it wasn't significantly different than the run rate.
And next we'll go to Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> I think Bill you mentioned that the conversion rate in the category management area was ahead of what you expected.
What's driving that? Could you talk a little bit about that? Is it a price offer? Or is it sort of take it or leave it because you're taking out SKUs.
Could you just give a little color around that? Yes it's not take it or leave it.
And again the SKU thing is important but the SKU is more -- the SKU reduction is more of a byproduct of the overall process which again is to find ways to grow better share savings with our suppliers and our customers.
Look Andy we've had some big initiatives over the years so I think we're getting a little bit better at being more realistic early days on what our expectations should be so we didn't assume 100% conversion here.
So what we're saying to you is early days.
We're pleased with the response we're seeing with our sales force and with customers.
And no it's not take it or leave it because customers always have options.
So I think all I'm saying there to you is that we're pleased and I think it's really attributed to there's a year of work that went into this in terms of preparation work with the suppliers work with the customers and in particular with our sales force and operating companies.
So we're moving fast as I said and there's a lot to get done.
But I think our team at SMS has done a great job preparing our people to drive this out and that showed up in our results so far.
Research Division</strong> I didn't mean to sound so much that way but because to me the conversion being above plan is actually a positive.
Is it fair to say -- there's a lot of 1 column quite dead SKUs but very low productivity SKUs certainly for Sysco and that some of the challenges to maybe tell the customer why that might be also a low productivity SKU for the customer? That's absolutely right.
That's exactly what the deal is Andy and so that's kind of the opportunity that we have with each customer whether they're street or say a big contract customers to sit there and go through their assortment look at their movement look at ours look at these trends and these insights that we've been talking about and then jointly make good business decisions on how they should move forward with their assortment.
And as you do that you're doing a fairly methodical or scientific way you identify a lot of slow moving SKUs.
You also identify believe it or not SKUs that we don't have or that the customer doesn't stock that they should be stocking in terms of where the marketplace is.
So it is a double-edged opportunity so to speak.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up.
I think it's more for Chris because -- Chris I think I heard you say there's going to be -- your plan is to have 50% to 70% of the cumulative savings you identified the middle -- the midrange.
It seems like a pretty large variance.
And what kind of unknowns are around that variance? Is it more of the execution side at Sysco or with SAP? Or is it more what the dynamics of the marketplace and maybe pricing and things like that? I'll start with the sector or the first point you made.
It's not SAP because again these initiatives do not rely upon the additional rollouts of the ERP system.
We've tried to make that pretty clear.
Yes there are some uncertainties.
So first and foremost we're expecting a lot out of our category management initiatives.
So as you'll recall we have benefited in all 3 years from lower product cost.
The first year was mainly higher compliance of sourcing.
But during the first year which we just completed we had to ramp up all of the work that was necessary to start delivering real dollars on category management.
Now we're right into the middle of that.
So we're expecting a lot out of category management.
We have a lot of assumptions and the models that support and justify what we think we're going to achieve.
Now we're out executing against those.
So as Bill said early weeks look good but we've got a long way to go on that one.
We have additional operating initiatives additional benefits that we expect to derive throughout the operational part of the organization.
That's a lot of execution work.
And so those are going to be the main headwinds if you will.
It's just a lot of execution work throughout the organization to get these things done and accomplished.
The first year I don't want to say it was easy.
Nothing we did the first year was easy especially when you're starting to play around with retirement costs and things of that nature.
But there were things that were vastly within our control and we could execute on them fairly quickly.
Now it's the harder stuff.
It's into the trenches and doing all the down-and-dirty work to get the rest of the stuff done.
So that's why we still have a fairly big range on that.
I will say we gained a lot of confidence in the fact that we exceeded the first-year goals so that certainly sets us up going in with some surplus.
So we feel better about hitting that range.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And I just wanted to double-check my takeaway on that.
I didn't hear the -- you didn't talk about pricing.
It was all sort of internal and execution.
So it's not like Sysco could execute fairly flawlessly head towards the higher end of that range and yet the market got even more competitive or stayed as competitive as it is and some of that let's say in category management in particular or all of it the whole bucket I should say could go into the marketplace.
I'm just thinking in terms of how you're thinking about things.
I know obviously anything could happen.
But just how you're thinking of that variance? Yes Andy look I'm going to back to our A plus B equals C.
I mean the way we account for the initiatives as you kind of have to have a starting point and you've got to challenge the teams to realize their product cost savings or operating cost savings versus that starting point where we thought things were going to go based upon kind of trends et cetera.
And that's how we measure them.
If something goes on in the underlying business if something goes on in the marketplace that's definitely going to impact A and so the overall numbers the C part of that equation are definitely going to be impacted as well.
But the way we measure the benefits has to be off of a base case if you will.
Otherwise it's a constant moving target and I have no way to talk about those our success in that area or our progress in that area.
So again I'm not avoiding your question at all but B has to be measured off of the base case.
The impacts you're talking about pricing competitiveness in the market et cetera are definitely going to impact A.
Yes I think Andy I'll just add and I don't want to get this thing too complicated.
There are really 2 different things as Chris points out.
So we're out there it's not just that we track it separately we're creating the opportunity to grow and to create these product cost savings separately we ultimately distribute those savings the ones that -- so we share some of those with the suppliers and customers and then we keep some.
And so the shared savings that we keep go out to our operating companies but they also have a profit plan for the year as well.
So they're not just going to unilaterally -- I know you're not suggesting that but I just want to be clear -- they're not just going to let that stuff leak in other than to your and Chris' point competitive conditions are going to be what they're going to be.
So there's the pressure of the marketplace which we need to continue to address in multiple ways including enhancing our differentiation and everything else we've talked about earlier this morning and then there's the savings themselves.
So the way I would look at is I would look at these initiatives as being significant.
I think that they can go on beyond the 2015.
I think that's a big opportunity for Sysco.
And they certainly mitigate the pressure that we see in the marketplace.
And next we'll go to John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I think they're related questions and maybe Bill they -- you touched on them in your prepared remarks.
Firstly could you -- you mentioned nontraditional is more of a factor than it has been.
I mean I don't know if that's being referred to like warehouse club or an Amazon or something like that.
So just kind of flesh out that statement that you made and what Sysco can do to respond to that and then I'll have the follow-up as well.
Sure John.
I think why I was doing that part of the prepared remarks was just trying to set an overall trend line over the last few years.
So certainly we're seeing group purchasing organizations have a bigger role over time.
We work with a lot of them in contract business.
To some extent they are more involved in some larger street businesses today which requires us to have a much more competitive bundle of goods and services.
Certainly the club stores and the cash and carry have made an impact in particular in this type of economy over the last 3 or 4 years.
Amazon or Amazon-like business we're certainly appropriately respectful of that channel and attempting to find ways that we might be able to participate in it.
So that has not been that big of an impact to date but it's all around us.
We see it.
We recognize it.
And we're watching it very closely and as I said trying to identify areas where we may be able to participate.
Certainly one of the challenges with that channel was how do you do it profitably.
And with our model that's clearly very important.
So those are 3 examples that we'll be talking about.
And so it all comes back to us continuing to enhance our business model perhaps over time finding the right type of acquisition opportunities that supplement our current capabilities.
Research Division</strong> And are most of your contract businesses that have franchise organizations on co-ops to date? Or is that something that you see as a risk of increasing in overall volumes? No a lot of the big contract -- not a lot but a few of the big contract folks we work with have their own purchasing or good purchasing organizations.
And we're partnering with some of them in the large contracts.
You see a lot of that in health care.
We're not talking about is when it goes beyond that into some of your larger independent-type of business operators.
So that's a trend that's been gradually moving over the last few years.
And we combat it but the best way to combat it as I mentioned is to continue to work on a very complete bundle of goods services pricing all the things we're talking about.
It's really -- it's somewhat disruptive but it's just another form of competition that's different than what we would've seen say 8 or 10 years ago.
But in the end you end up at the same place which is this trade-off of value and price and that type of thing.
Research Division</strong> And I'll try to ask this question delicately.
Sometimes recently in the marketplace you hear a certain marketing associate or a group of marketing associates didn't like some of the changes at Sysco made maybe to one of your competitors did something else and took some of the customers with them.
So I mean the question is with the changes how stable has your marketing associate organization been? Is it more stable now than it was for example 6 months ago? And I'm happy if you'd want to publicly correct me I mean to what extent has this really been kind of an issue that's been happening within the organization? Yes.
So let me give you some context.
I think in a normal year we would have about 15% turnover of marketing associates and that's considered good and that's what you want.
I somewhat delicately in my prepared remarks talked about reducing unprofitable territories.
So we are down significantly more marketing associates right now year-over-year.
And that's been a trend over the last 12 months.
We haven't talked a lot about it publicly because it's been gradual and from a competitive standpoint it didn't really make a lot of sense to talk about that stuff publicly.
But I would acknowledge what you said.
Certainly when you lose people any associates but particularly salespeople sales managers and if they were to go to the competition that does create some challenges for whatever 3 6 9 months.
Not all of them go to the competitions some of them leave the industry as well.
So yes what we are trying to signal there -- and I appreciate the question is that we initiated that change in an effort to optimize our sales force and to improve productivity.
And there's a downside to that on the top line.
And that's lingering here a little bit but I think to answer your question what I also said is we're through most of that right now.
Certain operating companies dealt with it better than others.
And so I think as '14 unfolds the sales force sales management structure all that's beginning to stabilize and we're in a much better place than where we were 6 or 9 months ago to go forward.
And we'll go next to Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Bill I think you indicated in the past that with all of the industry headwinds and even some of the more company-specific challenges that you're dealing with that all of those issues further justify the investment in business transformation.
So I just want to ask maybe a variation -- maybe Andy's question earlier about your confidence level on getting the projected cost savings in fiscal '14 that are supposed to offset the continued spending.
I mean clearly pension and retirement-related expenses should be a tailwind for you.
But I think the guidance you provided calls for about $200 million of incremental cost savings.
So it sounds like in response to Andy's question that you're fairly confident about the cost reduction goal.
But could you maybe discuss the different components of the incremental cost saves and how much of that you expect to get from procurement benefits specifically? I might let Chris take or dodge the second part of that.
But just in general I would agree with your initial caveat in terms of the assessment.
I would say this to you: If you look at it we call this out pretty much in our remarks in the last couple of calls.
We've made very good strides on the SG&amp;A side for all the reasons you just cited.
So pension some of the things we've done in IT and there's been some pain along the way with that.
Our folks have done a good job rolling that out but we've had some challenges and our customers at times had to experience some of the downsides when you move quickly in some of those areas.
Where we didn't do a particularly good job in the expense side this year was on the operations side.
Right from the get-go transportation got away from us and we actually backed up during our cost per case in operations.
I think that came out on one of the slides that Neil and Shannon presented here this morning.
So I think as the year goes along the SG&amp;A cost savings will begin to plateau out.
I think you'll still see some in the early part of the year they'll begin to plateau.
And I think you'll see -- with one exception which is the pension that Chris talked about.
So if you just look at basic SG&amp;A x pension you'll see some in the early part of the year I think that will plateau out a little bit cost per piece.
I think you'll see operating cost per piece begin to improve.
In fact I think it already has begun to improve from a trend standpoint.
But we're still up versus a year ago.
So I think that will improve as the year goes along.
And then yes we are looking for significantly more on the product cost savings to the category management as the year goes along as well particularly in the I'd say the second 2/3 of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think you guys indicated that you came in ahead of your expectations for fiscal '13 on the cost savings.
Would it be possible to just confirm the actual number? No we're probably not going to give out the number.
Here's -- let me try to handle it this way.
I'm not going to completely dodge your question Ajay but there is a slide in the presentation.
I don't know if you've actually seen it yet.
I encourage you to pull it up afterwards.
It's already posted it's Slide 14.
But it's an update to what we showed you at CAGNY.
And what you'll see on there is we kind of put buckets for '13 '14 and '15 on the savings we expected from each.
And the '13 bucket is full and you'll actually see that we started filling in the '14 bucket a little ways.
And that represents kind of the overage.
So if you want to take out your slide rule maybe you can interpolate I'm not encouraging you to do that but we did deliver more than we expected in '13 and that's what we're trying to represent there.
And that's why we have confidence that we'll get to our range midpoint high-end wherever.
We'll get within the range of our goals for '14 as well.
We never have broken down exactly how much the benefit is going to come in each of the areas each of the years.
What we did say early on is that the $600 million half of it roughly would be in lowering cost of goods and the other half would be in lowering cost of operations.
We've also said that we got ahead in our SG&amp;A initiatives.
Our operating cost initiatives were slower to come.
We were roughly on track with our category management frankly fell behind a little bit at the end of '13 mainly because the way I track those is I assume that the benefits are going to cover the direct costs of doing that and we had some additional consulting costs that frankly we didn't cover.
And so we don't believe that we actually hit all of that number in '13 which was primarily sourcing as I said a few minutes ago not category management.
So we'd cast them to make up some ground in '14 and I understand that.
So as Bill said the big things for '14 category management is going to deliver a lot and we're counting on that.
But we also have a lot of operating initiatives that we're counting on similar to deliver benefit.
So we talked early -- or at least I talked in my opening remarks about a $0.05 cost per case reduction which is our expectation for the year and that's inclusive of initiatives and everything else.
That's hard to do and the way you accomplish that is first offsetting the natural cost increases that come every year which -- so we got to cover those and then also find ways to drive that cost down.
So retirement restructuring helps doing that -- helps us do that and then some of the stuff that we still have left to do this year in terms of routing efficiencies warehouse things of that nature that's got to continue to drive those costs down.
So I know that's not a lot of specifics for you Ajay but I want to keep it in context with the guidance that we provided you in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That was actually very helpful.
I just had one final question around issues related to customer mix.
I think you had mentioned that one aspect of the mix issue is your sort of end market exposure to independents.
But in terms of what's mostly behind the gross margin performance it sounded like -- Chris like based on your prepared comments roughly 1/4 of that decline was purely mix related and then the rest was impacted by underlying demand from your street account customers and based on market condition.
So I just wanted to ask how much of the gross margin weakness do you think is market-share driven loss of share to other Broadline distributors? And to the extent that you're dealing with competitive headwinds to other food service distributors I also wanted to ask if you expect any relief on competitive pressures heading into fiscal '14? Ajay you hit a nerve there so I'm going to start and I'll let Chris dive in.
Look I don't think we're losing any market share to other Broadline competitors okay? We don't really know where the industry is at right now but there's no reason to believe that this industry is growing the first 6 months of the year.
So there may be some other people some of the nontraditional ones that are taking share from the Broadliners as a group.
But on an overall basis I would say to you we believe we're continuing to take share.
I would acknowledge on the local and independent operator side there's some markets where we're getting beat a little bit right now.
But overall I don't think we're getting beat.
And I just wanted to kind of get that out there before Chris cleans this up.
I don't know that I'm going to touch that one now.
Look Ajay good question.
There are a lot of ways that we can cut up chop up gross margin changes year-over-year.
And some of that makes sense and some frankly that I don't believe do make sense.
All we're really trying to pull out now because we're not trying to put a bunch of excuses out there is mix.
Because we continue to say mix is somewhat frankly it's not one we're going to apologize for because as long as we continue to grow our business in all quadrants we have the potential for mix reduction.
It's not that we're disappointed that we're growing in our corporate managed sales it's that we're not growing fast enough in our locally managed sales.
So we're not really apologizing for the mix we're just kind of cutting it out so that you all know what the impact is.
I mean similarly the acquisitions that we've done the vast majority of them were done right around the calendar year end.
Those things typically come in at lower margins right? And it takes a while for us to get them to our margins.
So that's part of the impact.
I'm not calling it out because I'm not asking to present it as an excuse.
I don't have the analytics around it.
But there are things like that that impact that margin in addition to a dozen other things we've talked about in addition to competitive pressure et cetera et cetera.
All we're really saying is what we were trying to I don't know 8 quarters ago delineate all the different things that are impacting gross margins frankly they're all in the same set of competitive pressures that we've got to continue to fight and overcome.
And we're just going to call out the ones -- the one that we talked about which is mix which is kind of very real and that we should be able to give you more insight in as we go forward.
And we'll go next to Karen Short with Deutsche Bank.
Just a couple of questions.
In terms of your comments on fiscal '14 I think the term or the wording was fiscal '14 is kind of a year where things start to turn around.
Is that assuming no change in the economic environment or a slight improvement? Can you just give us a little color there? Well we would hope for slight improvement.
That always helps.
But no that would assume pretty much the same environment Karen.
Maybe little bit of improvement but what it's really geared at is just we feel we have locked in some of these cost savings that Chris referenced.
We recognize that we need to continue to work on the gross margin.
But we just think we're better positioned going forward today than we have been in some time.
I think the cash flow performance from last year could serve as a leading indicator of the type of progress hopefully we can make.
We'll see.
But bottom line is -- I know it's hard to see sometimes when you're looking at the numbers being reported.
But in this type of business you feel things getting better before you see it and then you see it and then it shows up in the numbers.
And what we've tried to signal today's comments and Q&amp;A is we think we can grow the top line we've got a lot of good things going on in acquisitions.
We think we're on top of our cost structure we'll continue to make strides there and we need to manage the margin better.
And we've got good initiatives going on there to do that.
Okay.
And then the next question is given that you are kind of starting to get I guess out of the woods in terms of this SAP implementation wondering what your appetite might be for a larger acquisition? I mean you've obviously demonstrated an appetite for smaller ones.
But as you can kind of shift gears and maybe focus your attention on something else do you have an appetite for larger acquisitions if it were available? We have an appetite for larger acquisitions the right kind of acquisitions.
I would break it down into 2 different times.
I mean if there was an opportunity to do some things say it was more adjacent or maybe different geographic markets of size those would probably be easier for us to absorb at this point in time.
If it was in our core space I'd like to see us get further down the road on both the technology deployment and the category management.
But assuming that those initiatives go well here over the next 6 to 9 months I think we'd be in a better position operationally to absorb something like that.
.
And we'll take our last question from Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Question you had mentioned in the transcript there that you've seen more attention from customers asking for fresh and natural products.
And how do you really address that since you seem to be more focused on packaged and canned and products of that nature? And are you losing any share to some of the more specialty purveyors on perishables? Okay Mark it's Bill.
Look this is a trend that we've seen coming for quite a while.
We're doing -- just as an aside I mean we're doing a lot of really nice things in our sustainability work which -- I'll let you review that report it's out there online.
But in terms of the business itself I would just remind everybody we're a full Broadline distributor and we have several specialty companies; meat produce imports et cetera et cetera.
So there's really very little product out there that we can't distribute.
We work very closely both with local suppliers and farmers as we do with regional and national suppliers.
So the challenge there really in all honesty is to identify where the demand is and the volume and create enough volume to justify bringing the SKU in and the cost of distributing those SKUs.
So it just comes down to essentially locking in on the right opportunity for the right customer and there's no reason why we can't participate there.
I will acknowledge that that's an area that we maybe historically have not been as strong at but I think you'll see us continue to grow there both through our core business as we said and potentially through more acquisitions as we've made in the past.
Research Division</strong> Is the challenge there that it's really a diffuse set of expectations from the customers you can't really hone in on a set of SKUs that works across the board? It's multiple challenges.
One is that yes.
And I think -- but I think to me frankly the bigger challenge is just breaking down what do the words mean.
So fresh is one thing natural is another and local's a third.
And so is local better? Is it fresh? That kind of thing.
So it essentially just comes down to really understanding the needs of the customer why they are looking for that product and making sure we're all clear on what the advantages are.
So some of these words tend to get co-mingled but they're all very different in terms of what they mean.
So we're just trying to create as much clarity as we can with the customer and then we can work with all types of suppliers as I've mentioned to be responsive there.
Research Division</strong> And on the SAP issue what is really tied to that in terms of the cost savings? Is it accounting duplication that you'll be getting rid of? Or what things are gated there? Because you are hitting your marks and exceeding them on the cost savings to date but there must be some things tied to the SAP that you're aiming at for the next couple of years for cost saves? Yes.
Once we get the full SAP platform rolled out there will be some additional savings.
Now some of it at least some of the savings that we originally identified we accelerated.
The maintenance module is already out and installed so we are accelerating that.
The HR module will come out.
We will accelerate that.
What's left is going to be a few areas one yes finance will be one of them.
There'll be some additional labor savings out in the field as we consolidate more work into our shared services center and a few other functions.
There will be some ancillary savings from having that fully rolled out and being able to fully ramp up our shared services center and get the labor arbitrage that usually comes with doing that.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Sysco's First Quarter Fiscal 2014 Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I will turn the call over to Mr.
Neil Russell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Sysco's First Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Call.
Today you will hear remarks from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings.
This includes but is not limited to risk factors contained in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 29 2013 and in the news release issued earlier this morning which is posted in the Investors section at sysco.com and can be found on the Sysco IR app which can be downloaded from the iTunes App Store and Google Play.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in the presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation which can also be found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volumes include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thanks Neil and hello everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning Sysco reported record first quarter sales of $11.7 billion net earnings of $286 million and EPS of $0.48.
Adjusting for certain items such as severance and facility consolidations adjusted EPS was $0.49 which is flat compared to prior year.
Market conditions remained very challenging for our customers throughout the quarter as consumers continue to spend their disposable income in an increasingly disciplined manner and to some degree shift their spending to more durable goods.
While these trends are not favorable to the foodservice industry we're hopeful that they will begin to abate as we approach the new calendar year and beyond.
Notwithstanding the challenging market conditions we grew our sales for the quarter by nearly 6% over the prior year with approximately 2/3 of that growth coming in the form of case volume growth.
Earnings were generally in line with our expectations as strong expense management helped to offset the impact of sluggish gross profit dollar gains.
We continue to drive solid growth with our large national and regional customer base while sales growth with our locally managed customers remains soft.
We also made good progress in several of our enterprise-wide business transformation cost-reduction initiatives which contributed to a significant reduction in cost per case in our Broadline operations compared to last year's first quarter.
Turning to our technology transformation.
During the quarter we installed a major scheduled update to the system which favorably impacted all 5 of our SAP-enabled operating companies.
Following the implementation of these performance and functional enhancements we generally have experienced improved performance and stability in the technology.
Encouraged by this progress we remain scheduled to resume our deployment rollout next week at our Boise Idaho operating company.
Assuming the results in Boise are favorable and that we continue to make consistent strides in improving the overall technology platform our plan is to carry out additional conversions beginning early in the new calendar year.
We are also pleased with the progress we have made to-date on our category management initiative.
We are moving forward with the process building our capabilities and focusing on driving a new assortment based upon consumer and customer insights; and the 4 pilot categories representing approximately $1 billion in total annual spend went live this past summer; and we've begun to launch additional categories in wave 1 which will encompass approximately $4 billion in aggregate annual spend once it's fully rolled out.
While results vary somewhat amongst the categories in between our operating companies both customer conversion rates and product cost savings opportunities have generally been in line with our expectations.
As expected we have encountered some challenges in marketing the enhanced value of the new product assortment to certain customers.
As a result we are taking steps to improve our conversion processes so as to provide our customers with a more rewarding experience as we work through the assortment changes together.
Specifically we are enhancing our product and supplier selection process on the front end by working with our vendor partners and sharing best practices from our most successful operating companies and adjusting the rollout calendar where execution risk warrants.
We remain confident in both the benefits that category management will provide our customers and the savings we will realize over the next few years.
Accordingly wave 2 is in the early stages of implementation and is expected to launch during the second half of our fiscal year.
In closing while the market environment is still very challenging for many of our customers especially those who operate in the casual dining restaurant segment we remain focused on the following: Creating greater value for our customers delivering our annual business plan and driving transformational change within our company.
In so doing we expect to provide improved financial results in fiscal 2014 and we expect that year-over-year improvement will gradually build and be more pronounced in the second half of the current fiscal year.
Reflecting on the amount of necessary change we are driving in the midst of a difficult market environment we are most appreciative of the support and partnership we receive from approximately 425 000 customers and our more than 10 000 suppliers as well as the tremendous commitment and contributions our 48 000 associates provide each and every day.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the first quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the first quarter sales were $11.7 billion or an increase of 5.7% compared to the prior year mainly due to acquisitions which increased sales by 2.3% and food cost inflation which was 2.1%.
Case volume increased 4.1% for the quarter; and case volume excluding acquisitions increased 1.8%.
Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 0.5%.
Gross profit in the first quarter increased 1.8% and gross margin declined 68 basis points to 17.63% due mainly to continued weakness in locally managed sales the difficult business environment and competitive pressure.
In addition sales to large regional and national customers are growing faster than local business and this mix shift drove about 15% to 20% of the gross margin decline during the quarter.
Operating expenses increased $36 million or 2.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared to the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of operating expenses from acquired companies adjusted operating expenses were flat compared to the prior year.
This was achieved as a result of benefits from our business transformation initiatives as well as lower business transformation expenses.
Business transformation expenses were lower in the first quarter by $11 million due mainly to lower spending on third-party contractor expenses.
As deployment begins to ramp back up in the second quarter and throughout the remainder of the fiscal year expenses are expected to be similar to the prior year.
As a result we continue to expect total business transformation expenses for the year to be in the $300 million to $350 million range.
Similar to last year we continue to see business transformation benefits driving down operating expenses.
As a result payroll in our sales and IT departments are once again lower than the prior year down more than $20 million combined as are retirement-related expenses.
I'd like to provide some additional insight on our projected retirement-related expense trends for the remainder of the year.
We recorded a net $9 million decline in retirement-related expense for the quarter.
This was the result of a $32 million decline in pension expense partially offset by a $23 million increase in 401(k) expense.
As a reminder retirement-related expenses in the first quarter and for the remainder of the fiscal year are being impacted by the timing of changes in our retirement plan benefits implemented mid-year last year as well as by the timing of certain related restructuring items that were recognized last year.
We've provided a chart in our slide presentation showing our projections of the year-over-year impact of each of these items.
As you will see we continue to expect adjusted retirement-related expense for the year to be lower by $50 million to $60 million with the majority of that decline occurring in the second half of the year.
As a result of the benefits generated from our transformation initiatives cost per case performance in our Broadline operations was significantly better than last year for the first quarter declining $0.09 per case compared to the prior year.
We don't anticipate maintaining this rate of improvement as we lap the point at which we began some of these initiatives last year but we remain confident in meeting our objective of a $0.05 decline for the full fiscal year.
So in spite of relatively weak gross profit growth the progress we continue to make towards our cost-reduction initiatives resulted in operating income being essentially flat year-over-year.
Net earnings for the first quarter were $286 million a decrease of $1 million or 0.4% compared to the prior year.
Diluted EPS was $0.48 a $0.02 decrease compared to the prior year.
Adjusting for certain items which mainly related to restructuring items diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.49.
As we have discussed on previous calls we believe it is important to focus on the performance of our underlying business which excludes certain items as well as business transformation expenses.
To summarize the performance of our underlying business adjusted operating expenses increased 3.5% adjusted operating income decreased 2.7% and adjusted net earnings declined 3.1% and adjusted EPS declined 3.4% to $0.56.
Turning to the impact of the Business Transformation Project for a moment.
In the first quarter project expenses totaled $67 million and we capitalized $4 million related to the project.
In the prior year quarter project expenses totaled $78 million and we capitalized $8 million related to the project.
Free cash flow was $44 million for the first quarter slightly lower than the prior year mainly due to working capital performance.
The first half of the year and the first quarter in particular are our weakest cash flow quarters and a year-over-year decline is not surprising.
Capital expenditures totaled $136 million for the first quarter of this year compared to $156 million last year.
In closing while the challenging business environment in the foodservice industry continues to impact our customers and our business we are focused on those areas of our business that we can control and are encouraged by our progress in growing our business controlling expenses and achieving our business transformation goals.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first today to Karen Short with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at case volume in general it sounds like case volume in street accounts is very limited or low or potentially even negative.
So I guess maybe can you talk a little bit about what you think that's a function of? Is it maybe a function of headcount reduction and MAs or just base-level attrition at the street level with your customers or maybe some response to your waves of SKU reductions? Any color there? Karen I think you answered most of your question right there.
But yes I'll take a shot at it.
I think clearly this macro environment continues to be difficult for our customers and we mentioned the casual dining segment so that's a big part of our street business more so than maybe on the big contract side.
So I think there is a macro aspect to that.
Certainly we are driving a lot of change as we've referenced here for several quarters.
And any time you drive change you do have to drive it through your sales organization and our folks have had to deal with a lot of that over the last 12 to 15 months.
Now we're getting the benefit of it on the cost side but it has somewhat probably hurt us a little bit on the top line.
It's hard for me to tell -- really the SKU thing you get different pieces of feedback on that.
I don't think it's as much the SKU issue as it is just the amount of change and to some extent as we've eliminated some territories customers are dealing with different MAs and that type of thing.
So from -- I think there's a little bit on the macro somewhat on the inside internal if you will I would say largely to be expected.
We just need to work through it as fast and as well as we can.
And I would just tell you the competitive environment in particular on the street business remains very acute.
And we need to fight to keep the cases that we have and to grow those cases.
And so there's a never-ending balance here across the different markets and the different operating companies and that trade-off between retaining and growing business and pricing.
And we continue to try to do that as well as we can.
Obviously it's a challenge right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just a question on categories in terms of wave 1 and 2.
How many categories is it going to address? I know you gave dollar amounts but how many categories and if you could give any color on what categories will be included? Yes I don't think we have any finite number of categories.
We continue to look for example at the rollout calendar.
It was pretty aggressive in the front end.
We've made some modest adjustments.
So that could ultimately end up with maybe a couple more waves if you will than what we initially intended.
But I think to put it in perspective we buy about a little over $30 billion worth of product.
And the pilot we said was about $1 billion and wave 1 is $4 billion but wave 2 would be less than that.
So I think we're getting to where it's a significant piece.
By the end of the year it will be a significant piece of our overall purchasing.
We'll take our next question from Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig in a little bit more on the gross margin decline of 68 basis points.
You talked a little bit about mix but maybe you could give us some other factors that played into that decline because we've now had a couple of quarters here in the mid-60s or 60s or higher on a basis points decline.
Yes Mark.
So mix is a part of it I think Chris mentioned it's about 25% of that reduction.
The rest of it is pretty much what I was discussing there with Karen.
We've got a very competitive environment out there and we do a lot of business it's a volume-driven business.
We're the leader by far.
And the most profitable business we have is the business that we're already transacting.
So we're fighting very hard to hold on to those cases and we're doing a reasonable job of that as I said in a challenging environment.
With that said there's things that we can do and execute better.
There is some variability as we've called out over the last 2 or 3 calls between operating companies and how well we're executing and we're trying to provide the right level of support to give more consistency in our performance there.
So there's opportunities for us in the short to medium term to manage the margin better and still grow the business and take care of our customers and that's what we intend to do.
Research Division</strong> What do you mean by locally managed business was under more pressure on margin? Was that -- does that mean more street account margin pressure than the rest of the business? Yes so let me address the terminologies.
So over the years it's still relative when we talk about contract and street.
But as we evolve here and as our organization structure evolves we're trying to be a little more clear on where the large amount of the accountability goes in terms of growth.
And so our operating companies pretty much control 60% to 70% of the revenue stream on average.
And the bulk of that is street business but there's also contract business locally.
So when I speak of locally managed business it's what's largely managed at the operating company level the majority being street but there's a good percentage of local contract as well.
The rest of it we refer to as corporate managed and that's our big national and large regional multiunit customers.
Research Division</strong> And it sounds like that segment is where you've been getting more of your wins lately the corporate managed business.
Is that right? Yes.
I mean there's pressure in that segment as well but we've done a nice job leveraging our scale there and those customers see that as a big competitive advantage for them.
So we've had some good success there actually over the last 2 2.5 years.
Research Division</strong> And the locally managed pressure is that just reaction to the difficult operating environment or is it kind of planned attacks to kind of gain share in some places? I think it's a combination of all of that.
I don't think there's a lot of growth right now on the street.
We'll update that data here as we get into the end of the calendar year.
And so I think that results in more of the same that we've seen in the last 2 3 years.
When there's not a lot of growth that creates a lot of acute pressure on the street and that type of business and there's a lot more people trying to do what we're trying to do which is hold their business and grow it.
We'll go next to John Heinbockel with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a couple of things.
Bill you said in the 5 SAP-enabled companies performance has significantly improved.
So with respect to that what has improved? And then is it just operating performance or actually is there a financial performance at those 5 companies that has meaningfully improved? John when I speak to the favorable results that we're seeing there and the improvement we're seeing it's more about the platform itself.
We see more stability where we're utilizing the hardware better.
Some of the issues we've had with replenishment service levels those have begun to improve as well.
It's not as consistent in terms of the trend lines as we'd like to see but it's definitely better than where we were.
So it's more on the operating side and on the hardware utilization itself.
And it's encouraging.
LLC Research Division</strong> Now is that -- should that directly translate to financial performance or is there a fair bit of a lag between when that will happen? There's still more of a lag than what we'd like to see which is why we took this pause here to go in and basically dedicate all of our resources to enhancing the underlying system itself.
So yes it should to and obviously needs to.
And we just need that dip to be less -- more shallow and last not as long.
So we're not there yet but we are feeling more confident in terms of the strides we've made and that's why you hear us talking about beginning deployments again with our company in Idaho this month then hopefully more than that as we get into new year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Now let me ask on gross margin if you take mix out maybe you're down 50 bps give or take.
How do you guys analytically look at the ROIC of that and the elasticity of that? And then I guess if you had spent less than the 50 bps would case volume be significantly worse or it's a balance but how do you analytically think about the balance whether you're getting a decent return for the 50? Yes I think John you've been very consistent on that question.
Actually I'm getting a little more perspective on the elasticity as we go through this over the last year 1.5 years.
But I would say certainly we're conscious of ROIC but we tend to look at that more at the operating unit level and obviously the enterprise level.
We look at the profitability of the accounts.
We look at growth.
I mean ours is a business that's driven on growth.
We invest in the business we utilize our scale.
We see that as a very big competitive advantage both on the operations side and on the sales and marketing side both with our big contract customers and locally.
So our fundamental belief is that we need to grow this business.
Now we need to grow it profitably.
But our customers are all profitable.
It's a matter of are they as profitable as they were a year ago and we look at that.
And I would tell you 1 year 1.5 years into trying to get better answers to your question on elasticity I'd say it's -- I don't think I can tell you that we would have had more GP dollars if we had higher margins let's say.
And as you look at it by market or OpCo it's a function of our leadership and our execution.
It's a function of the support we're able to give them here from corporate with all the initiative work that we're doing.
And it's a little bit of a function geographically on how healthy those markets are.
For example the Southwest in Texas we're able to grow the business here a little better because the underlying market's somewhat better middle part of the country more difficult.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then lastly the acquisition pipeline do you think based on what you see today that you'll be -- again we're going to lap some of the acquisitions you did last year so -- but if you sort of think about what you might bring on online new over the next 9 to 12 months you think that will likely be in the 1% to 2% range contribution to sales or do you think it's less than that? John this is Chris with a bit of weak voice today I apologize.
What we said is we plan to grow at least 1% every year.
We've got a lot of carryover from the deals we did last year the annualization of what we did last year which is going to give us 1% just on carryover.
So if we do our normal 1% of which we'll get about 0.5 point benefit this year plus 1 point carryover we'll be in that 1.5% range.
That's kind of our target for this year.
And then going forward we still plan to do at least 1% a year.
We've still got a very robust pipeline.
The first quarter always seems to be a little bit weak but we're pretty pleased with the progress we continue to make on the acquisition front.
We'll go next to Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bill just not to beat a dead horse here but I want to start with a follow-up on the gross profit and let's think about gross profit per case I guess.
How much of the pressure that you're seeing right now is from new business pricing or is it just -- or is it renewals of existing contracts? Are you just asking about the contract business or are you asking about all customers? Research Division</strong> Your whole business.
How much of it is pressure on existing customers versus going out and trying to win new customers? I'd say it's more on the existing customers.
They're all looking to find ways to save money and run their businesses better.
And as we've alluded to here and spoken to the environment for many of our customers especially on the restaurant casual dining side remains very challenging.
So we're always in conversations whether it's street business or larger-chain business trying to find ways to share savings and to provide them more value.
So given the math it's definitely more on the existing business.
We could be doing better on the new business I'll tell you that.
So I think that's in a left-handed way kind of a testimony to the fact that we're not just chasing business to get a top line.
So I'd like to see our new business numbers be a little bit higher right now and I expect that they will pick up here as things start to stabilize with the sales force.
But I would have to say it's mostly on the existing business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on gross profit per case generally.
Obviously it's a little weak right now.
It sounds like you expect it to get better as the year progresses.
So first I guess is that true? And do you think you can get back to the point at some time this year where you have flat-ish to maybe modestly positive gross profit dollars per case? Well we tend to speak about gross profit more in terms of percentages so I'm going to leave it there.
I will say this we need to improve I think that's clear.
I mean if you look at the quarter the way I would characterize the quarter is the top line number was good.
We would've liked to seen a better number on the locally managed street business than what we saw and that drives some of the margin as well.
So we need to do better there.
I don't know that we can get all the way back to flat by the end of the year but certainly we can -- I feel like we can make some improvements and we need to.
The good news here is that the cost per case we are seeing the benefits of a lot of the initiatives we've undertaken here over the last 12 to 15 months and there's more to come there.
And they do go together at some point especially on your big contract business.
Your -- as that business grows somewhat faster than your street you need to see lower cost per case than your expenses because that's part of the economics on how you go after that business.
So our target is to obviously improve the gross margin performance.
I'm probably not prepared today to tell you we're going to get back to flat.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just last question for you.
Category management can you just maybe provide a little bit of color on what your clients actually are saying at this point specific pushback how you're adjusting to that? And then as you think about what you've rolled out so far what's been the sales and the gross profit dollar impact so far on those categories? I would say generally 2 things one is that the customers have been incredibly supportive.
They're looking at this with an open mind.
Our sales force is -- they've got a lot coming at them.
They've done a nice job in our sales management.
We've done I think a very good job bulking up and strengthening our merchandising team throughout the company but especially here at corporate.
We put a lot of planning a lot of thought into this.
So we've learned a lot over the last few years from big initiatives that there's things we need to do in terms of bringing folks in and better preparation better communication.
With all of that said we can still communicate better between here and our operating companies.
There's probably some process improvements in terms of how we manage the conversions at the operating company level that we need to get better consistency on amongst the different companies and that's an opportunity obviously for us to work better with them.
The suppliers give us good feedback as we get into some of the individual categories and which ones will be more complicated than others that type of thing.
So right now I would just say to you that from a process standpoint we're about where we thought we would be.
We're doing fine on the conversions.
But the reality is it somewhat depends on the category and it depends on the customer and it depends how good a job we did in terms of comping the specs on the individual items.
And so it's a one-on-one conversation with each and every customer.
And we're just trying to strike the right balance between moving forward and doing the right thing for the customer but also the right thing for our economics.
And at times we probably have moved a little too fast there and we just need to be a little bit more patient at times and give our people a little more support to do that.
But all in all I'm pleased with where we're at.
That's a big initiative.
And as I said in the prepared remarks we still feel very good about it going forward.
We'll go next to Michael Kelter with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Ivan Holman sitting in for Michael.
I was hoping to dig into the guidance a little bit.
You mentioned that you expected trends to improve and profitability to build as 2014 continues.
And since there are a lot of moving pieces I was wondering is that predicated on an improvement in the macro? And excluding an improvement in the macro do you still think that you can continue to build there through the initiatives that you're rolling out? Well yes it's predicated on some improvement in the macro.
If you recall if you look at our year last year on a relative basis the first half of the year was much stronger than the second half of the year.
And so there is some presumption there that the macro will gradually improve.
But we're not waiting on that.
So it's hard for me to kind of gauge how much improvement we'll make with or without the macro.
But we certainly expect to grow the business.
If the macro improves we'll grow it a little bit more.
We expect that we'll continue to make strides on margin and cost management.
I think the components of the improvement on cost control will change over the course of the year and Chris can take you through that a little bit.
But we -- the bottom line is here we expect to improve but certainly an improving macro would give us more confidence.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a quick follow-up.
With regards to acquisitions can you just help us understand from a process perspective given the erosion in gross margins from the mix shift towards the locally managed business can you help us understand when you're looking at acquisitions if there are any constraints around that in terms of decisions to grow the top line but perhaps at the expense of gross margin and how you view the evolution of the business as you look at acquisitions on a go-forward basis? Well let me say this.
The way we look at acquisitions is we're looking for opportunities to bring businesses in this company that will help us grow.
That may be geographic it may be a product category it may be -- it may not be necessarily a top line opportunity could be a consolidation play.
So it just depends on the specific opportunity we're looking at it.
If you look at our acquisitions over the last 1.5 years or 2 years we've done all of that.
We bought a company up in Western Minnesota which believe it or not gave us some green space up there even though we're in Minnesota we're in North Dakota.
We've bought some specialty product companies European Imports comes to mind.
And we've entered into some new geographies in Québec and the Bahamas and Ireland.
So we look at everything there.
And we're certainly -- as you look forward it's certainly a meaningful part of how we expect to grow the top line.
But in the end it needs to be profitable as well.
Chris you want to add anything to that? Yes I'm not sure we fully understood the premise of your question but I think Bill's explanation is good.
We do all sorts of different types of acquisition.
Generally the margins that we see in the company before we acquire it are lower than our own margins.
And so it might be a bit dilutive when we first merge it in with our existing business.
But then that yields the opportunities that we have with these acquisitions to put them into our buying programs to enhance their performance especially if it's a fold-in and get cost savings out of it.
So we might see a bit of a dilution initially but then we see synergies if you will as we operate it for a period of time and bring it into the fold.
So we believe these -- especially the smaller acquisitions that we've been doing and they're not all tiny but small- medium-size acquisitions are very beneficial to us both in growing the top line but also in continuing to enhance our profitability over time.
We'll go next to Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to kind of connect 2 things you've been talking about and we'll see if there is a connection.
You were talking about category management and maybe you got some pushback from some customers.
Do you think there's any relationship with pricing? You did say pricing to existing customers had come down.
Is there any relationship between that and your category management efforts or is it separate? Meredith I think what I acknowledged is that we can do better on gross margins and we're working hard on that.
I would say on CatMan in particular the type of conversations we're having with customers would be generally expected when you're sitting there talking to them about in certain instances changing out an item.
I wouldn't call it so much as pushback as it's just people want to know why it's good for them and that type of thing.
So I would say overall in terms of the profitability on the CatMan it's been as good or better than we expect.
So that really hasn't been the issue there.
It's just we need to do it in the right way to sustain the growth that comes from that.
And the way we're approaching category management it's -- clearly we need to realize the gross savings and invest in that in the right way and create the net savings we've spoken about.
But our whole goal here is to do this in a way and we're doing it in a very well thought-out way to sustain growth over the next 2 or 3 years as well and hopefully accelerate growth.
So it's more of a growth issue than it is a profitability issue I would say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I have a question about marketing associates.
I think you mentioned that there had been some declines.
And could you just spell out -- I know you had done some layoffs or allowed attrition to happen.
Have you also had some defections? And would you say that whatever impact that has on sales is behind you or will there be some over -- future spillover effect? Yes.
If you go back let's go back 15 months.
And so as we started rolling out a lot of these initiatives on the sales side we had several key initiatives.
We implemented a CRM tool across the company.
We looked at creating more consistent pay plan across the company different variables but more consistency in terms on how the commission grid works.
We flattened the sales organization.
Where it made sense we tried to take layers out or at least make sure that our best and most talented sales associates and sales management are as close to the customer as possible and we looked at nonprofitable territories.
So yes we're down in terms of territories year-over-year.
That rate of decline has plateaued out to some extent.
And I would say this it's -- part of it was very conscious part of it we've lost a handful or 2 of people in management probably that we wouldn't wanted to have lost and I'm sure we've lost some MAs that we wouldn't have wanted to lost.
And when we didn't execute well in a few companies we lost more people than I would've liked to seen us do.
But all in all for something of that magnitude I think we've executed reasonably well.
And to your last question yes things have begun to stabilize.
The change that Sysco is going through today becoming much more customer-centric and we're having to accept the fact that change is perpetual.
So it's not like the sales force isn't going to have change going forward.
It's not like the customers are not going to see some change.
The degree of change I think has stabilized and I think we will see some improvement there as people get more confident in the new organization structure and what their roles are and that type of thing.
So absolutely in a better place from that standpoint than we were a year ago.
Research Division</strong> And I'd just like to throw in one more question.
This quarter you did buy back stock and it looked like you were a net borrower to buy back stock.
I was just wondering if this -- I kind of went back and looked and I think that the share count went down a bit more than it has recently.
Is there anything in that? Is that a part of a plan or it just worked out that way? Meredith this is Chris.
It's no change in our strategy just to be candid and upfront about it.
We typically -- periodically every quarter we look at what's the expected dilution from options issuance options exercises et cetera.
We try to look as far ahead as possible and then we try to put in place a plan to offset that with stock repurchases.
We got a bit ahead in the first quarter due to pricing and due to some modeling that we did.
And so that's what you see is a pretty strong first quarter.
Depending on where the stock goes and what happens with option exercises we'll determine whether we continue to buy at a similar clip or a much less clip.
But it is not a change in strategy.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Chris you mentioned -- I just want to make sure you said the cost per case was $0.09 lower this quarter but you expect $0.05 for the year.
And could you just kind of give me more information about that? It seems like a really strong number this quarter.
And is that all having to do with hiring in the warehouse or in other parts of the company? No.
As we've talked about over the last couple of quarters and I think we're starting to give a little more insight into the amounts and the magnitudes it's really a continuation of the initiatives that we began last year.
So we saw significant declines in our sales cost per case offset by some increases on the warehouse and driver side.
And so what we're really saying is as a first -- well first we put out guidance for the year that we expect to be down $0.05 a case.
The first quarter we're down pretty heavily but we're going to wrap that as we get into the latter half of the year because we started some of those initiatives in the latter half of last year.
So as we wrap it we won't see as much of a decline.
We're very confident we'll see our $0.05 a case for the year and I hope we'll do better than that and then we've got to continue with additional initiatives to continue to drive down that cost per case as much as we can.
And first to offset any increases that are somewhat natural year-to-year; and secondly hopefully actually drive down the absolute number.
Research Division</strong> And is any of the overhead cost reduction part of that like the lower pension expense or is it all sort of variable costs? Yes it is Andy and the reason I don't call it out is that it hits multiple line items when we talk about the retirement-related expenses.
On a cost per case basis they hit the sales line they hit the operations line.
They hit multiple lines because it's a labor expense.
But yes that is part of the decline in multiple areas.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to understand it because the variance it's big numbers.
Second on the table in the release that has the MA-served sales as a percent of Broadline the year-ago figure is about almost 90 bps or so lower than what's in the press release a year ago.
Is that a number that gets routinely adjusted or is that in any way related to the re-class? Yes Andy to be honest I didn't look at it.
I don't think it would be related to the re-class.
We'll take a look at that and come back to you with an answer.
I don't know the answer off the top of my head.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate it.
The reason I asked that is if it is adjusted the way -- if I were to carry through the same 90 bps change it would actually look like your MA-served business as a mix -- on a mix basis actually kind of improved from the fourth quarter.
But that doesn't sound like what you're all saying around...
No that should not be the implication [indiscernible].
So let us check.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It seems like with the gross margin decline it almost feels like there's a war of attrition that's kind of out there in the overall marketplace with everyone having to take gross margin down because the next person is and what have you.
So I mean could you kind of comment I mean if that's something that's happening if you might be losing share to on the street account basis? And I know it's a very hard question to answer but how long it could continue? How long can your competition continue to invest in price if they don't have the cash flow and the balance sheet and the margins that you have to start with? Well those are great questions John.
I'll take a shot at it.
I would say it's -- I don't know if it's a war of attrition.
It's just a very acute competitive environment.
And I know I'm repeating myself at this point where I don't believe that there actually is a lot of overall growth on the street right now.
And if you're Sysco first of all let me be clear we need to do better managing margin.
And we've got some things we're working on and continue to work on in the short term.
And over the medium term there will be some other opportunities I think for us to mitigate some of this pressure.
But from our standpoint it does come back to scale it does come back to looking at that in the context of expense improvements as well.
And we're just not going to give up cases unless we're doing something really ridiculous.
And in that case we will transition the business.
So it's not an environment where we want to give up cases.
As far as what the other guys are doing we've acknowledged over the last couple of years that the nature of the competition continues to evolve so we continue to have a lot of traditional competitors large medium and small.
I think the nature of this business is if you don't -- if you're not looking to grow and expand you can generate cash and stay in business for a while.
I think there's a fair amount of people leaving and you see that I think in our acquisition pipeline picking up somewhat.
At the same time the barriers to entry are relatively low so there continues to be a lot of small players out there.
And then we have the nontraditional folks that I think are doing well in this type of environment the cash and carries and the club stores and that type of thing.
So those are all part of the environment that we're in right now.
And on a day-to-day basis we're marketing.
It is our ability to sit and work with customers and help them plan their menus better help their -- work with their waitstaff manage their costs better.
As they get larger in scale manage their freight better anything we can do to help them run their business more effectively.
So at any given point in time that's going to resonate at different levels with different customers.
So we think we have a clear advantage there and we certainly think that our approach strategically is the right approach.
I think we're very customer-centric model very much about working closely with our customers our suppliers gaining better insights operational excellence acquisitions to grow the top line developing our people.
But at the same time we have room for improvement and that's I think I'll acknowledge as well that we do need to continue to find ways to strike a better balance between growth and margin and we will.
Research Division</strong> And a little bit separately if I may.
We don't talk a lot about SYGMA on these conference calls.
But is there like some really big opportunity that's out there on the chain account side that maybe we haven't seen you convert in the last couple of years? We had a pretty good run with SYGMA for about 2 years and we did pick up some business over the last few months.
And I think you saw that on the top line this quarter.
When you do pick up business it can create some expense issues and transitions so we had some earnings pressure there as well.
So we've got a nice stable of customers in SYGMA and we're working very hard to continue to do good by them and then to solidify those relationships and grow within those relationships.
But certainly we have some key prospects out there as well.
And SYGMA it's a $6 billion business.
We make about 1%.
But it represents a big part of the opportunity in our market and it's just important that we balance the growth there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the final question for me it's a quick one.
What's kind of the inflation/deflation outlook as you see it maybe over the next 6 to 12 months? I would say again a very slight category.
Certainly your commodities are going to be up and down and that type of thing.
But right now the best information we have is probably more of the same.
It's hung in there in the relatively low 2s.
And as I sit here this morning I don't really have anything to tell you that would cause that to go up appreciably over the next 6 9 months.
Yes the only thing that we get which I'm sure you guys get the same report is there are certain categories be for example where we continue to see some inflation.
But Bill's right overall food prices just don't seem to be going up and the forecast is not for them to go up.
Research Division</strong> And that was actually kind of the point of the question is whether the rate of inflation could actually drop to the point where there'd be almost no inflation in the model.
We're not reading that in any of the expert reports.
We see that it might be a tad lower than last year on a whole but we're not seeing anybody writing about deflation.
Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the Sysco's Second Quarter Fiscal 2014 Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
We will begin today's call with opening remarks and introductions.
I'd like to turn the call over to Neil Russell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Alexia and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Sysco's second quarter fiscal 2014 earnings call.
Today you will hear from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings.
This includes but is not limited to risk factors contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 29 2013 and in the news release issued earlier this morning which is posted in the Investors section at sysco.com and can also be found on the Sysco IR app which can be downloaded from the iTunes App Store and Google Play.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in the presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation which can also be found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volumes include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
To ensure that we have sufficient time to answer all questions we would like to ask each participant to limit their time today to one question and one follow-up.
Lastly we expect to host an Investor Day meeting this summer in Boston additional information will be provided in the coming weeks.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thanks Neil.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning Sysco reported second quarter sales of $11.2 billion the net earnings of $211 million.
Adjusted EPS excluding certain items was $0.40 for the quarter which was flat compared to the prior year.
Market conditions continued to be challenging for many of our customers and competitive pressure remains acute.
These conditions were amplified in December by a shortened holiday shopping season and severe weather in several areas of the country.
The casual dining restaurant segment was especially impacted experiencing flat year-over-year sales during the quarter as high average check amounts could only offset the impact of declining traffic.
Notwithstanding the ongoing challenging market conditions we grew our sales 4% over the prior year in the second quarter through both case volume growth and acquisitions.
We continued to drive solid growth through our large national and regional customers while our business for locally managed customers remained soft.
We are seeing reasonably strong growth with locally managed customers in our Southwest market while underlying market conditions are particularly difficult in our Northeast and Mid-East markets.
Operating income fell short of our expectations for the quarter.
Expense management was strong once again this quarter is evidenced by cost per case in our Broadline business being significantly lower than the prior year but sluggish sales growth with our locally managed customers and ongoing gross margin pressure more than offset those gains.
We have implemented several short-term actions steps and longer term strategic initiatives to both accelerate our locally managed sales growth and mitigate the ongoing gross margin pressures that we have experienced in recent quarters.
These actions are gaining traction within our company and we are targeting gradual improvement in these areas through the balance of calendar year 2014 and beyond.
At the same time we anticipate our expense management performance will remain solid as we make additional progress in our productivity improvements and operations over the next several months.
While the year-over-year over benefits of our SG&amp;A cost reduction initiatives begin to plateau.
In summary calendar year 2013 was one of the most difficult years in recent history for our industry and we struggle to leverage our sales growth.
While weather conditions have been quite severe thus far this quarter we believe the market conditions will improve nicely in calendar year 2014 and then Sysco's operating performance results will show steady improvement as well.
Turning to our technology transformation as we discussed last quarter our teams have invested significant effort to prepare needed updates to the SAP software to improve both stability and scalability.
Last October we implement performance enhancement that meaningfully improve system capacity utilization as well as functional enhancements and improved order management and other processes.
Encouraged by the success of these changes we resumed our deployment rollout at our Boise Idaho operating company back in November.
System performance in Boise was favorable upon Goliath and in a weak sense.
And importantly the recently implemented system enhancements have successfully addressed challenges that have previously impacted our large regional and national contract customers.
This success provided us the confidence to convert two additional locations Phoenix and Las Vegas at the end of January.
These deployments are an important test to both the stability of our SAP solution and our ability to successfully deploy multiple larger size OPCOs simultaneously.
But we are pleased with our progress over the last year we are working hard to further optimize our SAP solution in the days ahead.
In February additional updates are scheduled to be implemented that are intended to further improve system stability and scalability.
These changes include simplification of the dynamic pricing and purchase order processes.
While we continue to monitor progress in the eight facilities now live on the SAP platform as well as performance following the enhancement schedule to take place later this month.
Excuse me let me say it again.
While we continue to monitor progress in the eight facilities now live in the SAP platform as well as performance following the enhancement schedule to take place later this month depending upon success of these next important steps we would expect to launch two additional facilities by the end of the fiscal year.
We also continue to move forward with our category management initiative.
The majority of wave 1 categories have now been launched and we expect the wave 2 categories to launch during the second half of fiscal 2014.
We are applying learnings to the process as we move forward and have seen some improvement in execution and performance recently.
We will continue to monitor performance in these categories and remain confident in both the benefits that category management provide our customers and the savings we will revise over the next few years.
We also have multiple initiatives underway targeted at lowering operating cost.
While we have previously discussed extensively the SG&amp;A cost reduction initiatives we also have several efforts underway to reduce cost and improved productivity in our warehouse and delivery operations.
Broadening optimization initiatives are underway in several of our largest operating companies.
We expect to implement in the coming weeks a new warehouse scorecard to drive enhanced performance and accountability and are developing a similar scorecard for delivery operations.
Our consolidated parts procurement program has been implemented across the entire United States.
We have negotiated a universal contract to procure forklift equipment resulting in significant savings on this category equipment.
And we also have undertaken an initiative to right-size our fleet.
To-date we have identified 700 pieces of equipment to eliminate and expecting to complete a total elimination of 1500 pieces of equipment.
This will reduce our maintenance cost title on registration expenses ongoing capital requirements and optimize our overall fleet age.
Turning briefly to an update on the proposed merger with the U.S.
Foods last month we announced several key decisions regarding the integration planning leadership structure.
We have formed a steering committee which I will chair and is comprised of a joint team the senior executives for both Sysco and U.S.
Foods.
The role of the steering committee will be to oversee the integration planning work and approve key decisions.
Chris Kreidler has been appointed to lead the integration planning work.
Because of his strong business and financial capabilities Chris is well-suited to provide the leadership valuable skills and perspective that will be required to successfully bring both companies together.
In addition to his integration planning leadership responsibilities Chris will continue in his current role as Chief Financial Officer.
The integration planning process will consist of four major tracks of order Greg Bertrand Senior Vice President of Foodservice Operations has been appointed to lead the sales merchandising and operations integration planning tracks.
And David Schreibman U.S.
Foods Executive Vice President of Strategy will lead the corporate functions integration planning track.
We are moving forward quickly along the path of planning for eventual integration and Chris will provide more details on our progress in a few moments.
In closing these are both exciting and challenging times for Sysco.
We are beginning to see many of our transformational changes take hold and we now look forward to the U.S.
Foods merger as the next step in our transformation.
Enhancing our ability to serve our customers strength and supply our partnerships and further engage our employees.
Sysco is unique in its ability to make these types of significant investments which we believe will create a compelling opportunity over time for all stakeholders.
We are focused on driving out this change in a manner that contributes to the success of our customers and suppliers and we appreciate the dedication of our Sysco employees.
Now I will turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the second quarter as well as the merger and integration planning work.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the second quarter sales were $11.2 billion or an increase of 4.1% compared to the prior year mainly due to case volume growth about half of which came from acquisitions.
Case volume increased 4.3% for the quarter and case volume excluding acquisitions increased 2.7%.
Inflation increased sales 0.8% and changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 0.6%.
Gross margin in the second quarter increased 0.7% and gross margin declined 60 basis points to 17.48% due mainly to continued weakness in locally managed sales the difficult business environment and competitive pressures.
In addition sales to large regional and national customers are growing faster than local business and this mix shift drove about one-quarter of the gross margin decline during the quarter.
Operating expenses increased $44 million or 2.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 compared to the prior year period.
Approximately $30 million of this year-over-year variance was driven by operating expense from acquired companies.
In addition certain items totaled $33 million during the quarter an increase of $12 million over the same quarter last year.
Certain items this quarter included a $24 million increase in the estimate for Sysco's self-insurance reserve of $4 million or $4 million in merger related costs and $5 million in other restructuring cost.
If we exclude certain items and the impact of acquisitions operating expenses were flat year-over-year.
Business transformation expenses were lower in the second quarter compared to last year by $18 million and are lowered by $29 million for the first half of the year.
However expenses in the second half of the fiscal year are expected to be similar to the prior year as a result we continue to expect total business transformation expenses for the year to be inline with our guidance of $300 million to $350 million albeit at the lower end of that range.
Similar to last year we continued to see business transformation benefits driving down our operating expenses mainly in the areas of sales IT and retirement related expenses.
And we expect benefits from category management and operation initiatives to build as we move forward.
As a result of the benefits generated from our transformation initiatives cost per case performance in our Broadline operation was significantly better than last year's second quarter declining $0.11 compared to the prior year.
For the first half of the year cost per case declined $0.10 compared to the prior year.
As we discussed last quarter we don't anticipate maintaining this rate of improvement as we lapped the point at which we began some of these initiatives last year but we remain confident in meeting or exceeding our objective of $0.05 decline for the full fiscal year.
In spite of the continued progress on our business transformation initiatives continued weakness in the underlying business resulted in a decline in operating income of 8.1% year-over-year.
Net earnings for the second quarter were $211 million a decrease of $11 million or 4.8% compared to the prior year.
Diluted EPS was $0.36 a 5.3% decrease compared to the prior year.
Adjusting for certain items which mainly related to an increase in estimated self insurance reserves diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.40 which was flat compared to the prior year.
As we have discussed on previous calls we believe it is important to focus on the performance of our underlying business which excludes certain items as well as business transformation expenses.
To summarize the performance of our underlying business adjusted operating expenses increased 3.4% adjusted operating income decreased 7.6% adjusted net earnings declined 4.4% and adjusted EPS declined 4.1% to $0.47.
One housekeeping item to mention beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 Sysco changed its classification of certain inter-company purchases related to our FreshPoint and meat companies from the previous classification used in fiscal 2013.
This change impacted gross profit and operating expense that had no impact on operating income or net earnings.
In our press release this morning you will find a table showing the impact of these reclassifications to prior year results for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012.
Turning to the impact of the business transformation project for a moment in the second quarter project expenses totaled $63 million and we capitalized $10 million related to the project.
We expect to maintain this level of capital spending in the third and fourth quarters due to ongoing work to enhance the stability and scalability of the system.
As a result we expect total capital spending related to business transformation to be $30 million to $40 million for fiscal year 2014 this is an update to our previous guidance.
Total capital expenditures were $135 million for the second quarter this year compared to $106 million last year.
We continue to expect total capital spending to be in the range of $550 million to $600 million for the fiscal 2014 year.
However after including anticipated proceed from asset sales net capital spending will be in the range of $500 million to $550 million.
Free cash flow was $167 million for the quarter increasing substantially over the prior year period mainly due to improvements in working capital performance.
For the first half of the year free cash flow increased 64% to $211 million.
Now I'd like to turn for a few minutes to a discussion of our proposed merger with U.S.
Foods.
In December we announced our plan to merge with U.S.
Foods in a cash and stock deal valued at $8.2 billion.
This is an extremely important and exciting combination that we anticipate will generate at least $600 million in synergies over three to four years.
As Bill motioned last month we announced the steering committee has been formed comprised of a joint team of senior executives from both Sysco and U.S.
Foods and the integration planning leadership had been determined.
Our integration planning team is comprised of leaders from both Sysco and U.S.
Foods.
We are focused on planning how we will operate as one company and better serve our customers.
Our integration planning efforts has three primary goals day one readiness value creation and long-term organizational design.
We're off to a good start and we look forward to working with our U.S.
Foods' colleagues on the merger integration planning as we determine how to bring together the best of both these two great companies.
As we've discussed we expect a thorough regulatory review to take place over the next six to nine months and we recently learned that the FTC will be the agency leading the regulatory review for the government.
As part of the merger consideration Sysco will assume or refinance all of U.S.
Foods net debt of approximately $4.7 billion.
We have begun to take the steps necessary to secure financing to do that as well as hedge the interest rate risk between now and closing.
In December we secured fully committed bridge financing which will be available upon closing to fund the acquisition and refinance U.S.
Food's debt.
Shortly thereafter U.S.
Foods obtained consent from holders of their 8.5% notes to waive a provision that would have an effect require Sysco to purchase the notes upon a change of control.
This consent allowed us to reduce the bridge facility to $3.4 billion thereby reducing our financing cost.
At the end of January we amended our revolving credit facility to increase the amounts available to us by $500 million to $1.5 billion and last week we entered into agreements to hedge the interest rate risk on $2 billion of the permanent financing.
In closing while the challenging business environment in the food service industry continues to impact our customers and our financial results.
We remain encouraged by the progress of our efforts to transform the way we do business.
We strongly believe that the investments we are making in our business are vital to our future success and position us extraordinarily well for the future.
The proposed merger steps up the momentum for change and provide many additional exciting opportunities for Sysco and the industry.
With that operator we'll now take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll take John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
Bill a couple of things one thing I may missed I may not have heard.
You talked about some of the actions you're taking on the cost side but you also mentioned actions taken to drive street sales or street cases? What specifically are you doing there? Yes.
John good morning.
Well as I said we're doing several things.
I think what I said was we got a lot going on both on the cost side as you point out as well as addressing what our biggest challenge is right now driving sales on the locally managed business as well as addressing margin and those two as you well know are very unrelated.
In the short-term we've revised our comp plan for MAs about a year ago and that's pretty well fully implemented now in the States and in process in Canada.
There is an element of that today that we didn't have before it's not overly significant but it's meaningful which is predicated upon growing cases we just finished up another new account promotion.
So we see opportunities to kind of get back in a more regular coordination of business -- new business promotions penetration promotions both with our local marketing people as well as from a national perspective.
We got as you can appreciate a lot of pretty comprehensive margin management training going on in the company at various level both locally as well as coming out of our corporate offices in terms of how do we optimize this whole challenge of quality growth with managing margin.
Those are initiatives that kicked off in a bigger way here in the fall.
So those will be three that I mentioned the short-term that we think we'll pay dividends for us here to some extent they're already helping but I think we'll pay bigger dividends for the second half of the fiscal year.
Beyond that John I think the others are more along these lines of the strategic initiatives we have been talking to you about which is we're doing a lot more work in marketing in terms of gaining objective custom insights our CRM tools is further along in terms of implementation.
We really do believe CatMan is going to help us a lot once that matures both on the sales side as well as on the margin side it should be win-win for us and our suppliers and our customers.
And we got some other things going that are more pilot stages with revenue management inside sales platform that type of thing and beyond that Sysco ventures are still something out there we continue to grow and we believe long-term will give us opportunity to create traction with our customers.
So many of these are more medium term but as I said we have heightened up the intensity on some of those short-term initiatives.
So this is a follow up to that you said 25% of the margin pressure was mix.
So if you look at the others and this is probably hard to tell precisely but if you look at the other 75% how much of that do you think is proactive you're doing something versus reactive when you're responding to somebody else? And then the parts that proactive again how do you get your arms around that these are productive efforts right when you look at gross profit dollar performance? Yes.
Let me take a shot and if I'm not giving to John just clear about your question a little bit more so.
Look so I'd say over the last year year and a half we've attributed a third to a quarter of the margin erosion to mix because of the larger customers are growing faster.
The rest of it it is difficult to quantify.
Obviously the way our business model works we can't just look at gross margin we have to look at our expenses as well.
So we are definitely going to fight very hard for the cases we have today as well as continue to find ways to grow with our existing customers in our new prospects as well.
So I think where we're at right now in this process is I look at even early numbers this quarter is we're beginning to get smarter I think and a little bit more cohesive at the local level and making the right trade offs between volume and margin management.
But the reality in this business for us is we need to grow the local business we need to grow the street business and that will contribute significantly to our gross profit dollar growth.
We just got to be smart and balanced in how we do it.
And so I think we're making strides there you didn't really see here in the second quarter I think you will see some improvement here in the second half of the year as far as the margin management goes.
And just lastly then do you think giving the industry as a whole is behaving rationally in terms of balancing margin and case volume? That's one of those great questions I don't know if I can answer as well as anyone of us would like.
I think as I said the competitive environment is very acute as we've talked about a lot in the past in presentations and calls like this.
There is some growth we believe -- we believe the market grew somewhat in 2013 we'll fine tune those numbers and hopefully talk more about it.
At CAGNY we don't think there was a lot of growth and we were able to take some share but we invested in that to some extent.
I think that's rational from our perspective because in the end I think for our medium and long-term success it's important to continue to grow.
There certainly are pockets of activity out there where there is some behavior that probably isn't the smartest as it could be.
But overall given the environment I think it's reasonably rational right now.
It's just very competitive.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Karen Short with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Just turning to cost per case expectations for the full year I guess your full year expectations kind of reflect flat cost per case in the second half.
So I know you've discussed this in the past but I guess I am wondering with a successful kind of wave 1 behind you wave 2 about to begin and three more OPCO conversions by year-end.
Why wouldn't you continue to see improvements in cost per case for the back half? Hi Karen.
I think we will continue to see improvements in cost per case in the back half.
What we're really commenting to is the fact that we're going to be lapping some significant work that was begun last year.
So the quarter-over-quarter performance is not going to feel as good as the first half year of the year.
We do think we'll be down at least a nickel I think I admitted this time it will probably exceed a nickel a case as we look at the full year and we're just not necessarily giving a higher exact number to that right now.
I think Karen let me just add.
When we talk about cost per case we're talking about operating cost.
So we definitely are seeing reduction in cost per case for the CatMan work and we expect that to continue.
Okay.
And any color on wave 1 in terms of how your customers are reacting to the initiative? And any color you could give on what they benefit to gross profit or COGS could have been as a result? I think it's still reasonably early in the wave 1 cycle but I would tell you I think our execution I think we alluded to this in our comments.
I think we are improving our execution there in terms of how we do the conversions the cadence of the conversions and addressing these opportunities in the most productive way possible with our customers.
So I think we've had some challenges with the pilot categories on volume at times.
We're starting to see some improvement on wave 1.
We continue to see like I said significant improvement on our cost of goods which was driving most of the economics on this initiative.
Okay.
And then just last question.
Obviously inflation came down this quarter which was pretty widely expected but any comments on your outlook for the third quarter and beyond I mean there is a lot of noise with the drought in California and protein inflation and things like that? Yes I was actually a little surprised with how much it came down.
And we hit about one point of inflation which was kind of low.
So I'd say sitting here today depending I'm not going to project impact of weather and that kind of thing that's difficult to do.
But I would expect it to remain pretty modest somewhere in that 1% to 2% range but we'll have to see.
Most of the external stuff that we read Karen is probably the same as you read expected to kind of go back to a more normal range whether its bills one to two or I guess what the others say out there two to three but we would expect it to be a little higher than where it is today.
It's a hard thing to predict as last year or may be 18 months ago remember we had a drought everybody was expecting food cost inflation to go through the roof again and we never saw that materialize.
Right.
Okay.
Thanks that's helpful.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Wiltamuth of Jefferies.
Hi good morning.
On your comment that the sales slowed throughout the end of the quarter how much of that was really the calendar and the weather? And did you see any snap back as you got into January results? I think the calendar was certainly part of it Mark and we did have some weather it was last couple of weeks in December.
I think that impacted us in certain parts of the country.
So I would say it's hard to put a number to it but I would say part of the slowdown was that – we had pretty good growth in the second quarter last year.
So when you look at comps – and we are talking about deltas of 2% or 3% case growth here.
So if it goes off a point that's 50% of the delta.
So I'd say it's a little bit of – comps are little more soft but we definitely saw a fall-off in December and certainly from what we see and what we read.
I think you'd have to attribute a fair amount of that to the weather.
We knew the calendar but we still saw a little more than what we expected to see.
I hate talking about weather especially in winter.
We just had our market presence in here couple of weeks ago and really didn't want to hear a lot about weather.
But I will tell you weather has been pretty brutal here first four five weeks that we've had.
Four of the five weeks I think have been very difficult last week in particular.
You see the weather reports we had issues throughout the southeast.
We didn't ship in New Orleans.
You saw the reports in Atlanta.
The good news is its January and early February so March is a key part of this quarter and we still have an opportunity to make some of that back.
But I'd say weather has impacted us quite a bit so far in January early February.
Okay.
And on the gross margin weakness did you have any pressure on the meats categories red meat was a pressure for at least one of your smaller competitors out there? I can't tell you as any more pronounced in that areas and any place because obviously those are high dollar boxes so you kind of get somewhat competitive depending on the size of the customer.
But I wouldn't attribute any particular piece of it to meat category.
Okay.
And for Chris is there anyway you can give us a rough idea of what kind of interest rate we should be looking at for the big refinancing for the U.S.
Foods deal? No.
I wish I knew myself our strategy as I talked a little bit about it to hedge interest rates but I mean this environment we've chosen to basically hedge about half which means if they continue to languish or indeed decline we won't give away all the benefit if they go up we're partially hedged.
So that's kind of where we're hanging out right now.
We'll continue to evaluate the markets as well as the yield curve going forward and look for an opportune time to lock in and obviously we've got to get much further along in the deal process and the regulatory approval process as well but right now I can't give you much more guidance.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Good morning.
You sounded kind of optimistic about this year market conditions restaurants are getting may be back to positive traffic.
I just wanted to ask you to explain a little about what you're thinking there sort of generally why you might think that? And then secondly as part of the same question have you seen you just talked about Atlanta and what's going on there but between the fourth quarter and the recent snow events and cold weather in the east have you seen a bigger variance in the performance between places that had normal weather out west let's say versus the east you could share with us that might give us a sense if that is the case? Andy I will.
So let me start with the second one.
I tried to give you a little color on that in my prepared comments.
And so right now yes I'm looking very hard at the West because we haven't seen that kind of weather out there.
So we're seeing I think I called out the Southwest and to be fair I'd say the Southwest if you go back the last two or three years has been probably the strongest part of the market.
If you look at some of the more industry-wide survey work that's done on consumers the Southwest shows up quite strong.
And I would say right now we're trending -- it's hard to do this Andy because I have to adjust for that variability you were alluding to in terms of our individual performances.
But I'd say if I just look at the West right now things are a little bit better there which gives me the confidence that some of this actually clearly is being driven by weather in terms of early days here in this quarter.
So with that said the other thing I called out was we've seen now for several quarters that the Northeast and what we call our Mid-East markets have seen more pronounced sluggishness and it's not to say we don't have opportunities to execute better in those markets but at the same time when I look at them across that entire geography that seems to be a tougher part of the country in terms of growth right now.
As far as why I'm optimistic I would say it's interesting when you read all these reports that some of you published and that we all read the state of mind consumers is reasonably good right now.
The state of mind of our customers is reasonably good when you look at forward-looking feelings about the future.
So any time people are optimistic that gives you reason to be optimistic and that's part of it.
I think there's some technical issues that are somewhat clouded by the weather right now with some of the tax hits that the consumer took early last year that I'm hopeful that those will turn into positives here as we get towards spring and into summer.
So I think the mindset is better and it's fragile.
I'm not going to kid you on that.
And when you look at the economic data it's good at a certain level of macro and not so good in our piece of the industry but I'm basically going off of some of the sentiment surveys that we see in terms of the consumer some technical things that we see in terms of what happened last year early part of the calendar year.
And I would say even though we're somewhat challenged here in terms of our performance for the quarter haven't had a chance to talk to a lot of our people I think we really believe that we are gaining traction on our initiatives and that we will see improvement here as we get deeper into the calendar year.
Was that good? It's interesting do have any and last question but it's a follow on to what you just answered.
Do you have a sense of the same store sales for your independence and is that something also you have by geography? And could also shed light on in the context of regional variance? I don't have a great sense of that.
We will obviously have our sales data where we can look at that at various levels of details in terms of what we call penetration that doesn't tell you what the accounts same-store sales are right? I would tell you it varies.
So whether you're talking big change or whether you're talking about more street oriented type of operators the stronger operators I think are holding up reasonably well in this kind of market and the people that are more on the margin are struggling more.
So we see a fair amount of variability across customers as it relates to penetration.
My best judgment and I don't have any data on this Andy is that it's reasonably flat right out in terms of restaurant sales overall same-store sales.
I think if you – some change we're doing better than others obviously.
Got it.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Hi good morning.
I had a variation of some of the previous questions but it's more specific to the outlook for the current quarter.
I think at least some of the casual dining names it looks like traffic was down significantly in December.
I think it even turned negative in a few cases.
So my guess is that that trend probably continued into January because of some of the cabin fever or weather-related issues that you talked about.
And then it looks like you're also getting the benefit of some inflation and you talked about inflation a little earlier.
But I think some of the government data suggests some deflation over the last three of four months.
So from your prepared comments it sounds like you are more optimistic about sales trends for calendar 2014.
But do you foresee potential for incremental volume weakness in the current quarter from the combination of even potentially deflationary pressure or and also sort of the continuation of some of the weather-related impact? Thanks.
Yes.
Good morning Ajay.
I would – I think I'm on at that thing well I tried to get across to my comments.
I'm pretty cautious on this quarter right now on the top line just given what we have been dealing with the first four or five weeks.
As I said the March drives this particular quarter.
So if we catch up a break with the weather and maybe we've seen the worst of it.
In terms of parts of the country where you don't expect to see this kind of weather that's really the issue.
So when weather affects us is when you have these freezers and snowstorms in the Southeast and the Southwest that's a problem okay.
When they carry into April that's a problem when they started early November that's a problem.
Winters going to be winter in the Northeast and the Mid-West and we understand that.
So I'm somewhat cautious because of the weather and how we started out this quarter.
But there is still a lot of good weeks ahead of us in terms of volume as we get toward later part of February and March.
I'm more optimistic on the year just for reasons I discussed earlier there I think the consumer is in a better place and I think with the break here and there that's going to be good for our customers and we are very well-positioned to leverage that terms of our business.
Deflation we're not always seeing deflation.
We are seeing categories that are maybe down a little bit up a little bit.
We have got some inflation in meat and seafood I think going right now.
So deflation would not be good for us.
Again what we – was more ideal for us would be to have that inflation number get back around 2 maybe even a little bit higher that gives us a little more room to maneuver in terms of our expense management and at the same time work with our customers and the way that they can handle the cost increases.
So deflation would not be good but I don't necessarily think we are looking at deflation.
I think we are looking at as we said earlier moderate inflation continuing.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Meredith Adler with Barclays.
And your line is open.
Please check your mute button.
Again check your mute button your line is open.
Due to the silence on this line we will take our next question from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Thank you.
The question is how your customers might be responding to the merger or I guess the news of the merger.
I mean is it situation I guess FTC excluded one plus one could equal two or do you sound some nervousness of your – within your customer base or consolidation of power and that's the case what will you do maybe differently in six to nine months to retain some business that some of your competition might otherwise be trying to get? Good morning John.
Look I would say this from the day one of the announcements through today and going forward to close and then beyond close certainly one of our big goals here is to have a very active effective communication program with all of our stakeholders.
So it's our customers our suppliers our associates shareholders government media all that type of things.
So we are early days of dealing with that.
We are in constant contact with our customers.
We have equipped our OPCO presidents and there sales leadership with pieces to communicate with the local chefs associations restaurant associations.
So I would characterize that early days as we got good ongoing discussions with our customers certainly there is some that have some concerns we work through those.
I would say many are excited to understand what the benefits are.
And how long it will take to close and when will all that happen.
And I would say largely customers are pretty open minded and they are looking for those benefits.
So whether it's going to enhance their business from – how they might order product with us or wider assortment of innovative products.
The fact that we will take cost out of the system over time how that translates to their opportunity to work with Sysco.
Those are all things that we are taking with our customers about.
We clearly see this as a very good thing for our customers frankly I see this as a very good thing for the industry over time and certainly we will see as a good thing for Sysco.
So I think generally it's very open-minded and constructive.
Obviously there are some people out there that don't like this they tend to be more on the competitive side of the ball and they are having those types of conversations and we are addressing that as appropriate.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Thanks for taking my question.
First I just would like to talk a little bit about how much of that category management are done with -- finished wave 1.
I think you made some comments about what the impact was you think it's recovering.
Could you just be more specific about what happens with revenues or customer reaction with the category management? Yes.
I will take a shot at that Meredith.
So essentially the whole idea of category management is to optimize the assortment of pricing theory in an effort to help our customers optimize and enhance the products that are available to them as well.
Along the lines we certainly see opportunities here to enhance our relationships with our suppliers and prove product development innovation and reduce our SKUs where that make sense.
And to take cost out of the system as relates to our cost of good.
The challenge as you would expect as you go into something like this is the conversion process.
So I would say to you in the pilot wave or pilot categories there was four of them.
We did a very good job working with our suppliers; we did a very good job identifying opportunities for cost savings and we are realizing those.
What we are learning as we go is to strike the right balance in terms of the cadence and the conversions with our customers and to make sure we are equipping all operating companies' sales management and the MAs with the tools that they need to have the conversations about conversions with the customers in the right place.
So where we are making process at this point I think it's on the conversion and we expect to continue make process as we get deeper in wave 1 and wave 2.
So when you say you are running more about how to do the conversions does that mean that there was unhappiness initially? Meredith anytime you sit down with a human being and tell them they are – and you got an idea and you are going to ask them to change what they are doing there is some challenges to that.
So I would say yes as we got into it even though we have done I think a tremendous job in terms of developing the communication pieces training our people there is always the dynamic that you deal with across the table from a customer.
So we ran into some challenges there.
We still have them.
But I would say this in a more straightforward way as I can.
It's really more about just making sure since the conversion is relevant to that customer many of them are.
We are not converting every item for every customer.
But to make sure that we are having good constructive dialog in terms of why it's different for the consumer.
And as you play that out over 7 000 territories with 10s of 1000s of customers and something you have done for the first time certainly there are challenges.
But I would tell you again I'm seeing improvement on that and performance there as we get into wave 1 and expected to continue to improve.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then another just sort of food question that confirms something Chris said about the cost per case I think you set down 5% I wasn't sure if he was saying down 5% for second half or down 5% for the full year? Meredith I actually said down $0.05 per case will be down at least – $0.05? $0.05 per case for the full year.
Okay.
And this do you include the pension change as part of the cost per case? Yes.
That's an all end case per case.
And we will take our next question with Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Yes.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I just have a – I guess a lot of my questions are sort of around modeling and how I think about the back of the year.
But the first one is on mix and I guess the impact of negative mix on sales which seems this quarter to be higher I only say that because we sort of like try to figure out what your volume growth is based on the data points you give right.
We would come up with a lower number by about 70 basis points.
We are not typically that high.
So is the negative impact and mix accelerating and then would you expect it to stay at this level or could it even be higher? I'm going to start and then let Chris do that.
I can't speak to the modeling part of that.
I would say it's not accelerating.
What I would say is as we said in our prepared comments we are still seeing good growth with a larger customers regional and national customers.
We are just not seeing enough growth here on the local side.
But I wouldn't say that it accelerated at all.
I'm not sure.
I can add a lot.
Your question was negative mix on sales correct? Correct.
You know Chris it's just that if I think about your dollar sales and I adjust for acquisitions and I adjust for inflation right I'm going to come out with a 2% volume growth number right? You get 2.7.
Right.
70 basis points it's bigger than what its been historically and I'm trying to figure out if that is the number I should be using going forward? Yes.
We had that conversation before.
I understand that how folks come up with what I get they call real growth and that's just not a number that we would ever – put much credence in which is why we start giving you actual case volumes.
So that number is going to move around for a variety of different reasons.
And we frankly just don't track it.
I would say the bigger issue on this quarter rather than some of the sluggishness in December that we have already talked about.
If you compare the first quarter to the second quarter your inflation number went from 2 to 1.
And that's probably the bigger – Inflation and actually your ForEx was a little higher as well.
When you put both of those in there and your sales number is not a significantly off of where we were.
Okay.
Then the other question relates to a sequential change in the business is this notion of looking at your volume growth right relative to your gross profit dollar growth.
And that spread seems to have widened a bit.
So which I guess could be – could be competition market or whatever.
But I guess how do you think about that.
I know you typically don't want it.
You would like to grow gross profit sort of closer to volume right? So going forward should I be using this type of spread do you think it can improve? As I said we came up with somewhat short of our internal goals here for the quarter and that was on the gross profit dollar line.
But I would the spread was about the same as it was in the first half.
We had a top line miss and we will continue to have gross profit pressure and margin pressure on all categories to customers actually so I – what I'm looking at the spread is about the same as in the first quarter.
Obviously you got to do your own modeling.
Our plan certainly don't call for or allow for a 0.7% gross margin growth number.
We are clearly higher than that.
We clearly have higher expectations for that.
And Bill explained that's where we got a tremendous amount of focus and we talked about it for a number of quarters here.
So that's not in our short or long-term projections.
All right.
And Chris you are going to lapse in acceleration and the acquisition benefit in the back half year? Yes.
So I guess you would expect that benefit to slowdown I guess is that right? It will.
We kind of expressed what we think the full year benefit will be.
We -- just the carry over deals themselves would boost us by at least 1% in terms of sales and then new transactions every year are targeted at least 1% say you get about half point impact for the year.
So add those up and generally our expectation is about 0.5.
So we still have a significant pipeline of transactions.
We got this major one that we have to work our way through of course.
And so U.S.
acquisitions may slow a bit but we still have focus in Canada and focus in other geographies.
Nice.
And then just one last question for you on SAP.
Now that it looks like you got through Boise what's the next big OPCO going to get done is that – within the next group and are you comfortable now that some of the changes you made get you over the hurdle to get a big OPCOs on just as well now? We just as I mentioned we just did Phoenix and Vegas last weekend.
Actually so we were work week two there now add so we are early days but we are feeling good about that.
I think I also mentioned if things stay on course both with the next round of enhancements as well as what we see in these last three companies we expect to do a couple of more in latter part of this fiscal year they would both be very large companies.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Greg Hassler with Bank of America.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
And apologize if I missed this earlier.
I think you may have addressed and it was cutting out a little bit.
But in terms of the refinancing that you guys intend to do should we just expect that to be closer to the time of the closing of the transaction? I think you've said you expected to take or at least the FTC review to take 9 to 12 months so just trying to think of this from a timing perspective.
It will certainly be closer to the time of the transaction whether we take advantage of market conditions and confidence levels prior to that.
It will depend upon a number of factors and terms of when we'll actually pull the trigger to do some of this refinancing.
Okay.
And then in terms of the overall size you've got a pretty big chunk of legacy U.S.
Foods that's here to refinance but then at Sysco you also have some shorter term borrowings.
You've got a 2014 and a 2015 maturity coming up.
So we expected you kind of do that all at once or could you be coming to market multiple times here over the next couple of years? Obviously our goal was not to be -- to come to market a whole bunch of different times.
It will -- it tends to cause a little inefficiency in terms of pricing as well as disruption.
At the same time we've got something that comes due and we see an opportunity to refinance a chunk of it both our side as well as pre-refinancing the U.S.
Foods merger consideration we may look for an opportunity to do that.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session and today's Sysco second quarter fiscal 2014 conference call.
We thank you for your participation and have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Sysco's Third Quarter Fiscal 2014 Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
We will begin today's call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Shannon Mutschler.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thanks Anna.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Sysco's third quarter fiscal 2014 earnings call.
Today you will hear prepared remarks from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions subsequent to SEC filings and then the news release issued earlier this morning.
A copy of these materials can be found in the Investor section of sysco.com or via the Sysco IR App which can be downloaded from the iTunes App Store and Google Play.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in our presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation and can also be found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share referred to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volumes include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
To ensure that we have sufficient time to answer all questions we would like to ask each participant to limit their time today to one question and one follow-up.
Lastly our previously stated expectations of hosting an Investor Day meeting this summer in Boston have changed.
We have determined that it would be most effective to hold the meeting after the proposed merger with US Foods closes.
Accordingly we’ll update you once the firm date for the event has been chosen.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thanks Shannon.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning Sysco reported third quarter sales of $11.3 billion in net earnings of $181 million.
Adjusted earnings per share excluding certain items was $0.38 for the quarter compared to $0.40 in the prior year.
Market conditions during the first two months of the quarter were dominated by the impact of unusually severe winter weather conditions throughout much of the United States.
As a result we experienced very modest sales growth in January and February and delivery expenses were under significant pressure as well.
Conditions improved markedly in March as the adverse weather subsided which likely contributed to consumers going out more both to shop and eat.
We benefited from this turn of events as evidenced by our nearly 6% sales growth in March almost twice the top-line growth we experienced for the overall quarter.
In assessing our operating performance for the quarter and factoring in the challenging market conditions results were generally inline with our expectations.
Sales growth were modest at 3.2% was aided by improved locally managed sales trends in March.
Gross profit grew nearly at the rate of sales growth and at a higher rate than we experienced during the first half of the fiscal year.
We also reduced our operating cost for case in our Broadline business.
We are encouraged by improved gross profit trends during the quarter and attributed much of our progress in this area to more consistent margin management practices in our operating companies strengthening local sales trends and the low level of inflation we experienced during much of the quarter.
Moving forward we assume our cost is regarding gross margin trends in the short-term as we begun to see a meaningful increase in product cost inflation in the high cost meat and dairy categories since the end of the quarter.
The consistently improved cost per case results we’re experiencing in the Broadline business have been driven by the benefits realized from several cost reduction initiatives we’ve implemented over the past two years especially in the SG&amp;A area of the business.
As some of these benefits begin to ramp on a year-over-year basis we expect to realize increased benefits from more of our transformation initiatives on the operation side of the business.
Turning to our technology transformation initiatives this fiscal year between November and March we implemented our new ERP platform at three operating companies and in April converted it to additional locations for a total of 10 companies running on the new ERP technology.
The successful conversion of five OPCOs in six months reflects our consistent progress in strengthening and stabilizing our ERP platform.
In addition we work to ensure smoother transitions for each successful convergence for example improved procedures in attention to data management help to make the go-live at Denver and New Orleans last month a more successful year.
Regarding our initiatives to lower product costs we expect to meet our stated financial objectives for this fiscal year and next as our category management efforts continued to gain momentum.
By the end of this fiscal year the pilot all the wave 1 and majority of wave 2 categories were launched into the market representing $5 billion to $7 billion in annual spend and roughly a third of the total addressable spend.
We continue to enhance the program’s effectiveness by showing best practices and improving communication both of the corporate merchandising and operating company level.
We also continue to progress on our initiatives to lower operating costs.
During the quarter we advanced our routing optimization project which is resulting in reduced routes in miles driven while improving on-time deliveries.
Our fleet optimization initiative is underway and we have removed hundreds of older pieces of equipment from the system with more to come.
In addition we have now completed an initiative to negotiate standard terms and specifications for fleet purchases.
These changes combined with similar actions for warehouse equipment completed earlier this year will help us reduce costs and optimize our capital spend as we move forward.
Regarding our proposed merge with US Foods the integration planning team is making good progress toward bringing our two companies together as Chris will describe in a few minutes.
This transaction represents a significant opportunity to enhance our ability to serve our customers strengthen our supplier partnerships further engage our employees and enhance profitability through meaningful synergies.
We are encouraged by our continuous improvement on multiple fronts throughout the company and believe that this transformational change will help our customers to be more successful through our added efficiency in our business and enhance our financial results.
Personally engaging in transformation of this magnitude is both challenging and rewarding for me as well as for all of our 49 000 associates.
I very much appreciate their efforts and dedication as we move forward in this exciting and pivotal time in Sysco’s history.
Now I’ll turn the things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the third quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the third quarter sales were $11.3 billion or an increase of 3.2% compared to the prior year mainly due to increased Case volume including the impact of acquisitions.
Case volume increased 3% for the quarter and Case volume excluding acquisitions increased 2.3%.
Inflation remained quite modest during the quarter increasing sales by 0.9% and changes in foreign exchange rate decreased sales by 0.9%.
As Bill mentioned January and February sales were negatively impacted by the unusually severe weather throughout most of the country.
However March saw a March rebound with sales growth during the month of 5.5% which was more in line with the rate of growth in the first half of the year.
Gross profit in the third quarter increased 2.7% nearly at the same rate of sales growth.
Gross margin declined 9 basis points to 17.69% which is the smallest decline we’ve seen in 15 quarters.
After taking into account changes in customer mix gross margin actually increased slightly compared to the prior year.
Similar to what we saw with sales trends during the quarter gross profit was substantially stronger in March compared to January and February increasing 4.8% during the month as weather and the locally managed sales trends improved.
However as Bill mentioned since the end of the quarter we’ve begun to see a meaningful increase in product costs inflation in the meat and dairy categories which together totaled roughly 30% of our annual sales.
We expect this pressure may contribute to added gross margin pressure in the near-term.
Operating expenses increased $57 million or 3.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 compared to the prior year period.
A year-over-year increase in operating expenses was mainly due to increased Case volume and new cost from acquired companies increased delivery and warehouse costs somewhat exacerbated by the unusually severe weather increased corporate expenses due mainly to timing partially offset by lower sales organization costs and a decrease in retirement related expense as a result of the restructuring work we completed last year.
Benefits generated from our transformation initiatives more than offset cost pressure in our delivery and warehouse areas resulting in a $0.03 decline in operating costs per Case in our Broadline operations in the third quarter and a $0.07 decline for the first 39 weeks of the year with both periods excluding the impact of certain items.
We remain confident in meeting or exceeding our objective of a $0.05 decline for the full fiscal year as we experienced continued year-over-year benefits from changes in our sales organization and the impact of lower retirement-related expenses.
The impact from the restructuring of our retirement plan is actually exceeding our expectations.
We now expect that retirement-related expenses for fiscal 2014 will be lower by $65 million to $75 million excluding certain items.
This is lower than our previous guidance of down $50 million to $60 million and expenses from our enhanced 401(k) benefits have been lower than anticipated.
As some of the benefits from our SG&amp;A initiatives begin to wrap on a year-over-year basis we expect to realize increased benefits from more of our transformation initiatives on the operation side of the business.
Operating expenses including certain items increased $51million or 3.3% certain items totaled $56 million during the quarter an increase of $6 million over the same quarter last year.
Certain items this quarter consisted primarily of two times; first merger and integration planning expenses totaled $32 million and mainly related to professional fees.
Second we’ve recorded a $20 million legal contingency accrual related to a previously disclosed investigation in California a portion of which should not deductible for tax purposes.
Certain items in the prior year period totaled $50 million including a $41 million charge withdraw from a multiemployer pension fund.
Business transformation expenses were lower in the third quarter compared to last year by $13 million and were lower by $45 million for the first 39 weeks of the year.
About half of the variance year-to-date relates to a change we have made in how we allocate internal labor cost to the project.
In the past we allocated the cost of internal associates based upon the percentage of time they spend on the project.
We are now allocating either all or none of an associates cost to the project depending on whether they spend the majority of their time on the project.
This has had the effect of shifting some expense from business transformation expense to general corporate expense.
The remainder of the year-to-date variance in business transformation expense is the result of capitalizing more of the work effort than originally estimated.
As a result of the change in labor capitalization methodology and the increased amount of capitalization we now expect total business transformation expenses for the year to be lower than our previous guidance in the range of $275 million to $300 million.
And general corporate expenses to be somewhat higher.
Operating income for the quarter was down 1.4% year-over-year after adjusting for certain items operating income increased 0.3%.
Net earnings for the third quarter were $181 million a decrease of $20 million or 10.2% compared to the prior year.
Diluted earnings per share was $0.31 and 8.8% decrease compared to the prior year.
Adjusting for certain items diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.38 which was down 5% compared to the prior year.
We estimate that the impact of the unusually severe weather in January and February reduced earnings per share by $0.01 to $1.05.
Total capital expenditure is totaled to $117 million for the third quarter this year compared to $111 million last year.
We continue to expect total capital spending to be in the range of $550 million to $600 million for fiscal 2014.
However after including anticipated proceeds from asset sales net capital spending will be in the range of $500 million to $550 million.
Free cash flow was $273 million for the third quarter increasing over the prior year period mainly due to improvements in working capital performance which offset weaker net earnings.
For the first 39 weeks of the year free cash flow increased 22% to $484 million.
As we began to wrap our particularly strong cash flow performance in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 we expect the level of year-over-year increases in free cash flow to moderate.
Turning to the pending US Foods merger we continue to make progress in our integration planning efforts and have engaged in an extensive process focused on three goals; day one readiness value creation and long-term organizational design.
The teams are working well together and has made a lot of progress in a relatively short period of time.
Regarding the regulatory process our dialog with the SEC continues to be productive as we work to fulfill their second request for information about our business and industry.
We continue to believe that this merger will benefit customers and help us become more efficient in an evolving and competitive marketplace.
And also believe the SEC will agree that our customers have many choices in the fiercely competitive marketplace in which we operate today.
As a result we continue to expect the merger to close in the third calendar quarter of this year.
In closing while severe weather in the third quarter present the challenges to the business and our financial results.
We’re relatively pleased with our business performance as we exited the quarter.
In addition we’re excited about our progress to transform our business and our integration planning efforts related to the US Foods merger.
While we continue to have much work ahead of us we strongly believe that we are taking the right steps and making the right strategic investments to position our company for success in the future.
With that operator we’ll now take questions.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll move first to John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
Hey Bill.
I’m pretty encouraged by right your gross margin management.
So the question is is there a different philosophy with regard to how you were spending those dollars? How you think about elasticity and if so what is driving that change in philosophy and how you practically what things you are doing differently.
Good morning John.
I’d say I don’t think there is a different philosophy I think where you saw some improved execution.
We’ve been doing this a long time and we’re always trying to strike the right balance between growth and taking profitable share for the medium to long-term with obviously managing our margins appropriately so.
From that standpoint what I was trying to convey in my remarks was clearly we haven’t been performing at the level we’d like and we spend a lot of time – we’ve done a lot of work with our operators so to speak.
And I think what you saw here is a small but meaningful step forward in terms of progress and I use the word consistency that’s probably our biggest opportunity in Sysco today and I think the benefits you’re seeing in this quarter were more consistent focus and striking the right balance I guess that between growth pricing and what’s good for the customer anyhow just the basic day today stuff there is nothing really overly proprietary here.
When you have commodity prices continuous attention to how fast they are moving and what direction they are moving in and being responsive in the right ways.
So I’d say it’s more improved execution of that philosophy and hopefully it’s a sign of things to come.
Now is that in terms of giving lots on the improved execution.
Is that more getting folks in the field to understand what you’re trying to do and elasticity issues or is it more actually putting sort of guard rails on what they can do out in the field? I would say our folks in the field understand I think what it is is that bringing more focus to the issue with all that they have to deal with on a day-to-day basis and in that process yes brining least parameters and overtime a little more governance to that process.
So again early days here John but we certainly are trying to get more consistency in terms of how we approach it.
But our folks understand the issue they are very good operators.
It’s more about bringing consistent focus to it.
And then lastly with inflation picking up how do you think about this pick up in perishables inflation versus those we’ve seen in the last couple of years.
We’ve had a couple of these cycles when you look at where the macro is where you are with US Foods.
Are you more or less inclined to pass that through quickly than you might have been in the past? I don’t think the US Foods merger has anything to do with it.
I would say what’s interesting what we are seeing right now John and this is really just kind of manifest itself in the last four to six weeks.
There is double-digit inflation in meat seafood and dairy.
And the rest of the categories are roughly flat you’re actually down a little bit in grocery down a little bit in poultry in terms of what we saw in April.
So what you’re seeing here is that as you know in particular meat those are high priced boxes.
So it’s challenging at times to pass that along as fast as you might like to with customers sometimes that’s not even a right thing to do sometimes it’s ups and down with the customer kind of reworking their menu in terms of if poultry is flat to down working more poultry into the menu.
So we are just trying to be a little cautious here I mean the good news here is well as you know we don’t want to see a lot of inflation over the meaningful long-term.
It’s not good for our customers.
I mean that inflation is working its way into the top line as well.
So we’re basically just common Al I think gross margin as a percent of sales stand perspective.
There is more pressure there right now than what we saw in the third quarter.
But I think we’ll manage it reasonably well and as far as going forward a lot of this has to do with supplies in the beef area and I think some of this will be with us for awhile.
It’s really hard to predict what happens past three to six months Al.
All right.
Thank you.
Sure.
We’ll now move to Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Good morning.
On the March sales improvement was some of that the inflation you’re talking about or did the cases in the real business also get better? In March Andy is more – there was not very much inflation.
I think we probably saw some in the later couple of weeks of March.
But I think March was really more of demand people got out more and you saw the retail numbers I think they came out here recently and so it’s just more – we saw more volume and as we alluded to we also saw more on the locally managed side than what we see in the last two to three quarters which was encouraging as well.
Did you see that across the board so the independence I know in the past you said it’s really hard to track their same-stores sales but just anecdotally or how would you can with the independent business also stronger? Yes so independence will make up a significant piece of this locally managed and yes I would tell you we saw across the board in March.
There was very was really tail two quarters.
It was brutally hard out there I think for everybody the first couple of months and then in March.
We saw a turnaround in the top line in pretty much every segment.
We saw every restaurant like that.
Yes and Andy I want to be careful and echo what Bill said a minute ago about this inflation the reason we are calling it out as frankly it come up upon us pretty quickly.
We don’t want it to be a surprise when we talk about it later on.
But in the March quarter inflation was no different really than the rest of the quarter.
And so it really wasn’t yet in the March numbers as Bill said that we started to feel at a little bit in the later two weeks.
But it was pretty much inline with the quarter.
It came on it went from basically nothing to something in April and so that’s why we are calling it out and it’s pretty narrow in terms of the categories but they are big dollar categories for us.
I don’t want to get too much in the April because that's something we typically do.
I would just say to you we’ve had two solid months in a row in the top line.
They look a little different April is a month April is a transition month and so I would say to you a couple of thinks my sense is spring came little earlier this year than last year.
I saw some of the clubs and that type of thing open up and that helped us.
Easter was little later and people were still I think looking to get out so April the weeks were not necessarily consistent but it’s a month we had another solid month on the top line and in the business.
And I would just say the mix was little different between pricing and volume as well.
To follow-up same vein on sales trends and this improvement.
When you look at the geographies that probably add less weather impact like California and Florida let’s say we have a lot of operations.
Was there a better do you see the same thing or was it stronger the entire quarter could you just comment on the non-weather affected sales trends? I would say the weather to go back to that was more East of the Mississippi so that is virtually all of our markets other than California and West Coast.
If I was particularly pronounced even though I would say winner comes every year it was particularly pronounced in the Northeast and the Mid-East but we were shutdown at Atlanta for a couple of days.
We didn’t deliver that kind of thing.
So I would say those first couple of months the weather impacted the vast majority of our businesses.
As you work into March and April here now I would say it’s pretty much what we saw before I think we are seeing very good strength in the Southwest decent strength in the West </strong> but similar to what I call that I think in the last quarterly earnings release we are seeing a little more strength certainly in the Southwestern part of the country than we are in the North and Northeastern part of the country.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we’ll now move to Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
LLC</strong> Yes hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
LLC</strong> I wanted to just follow-up on gross margin gross profit we tried to look at gross profit dollars per case and obviously this quarter you did better there in terms of year-over-year growth versus where you’ve been.
Now I know inflation going forward picks up.
But do you think the business has reached the point where you’ve done a better job in managing where our gross profit for case should at least be stable to better going forward.
Or when you talk about the pressure inflation are you trying to say that you could still be down a little bit there going forward? Ed we look at this thing across a lot of different ways.
So I’ll let Chris jumping in here in a minute as well.
So I want to be careful about the gross profit because that’s going to play out in different categories.
When I would tell you is the way I look at it as I look at case growth I look at the mix of case growth between locally managed which is largely your street business versus your contract business.
And then I look at gross profit dollar growth and then I look at cost per case – operating cost per case.
So we can put that together I don’t want to shift in terms of your question on this call but I would tell you obviously the first half of the year we had 1.2% gross profit dollar growth and that went to 2.7%.
So I’m encouraged with that.
I think we can continue to improve from there.
We’ll have to see how fast that develops.
So I feel good about that part.
I think we’ll continue to manage the cost per case well.
I think just and put this in some historical contacts Chris and I were talking before the call.
I’ve been around this business 25 years give or take I would tell you if you go back and look at Sysco’s history we didn’t always share all this to mange our operating cost per case to be up a $0.05 a year was usually a pretty good year in normal times.
Our medium to longer-term model where we’re trying to find enough initiatives every year to keep that at flat cost per case in this particular year 2014 we targeted a $0.05 reduction as Chris pointed out.
So I’m really pleased with how we are managing at the operating level in terms of cost and encourage too much is not a trend make here but I’m encouraged what we are seeing on the gross profit dollar growth.
I don’t know Chris is going to answer your specific question about what you put historic as well.
Yes.
I probably won’t get into any specifics but I want to echo what Bill said it is one of the metrics we look at but we look at a lot.
And the challenge on that particular one depends upon a lot of different variables one of which we’ve been talking about here which is inflation and inflation by certain categories.
So if we get a lot of inflation and it happens to be in high dollar categories at sometimes are fee per pound or fee per case that can play havoc with that particular number.
So it is part of what we look at but as Bill says we’re driving the business for gross profit dollar growth.
And that’s why we were generally pleased with the way we exited the quarter with the amount of growth that we saw in March.
LLC</strong> Yes.
That makes sense.
Okay.
And then just last question for you.
Category manager maybe could you provide just a bit more detail on sort of what you’re seeing out there? What you’re hearing from customers where you’re at? And I guess even more specifically like how our sales doing in a category then how our gross profit dollars doing in the categories? Sure.
We’re a year into this now and as I mentioned we’re deep into wave 1 and wave 2.
And we think by the end of the year we will launched about 30% of what we called the influenceable spend which is about two-thirds of our spend 60% to 70%.
We’re getting better executing that so I would tell you there are certainly opportunity to improve but we’re assuming getting better in terms of working within our corporate merchandizing team and with our OPCOs in terms of how we communicate these category and issues as they come out there is a lot of categories out there being launched right now.
We’re getting better in terms of working with our OPCOs to work with our customers and their sales force and had the position of the opportunities for the customer as well again plenty of opportunity to improve over the next 12 to 18 months as well.
So I think our execution is getting better both on the communication side as well on the conversion side.
We continue to see very good reductions in the cost of goods certainly as much it ties better than what we originally plan.
The sales line where we had some challenges earlier on there in terms of some of the conversions I think we are getting better as a company in terms of positioning those conversions with customers and in the subsequent ways the sales trends are somewhat better than what we saw in the prior.
So I would say – I would characterize it that is gradual continuous improvement on the execution – still relatively early days here and it would be a big part of our progress for next fiscal year as well.
LLC</strong> Great thank you.
Welcome.
We will now move to Karen Short with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</strong> Hi.
It’s just a couple of a questions on MAs.
I guess wondering you made a comment in the press release Bill about improved weather and locally managed sales strengthened I guess.
So I guess the first question is what do you mean by exactly by locally managed sales strengthened? And then the second part of that question is I guess there is definitely rumblings out there their people might be going after your MAs knowing that there is going to be disruption.
So wondering in this kind of environment as you’re leading into the close how do you – kind of how do you retain your best sales people and how do you please them that their won’t be a much disruption as some people fear? Yes so let me take the first one Karen.
So locally managed was something I’ve kind of coined here over the last 18 months.
We use it more internally but I don’t really like to speak externally differently I do internally.
So it’s an attempt which is getting traction now within Sysco.
It’s to have more clarity for operating in our market precedence.
So the certain segment sales which we will call street sales local contract being another basically where the customer and that decision maker that relationship is driven with a local OPCO we’ve just kind of bundled that a little bit more than just talking about street from an accountability standpoint and from an influencing standpoint.
So it’s an internal terminology.
We still look at street within that number.
So we look at both I would tell you I think you would know this over the last four or six quarters what we’ve seen is our corporate manager largely our national – large regional business has grown at a faster rate than our locally managed.
And in fact the locally managed growth is pretty modest and it was modest again in January and February.
So when I was referring to there as it did strengthen in March along with the other book of business as well.
And that is very encouraging and that is the key part of our growth and that is the key part of our profitability leveraging as well.
So it’s a big part of our business and something we put a lot of emphasis on and in the fairness while these initiatives we’ve been driving out both in terms of the sales organization cap man that kind of thing.
That directly impacts that sales force our local sales management teams and ultimately the customer and so there has been a fair amount of distractions out there over the last year.
And I think we are starting to see that we are – we are though a lot of that and beginning to manage it better.
As far as MA retention or MA numbers we had situations in some of our companies last year where we as we had some of that distraction and disruption we allowed our MA workforce to fall well below where our target members where.
And we are coming back there so we are not all the way back but we had targeted growth numbers for this year and we are beginning to approach those to get to the level we want to get to.
We did eliminate several unprofitable territories about a year ago and we pretty much have worked our way through that process.
As far as marketplace our folks right now are excited and whether there is some isolated situations there I wouldn’t necessarily attribute them to the merger and there maybe a challenge I think as we pull all this together but right now I wouldn’t tell you that's it’s not a big issue from the Sysco side and it could be initiative as we put the company’s together.
Inc.</strong> Okay that’s very helpful.
And then just on Denver New Orleans you commented that there was most successful conversions yet maybe can you just talk a little bit more about why and what you did and then what are your plans you are going to make if you said that and I missed that out but fair conversions for the rest of the year.
Yes well Denver New Orleans first of all they are both very large companies </strong>data management is kind of issue for us and that’s the basic thing that you look out in all conversions but one of the things that happens when there is that much change going on sometimes you don’t have this consistent focus as you need.
So we took out learning from the previous conversions and did much better and we’ll continue to do better on that front.
I would also tell you on the customer side we were more connected in particular with our larger regional and national customers in terms of how the conversion would impact them.
And so as issues did arise we were much more connective as an organization between the technology group and the sales group and that was a big part as well.
So those are the two things I would call.
As far as going forward we are having those discussions right.
We’re going to need overly our view of the integration planning work.
Currently that’s going on with the merger and look at that there is an opportunity to do probably a couple more companies we haven’t made a final decision on that but I think there is a good chance that we probably do two more and then take a step back and look at where we are in the merger.
Inc.</strong> Right thanks a lot.
Thank you.
We’ll now move to Meredith Adler with Barclays Capital Inc.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Can you hear me? Yes can hear you? Inc.</strong> Yes good thanks.
My first question is you talked about MAs at your own company.
Can you talk about at all that what’s happening at US foods? we really are trying to avoid talking about their performance their sales their on challenges initiatives out there so that’s something better directed directly to them.
Inc.</strong> Okay I also have a question did you talk about the Easter shift at all impacting March and probably would have been negative and March was very strong do you think it would have been stronger it hadn’t been for the Easter shift? What is the first part of your question really what would have been negative? Inc.</strong> In the Easter shift… Yes By March to April? So your question is if Easter been earlier would it been better.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
No there I think a late Easter helped us.
Interesting though it didn’t really help us that much.
I cant’ say this our performance in Florida which is where you would see most of the Easter benefit.
What’s if that different wasn’t any better than the other regions until the week of Easter and then we definitely saw the fact that so we have a still more people in Florida what you hear in Florida is regardless of the calendar people tend to stay a lot of people tend to stay until Easter.
So it helped us I think what really helped us a lot in March Meredith was hurt us in January February people.
And good number parts of the country had been locked up in their homes don’t want to get out and dig it out more.
So I would say a late Easter helped us somewhat but probably not as much as just the other side of the weather discussion.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We’ll now move to Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Yes.
Hi I hope you can hear me.
First on business transformation I know Chris that you mentioned that you’re capitalizing more of the project in shifting some of the allocation on expenses I’m just wondering if the merger development have had a impact on how you’re looking at business transformation if anything is changed.
Yes.
It seems like there are several questions there.
So tell me if I don’t get all of them.
We’re obviously taking into consideration the integration planning and what may occur post merger but in terms of how we report our business transformation today and we’re going about our business today really not that much impact.
So we’re in planning phase for integration but we’re not allowing it to impact what we’re doing from a business transformation perspective going after the benefits that the way look at the cost et cetera.
What will impact it and Bill alluded to it here a few minutes ago is as we think about overlaying the merger into our company and especially from the business technology standpoint we have to rethink about rollout schedules we have to rethink how we’re going to put the companies together technologically that will have an impact and we’re playing through various scenarios on that right now.
Okay.
That was helpful and just in terms of the timing of the merger looks like you’re still targeting closing by the end of September and just wondering does that seem like a realistic timeframe based on how things are going with the FTC process and is that really providing enough time to get the necessary shareholder approval? Yes.
We don’t need the shareholder approval on their side.
They essentially have it whenever they need it but we still believe it’s realistic timeframe.
I think the way we would characterize our interactions with the FTC and the regulatory process that’s pretty much as expected.
We don’t have any reason to believe that we will be significantly faster or slower than what we expected from the very beginning.
So we still think Q3 is realistic.
Okay.
I just had one final question if I could.
Can you just comment any further on inflation so far this quarter I think Bill you talked about double-digit increases in certain categories but just at an aggregate level of how much is your cost of goods inflation right now compared to I guess it was around 1% from last quarter.
Yes.
We wouldn’t necessarily give you anything forward-looking.
I know we’ve talked a little bit about April here and just because there is a trend in March we wanted to give you some color about what's going on with that trend? I think the way I characterize it is we went from almost nothing which is at 1% to something.
There are three very specific categories we called out that are kind of double-digit inflationary categories but is built at the rest are really not an issue.
They are either flat or even slightly down.
So what average is out to certainly more than 1% but that’s not all will say and it’s only April we’ve got a couple more months before we build out the quarter.
Great.
Thank you.
We’ll now move to Mark Wiltamuth with Jeffries.
Hi good morning.
It’s Mark Wiltamuth at Jeffries.
Is there any update for us on the net positivity you expect from business transformation? Now that you’ve changed the accounting a little bit on how the costs are going to be done? The way that we are allocating cost really doesn’t impact the benefit at all.
We’ve been tracking it for those who’d followed us yourself included Mark of course.
And the benefit side and the cost side on the benefit side we said $600 million of benefit we had achieved over three years.
Bill said in his prepared remarks I’d reiterate it we are still on track to achieve that we hit our numbers for the first year.
At mid-year we said we were still on track What we are really talking about what I refer to them the cost side.
This is a long process and there is a lot going on and we are changing a lot.
And as we go through this much change we’re having to take new looks at how we allocate cost how we think about expenses et cetera.
So we had some restatements we’ve talked about are not restatements but adjusting the way we look at things and in this particular case we looked at the way we allocate our labor when we just said it is more precise to do with the new way.
So I’ve got two choices I either have to restate or give you a new look at the guidance  using the new methodology which is what we opted to do or we’ve to somehow go backward and tell you what it would have been in prior quarters prior years and frankly that would have taken a lot more effort.
So we are giving you a new set of guidance based upon the new methodology.
Our variance this year from the old guidance that $300 million to $350 million a year is really about half and half capitalization of labor and methodology change on how we actually account for the labor.
So that’s the change frankly if we did it under the old methodology we’d still be in the old guidance.
So we are just changing the guidance so we can report it differently going forward.
It does not impact the benefits.
Okay thank you.
And on the point of attrition there’s been all this chatter in the marketplace on potential loss of some customers in reaction to the US Foods merger.
Any color on what the customers are saying what you’ve been hearing from your side and is there any assurance that you’re still retaining the customers on the US Foods side? Again we are not going to comment on the US Foods side.
But I would tell you from our perspective we’ve had an opportunity very senior levels of management to speak with virtually all of our top customers and at the local level our Presidents and VPs and salesmen out talking to many of their customers as well.
And I think as time is going on people – we have been able to explain the reasons for the merger and the opportunities.
And some of the challenges will come with that early days and transition and that kind of things.
So I would characterize the visits with the customers out from our perspective is very constructive largely supported.
And there were a lot of questions as you can imagine one of their key questions is to what extent will this disrupt service that type of thing as we go through the transition.
And obviously that is a big priority for us to minimize that type of things.
So – so far I would say we had very good visits with our customers.
Okay and then on the US Foods side are they on the same ERP system as you.
And how do you feel like that will go on transition in your system? Yes they are not on our old system which was a kind of customized proprietary system for Sysco.
They had their own somewhat customized proprietary system.
They are not on SAP either.
So the way we looked at this and I think we talked about this a little bit is each company has its system.
We are moving towards SAP as a unifying system.
We do believe and we asked it publicly that we think it’s the right system for the combined entities post merger and so we will have to build the bridge so that both systems can communicate and talk to each other in the near and medium term and then a new road map to eventually get it all to the new ERP platform overtime.
Okay thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll now move to John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Good morning thanks it’s (indiscernible) for John.
I guess the first question you touched on a little bit but would that say P and I think 10 facilities now it would seem like it would have a pretty decent sample size to compared to the baseline OPCOs so I was just hoping maybe you could provide some more texture around where some of the most meaningful differentiation is coming versus the OPCOs that don’t have the systems? Is it on a profitability side? Is it in case volume growth? Are you just generally getting better customer feedback around the execution just some color around that would be great? Yes I would say 10 companies well we are pleased with that the scheme of 70 is still early days and our focus is as I pointed out in my comments over the last six to 12 months has been more about stabilizing the system and improving the performances.
And we see that in those companies so on the sale side in terms of the speed of the system that type of thing we made a lot of very good strides there.
Our service levels continue to improve and get toward the level of our legacy companies if you will.
We saw a lot of opportunities to manage the inventory more efficiently and effectively and we are working on some things there.
So we are pleased with the progress that we are making but I wouldn’t want to get into discussion relative to the legacy companies because it’s still earlier days.
Okay and then I just changing gears a little bit we don’t haven’t talked about in a lot recently but I guess where from your perspective obviously you have many things going on right now.
But where is Sysco ventures might fit in terms of your priorities from a longer-term perspective especially given the fact that with the scale that you have – you probably have a trove of information about what’s working on restaurant customers’ menus from both the sales and profitability standpoint.
So it seems like it’d be – something that could be a pretty major differentiation for you versus maybe other competitors in the space? We think ventures is a key strategic opportunity for us.
We are beginning to gain traction and we put together the platform with the company called Leapset about a year-ago.
We’ve rolled out certain solutions in certain markets we are seeing some progress there.
We still have a big opportunity here to get it more integrated into the business.
We’ve made some progress there and working with several solutions there are more solutions to come.
So I would agree with you that with this merger it give us an even stronger platform in terms of customers to leverage this capability and to build stronger more effective relationships with a greater number of customers.
So it’s a key part of our strategy and I think as we get deeper into the merger planning work we’ll be able to speak more specifically in terms of work structure and that type of things in terms of how we are going to drive it out.
Okay great and just lastly in terms of the CapEx I guess Chris directionally going forward obviously you’ve got the merger going on but with some of the fleet optimization initiatives and maybe with some of the business transformation initiatives being completed.
Is CapEx directionally likely to step-down from that $500 million to $550 net of asset sales? Or is it something that kind of like a stable level of investment that’s going to be on going? It is a good question.
Our goal has not been on a specific dollar amount of more around the 1% to 1.2% of sales which we rapidly approaching and so when we get to that level and preferably the lower end of that level we’ll feel like we’ve got the right amount of base capital that should be able to grow every year as we grow the business through volume growth.
Now overlay that the merger and yes we’ve got to take a new look at that we are.
We’ve got a lot of people working through what that’s going to mean in terms of what I’ll call one-time capital to make the networks work well together.
Toast with that we’ll have to reevaluate.
I got a personal believe that we should be able to get long-term run rate capital down to the low end of our range if not even slightly below that range is based upon scale.
But that remains to be proven out in several years off.
Very helpful thank you.
We’ll now move to Erin Lash with Morningstar.
Thank you for taking my questions.
I wanted to touch on some of the – has been the two had been doing and your partnership with Robert Irvine over the past couple of years and how effective that has been or maybe hasn’t been? Hi Erin look we think it’s been very effective in the year two right now with chef Irvine and as we’ve talked about in the past one the reasons we partnered with him and through Network is roughly 70% of our customers tune into that Network on a regular basis and in particular watch his shows.
So he has been a great ambassador for Sysco both through the Network as well as personal appearances and working with our OPCOs and doing some nice work as well in the communities.
So we are very pleased with that partnership and we’ve got some new ads that are going to be coming out this year.
And I think you’ll continue to see is a significant positive for us from a marketing standpoint.
I also say it’s given our marketing associates a lot to be excited about we get that feedback constantly from our MAs so that positive is well for our system.
Thank you that’s very helpful.
And then I just wanted to ask about the Sysco brand overall and I think you are going to make some investments behind this Sysco brand and how to better to help that I think in front of customers and I was wondering what kind of the mixes between the Sysco brand and private label and how those affect our progressing? You’re talking about the product brand or the corporate brand Erin? The product within the product sales? Yes I think what you are referring to us over the last year you’re seeing the numbers pick-up a little bit in terms of the street are the local and that’s been good.
But I would also quickly say as we go through and do the category management work and our customer insights work we are trying to strike the right balance between what customers want and need and how our brand line is up with that as opposed to just trying to push our brand out there for the second push in the brand.
So I’m actually very pleased with the work that’s been done in the merchandised area over the last couple of three years in terms of going through and looking at all the specs in our various categories as we even we before the category management work started but in conjunction without now as well as combining that with our customer insight work so we don’t have a particular number in mind necessarily we are just trying to strike the right balance with our customers where we really do have a value-added product we wanted to make sure that we’re positioning it properly.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Erin.
It does appear there are no further questions and at this time I’d like to thank everyone for their participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Sysco’s F4Q 2014 Conference Call.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
We will begin today’s call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would like to turn the call over to Shannon Mutschler Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thanks Aaron.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Sysco’s FQ4 2014 Earnings Call.
Today you’ll hear prepared remarks from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company’s or management’s intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results could differ materially.
Additional information about factors that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s SEC filings.
This includes but is not limited to risk factors contained in our Annual Report on Form 10(k) that will be filed for June 28 2014; subsequent SEC filings; and in the news release issued earlier this morning.
A copy of these materials can be found in the Investors section at <a href="http://www.sysco.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.sysco.com</u></a> or via the Sysco IR app which can be downloaded from the iTunes App Store and Google Play.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in our presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation and can be also found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volumes include total broad line and sigma combined.
To ensure that we have sufficient time to answer all questions today we’d like to ask each participant to limit their time to one question and one follow-up.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Shannon.
Good morning everyone thank you for joining us today.
Sysco’s financial results announced this morning reflect a year of significant challenges tremendous change and solid progress on multiple fronts.
While the business environment remained challenging throughout the year and contributed to financial results that fell short of our initial expectations we did have many successes during the year.
Sales for the fiscal year grew 5% to $47 billion and adjusted net earnings were $1 billion.
Cash flow from operations for the fiscal year was $1.5 billion and free cash flow excluding the impact of certain items was $1.1 billion.
We reduced our operating expenses per case by $0.06.
We continued to implement transformational change on a broad scale throughout Sysco and remain on track to achieve our targeted three-year business transformation benefits in F2015.
We recommenced the rollout of our technology platform with much improved stability and performance.
We increased our dividend during this past year the 45<sup>th</sup> time since our founding in 1970.
In total we distributed nearly $670 million in dividends to shareholders during F2014 and repurchased more than $330 million in stock.
And we announced our intention to merge with US Foods which will provide substantial benefits to our customers and help us achieve more scale and efficiency in an evolving and highly competitive marketplace.
Turning to our results for the quarter sales grew 5.9% to $12.3 billion and net earnings were $254 million.
Adjusted EPS was $0.50 for the quarter which was flat compared to the prior-year period.
While we did experience more expense pressure during the quarter than we had through the first three quarters we are pleased with the 4% increase in gross profit we achieved.
Inflation increased significantly at the end of Q3 and was 4.1% for Q4 contributing to our sales and gross profit growth while also pressuring our gross margin.
However a more beneficial mix of our local and corporate managed sales mitigated some of this pressure during the quarter.
Our results reflect the impact of the slow and modest economic recovery in a food service industry that as a whole remains under pressure.
During the June quarter restaurant industry data indicates that some sequential market improvement occurred but year-over-year industry sales growth continues to be modest and traffic patterns remain stagnant.
It’s important to note that while restaurant traffic was essentially flat for our fiscal year Sysco’s case volume grew more than 2% excluding the impact of acquisitions.
During the year we made significant progress in achieving our business transformation strategic initiatives that are aimed at implementing an enterprise resource planning or ERP technology platform lowering product costs and reducing our operating expense structure.
Regarding our technology initiative in July we implemented our new ERP platform in our Salt Lake City and Albuquerque operating companies.
In the past eight months we have successfully deployed seven operating companies under the new platform bringing the total to twelve.
Several of these recent deployments took place at some of our larger and more complex operating companies and many conversions occurred during a particularly busy time of year.
We continued to learn and adjust with each go-live and as a result each one has been progressively more successful.
As disclosed previously we will focus for the remainder of the calendar year on implementing an SAP software version upgrade and further developing IT-related merger integration and sequencing plans.
Our goal with the latter is to prioritize SAP implementation where it will help us achieve targeted synergies as soon as possible with minimal disruption to our customers.
We will also continue to work to enhance the scalability of our shared business services processes to prepare for more conversions in the future.
Our confidence has grown as we have gained more experience with our ERP conversions and we believe we have a solid foundation from which to move forward.
As we continued to implement our category management initiative this year we also focused on enhancing our execution of this effort in several important ways.
We developed and implemented new field-ready sales tools enhanced our customer service in support of this initiative and improved communication and coordination with the field.
Looking ahead we expect to launch the remainder of the categories in scope into the market by the end of F2015.
Regarding our operating initiatives during the year we continued to roll out our routing optimization project which is resulting in reduced routes and miles driven while improving on-time deliveries.
We completed the conversion of our largest operating companies during the year and expect to complete the remaining by the end of F2015.
Our fleet and equipment optimization initiative will reduce costs and optimize our capital spend as we move forward.
During the year we established standard terms and specifications for fleet and warehouse equipment purchases and expect to complete the rationalization of our fleet by the end of this fiscal year.
We also continued to implement our driver and warehouse incentive pay program increased the application of best practices and implemented tools to more effectively manage labor costs and expenses.
In one of our US broad line markets we successfully piloted a program that increased the amount of recycled material in our operations by 75%.
We expect to roll out this program across the country by the end of this calendar year which will also reduce costs.
It is appropriate to note at this point that much of the progress we have made in the last few years in driving out key strategic business initiatives has been led by Mike Green Executive Vice President of Foodservice Operations.
Mike recently announced his intention to retire at the end of the calendar year after a very distinguished 24-year career at Sysco.
We wish Mike great success as he moves on to the next chapter of his life and we thank him for his service and many contributions to Sysco.
Turning to an update on the status of the US Foods merger last week we announced a future senior leadership team that will report to me following the closing of the merger.
This is an important step that will allow us to make further progress in our integration planning efforts and I look forward to working closely with this team post-close.
We also continue to work closely with the FTC as they review the transaction.
Our discussions have been productive to date and are progressing as anticipated.
We expect the merger to close either late in Q3 or in Q4.
In closing I’m very encouraged with our progress during F2014 in strengthening our management team and enhancing our capabilities to serve our customers more effectively and operate our business more efficiently.
I’m very grateful to all of our associates for their hard work and dedication throughout F2014.
The scope breadth and pace of change at Sysco during the year has been remarkable and importantly has provided us a solid foundation to take the next step in our transformational journey as we prepare for our proposed merger with US Foods.
Now I’ll turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for Q4 and the fiscal year.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For Q4 sales were $12.3 billion or an increase of 5.9% compared to the prior year.
Food costs inflation was 4.1% driven mainly by inflation in the meat dairy and seafood categories.
In addition sales from acquisitions increased sales by 0.6% and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by 0.7%.
Case volume grew 2.2% during the quarter including acquisitions and approximately 2.1% excluding acquisitions.
Gross profit in Q4 increased 4.0% and gross margin declined 31 basis points to 17.55%.
During our May earnings call we indicated that inflation jumped substantially at the end of March.
That trend continued and we saw a meaningful increase in inflation throughout the quarter.
The overall rate was driven by inflation in the meat seafood and dairy categories which together total more than one-third of our annual sales.
We believe the rapid and marked increase in inflation during the period contributed to the sequential and year-over-year decline in gross margin; however as Bill mentioned we also experienced a more beneficial mix of our local and corporate managed sales that mitigated some of this pressure during Q4.
Operating expenses totaled $1.7 billion in F4Q 2014 including $58.0 million in certain items.
Excluding certain items which mainly related to merger and integration planning expenses operating expenses increased $78 million or 4.9% driven mainly by increased corporate and delivery costs and incremental expenses from acquired companies.
Operating income for the quarter was down 7.7% year-over-year.
After adjusting for certain items operating income increased 1.2%.
Net earnings for Q4 were $254 million a decrease of $29 million or 10.2% compared to the prior year.
Diluted EPS was $0.43 an 8.5% decrease compared to the prior year.
Adjusting for certain items diluted EPS for the quarter was $0.50 which was flat compared to the prior year.
Now turning to the year-over-year comparison sales increased 4.7% or $2.1 billion.
Product costs inflation was 2.1% driven mainly by inflation in the meat seafood and dairy categories.
In addition sales from acquisitions increased sales by 1.4% and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates for the fiscal year decreased sales by 0.6%.
Case volume grew 3.4% during the fiscal year including acquisitions and approximately 2.2% excluding acquisitions.
Gross profit increased 2.3% during the year while gross margin decreased 42 basis points year-over-year to 17.59% due mainly to weak restaurant traffic and competitive pressures.
Operating expenses totaled $6.6 billion in F2014 including $150 million in certain items which primarily related to merger and integration planning expenses a change in Sysco’s self-insurance reserve and a legal settlement.
Excluding certain items operating expenses increased $201 million or 3.2% primarily due to new costs from acquired companies higher delivery and corporate expenses higher payroll costs and higher depreciation and amortization expense partially offset by lower sales organization costs and a decrease in retirement-related expense.
Operating costs per case excluding certain items declined year-over-year by $0.06 exceeding one of our key objectives for the year.
As we’ve discussed previously it is very difficult simply to hold operating costs per case flat due to typical inflationary pressures.
This result reflects the significant impact from business transformation benefits during the year.
Operating income was $1.6 billion declining $71 million or 4.3% for the fiscal year.
Excluding certain items operating income declined 0.9%.
Net earnings for F2014 were $932 million decreasing $61 million or 6.1% compared to the prior year.
F2014 EPS was $1.58 a decline of 5.4%.
Excluding certain items EPS was $1.76 compared to $1.78 in the prior year.
Reflecting on our financial results for F2014 our overall results fell short of our expectations.
However if you look at the two halves of the year separately they were vastly different.
The first half of the year saw low inflation weak local sales growth and weak gross profit growth of 1.2%.
During the second half of the year inflation picked up as did local sales growth.
Gross profits grew at a more robust rate of 3.4% in the second half of the year and 4.0% during Q4 in part driven by the increasing impacts from our business transformation initiatives.
We are encouraged by the trends we have seen in the second half of the year and we are working hard to maintain and improve upon them for F2015.
Business transformation expenses totaled $277 million in F2014 which was lower by $54 million for the year.
Similar to what we discussed last quarter roughly half of the variance year-to-date relates to a change that we made in how we allocate internal labor costs to the project.
Prior to F2014 we allocated the costs of internal associates based upon the percentage of time they spent on the project.
We are now allocating either all or none of an associate’s cost to the project depending on whether they spent the majority of their time on the project.
This has had the effect of shifting some expense from business transformation expense to general corporate expense.
The remainder of the year-to-date variance in business transformation expense is the result of capitalizing more of the work effort than originally estimated.
Had we not experienced these changes total expenses would have been within our original guidance range of $300 million to $350 million.
As of the end of F2014 we were ahead of our business transformation benefit goals achieving significant progress across multiple areas of our business.
These efforts allowed us to exceed our cost per case objective and to mitigate the pressure on gross margins.
Total capital expenditures net of proceeds from asset sales totaled $497 million for the fiscal year which was essentially flat compared to last year.
This result was just slightly lower than our guidance of $500 million to $550 million.
Free cash flow adjusted for the impact of certain items was $1.1 billion for the fiscal year increasing approximately 3% compared to the prior-year period.
Looking ahead I’d like to provide some guidance for key metrics as we typically do at this time of year to set expectations for the coming fiscal year.
Please keep in mind that this guidance is for our current business only and does not include any impact from the proposed merger with US Foods.
We anticipate providing additional guidance for the combined companies following the close of the transaction.
As we’ve stated previously our long-term sales growth expectations are for sales to fall in a range of 4% to 6% annually.
We believe this long-term guidance continues to be reasonable.
This is nominal sales growth so it includes the impact of inflation which we assume will return to more modest historic levels.
With regards to our three-year business transformation initiatives we were well ahead of our objectives after years one and two.
As we enter the third year of the initiatives we expect to achieve or exceed the high end of the $550 million to $650 million objective that we established two years ago.
As a result we expect that continued momentum and achieving lower cost of goods from our category management and sourcing initiatives will continue to help mitigate gross margin pressure from the intensely competitive marketplace.
In addition we expect our business transformation initiatives will contribute to meet our objective of holding operating costs per case excluding certain items flat year-over-year in our North American broad line business.
We expect corporate expenses will be higher reflecting investments we are making to provide important new capabilities such as the new revenue management function and the implementation of organizational changes that we believe will drive greater functional support in our broad line operations.
In addition we expect to make various investments in certain core technology resources.
While the absolute dollar amount of expenses will be higher year-over-year our objective is to grow operating expenses at a slower rate than gross profit growth.
Lastly we expect capital expenditures net of proceeds from asset sales to be in a range of $500 million to $550 million.
Turning to the pending US Foods merger we continue to make progress in our integration planning efforts which are focused around three areas – day one readiness value creation and long-term organizational design.
While we continue to work to finalize our synergy targets and the pace at which we will achieve these synergies we remain confident that we will be able to achieve or exceed the level of synergies we’ve previously communicated.
Regarding the regulatory process our dialog with the FTC continues to be productive and is progressing as expected.
We continue to believe that this merger will benefit customers and help us become more efficient in an evolving and competitive marketplace and also believe the FTC will agree that our customers have many choices in the fiercely competitive marketplace in which we operate today.
As Bill mentioned we expect the merger to close either late in Q3 or in Q4.
Finally I’d like to take the opportunity to welcome our new Vice President of Investor Relations Derrick Vialis who joined us most recently from BMC Software.
Derrick has significant experience in IR and finance and has been publicly recognized by the investment community for his professionalism and financial acumen.
We are very pleased to have him join our team.
I would also like to take a moment to thank Shannon for stepping up to lead the IR team on an interim basis while we conducted our search for a permanent leader.
Because of her leadership and efforts we didn’t miss a beat.
Once Shannon helps Derrick get up to speed she’s going to transition into a new role here at Sysco heading up our sustainability efforts.
I know you will join me in wishing her success in her new role.
In closing while F2014 included its share of challenges we are excited about the progress in transforming our business and our integration planning efforts related to the US Foods merger.
While we continue to have much work ahead of us we strongly believe that we are making the right strategic investments to strengthen our leadership position in the industry.
With that Operator we’ll now take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions.) And we’ll go first to Vincent Sinisi with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning thanks very much for taking my question.
I wanted to ask a little bit about the ERP rollout.
I know that you guys made some commentary earlier about how each one is really doing better than the one that was done prior to so can you just talk a little bit give us some color around what is new and what are you learning from the previous rollouts that you’re putting into the newer ones? Sure Vincent I’ll take a shot at that one.
So as we’ve said in the prepared remarks we’ve done about seven during the last eight or nine months – we did five in the fiscal year and just did two more here in July.
I would say to you if you go back a year a year and a half it goes beyond even the deployment but the system itself is more stable today and then as we do deploy I believe we’re doing a better job working with our people in the field preparing them making sure we’re understanding what their challenges are so that not only do we have a good go-live weekend but once the system is live that we’re able to operate the business with fewer glitches that type of thing.
So there’s still challenges.
I would say two examples of things that are better is our service levels continue to come up and come back faster than what they did originally.
And I would also tell you in some of the early conversions we would have some issues especially with larger customers that type of thing that not to say that we don’t have any today but I think we’re much more coordinated internally with our corporate sales group and with our op cos as well as with the deployment team to plan for those challenges anticipate them handle them when they come up.
But as we said in the text here learn from each one so that there’s fewer issues as we go forward.
So we’ve always done pretty well on the go-live weekends.
I would just say post-conversion we’re able to operate the business better; the systems the performance of the systems is faster it’s more stable; on the sales side generally much fewer issues today with our sales force and our customers in terms of some of the basics on order entry that kind of thing.
Okay thank you.
And one just quick follow-up if I may: with inflation I know you said you were expecting it to return to kind of more modest levels.
Have you been seeing some evidence of changes within those three particular categories that you called out this quarter? We haven’t seen it yet.
I think what we’re saying is people that we all follow and just looking at some overview reports on commodities and that type of thing and just the math of this thing as you get into the last third of next year we would expect it to subside some.
But at this point it’s still very comparable to what we’ve seen in the last three or four months.
Okay great.
Thanks very much good luck.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Yeah hi good morning guys.
A quick question for you on expense growth: it was a little bit higher than what we expected this quarter.
It seems like and I might be wrong but it seems like cost per case may have been up this quarter and it was down I guess for the first three quarters of the year.
Can you maybe just talk about what is going on with expenses and then how we should sort of think about it from here? Yeah why don’t we tag team this one Ed? So I would say it was up and more than what we would have liked to have seen and there’s two pieces to it which Chris took you through on the operations side.
Our delivery costs we’re still having some challenges there.
We’re doing some good things on delivery but there’s challenges in the labor market in certain markets we’ve had some basic issues that we could have managed better I think on comp and that type of thing.
So there’s still some transition.
Even though we’re putting in some good initiatives on the delivery side it’s still early days; it takes some time for those to get traction.
And delivery’s always the hardest expense to manage but we should do better than what we’re doing there right now and I would expect us to as the new year goes along.
The second part of it was more conscious on our part that Chris alluded to where you know we’ve got some good things going on here with cat man and revenue management.
There are some areas where we need to invest in the technology infrastructure beyond the SAP platform and so we have begun to make those investments.
So we did that consciously and those are the right things to be doing for the company not just in the short-term in the mid-term.
So we could have probably should have managed the expenses a little bit better.
Again I’m real pleased with the gross profit dollar growth and hopefully you’ll see that get calibrated more effectively here as we go into the new year.
Hi Ed the only thing I’ll add on the cost per case your specific question of whether it was up in Q4 it was actually.
If you recall a couple of quarters ago when I was commenting about where we are versus our nickel we were actually pretty far ahead of our nickel per case reduction – I think at the time we were $0.09 or $0.10 down.
And I was telegraphing that while we thought we’d beat the nickel I wasn’t expecting us to maintain the $0.09 or $0.10 and the reason for that is the delivery costs kind of plagued us throughout the year.
They continued to be up and we were lapping some of the SG&amp;A benefits that we got from the selling costs and some of the G&amp;A costs as well.
So we actually knew that coming into Q4 if we didn’t start to make some headway on the delivery costs that we were probably going ot have a reversal in Q4 which is what happened.
So I’ll agree with Bill.
I think there are things we can and should be doing and doing better and we continue to work on those but that’s kind of the color on the cost per case.
And the answer on the corporate costs was dead on.
Okay and then just to follow up on gross profit per case you did a nice job this quarter of growing gross profit ahead of case growth again this quarter.
Could you just maybe talk about maybe a little bit more about the drivers? How much is internal things like category management versus mix versus what’s going on from a competition standpoint and how that’s impacting you? Any color behind the driver there and then the sustainability of this trend would be helpful thank you.
Well I think Ed as we said and I know it’s kind of a recurring theme here but that’s the reality of our business right now – the marketplace continues to be highly competitive.
Our customers are under a lot of pressure from the consumer to offer innovative experiences in food and presentations and to do it more and more cost-effectively.
So obviously we need to be more responsive and we are responsive to that.
So there’s a macro headwind that we continue to fight.
In terms of where the mitigation of the improvements are coming from I think from all the areas you just mentioned.
I think certainly since late last fall we’ve done a better job managing our margins I think more effectively internally.
I think you are seeing some benefits of cat man begin to become more pronounced.
The mix did help a little bit this quarter.
It’s more of a balanced mix between locally managed customer growth and sales growth and corporate managed.
Inflation helped some too there.
So we’re kind of at a point where inflation’s probably a little bit higher than what we’d like to see right now certainly in those three categories but it is a little bit of a tailwind as it relates to that to the margin dollar growth.
But at the same time it’s more difficult to pass that price increase along to our customers as fast as we might like and I think as we said on the last call in most instances we frankly shouldn’t pass along that fast and we have to manage that as best we can.
So it’s coming from all areas.
And we’ll go next to John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
So Bill going back to the gross margin topic two things – what was the cadence of pass through roughly because again it looked at first glance that it was perhaps a little more rapid than I would have guessed but it sounds like it wasn’t.
And then secondly with the mix changes was that more tactical some course corrections or more strategic that’s been brewing for a while? Probably I’d plead tactical on the latter.
We feel we’re running our locally managed business better.
We put this company and in particular our sales force and op cos and customers through a lot with a lot of these initiatives and many of them either directly John or indirectly impacted our salespeople and to some extent our customers.
So we’ve cycled a lot of that on the sales side and now we’ve gotten the benefits from it but I think things are a little more stable on that front.
We’re able to focus more and like I said we’re giving them better tools to support the cat man rollout (inaudible) revenue management work is starting to gain some traction.
So yeah I think we’re doing a better job managing the local business.
It’s still modest growth but it’s growth.
I would be fine with a little bit more growth on the corporate side; it just so happens it’s moderated to some degree so there is no big strategic initiative there.
We are obviously always trying to get better at the profitability and how we manage the profitability of the business.
So I think it’s mostly that we’re managing the locally side better.
As far as the first part can you take me through that question again? I’m not really sure I understood it.
Yeah I was curious how you’re managing the pace of pass through.
You had a big step up sequentially that’s always challenging.
Again it looked at first glance like you probably got a lot of pass through one during the quarter but my guess is that’s not the case right? Well I don’t know exactly how you’re interpreting the data.
We got 4% GP growth on 2% case growth and 6% sales growth so I’d say we got our fair share but I don’t know if it’s more or less.
I think our people do a really good job responding to the environment that they’re in and trying to make good decisions on how much to pass along when to pass along how to work with the customer to find ways to cut their costs so that they don’t have to pass along as much to their customers or to the consumers.
So yeah I think we’re getting better at it John but I wouldn’t say we necessarily passed on as much as theoretically we could have.
Alright.
And then lastly you talked about ’15 operating expense growth being less than gross profit growth.
Is that more expense growth being ratcheted back or just with the prevalence of inflation here GP dollar growth is going to be a bit elevated because of that for the next couple of quarters? John that commentary was mainly just to help a little bit with expectations for ’15 and how are we going to look at whether we’re spending too much money on operating expenses or not.
We clearly want to grow gross profit dollars as much as we can where as we’ve talked in the last few quarters we’re struggling with a number of things on that front right now and we think we’re seeing some good trends on that front.
But in the meantime we’ve always got to control operating expenses.
So that’s the governor we’re putting on it – we’re not going to get operating expenses grow faster than gross profit dollars not in our planning anyway.
I think the only other color I’d put on it is as Bill commented we’ve stood up some capabilities here at corporate and in the field that we think both new functions and strengthening existing functions that we think are going to add a lot of value.
You take some upfront costs to put those in place and then they’re in your run rate so the growth rate should diminish over time because those are now built into your run rate.
Alright thank you.
And we’ll go next to Karen Short with Deutsche Bank.
Hey there.
Just a couple questions on the integration costs.
It looks like obviously you’ve given us $90 million for the year-to-date integration and I guess I was just wondering if you could give us a little more color on what exactly goes into those costs just to get a sense of kind of how far you are along? Yeah the vast majority of those costs is what I’d call professional fees so between our integration consultants McKinsey and other third parties that are helping us in each of the different functional areas prepare for the integration do the planning work for that.
There’s just a lot of external cost that goes into that.
We also throw into that categorization anybody that is fulltime on the integration project which is not a large number of people but we make sure that we pull those expenses out as well.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then in terms of corporate for next year just remind me is this Q4 the first time that we’ve had this change in the allocation of the expenses in the corporate because corporate was quite a bit higher in Q4 than what I would have expected.
Yeah I’m not sure what you’re referring to about changing the- In terms of the labor allocation instead of allocating any labor hours you were either all allocated it was either all allocated to corporate or not? Yeah no with regards to the ERP project that’s actually a change that we put in place at the beginning of the fiscal year so no that wasn’t a Q4-only impact.
Okay.
So what would have driven the higher corporate specifically this Q4 and then I guess the follow-on is this kind of Q4 run rate the right type of number to use for next year because obviously if we use that it would be up and would not be consistent with your guidance.
I’m just wondering how much higher it could be.
Yeah I don’t think it’s the right run rate to use for next year.
We obviously can’t give you an actual run rate or a percentage number to use.
I think you guys have to build something into your models.
As I said earlier we stood up some functionality; we started taking some increased expenses in Q3 and in Q4 for that.
You’ll eventually lap that so on a growth basis you won’t see that particular piece of the growth going forward.
So that’s part of what occurred in the corporate and there’s some other stuff that’s in there as well but it’s certainly not a run rate that we expect to continue.
Okay and then just a last question in the press release that you issued last week with the new positions I guess there were two positions that stuck out to me at least as being fairly new to Sysco – the Lead of Sysco’s Domestic and International Operations as well as the Lead on End-to-End Supply Chain both joined in 2013.
I’m just wondering those obviously seem like fairly significant roles in terms of the combined company – maybe just some color there given that they both joined fairly recently.
Sure.
Let me make sure you’re talking about Tom Bené over in Operations and Scott Charlton over Supply Chain Karen? Yep.
Yeah so these gentlemen are both folks that have joined us here over the last year year and a half.
Tom has twenty plus years with Pepsi and Scott has twenty plus years in multiple areas retail grocers but big types of supply chain background.
So they both have come in.
Tom has spent the last 15 months or so building his presence both working with our merchandising team initially getting cat man rolled out to the field; and then beyond that has gotten more involved in sales and marketing and some of the inbound aspects of supply chain over the last 9 to 12 months.
So two very highly experienced people that have been great additions to the team and have great capabilities so we’re very excited about it.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I think Chris one of the recent questions you were asked was about these investments and I was just wondering particularly technology investments if you can quantify that and give us some sense of the cadence of those costs? Yeah I’m just trying to think about what I said that would lead to that specific type of question.
So we’ve continued to spend on technology.
Most of our expenditures on technology have been around the ERP implementation so within business transformation; and we kind of called out those expenses and on a kind of like-for-like methodology they were right in line with our guidance of $300 million to $350 million.
We didn’t spend substantially more on technology if you will during F2014 than we expected to spend so while there’s an uptick there it’s not a sizable uptick.
What we’re calling out for ’15 in terms of guidance is there is a little bit more that we anticipate spending for next year.
It’s not going to be huge huge dollars but there’s going to be a little bit more.
As we roll into the new year we’re going to look at perhaps calling out some additional guidance around technology spend in total that’s something that we’re talking about internally.
It’s a big part of our budget.
We understand that; we also think it’s a big part of our competitive advantage so it’s something that we may give more color to as we move forward.
Okay I was just hoping to get that color now as I work on my model for next year.
I have I think sort of almost a housekeeping question: it sounds like you’ve made great progress in rolling out ERP.
Could you talk about how many facilities in total you intend to implement the technology? Well we’ve rolled it out to a dozen Meredith and we’ve got 70 give or take in the US today.
So I would say that 70 would be the target.
Obviously that doesn’t include Canada and we’ll deal with that when we get there.
The bigger point I think and what we alluded to in my comments was that with the merger on the horizon here we’re going to focus on some updates to the software packages themselves and put together as best we can a cohesive deployment integration plan factoring in obviously the new facilities and the new businesses that will come in from US.
So it’s 70 today and we haven’t determined in totality yet how many operations we’ll have going forward.
So it’ll be clearly more than that; it’ll be less than the two together I can tell you that.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
And we’ll go next to Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Hi good morning.
Just want to know if you’ve found any other insights in working in that clean room with US Foods – any new insights on synergies or are things tracking as you had originally thought? Yeah Mark they don’t let me in the clean room so I really can’t tell you much.
There’s nobody on this call that can handle clean room insights Mark.
[laughter] You know Mark it’s a good question and let me just take it up to maybe 50 000 feet because I think that’s the essence of your question anyway.
What I said in my prepared remarks I’ll obviously stick to.
The more we get into this the more work that we do the more integration planning that we’re able to do especially around value capture the more confident we get that we will be able to meet or exceed the guidance that we’ve already put on the table.
We’ll obviously come out with more information when we’re ready but yeah we’ve gotten quite a bit of confidence as we’ve been into the details.
Okay.
And how much timing do you need to really close things from the point that you get a decision out of FTC? I’ve got to be careful how I answer that because the term “when you get a decision from the FTC ” I think I’ll answer it this way: once we know that we’re allowed to close the transaction we’ll close it as rapidly as possible so literally within a very very short period of time so that we can begin the integration process.
Okay thank you very much.
And we’ll go next to Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Yeah hi good morning.
First on business transformation on the rollout so far it seems like the operating companies that have been converted seem to have a very regional profile.
So do you have any plans to convert companies on the East Coast for example? Can you give any plans for the rollout to other regions and also maybe comment on why you’re focusing on any particular geographies at this time? Thanks.
Yeah Ajay we actually consciously went to more of a regional focus in the Southwest and then up into the Mountain states and the original plan was then to do the Mountain market and come back and finish the Southwest.
Those early conversions were a little bumpier we needed some time to go back there and address some issues that kind of thing.
But again with the merger on the horizon I can’t really tell you.
So on a steady state basis I think you’d find us finished up in those two regions or markets and then we’d go to a third.
It’s just it’s a better way to do these types of things.
You get leadership engagement both the market leadership level and the op cos tend to work together on a lot of things – it just creates more of a team type of approach.
So we’ve actually found that to be quite successful and that’s a change we made about a year year and a half ago.
Again going forward I’m going to defer I think until we get to where we have clear visibility as to what the whole landscape looks like post-merger.
Okay.
But there’s no structural impediment to rolling out to other regions.
No.
We have RDCs you know a big RDC in the Northeast and one in Florida so there was some work that we needed to do to prepare for that but it’s not an impediment it just needed a little bit more time.
There’s no impediments.
Okay.
And I think Chris talked about the shift in allocation from business transformation expenses to ordinary operating expenses.
And this is a follow-up to Karen’s question earlier – I had a question as to whether the opposite is true in the case of integration and planning costs for US Foods.
So first as a comment I know you talked about consulting fees but it seems like the costs that you’re absorbing are merger expenses it seems very high especially given that things are still in the review process and it sounds like that review is taking longer than you previously expected.
But in terms of how you’re allocating those costs is it possible that if the merger was not happening that some of those expense like certain headcount expenses for example that you’re currently allocating towards integration that those would otherwise be considered ordinary operating expenses? I’m just trying to confirm if all those integration costs are incremental.
It’s a very good question Ajay and I think we could have a robust debate about it.
We actually I believe I’ve been fairly conservative about what goes into those categories.
We’re not putting in the cost of a lot of folks that are working a lot on merger integration planning because they also have their fulltime jobs and so we’re being pretty judicious about what goes in there.
Your comment about professional fees believe me I wish they were much lower but these types of services and this type of experience comes with a hefty price tag and so we are paying a significant amount of dollars to be prepared.
And while I respect your comment that it doesn’t seem like we’re very far in the process believe me there’s a regulatory process that occurs in the background and we’re going to continue to say it’s pretty much going as expected.
But in the foreground you’re doing a tremendous amount of planning to be ready the day that you close the transaction.
And so we’ve had a fairly large group of people allocated into 30 different business functional teams working in each of these areas on how to merge the two companies on day one how to go after the value capture and synergies and then how to design their organizations.
There’s been a tremendous amount of work that’s been done and we’ve had external consultancy professionals helping us all along the way.
So it’s a tremendous amount of work that’s been done a lot of hard work by a lot of people that is reflected in these dollars as well as the hours so that when the thing is approved you’re ready to go.
Unfortunately you can’t wait for it to be approved and then decide that you’re going to plan for how to integrate the two companies together.
It’s something we have to do every day.
Okay and if I can just ask one final question – I wanted to ask about your recent investment in Iowa Premium Beef.
That seems like a nontraditional type of venture for Sysco so I’m just wondering if that signifies anything.
Are you looking to potentially get more involved in food processing and be more fully integrated in food production? I think all it signifies Ajay great question is we see an opportunity to partner with some really quality people in that business and to create a premium product a value-added product which we believe will create more traction with our sales force and with our customers.
So I think you could see us do niche type of investments in the future but that’s an opportunity that came our way and we’re moving forward with it but I wouldn’t read too much into it.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
And we’ll go next to Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Thanks good morning.
Given really how quickly the inflation accelerated right at the beginning of the quarter in meat and stuff seafood dairy I think you guys said you managed it pretty well.
What’s your sense of what happened at the restaurant level with customers and passing it through? It looks like the macro numbers you gave for the industry suggested there’s a little strengthening in the industry.
So getting at this inflation seems like it’s going to be here for a while at an elevated level in some of these key categories and what’s your guys’ sense of how long it’s going to take to pass it through? Yeah let me be clear – I’m not clear on how long it’s going to be here but certainly it’s been with us for five or six months now.
And I think from what I’ve been reading which is I’m sure the same material you read in those categories customers are… Obviously they have to pass them along at some point.
These are double-digit increases.
So I think they are selectively passing it along where they feel that they can support it in their business; I’m sure they’re also working their menus.
Poultry is a category that at least to date has not experienced much inflation so I’m sure you’re seeing more poultry offerings and that type of thing.
So I think they’re managing the portions I think they’re managing the mix of the menu and they’re passing it along where they can.
That’s been my experience in terms of going out to eat.
As we’ve said medium- to long-term the data we’ve seen over the years is about what gets passed along from the restaurant to the consumer is about 2% year in and year out so that’ll oscillate a little bit but probably not a lot.
So there may be a little bit more being passed along right now but I don’t think a lot.
And I think the other thing that validates that is when you look at some of the other numbers from the summer that you know we’re seeing year-over-year sales growth at the restaurant level but we’re seeing flat to down traffic so I think that would validate that as well.
Gotcha.
And moving on to the I think this was the first quarter in a while where your MA served business is up at broad line – it’s up marginally but it’s up.
What should we look at? You referenced just lapping when it was down but I’m trying to tie it into some of the investment it sounds like you’ve made internally into sales management whether it’s the sales (inaudible) you called out or the regional management and coordination.
Can you just give a little color on that? Yeah I think what I was trying to articulate was not so much lapping as just a fair amount of the stress that we’ve put on the organization in particular in the sales arena and that we’ve lapped a lot of that.
So yeah I think things are more stable out there today than they were 12 or 18 months ago in terms of people just going to work every morning.
They know what their role is they know what their territory is they know what their commission plan is they know how cat man works they’ve got better tools for that and we’re giving them some other tools to work with in other areas like revenue management.
So I think from that standpoint we’ve made a lot of investments and we’re at a point now where we’re managing that better.
So I’m pretty optimistic that we’ll continue to see a good improvement.
To your point it’s modest but you know everything in this industry right now is modest.
As long as it’s positive you know we’re going to be very pleased.
Yeah.
And just a last thing on it seems like a pretty good environment for business that’s generating a lot of savings on the cost side on the cost of goods sold side with all the inflation out there to go after share maybe really invest that more into the customers than previously planned in sort of a more flat inflation environment.
What is your business’ appetite for that kind of strategic sense in the next little while? I think we’ve been able to grow our share consistently year in and year out so that’s what we do.
We think that’s very important but to do it the right way.
So our way of going after share is really to become more efficient in everything that we do to take costs out of our system.
It’s one of the big opportunities.
We see this merger as very pro-customer pro-competition; it allows us to take costs out that kind of thing.
So the way you grow your share ultimately is to take costs out of the system develop your people hire better people where you need to and compete as well as you can in terms of the acute pressures in the marketplace but to also differentiate yourself over the medium- and long-term as well with your products your services your business solutions.
So we’re always looking to grow but we need to grow profitably both in the short-term and the medium-term.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Erin Lash with Morningstar.
Thank you for taking the question.
Obviously US Foods is getting a lot of the attention but I was just wondering if you could talk about the overall I guess acquisition environment and kind of your appetite for future deals as well as just kind of the premiums that sellers are potentially looking for in this type of environment.
Yeah Erin I’ll take that one.
We continue to look at transactions.
We’re obviously fairly occupied right now with planning for the merger integration so we don’t have as many resources probably looking at transactions as we would in other quarters other years.
We also it’s going to be a little difficult to do deals in the US for a little bit of time at least while we get this one approved but we continue to look in our other markets and we continue to look in new markets and we’re fairly prudent especially if it’s a new market.
So they’ll come a little slower.
But I’d say we’re still pretty active and still looking for opportunities in other parts of our geographies and new geographies.
The second part of your question in terms of expectations I wouldn’t say that I’ve really seen a marked change in expectations in terms of pricing from call it a year ago.
I think there was a time when we talked about it on these calls where expectations were pretty high given where the macroeconomics were.
I think those moderated some.
We’ve been able to get a lot of deals done and I think they’ve held in that kind of reasonable range since then.
Thank you that’s very helpful.
And then just one other question: obviously I get the sense with the US Foods integration that there isn’t a target I guess this year for the ERP rollout.
Is that true or are there maybe a certain number of operating companies that you are looking to complete by the end of the fiscal year? There’s not a specific target Erin you’re right.
What we want to do is get the merger closed and then get the integration connected to that and then we’ll put together a rollout schedule that would incorporate both platforms if you will.
Thanks that’s helpful.
And we’ll go next to John Ivankoe with J.P.
Morgan.
Hi it’s actually Amod Gautam.
In terms of the acquisition question maybe a little bit more specifically in your F2015 planning are you budgeting any cash flow for acquisitions? Or I guess asked another way is the 4% to 6% sales growth does that include some contribution from acquisition obviously ex the US Foods? Yeah we actually plan those differently.
So what we typically do is we look at a long-term expectation for sales growth.
We’ve said 4% to 6% for a while.
We build that up from the standpoint of what do we think real cases are going to grow in the industry how much more do we think we will grow because we’re typically pretty good at growing faster than the industry; what’s the rate of inflation that should go on top of that; and then does that fall within the 4% to 6% range yes or no? We still feel good about 4% to 6% that’s how we build that up.
Some of those cases may indeed come from acquisitions when we think about how much more than the industry we can grow so that’s how it gets baked in there.
Separately we typically task ourselves with a certain percentage of growth through acquisitions what we’ll call kind of the smaller non-US-Food-type-size acquisitions.
We’ve traditionally said that we want to grow at least 1% from those types of acquisitions.
We haven’t put that guidance out there for next year again because of the pending merger here but we certainly challenge ourselves to hit some internal targets along those lines as well.
Okay and then on the gross margins I guess Bill you alluded a little bit to the mix shift being somewhat tactical on the locally managed versus the corporate business.
I mean as you think about F2015 gross margin percent has kind of come down over the past few years but it does seem like you have some potential tailwinds here whether it be that mix shift or inflation coming off or some of the category management initiatives.
So just broadly on F2015 is this a year where maybe gross margin percentage can stabilize after several years of decline.
Well I think you’ve got to start with improving over F2014 so that’s our goal.
And as Chris pointed out in his comments we saw that improvement kick in the second half of the year.
So we saw 4% here in this quarter so that’s encouraging.
There’s some inflation in that like we’ve acknowledged so I think if we can just show good steady improvement throughout the year and manage our expenses appropriately we’ll have a successful year.
And as we continue to drive up these initiatives and these are not just one-time initiatives.
These are different ways of doing business.
Category management is a different way of selling and marketing and merchandising.
Revenue management is a different way of segmenting your customers and trying to approach your customers with the best offerings that we can with the right presentation with the right channel those types of things.
So I would just say to you we’re in the early days of transforming this company in terms of how we need to compete and how we need to support our customers for them to be successful.
And that will undergird all of this in terms of our ability to price effectively and manage our costs along the way.
Yeah I’ll just add a little more to that.
I mean I’ll pick up on Bill’s comment of early days.
We’ve said before that we’ve got two of the waves the majority of two waves kind of fully into the market at this point of our category management initiatives and we’ve got a lot more waves to come.
Now those two that are out there were a lot of dollars but we’ve got a lot more waves to come.
And the point of that being that we still have a lot to roll out.
We still have the opportunity to do better and better and we just have to keep working at it.
It required some patience on our part to build the teams build the processes get it started.
We believe we’re starting to see some of those results in the numbers now and we’re hopeful those numbers continue to shine in the numbers every quarter.
And that as we’re saying we believe mitigates whatever competitive pressure is out there.
Okay great.
Thanks and good luck.
Thank you.
And this does conclude the question-and-answer session.
We thank you for your participation in today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Sysco Reports First Quarter Fiscal 2015 Conference Call.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
We will begin today’s call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would like to turn the conference over to Shannon Mutschler Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Sysco’s first quarter fiscal 2015 earnings call.
Today you’ll hear prepared remarks from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company’s or management’s intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and actual results could differ materially.
Additional information about factors that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s SEC filings.
This includes but is not limited to risk factors contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 28 2014; subsequent SEC filings; and in the news release issued earlier this morning.
A copy of these materials can be found in the Investors section at www.sysco.com or via the Sysco IR app.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in our presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation and can be also found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volumes include total broad line and sigma combined.
To ensure that we have sufficient time to answer all questions today we’d like to ask each participant to limit their time today to one question and one follow-up.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Shannon.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning Sysco reported first quarter fiscal 2015 financial results.
Sales grew more than 6% to $12.4 billion and adjusted net earnings increased 7.6% to $309 million.
Adjusted EPS excluding certain items increased approximately 6% to $0.52 for the quarter our strongest year-over-year growth in quite sometime.
We are pleased with the solid operating performance we delivered in our first fiscal quarter in the midst of ongoing challenging market conditions.
While we were challenged with expense management in certain aspects of our business we generated more than 2% case volume growth and managed acute inflationary pressures very effectively as evidenced by essentially flat year-over-year gross margin.
Our improved performance during the quarter was due in part to the benefits we realized from our portfolio of business transformation initiatives especially category management.
In addition case growth trends in our locally managed business were favorable for the second consecutive quarter.
Recent restaurant data reflects ongoing stagnant traffic trends but somewhat improved industry sales trends as food-service establishments increase prices to offset high inflation in meat dairy and seafood categories.
However while we believe that industry trends have gradually improved that improvement has been more pronounced in certain geographic regions.
In addition while consumer confidence and employment metrics have strengthened somewhat overall consumer spending remains restrained.
Lastly we’re hopeful that the recent marked declines in fuel prices will help to drive additional traffic to our customers.
With that we remained intently focused on enhancing every aspect of our business so that we were able to better support our customers operate more efficiently and compete more effectively.
As I mentioned benefits from our category management initiatives continued to gain momentum.
We expect that all remaining categories we’ll launch into the market by the end of this fiscal year and that we will achieve our financial savings target.
Turning to an update on our technology initiatives during the quarter we successfully executed a major software upgrade for the 12 operating companies using SAP.
In addition while we will talk more about the proposed merger in a moment we continue our merger integration planning and sequencing work with regard to technology.
We expect initial post-merger areas of focus will include the rollout of SAP financial modules for general ledger accounts payable and accounts receivable as well as additional elements of the HR module all of which will make future SAP conversions at the operating companies relatively easier.
While we're pleased with our accomplishments during the quarter we did fall short of our expense management goals.
Expense increases were broad-based and were primarily driven by increases in sales delivery and incentive accruals.
On the sales side we’ve begun to hire MAs in targeted markets and expect these investments to contribute to sales growth over time.
In the delivery area driver turnover and shortages continue to drive higher wages and overtime expense.
However our single largest opportunity for improvement was a more consistent execution across the organization.
We are developing and implementing tools that will provide increased visibility to keep performance metrics as well as improved best business practices.
We believe these enhancements combined with our new functional structure will lead to improved customer service greater operational efficiency enhanced cost management and increased profitability.
As we noted on last quarter's earnings call we also are investing in some promising new sales programs and market-driven initiatives.
We have developed several initiatives targeted at improving our customers’ experience.
For example our initiative to grow our share in the underpenetrated Manhattan market has been very successful.
In addition we’ve developed a robust approach to serving the fast-growing Hispanic restaurant segment focused on providing authentic products utilizing a dedicated sales team.
Also our commitment to solicit and listen to feedback from our customers carried out under our customer first program has led to several important enhancements including developing new technology that will ultimately allow our customer to track their delivery and enhanced customer onboarding program aimed at increasing customer retention and improved sharing of best practices in our business review program.
With regard to our proposed merger with US Foods we've been in productive discussions with FTC staff on a solution to permit the FTC to conclude its review.
Given the amount of work remaining and considering the upcoming holidays we do not currently expect to complete the transaction before the first quarter of 2015.
Our integration planning work is progressing well and we successfully completed a $5 billion debt offering just following the end of the quarter as we prepared to fund the nonequity components of the transaction.
Chris will provide more detail about this in a few moments.
In closing we are pleased with our topline and gross profit performance for the quarter and believe that our investment in business transformation initiatives contributed to this achievement.
I would like to thank our 52 000 associates for their dedication and hard work that drove our favorable first quarter results.
As we move forward into the remainder of our fiscal year we're committed to improving the consistency of our operational execution successfully rolling out our portfolio of initiatives and further developing our plans to integrate Sysco and US Foods.
This truly is an exciting time in our history and we believe the actions we are taking are strategically the right priorities to both achieve our vision and enhance profitability over the long-term.
Now I will turn things over to Chris so he can provide additional details on our financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the first quarter sales were $12.4 billion or an increase of 6.2% compared to the prior year.
Food cost inflation was 4.9% driven mainly by inflation in the meat dairy and seafood categories.
Sales from acquisitions increased sales by 0.6%.
However this was largely offset by the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates which decreased sales by 0.5%.
Case volume grew 2.3% during the quarter including acquisitions and approximately 2.2% excluding acquisition.
Gross profit in the first quarter increased 6% nearly at the same rate as sales growth.
Gross margin declined 4 basis points to 17.59% reflecting the positive impact from our category management initiative and improved margin trends over the last few quarters.
Operating expenses increased $136 million or 8.6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to the prior year period.
Operating expenses increased mainly due to a $67 million increase in payroll expense and a $41 million increase in certain item expenses.
The most significant drivers in the increase in payroll expense were higher sales and delivery costs as well as incentive accruals.
Regarding the incentive accruals during the last year's first quarter we reduced certain incentive accruals based on our performance at that time.
In this year’s first quarter our incentives are generally accrued to higher amounts reflecting the impact of recent performance and causing a year-over-year variance.
Certain items totaled $43 million during the quarter and mainly related to the merger and integration expenses.
The substantial majority of these costs related to consulting fees.
Excluding certain items operating expenses increased 6%.
As Bill mentioned we believe we had opportunities to better manage our operating expenses over the balance of the year.
However the cost increases in the first quarter will pressure our ability to meet our goal of achieving flat cost per case for the year.
Operating income for the quarter was down 2.6% year-over-year.
After adjusting for certain items operating income increased 5.9%.
Net earnings for the quarter were $279 million a decrease of $7 million or 2.4% compared to the prior year.
* Diluted EPS was $0.47 a 2.1% decrease compared to the prior year.
Adjusting for certain items net earnings increased 7.6% to $309 million and diluted EPS increased 6.1% to $0.52.
Capital expenditures net of proceeds from sales of assets totaled $190 million for the first quarter this year compared to $125 million last year.
Cash flow from operations was $63 million for the quarter as the first quarter is typically a lighter cash flow quarter for us due to seasonal changes in our business.
This result was $107 million lower than last year's first quarter which is the result of three major drivers.
First the cash impact of certain items increased $40 million year-over-year.
Second we made a $50 million pension contribution in the first quarter this year compared to none in the prior year period.
This difference is simply driven by different timing regarding when we make cash contribution each year.
And lastly working capital usage increased year-over-year mainly due to an increase in sales and inventory driven in large part by inflation.
As a result of these year-over-year changes free cash flow was negative $55 million for the first quarter.
Turning to the pending US Foods merger subsequent to the end of the quarter we issued $5 billion in debt and six series over various periods from 3 to 30 years with an average weighted coupon rate of 3.4%.
We decided to go to market prior to closing the transaction in order to be ready to fund the transaction as soon as we were able to do so.
The proceeds of the offering are intended to fund the various elements of the US Foods transaction.
In addition as we closed on the new debt issuance we simultaneously terminated both the bridge facility and the pre-issuance hedges.
As a reminder after we announced the proposed merger we put in place a $2 billion interest rate hedge as part of our risk management strategy against the portion of the anticipated bond issuance.
Following the unwinding of the hedges we paid $59 million in September 2014 to settle the hedge against our 10-year note issuance which you will note is shown as a financing activity in our cash flow statement in the first fiscal quarter.
In addition we paid $130 million in early October to settle the hedge against our 30 year debt issuance which will be shown as a financing activity in our cash flow statement in the second fiscal quarter.
The financial impact of the unwind of the hedges will be amortized into earnings over 10 years and 30 years respectively.
Regarding our outlook into the second quarter and the remainder of the year there are several items I’d like to point out.
First with regard to our category management initiative over the balance of the year we expect the year-over-year impact of these benefits in each of the first three quarters of the fiscal year to be relatively similar before moderating in the fourth quarter.
Second as we disclosed on last quarter's call we continue to expect that corporate expenses will increase compared to the prior fiscal year.
Due to the timing of these expenses quarter to quarter we expect a more significant year-over-year impact in the second quarter.
Third we will recognize a $13 million write-off in the second quarter of unamortized debt costs related to the termination of the bridge facility which occurred as we issued the new debt related to the transaction.
This write-off will be recorded in interest expense and will be treated as a certain item when we report our results next quarter.
Fourth as a result of the issuance of the new debt and the unwind of the pre-issuance hedges we will recognize approximately $14 million in additional interest expense per month beginning in the second quarter.
This expense will also be treated as a certain item when we report our results until the merger closes.
And finally last year in the second quarter our tax rate was unusually low mainly due to the favorable resolution of certain matters.
This will create a year-over-year timing difference from a tax rate perspective in the second quarter.
In closing while the business environment in the food-service industry remains challenging we were encouraged by the progress we've made implementing our business transformation initiatives and believe we’ve many opportunities ahead to continue to enhance our customers’ experience strengthening our operating performance and increase profitability.
With that operator we will now take questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Kelly Bania with BMO Capital.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just first on the payroll increase I'm wondering if you could just go into a little bit more details in terms of the different buckets of the $67 million increase between the sales the delivery expense and the incentive accruals? And what sort of year-over-year increase in payroll was that overall for the first quarter? You mentioned it would be kind of difficult to achieve that flat cost per case for the year so how should we think about payroll for the next couple of quarters? I will start Kelly and let Chris kind of help me out here little bit.
I would say just on the overall expenses – before I answer the question I guess is your expenses as adjusted are up about 6% and in payroll labor and related is usually 70 - generally 70% 75% of our structure.
So I don't have the exact number in terms of payroll.
I don’t know that we disclosed that but I think that should be a pretty good proxy for you looking at there.
It comes in different buckets as we took you through on the sales side.
For example and we have begun to grow our MA workforce again modestly we’re more in certain markets.
So we made some significant reductions in territories – unprofitable territories 18 to 24 months ago.
So we’ve worked our way through that.
We’ve grown our territories.
We had a very nice quarter.
We grew our gross profit quite a bit.
We grew our locally managed business.
The way our commission grids and our bonus grids work that does translate to a more earnings for our salespeople and for our management team.
So that’s probably what you see there.
I think the other biggest bucket was in delivery -- especially in certain markets we’re struggling to attract people.
It’s a great markets if you’re a driver these days and to retain drivers in certain markets as well.
So I’d say most of the payroll impact was in those two areas.
I don't have a lot to add – just my comments about the incentive accruals are simply that the last year we lowered a longer-term incentive accrual based upon where we are versus those targets in that particular incentive and that this year we are at target.
So you’ve got the year over lapping effect there.
So that was a portion of it as well.
Great that's very helpful.
And then I was wondering if I could just follow-up with one kind of bigger picture question.
Could you talk about just the trends you're seeing maybe with respect to categories and the types of foods that are seeing strongest growth? The reason I ask is I guess we heard from McDonald's maybe a week or two ago that they were thinking about possibly pursuing some organics.
I'm just curious with what you're seeing in trends in natural and organics and if your customer base were to increase focus on those types of products where do you think you and your suppliers stand in terms of being able to cater to that? I think we have seen those trends for quite sometime whether it’s organic or local or sustainable different people look at different ways.
So local is probably the bigger trend that I think we tend to see given that we do have some of the locally managed customers who are cozing that type of thing.
And so I would say it's the trend that’s growing.
I wouldn't describe it as an overly large piece of our business today but I think it's an increasingly important for two reasons.
One it is growing and I think we want to be ahead of that or at least step with that.
And I think two with the customers where those types of products are important -- even though it might be a relatively small piece of their buy they feel very strongly about that.
So whether it's organic or local or other similar types of items or categories that being able to supply those types of products is key to continue to develop the relationship with those types of customers.
And I think our suppliers are getting there.
It’s – I think as we work through category management especially the second round once we've been through these initial launches I think this type of a discussion will be even more bigger part of the discussion as we go forward.
So certainly suppliers are very proactive in this space and others we work with together to further our offerings as we go forward.
So I think it's a trend that’s been there it’s growing.
The people that want local and organic are very very steadfast in those desires and it’s an important part of those customer relationships.
And we’ll take our next question from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
On the sequential improvement in the MA-served sales growth could you help us think about where that's coming from? It sounds like obviously there's an inflation help and I guess there's more salespeople.
Could you give us a little more color on how or what's driving that internally or externally maybe it's the environment? I think it is – I honestly don’t think the environment has changed that much.
We went through kind of this weather cycle last year where it was really rough December through February and so that certainly impacted everyone.
And then cabin effect in April and May where sales came back pretty strongly.
We’ve lapped a lot of that now.
So I think the market is kind of where it’s been.
I think it's almost month-to-month you see one report – one month where consumer confidence is up or the restaurant operators’ confidence is up the next month it’s down a little bit.
So I don’t think there is any a distinct change in the pattern there.
I think from our perspective we’re a year or two years now into these initiatives both in terms of the category management but also some of the segmenting work we've been doing with our sales and marketing teams and we have a program called back to basics that we are out there with – and it allows us to both focus more in certain segments and at the same time use that as an opportunity to enhance training with our sales force.
So we’ve seen some positive trends there.
As I noted in my comments some of this is more geographic specific.
And so I think at least from what we see certainly the South in particular where we are here in Southwest has been strong for a while now.
And so in the West it looks like we’re seeing some improved results there and I don’t know how much that as a macro.
We had a foldout out in Southern California last year we’re through that and we’re starting to see the rewards from that investment that we made at Riverside last year.
And I would say the last thing I guess from my perspective is just the stability of where we are in our initiatives.
We’ve been – we’re two plus years into all these initiatives that first year year and a half it was very significant impact on our sales force.
As I said earlier we reduced a lot of unprofitable territories that has an impact.
It took us a while to kind of hit our stride in category management.
So as we’ve matured in rolling out these initiatives I think it's become more business as usual and we’re just executing better.
So I think little bit maybe on the macro little uneven little geographic there and I just think that a lot of this change that we’re driving out we’re getting better at it and more stability within the sales force.
Can you just as a follow-up before I get back in queue could you annualize what the growth in the MA looks like even if it's not maybe contributing a lot like right now? Andy I don’t know if that’s something we've done before.
I’d just tell you that we are growing in a number of MAs and it is modest.
I think let me comment at this way.
The way we are evolving I think in terms of our thoughts on MAs and salespeople and territories in particular is to grow those territories at a level that we anticipate opportunities for sales growth and to try to stay ahead of that.
So some markets might be mid-single digits and other markets might be flat to low single digits.
And we’ll take our next question from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim.
So Bill on gross margin where do you guys sit now with price investments? Are we at a point even when the category management benefit subsides are we finally at a point where gross margin can be managed flat year-over-year and [indiscernible] the downward pressure that you've had in the past? The honest short answer is I don't know certainly that’s our goal and the way we have spoken to it is we expect because of -- the ongoing nature of the market that we’re in it’s a large market that's the good news it’s low barriers to entry there’s a lot of people in it.
And there is not a lot of growth there right now.
So I think we’re continuing to see a lot of pressure on the street and what you hear us saying what you hear d me saying in particular for example on the caveman is that those initiatives are beginning to bear fruit and helping us to offset some of the pricing pressures that you're alluding to.
And I think when you look at our quarter obviously we had a lot of inflation in certain categories and I think we did a decent job of passing that along in an appropriate way.
But I would say most of the margin positives in the quarter were from taking cost out of our cost of goods and in ensuring those savings with our customers.
Do you think -- is that level of price competition has that been exacerbated right by the whole merger situation in that people may see some business up for grabs while you guys are in limbo or no? I think in certain markets I would say that that's probably had more of an impact on US Foods than it has on us.
I think they are in a tougher situation there to deal with that.
So yeah there’s definitely I am sure some competitors trying to take advantage of that.
But I think it's also -- I think early months or weeks that was a bigger deal I think that’s levelled out to some extent.
I don't think it’s been an impact in our people.
We’ve kept our people very focused and it’s not to say there is not incidence of that I am not saying that but in general on a base of whatever 12 billion in sales for the quarter I don't think that was the big part of it.
At least not for us.
And then just lastly back on the growth in MAs was a lot of that did that pre-date or the plan for that pre-date US Foods and is most of that in non-overlapping markets or it's both? It has nothing to do with US Foods.
I mean it was basically in our profit plan for the year.
Look I have spoken to some previous calls we took approximately thousand unprofitable territories out of our business over what we thought was going to be a 12 month period it happened in 3 to 6 so that was pretty significant impact and most of our operating companies and markets did a nice job managing that.
In certain instances we didn't do so good job and we went too fast and that had some doubling down negative impact.
So that's really us -- a management team whatever 6 12 months ago saying okay we’ve done that now let’s get back to what we normally do which is growing territories in conjunction with what we think the opportunities are.
So I wouldn’t try to connect that to US Foods at all.
And we will take our next question from Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
It's Lauren Wood on for Ed.
Just another question on gross profit.
So it looks like the spread between gross profit growth and volume growth improved again this quarter.
Can you maybe talk about how much of that could be attributed to internal initiatives like category management how much of that could be attributed to inflation and how sustainable do you think this is going forward? Well okay I think when you look at the growth in gross profit dollars we've acknowledged that there is a lot of inflation in that and so that is part of the – that 6% growth we’re talking about in sales and GP dollars inflation piece of that.
However inflation also makes it more difficult to keep that spread relatively close.
So that’s where I was saying I felt even though the market continues to be very competitive that we did a nice job there and that takes you to the initiatives of which we think category management in particular has now kicked in in a meaningful way allowing us to manage our cost of goods more effectively and also to invest in our customers along the way.
So I think it's mostly the initiatives as well as the fact that we’ve got 7000 salespeople out there 70 operating companies and senior management teams and they’re all very focused on executing as well as they can.
So I think with at least us growing into a company that’s going to continue to embrace change and have initiatives I think our people are coming to grips with that we’re getting better at executing change in the business at the same time.
But I think the initiatives themselves as I said earlier are contributing to that.
And I think on the inflation front we just did a nice job there of keeping that spread as close as we did.
Okay and just as a follow-up can you give us any more color on maybe what categories you've addressed more recently and how that process is going? Well I tell you we’re into waves 6 7 8 – we’re well into it now.
So I don't have all the categories in front of me.
I know I think we have done some poultry categories and I know bread and rolls were big one but we’re now into categories where there is double-digit subcategories f you will.
So we’re into the core of the entire offering right now.
And we will take our next question from Karen Short with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Just a couple of questions on the integration costs.
So you're now kind of at $130 million cumulatively and I guess the first question is are we now kind of at the point where this is about as far as you can go without actually merging? And then the second question was is this included in the original $700 million to $800 million in guidance that you gave on integration expenses or is that in addition to? Hi Karen let me start with the second part of the question.
We certainly included in our original guidance 700 million $800 million some assumption for pre-closing merger integrated expenses.
I think it’s fair to say we had exceeded that assumption.
We will come out with a new number of what we think the overall costs are going to be.
We will share that as well as what we’ve spent which we’ve been disclosing on a month by month basis.
But obviously we’ve spent more than we originally planned.
The first part of your question -- there is continual work that we can do.
There's only a certain amount of information we can share between the two companies prior to actually closing the transaction.
And so we do as much as we can kind of business stream by business stream and then we do some work in clean rooms but there is some work that we can’t even do outside our clean room or inside of clean room I should say until we actually close.
So there’s more work to be done.
I think it’s fair to say at this point we’ve done a lot of good work.
Teams have put in a tremendous amount of effort.
We’ve got a very clear idea about how we would merge the two companies together and the more time we have the more butt left would say our integration execution will be once we’re able to start that process.
So there's still more work to be done perhaps not at the same level and same intensity as we’ve been doing it over the last 10 months.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess just to follow on that I guess within the bucket of this $130 million can you maybe give a sense of what the dollar amount that would be Sysco employees that have fully dedicated to the integration planning versus the actual just pure consulting fees? Yes the vast majority of it is consulting fees Karen.
And then just last question was on the update of the business transformation to other OpCo's this coming year any idea what the plans are? Yeah I'll start here Bill may want to chime in.
As we said in prior last couple of calls we just did a major upgrade at the SAP software itself which went well and now we’re focused on doing what we will call some functional rollout of SAP.
So Bill mentioned in his opening remarks accounts payable accounts receivable we will do some I think additional rollout of some HR functionality etc.
and that has a double advantage.
One it helps our shared services.
That secondly it also helps us as we begin to do merger integration once we’re allowed to do that it helps us achieve synergies faster.
So that’s the focus that we have for our SAP rollout now.
Those types of things once we do them actually make rollouts in the operating companies easier because we’re converting – we’re transitioning less at these operating companies when we actually go back to rolling out at operating companies.
And as we go through this process we are obviously looking at the overall integration plan from a technology perspective of how we will roll out operating companies in the merged enterprise.
I think the only thing I would add there is – in the broader way of looking at business transformation we’ve talked about category management.
This is going to be a good year to continue to launch the rest of the categories this year.
We’re pretty much through the SG&amp;A work and so you’re not seeing a lot of new benefits coming from that that was the work that I alluded to earlier that we did the first year and year and a half.
There is a lot of work still going on on the operations side supply chain side of business in terms of optimizing our efficiencies our processes or our pay plans in the warehouse and delivery and we’re really not seeing those benefits to the degree that we will down the road.
So again in the broader way of looking at business transformation there’s still a lot going on that our operating companies are dealing with right now.
And we’ll take our next question from Meredith Adler with Barclays.
I wanted to talk a little bit more about category management.
I think you've spoken in the past that it wasn't just a simple SKU rationalization process but it's clearly having a very nice benefit on the gross margin.
Can you talk a little bit about exactly what's happening and how that's leading to the gross margin improvement? Sure.
I think the key Meredith from our perspective is we have a very robust process that we’ve developed.
We have brought a lot of people into the organization at all different levels who have done category management for and other industries.
And so we’ve learned from some of our other stumbles if you will with initiatives that we needed to not just develop the folks we have of which we've done but also bring in some other folks that have the experience.
I think we’ve had really strong leadership with Tom Bene and Bill Day and Bill’s group.
So I think it starts there and we feel good about that.
The nature of the process is sitting down with these suppliers and trying to create some level of partnership as we go forward obviously it’s not going to be the same with every supplier and the focus on the customer and focus on the opportunity for growth.
And as you do that at least two things become quite apparent is by using some of the intelligence that our suppliers have all the time developing more insights ourselves through our customer work and marketing we’re able to see where most of our customers want to spend their money in terms of what items what categories and we’re able to also focus -- necessarily focused on where we have a lot of redundancy in SKUs and items that don’t move a lot.
And then as we work closer together with the suppliers and we start to see success which is the key we’re able to see that working together here we can create savings for the customers and for our supplier and for ourselves and that creates this efficiencies that you’re starting to see on the cost of goods side.
So it clearly starts with technology and this is a big change in our company strengthening our team it’s coming at this from a customer perspective and ultimately getting the right suppliers to partner up with us in a way that it’s a win-win win it’s got to work for the customer it needs to work for us and obviously it’s got to work for supplier.
And how do you deal with pushback from a customer who says oh I'm madly in love with my particular vendor don't do anything? Do you just keep that item around or are there financial incentives for them to shift vendors? Well I think we’ve gotten better at that and I think it comes with understanding our customers and listening to them and getting them to actually have that conversation with us.
And so from that standpoint I think we’ve made good strides.
It’s all the above.
I think for the most part you have the conversation you understand what the x says as best as you can and you make it more about choices and/or timeline.
So in certain cases depending on the customer and how key an item is you may not convert them.
But in most instances there is an opportunity to convert them certainly you will need to share some of the economics with them as well and you will need to – again I think it’s where we’ve gotten better -- you need to have a timeline that works for the customer.
And again we’re not looking to – and we’d be nice to do all these and 90 to 180 days but if it takes six months to a year to do it the right way that's what we’re doing.
So again it just comes down to listening to that customer and getting them -- really trying to understand what -- why they have that angst and maybe what you say maybe as simple as some type of economic play but it very well could be they are happy to make the changes we just need to sell on it and that takes some time to get them to understand the attributes of the alternative product.
Okay.
And then I have a question for Chris.
You did mention that cost per case this year might not be down the way you'd hoped it would be or it might not be flat as you'd hoped it would be.
Is it the things you talked about in the first quarter specifically transportation but MAs and incentive comp that are the reason you don't think you'll make the cost per case goal or is there something else that you're thinking about? Yeah it’s more than that but it’s something we didn’t talk about – I think Bill’s prepared comments I think he described that as pretty broad-based and so we had some increases almost across the board in different areas some of which we expected certain pension related costs and things like that and some of which we didn’t so delivery expenses continue to be upbeat and they were up pretty significantly last year.
We talked about the sales compensation expense things like that.
So as we look here at the end of Q1 what we’re really calling out is our cost per case is up significantly.
We had a flat goal for the year.
We have a lot of areas to go after and we will go after those but we’re pointing out that there’s going to be some pressure on us achieving that goal.
In no way are we going to give up on the goal but we are calling out the fact that it’s going to be harder because we are starting if you will on the trench we’ve got to dig our way out it.
And we will take our next question from Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Hi thank you.
Could you talk a little more about -- you said that certain geographies were performing better than others.
Is that a function of what's going on with the consumer health in those markets or is it more Sysco initiatives that are driving that? Well I would say what we are extrapolating – at least what I'm extrapolating is when we see some deltas that are somewhat pronounced you would have to -- one would conclude that some of that is coming from the relative health of the local or regional economy.
so when I talk about the Southwest I think the economy that has been strong dynamic for long time now we’ve got some very large operating companies in southwest that have been performing very well for multiple years as well.
So it's a combination but certainly when you look at the South and the West compared to what we see up in the North and the Northeast to some extent there are differences.
So we’ve got strong people throughout the country and leaders and associates and I think the initiatives are being developed and implemented pretty evenly throughout the country.
So I think on the margin it’s more of the economy as well as the execution.
The good news is we’re having success in all of our markets right now.
I was just trying to bring some color to everything that you read and we tend to - questions we tend to get on these calls as – is it as competitive – is it more competitive and we think it's just as competitive as it’s been quite some time.
We just happen to believe that there is two or three markets that are a little bit more favorable I guess in terms of underlying economics and consumer outlook.
Lastly in talking about the US Foods merger and the FTC review you did use the word solution which implies you're working on addressing a concern.
If there's any other color you can give us there or are you considering divestitures or was that always part of the plan? Well I think you have to go back to where we were.
So I would just say this – we are at a point now where we’re certainly talking to the right people.
We’re having the right conversations and it's taking longer than what we originally projected.
With that said we really had never been through anything like this before.
So it's really hard to get to toward – too concerned about that aspect of it.
I will go back to the comments I made when we announced the deal back in December 9.
We think the strategic value of this opportunity is significant.
We think it's very pro-competitive.
We think it’s going to be very good for our customers over time.
We certainly think there is complexity to it and we need to get a good return on it.
And as we said on previous called since then we have shared a lot of information with the FTC we've had a lot of meetings with the FTC and I think they are up to speed now in this industry it’s taken some sometime it's an industry where as you know there's not a lot of other public players really other than us currently so it’s just taking more time and we thought to I think give the information to the FTC get it digested and begin to having these conversations.
So bottom line we’re looking for a successful outlook.
We are looking for a solution .We just think at this point it’s going to take longer than we originally projected.
And we will take our next question from Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
I had a variation of some of the questions asked earlier on how you're managing your gross margin so well with this level of inflation.
I think if your cost of goods is going up and you're passing along the higher food costs the gross margin percentage should still decrease even with higher gross profit dollars at least that's the way the math is supposed to work.
So can you comment if you're getting any unusual support from the vendor community that's helping you out? Is there anything else that might be driving the gross margin trends such as incremental vendor support that's on top of the cost savings initiatives that you talked about earlier? Yeah Ajay I think as we discussed on the last two or three calls I would agree with your first point that when you have significant inflation especially in the categories we called out here you’re looking at double-digit inflation for at least the last couple quarters meat seafood and dairy.
You generally cannot pass that along as fast as you’d like and frankly in many instances it's not even appropriate to do that.
So I will go back to something we’ve been doing for years and we work with our customers we work with them on their menus we look at alternative products that would make their offerings in their item selection and their menus more attractive.
And we do that through our product specialists or company chefs and obviously through our marketing associates and our counter executives.
So we do all those things.
So it is harder to pass it along and that's why I was referring to earlier I think it remains very competitive from a pricing standpoint on the street.
There's nothing special going on with vendor support.
What I was speaking to a couple other times is when we say that we believe the category management is beginning to deliver the results that we projected for it that does play out on the cost of goods side.
When you are able to form some strategic partners with your suppliers and as you get deeper into the category launches and you begin to execute those throughout the enterprise it takes months to really cycle through all that but that does translate into savings and that I think that's what you're seeing is where we are buying better but nothing other than the fact that the process for category management is beginning to mature.
Okay thank you.
And I don't expect you to respond further to potential FTC issues but I wanted to see if you can comment on one practical aspect of any divestitures you might need to make.
So specifically for some of the national accounts that are currently handled by Sysco or US Foods if there is a change of control on some Broadline facilities that you might need to divest how would you deal with the issue of those national accounts and who's going to supply them under a change of control for any regional Broadline facilities? As you say we’re not going to comment on that.
It’s all part of it.
That discussion Ajay is all part of the process.
Okay thanks.
If I could just ask one final question you talked about higher corporate and payroll expenses but can you comment on the level of integration and planning costs we should assume going forward? Does that spending moderate or could it potentially be higher over the balance of the year based on how you're allocating those costs? – Good question.
What I said earlier was I don't know that we will be running at the same intensity that we we've done over the last 10 months.
I'm not going to sit here and expect them to moderate or diminish significantly but I think we’re probably seeing a peak and we’re probably going to be flat to moderately down.
I'm saying that without actually having a forecast in front of me but I don't anticipate any new significant expenditures in the way of merger integration expenses other than some of the ones we called out in terms of interest expense and things like that which will continue to account to the certain item until we close.
And we will take our next question from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
I have two questions please.
First you mentioned in your prepared remarks turnover and shortages related to your delivery drivers I assume.
Is that fixable with compensation is there anything else to kind of understand why you are seeing a pickup in turnover there? In other words is it something that you can reverse or has the market for these individuals gotten that much more competitive? John Bill I think it's fixable in most markets.
I think there’s things that as we brought in some of our talent acquisition to work in the more central locations it’s taken us some time as an organization to adjust just to see how that works between the OpCo and the shared services groups.
So we've had some challenges out there and we have addressed those.
I would expect from that standpoint things will get better.
With that said there's a handful of markets just because of the underlying economy and in particular drilling where it’s very difficult to compete for drivers – nationally there is a shortage of drivers.
So I think it’s all manageable it’s just harder to manage today than what it’s ben and I would expect that you'll see an improvement there over the 6 to 12 months.
And secondly just a question on the restaurant industry.
We did see – I am really talking about the casual dining data but I think this is true for QSR in general as well -- a pickup in August September even into October especially relative to July and July being I think the highest volume month in the quarter which was actually the lowest month in the quarter on a year-on-year basis.
Is that kind of what you're seeing in the broader data as well like in other words July was the low point in the quarter and that’s since picked up or could you comment a little bit more in the industry? I actually don't know that I've seen that.
My sense at least from for example some of the feedback we get in surveys from operators is that July and August were stronger and September they weren't as you said about what was going on in the business and maybe their outlook.
It's still good.
The metrics we're looking at people are still reasonably optimistic of the operators going forward but my sense is actually it was stronger earlier in the summer than in September.
And we will take our next question from Vincent Sinisi with Morgan Stanley.
Hi this is Andrew Rubin on for Vinnie.
You just touched upon it a bit but I was wondering if you could talk about your sales cadence for the quarter if there were any trends in that? In terms of with the hiring increases if that started to flow through on the sales side or generally the timing until you see that start to flow through? I am sorry the part of the question? Just sales cadence through the quarter if there's anything to call out.
Sales gains? Cadence.
If it was stronger in any one month or accelerating decelerating? I think you’re going back to John's question -- again I am trying to make distinctions here where at least the data we see is not that distinguishable.
So no I would say the cadence obviously was good.
It’s hard to pin down week to week but I think the biggest thing as we look at our numbers is just the inflation stayed strong in those categories throughout the quarter.
But we saw growth throughout each month and as we said we’re seeing bulk on the locally managed and corporate management side of the business.
So I wouldn’t say there's anything overly dramatic or material that would separate one part of the quarter from the quarter.
The second part of your question I think was around – was it a impact from the hiring of MA and I think it’s – Bill obviously will jump in here – it takes a while before newly hired MAs trainees as we call them begin to have an impact on your sales volume.
So MAs that we hired 6 9 months ago will start having an impact but those that we’ve hired in the last quarter or two really aren’t driving that sales volume yet.
I think that’s right.
I think what is helping – what I also alluded to earlier is the fact that we’re 9 to 12 months past these territory reductions.
So there’s just more stability in sales force right now we’re getting better at implementing these initiatives.
I think our sales force and sales management team are in a better place in terms of just the day to day aspect of the business.
Okay thank you.
That's helpful.
And then just to touch on the inflation side with this coming in a little higher for the quarter has your outlook changed in terms of what you're potentially seeing for when this may moderate or inflation outlook for the rest of the year? I think it’s going to be with us for a while.
Dairy is a category that – it’s not quite like – but dairy tends to go up and down a little faster than the others But from what we read here certainly in the meat side of the business we expect to continue to see inflation there for the next several months probably.
So right now I don’t tend to go out too far with my thinking here but I would think over the next six months could migrate a little bit at some point but I think we’re going to still have a fair amount of inflation.
And we would like to thank everyone for their participation on today's conference.
That does conclude our call.
Please have a great day.
Please standby.
Good morning.
And welcome to Sysco Second Quarter Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
We will begin today’s call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would like to turn the call over to Shannon Mutschler Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to Sysco’s second quarter fiscal 2015 earnings call.
Today you’ll hear prepared remarks from Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company’s or management’s intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially.
Additional information about factors that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company’s SEC filings.
This includes but is not limited to risk factors contained in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 28 2014 subsequent SEC filings and in the news release issued earlier this morning.
A copy of these materials can be found in the Investors section at sysco.com or via Sysco IR app.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in our presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation and can be also found in the Investors section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volume include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
To ensure that we have sufficient time to answer all questions today we’d like to ask each participant to limit their time today to one question and one follow-up.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney.
Thank you Shannon and hello everyone and thank you all for joining us today.
This morning Sysco reported second quarter fiscal 2015 financial results.
Sales increased nearly 8% to $12.1 billion and adjusted net earnings increased 6% to $245 million.
Adjusted EPS increased 5% to $0.41 for the quarter.
Our second quarter financial results were generally in line with our expectations as we delivered another quarter of solid operating performance.
Most important our associates remained highly focused on providing excellent service to our customers in what remains an extremely competitive market environment.
We generated nearly 4% case volume growth during the quarter and effectively managed acute inflationary pressures in our meat and dairy categories.
Specifically case growth trends in our locally managed Broadline business were favorable in most of the geographic markets we serve.
In addition we generated solid case growth once again with our corporate managed customers in the restaurant and travel and leisure segments.
Our performance during the quarter was due in part to the benefits we realized from our portfolio of business transformation initiatives especially category management.
As our ability to effectively integrate these initiatives in our steady-state operating activities has improved consistently over time.
While we are pleased with our overall performance during the quarter we did fall short of our expense management targets.
Expense increases were driven primarily by higher incentive accruals selling cost and delivery cost.
Excluding certain items and the unfavorable impact of incentive accruals operating expenses increased 4%.
As I’ve mentioned previously Sysco’s single largest opportunity for improvement remains more consistent execution across the organization.
We are implementing tools to provide increased visibility to key performance metrics as well as improved best practices.
While we are seeing some level of improvement in this area and believe we are on the right path we have more work to do.
Regarding overall industry trends current restaurant data shows modest signs of gradual improvement.
NPD which tracks restaurant trends recently reported positive traffic growth in the mid-scale and casual dining sectors for the first time since 2008.
This is encouraging news as the casual dining sector includes a significant number of independent restaurant customers for whom we provide substantial value-added products and services.
In addition consumer confidence and employment metrics are for the most part showing improvement.
We are hopeful lower fuel prices will further improve the customers -- the consumer outlook and lead to sustainable increase traffic and spend for our customer base.
We remain intently focused on enhancing every aspect of our business.
So that we are able to better support our customers operate more efficiently and compete more effectively.
Benefits from our category management initiative continued to gain momentum.
We expect that all categories representing approximately $15 billion in annual spend will be launched into the market by the end of this fiscal year and that we will achieve the three-year cost savings target that we established prior to the start of fiscal 2013.
In addition we are working with our suppliers in a more strategic and effective way that we believe provides a meaningful platform for growth and innovation in our respective businesses.
Turning to an update in our technology initiatives we continue our merger integration planning with regards to technology and have begun certain fundamental projects necessary for integration.
As we move forward in deploying our ERP platform our approaches continue to evolve.
For instance we have focused on broad implementations at the operating companies for several years with a plan to convert the hub where our shared business services facility last.
However we have found that this created inefficiencies at SBS that would make further rollouts challenging.
Thus we are now moving forward with the rollout of SAP financial modules for general ledger accounts payable and accounts receivable as well as additional elements of the HR module all of which are intended to make SBS more effectively in the near-term and make future ERP conversions at the operating companies relatively easier.
While focusing on operational excellence is a key area for us we also have important work underway to identify new markets with opportunity for profitable growth.
As we discussed last quarter we’ve developed a robust approach to serve the fast-growing Hispanic restaurant sector.
We estimate that we have 10% to 15% of this $10 billion foodservice market and believe we have a significant opportunity to better serve these customers and grow our sales.
We made additional strides of this effort recently with the launch of our new multi-lingual website dedicated to support customers in this segment.
The site includes news tips menu ideas and trend data intended to help Hispanic operators drive restaurant traffic improve their operations and better address their customer's evolving needs.
I’m extremely proud of the efforts and accomplishments of our leadership team over the last several months.
As we announced last August Mike Green retired from Sysco at the end of the calendar -- at the end of the calendar year after 24 years of distinguished service.
On January 1st Tom Bene became Executive Vice President and President Food Service Operations succeeding Mike.
Tom reports to me and has responsibility for all business operations sales merchandising marketing and revenue management.
Tom is a proven commercial leader with deep expertise and a strong track record in the food service industry.
Since joining Sysco early in 2013 he has helped drive major advances in category management revenue management sales capability and customer insights from segmentation.
We’re fortunate to have such a capable leader to succeed Mike.
In addition and also effective January 1 2015 Scott Charlton Senior Vice President Distribution Services now reports to me in an expanded role.
Scott leads end-to-end supply chain operations including warehousing inbound and outbound transportation and replenishment.
Scott joined Sysco in 2013 as well and brings great energy and expertise to our senior leadership team.
Turning to an update on our proposed merger with the US Foods.
Over the past 12 months we have worked in good faith with the FTC providing millions of pages of documents and explaining to them our industry and the merits of our proposed merger.
We strongly believe that the combination of Sysco and US Foods will promote competition in where it's already a highly competitive industry by positioning us to provide significant value to our customers including lower cost.
Unfortunately the FTC has taken a different view of the potential competitive impacts of the merger.
While we respectfully but vigorously disagree with the FTC’s analysis we announced today a substantial divestiture package that we believe fully addresses their concerns.
At this time the FTC has not agreed to this solution.
So we will now present our position including this proposed remedy to the five FTC commissioners and seek to obtain their approval.
We remain convinced that the proposed transaction is good for our customers our associates and our shareholders.
In closing I'm pleased with our operating performance through the first half of our fiscal year.
Case growth and sales growth were up 3% and 7% respectively while adjusted operating income and EPS grew at a rate of 5% and 6% respectively.
In addition many of our strategic business initiatives are gaining traction and contributing to these results.
As we move forward into the remainder of our fiscal year we are committed to improving the consistency of our operational execution successfully rolling out our portfolio of initiatives and further developing our plans to integrate Sysco and US Foods.
This is a critical time in our history and we believe the strategic actions we're taking are vital to both strengthening our customer relationships and providing solid returns to our shareholders over the long term.
Now I’ll turn things over to Chris so he could provide additional details on our financial results for the second quarter as well as the agreement we announced this morning with Performance Food Group.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the second quarter sales were $12.1 billion an increase of 7.6% compared to prior year.
Food cost inflation was 6% driven mainly by double-digit inflation in the meat and dairy categories.
Sales from acquisitions increased sales by 0.8% and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rate decreased sales by 0.9%.
Case volume grew 3.6% during the quarter including acquisitions and approximately 3.3% excluding acquisitions.
Gross profit in the second quarter was $2.1 billion a 6.1% increase.
And gross margin declined 23 basis points to 17.25%.
Benefits from category management contributed to our gross profit performance during the quarter.
In addition case volume growth advanced from the prior quarter and this increased demand aiding gross profit performance.
In our higher margin locally managed Broadline business case volume growth remained relatively steady and accelerated with our corporate managed customers.
Certain items for the quarter totaled $133 million and primarily related to merger and integration planning expenses.
Of this amount $81 million was recorded in operating expense and $52 million was recorded in interest expense.
Merger and integration planning expenses that impacted operating expense were associated with professional fees to assist us in managing integration planning as well as the legal and IT related projects.
Work-related integration planning peaked in the second quarter and costs related to these efforts should decline going forward.
Merger and integration expenses that impacted interest expense relate to the debt issuance during the quarter that is intended to finance US Foods debt upon closing of the merger.
We're trading this interest expense of this certain item until the merger closes.
After excluding certain items adjusted operating expense for the quarter increased $108 million or 6.8% compared to the prior year period.
This increase was driven by $115 million increase in payroll expense resulting from several factors.
First during last year second quarter we reduced certain management incentive accruals based on our performance versus our objectives at that time.
And this year’s second quarter these same incentives are generally accrued at higher amounts reflecting the impact of our recent performance and causing a year-over-year variance of $41 million.
Excluding this year-over-year difference in incentive accruals adjusted operating expenses would have increased only 4.2%.
Second pay to our sales organization was higher as a result of growth in gross profit dollars.
These are costs we would expect to see given our performance for the quarter.
Sales cost also increased although to a lesser extent as a result of hiring additional marketing associates over the last year.
As we discussed last quarter some of this increase in MAs is related to normal hiring to replace attrition and support growth.
However certain markets added MAs because they lost more than they planned when we implemented our sales reorganization a couple of years ago.
As a reminder it takes roughly 18 months for an MA to be fully productive.
Third as we’ve discussed in prior quarters we continue to experience higher delivery costs in our Broadline operations.
As Bill mentioned we have a number of initiatives that are in various stages of implementation that we anticipate will help to reduce these costs and increase productivity to mitigate these increases.
And lastly payroll increased due to the newly acquired operations including Metropolitan Poultry the joint venture in Costa Rica we entered into last fiscal year and Iowa Premium Beef.
Adjusted operating income for the quarter was $396 million up 3.1% for the prior year and adjusted operating margin was 3.3% down 14 basis points from last year.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter was 33.1% compared to 35.4% in the prior year period.
The majority of this change is the result of reduced state taxes from legal restructuring as well as a growing base of business in international jurisdictions that have lower tax rate.
Adjusted net earnings increased 5.5% to $245 million and adjusted EPS increased 5.1% to $0.41.
Turning to cash flow cash flow from operations declined $6 million to $452 million for the first half of the fiscal year.
Cash flow from operations was negatively impacted by two items.
First the cash impact of certain items increased $96 million year-over-year mainly due to merger and integration planning expenses.
Second we made a $50 million pension contribution in the first half of this year compared to none in the prior year period.
This difference is simply driven by different timing regarding when we make cash contribution each year.
With respect to working capital our usage increased year-over-year mainly due to an increase in sales and inventory driven by increased inflation and case growth.
Cash tax payments for the first half of the fiscal year were $179 million lower than last year due to a lower effective tax rate which I discussed a moment ago and merger and integration planning expenses that reduced the taxable earnings.
Capital expenditures net of proceeds from sales of assets totaled $296 million for the first half of the fiscal year compared to $247 million last year.
Roughly half of the $49 million year-over-year increase is due to the timing of investments in our fleet with remainder coming from IT projects that are related to integration planning.
Free cash flow was $157 million in the first half of this fiscal year compared to $211 million in the prior year period.
These results include the $96 million increase in the cash impact of certain items to cash flows from operations and the $50 million increase in pension contributions I mentioned earlier as well as a $16 million increase in capital spending related to merger integration.
After adjusting for these items free cash flow was $324 million or an increase of $107 million.
As we discussed last quarter in October we issued $5 billion in debt the proceeds of the offering are unintended to fund the various elements of US Foods’ transaction.
As we closed on the new debt issuance we simultaneously terminated both the bridge facility and the related free issuance hedges both of which were put in place as part of the financing strategy for the merger.
Following the unwinding of the hedges we paid $59 million in September to settle that hedge against our 10-year note issuance.
In October we paid a $130 million to settle the hedge against our third-year debt issuance which is shown as the financing activities in our cash flow statement in the second fiscal quarter.
The financial impact of the unwind of the hedges will be amortized into earnings over 10 years and 30 years respectively.
Regarding our outlook into the third quarter and the remainder at the year there were several additional items I’d like to point out.
First as discussed on the last quarter’s call we continued to implement our category management initiative as planned and are pleased with the progress we’ve made in integrating this approach to our business.
A favorable year-over-year impact has been meaningful to our performance over the last three quarters but we expect it will begin to moderate in the fourth quarter.
Second regarding cost per case in our North American Broadline business we had communicated in the last quarter that we expect that it would be difficult to meet our objective of keeping cost per case flat year-over-year.
For the first half of the year cost per case increased $0.10.
While we expect year-over-year cost increases to moderate in the second half of the year we no longer expect cost per case to be flat for the full year.
Instead we now anticipate an increase of approximately $0.05 to $0.10 for the fiscal year.
Third with regard to fuel expense we have been evaluating the impact on our business of the recent decline in crude prices.
While diesel prices have declined more than 20% over the course of the fiscal year our program of entering into forward fuel purchase contracts smoothes the impact of price changes over time.
As a result we did not have a material change in fuel expense in the second quarter or first half of this fiscal year.
However we do expect a roughly $15 million decline in fuel expense over the second half of the fiscal year.
This modest projected benefit will likely be offset to some degree by lower fuel surcharges.
Fourth as a reminder we continue to expect to report approximately $40 million in incremental merger related interest expense per quarter which we will exclude from our adjusted numbers until the close of the merger.
And finally I wanted to speak for a moment about our outlook for share repurchases.
Our approach to repurchases for the last several years has been to buyback shares throughout the year with the goal of keeping shares outstanding relatively constant.
However during this fiscal year we have not been in the market buying shares due to the pending merger.
This is half the effect of increasing our shares outstanding in the first half of the fiscal year due to the exercise of employees’ stock options and RSU grants.
We are not prepared to comment about if or when we may resume buying back shares.
However if we bought no shares for the remainder of the year we estimate that our diluted shares outstanding may be greater than $597 million shares for the fiscal year.
This estimate is dependent on the level of stock exercises that occur and does not include the impact of the shares to be issued in conjunction with the proposed US Foods merger.
Turning to an update on our proposed merger with US Foods we believe that the divestiture agreement we announced today fully addresses the FTC’s concerns.
Upon closing of the Sysco- US Foods merger this definitive agreement will include selling 11 US Foods operating locations representing $4.6 billion in annual sales to Performance Food Group.
Sysco would receive $850 million in cash in return from PFG.
The divested markets will expand Performance Food Group's geographic footprint in the U.S.
and enable it to compete more effectively for both larger and smaller customers.
The divested locations are Corona California; Denver Colorado; Kansas City Kansas; Phoenix Arizona; Salt Lake City Utah; San Diego California; San Francisco California; Seattle Washington; Cleveland Ohio; Las Vegas Nevada and Minneapolis Minnesota.
In addition Sysco and Performance Food Group have signed a multi-year transition services agreement to ensure a smooth transfer of assets from US Foods to Performance Food Group.
As PSA provides various support services and personnel to help Performance Food Group succeed as the new business owner in these locations.
Clearly this development has implications for our synergy expectations.
It’s important to remember that integration planning work has been underway over the past year which has enabled us to refine and enhance our confidence in our synergy estimates.
As a direct result of this work we determine that growth synergies related to the transaction were substantially higher than previous estimates.
After reducing our revised synergy estimates to reflect the facilities to be divested we now expect net annualized operating synergies to be at least $600 million after four years.
Our current expectation is that operating synergies will begin to accumulate in year two following the close of the transaction.
In addition to operating synergies there were substantial financial synergies related to the transaction including interest savings totaling approximately $150 million annually and cash tax savings from the realization of acquired NOLs totaling approximately $150 million.
We expect to realize both of these financial synergies in the first year following the close of the transaction.
We have also updated our expectations regarding the cost to integrate the two companies.
We continue to expect that incremental merger expenses will total approximately $700 million to $800 million over four years.
In addition we expect the incremental capital spend to require to integrate with total approximately $300 million to $400 million over four years.
Now while the actual gross cost to integrate will be higher than those incremental costs I just mentioned we expect to fund a portion of these costs from our current operating and capital expense run rates.
We now expect the transaction to be accretive in the second year following the close of the transaction excluding cost to integrate the company and deal-related amortization.
And with that operator we will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Karen Short with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
So just to focus on the transaction a little bit.
I mean maybe can you give some color on where you think the issues are with the FTC in terms of you both not being in agreement? And then maybe follow-up just some color on the facilities that are being divested the customer type EBITDA associated with the facilities things like that? Good morning Karen.
I will start and I don’t know how far Chris can go with that second part but I will give a shot at that.
One of the things we want to be carefully of this one is that we don’t want to be in a position where we’re trying to articulate a point of view with the FTC.
They will have plenty of opportunity to do that.
So what I would say is a good a very high percentage of the conversation over the last several weeks and really months has been around their concern of -- they believe that there is a national market.
They believe that there are customers out there that will only buy from distributors who have a national footprint.
We disagree with that.
We see and live that every day where customers -- some of these larger customers will buy from multiple distributors they might buy from regionals or multi-regionals they may buy from us and/or US or PFG and they obviously buy from specialty firms.
Some may buy from only a few of us.
Some may actually put most of their business with one or two of us.
But our point of view is that when we compete for that business we are competing not just with US Food and PFG but DMA but with a lot of regionals who are now multi-regionals.
And even in the situation where certain customers will work with a fewer number of distributors that opportunity to work with more is always in the room when you are negotiation our peer new business.
So I think again I can’t make their case for them but I think that’s been where we spent a lot of the time in the conversation of how we address their concerns about how these customers continue to get good service and appropriate pricing.
And that is why we ultimately even though we disagree with the position we are willing to put forth the divestiture package which we believe from our perspective based on our knowledge of the business our knowledge of the competitive landscape should allow PFG to go out and compete very well in the way that the FTC would hope.
So that’s my best way of describing it today.
As we've said we will have some more opportunity to speak with the FTC and the five commissioners here over the next week or two and I am sure there will be more information coming out of those meetings.
Okay.
And can you provide us with any color on the customer types of those facilities and EBITDA dollars? And I guess just a follow-on on that.
In terms of the synergy number is the $600 million synergy does that actually include any operating profits associated with the TSA PFG? So on the first part of your question Karen I am not going to get into the detail of facilities or the EBITDA the package but I will generally say because I think it addresses what you’re trying to get out there that it is a representative package if you will of US Foods.
I don’t think there is a disproportionate amount higher or lower of EBITDA or disproportionate type of customer services out of these facilities than US Food as a whole.
That is generally correct but I am going to leave it there just in terms of describing these package of facilities.
I am sorry.
Remind me the other part of your question please? Well the $600 million I mean you obviously said during this whole integration process you’ve identified additional synergies but you’re very comfortable with the $600 million that you originally put out there? I am just wondering if the $600 million includes operating.
I’d assume there is operating profit associated with the TSA with PFG does that $600 million include? No it doesn’t include any operating profit associated with the TSA.
TSAs typically are constructed so that you’re reimbursed for your costs you don’t technically make any money.
If you do it’s very small amounts of money but the way these things are constructed you usually just reimburse for your expenses.
Great.
Thanks.
We will move on to our next question from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
So just a few questions on the -- right on the transaction the $600 million that does not include any financial synergies correct? Number two when you found incremental synergies right beyond what you’re thinking before is that more buckets that you hadn’t anticipated or buckets that are just bigger? And if there are buckets that are bigger what might one or two of those buckets be? And then lastly I assume all other terms of the purchase on your end remain the same that none of that has changed that’s it? Okay.
John if I can I will take those in reverse order.
Yes sure.
Yes nothing changes in the transaction that we had negotiated with US Foods.
That remains the same in all aspects.
You are correct on the first question you asked.
The financial synergies I described which the two biggest ones are interest savings over the two combined pro formas and the use of the NOLs those are not included in the $600 million.
Financial synergies we expect to achieve in the first year after closing the operational synergies we expect to start occurring in the second year after closing.
And then the middle question there really around where we would find the additional synergies? When we put our first synergy number out on the table I feel like I have to keep reminding ourselves as well as everybody else it was with essentially publicly available information.
We didn’t have a lot of additional information.
We had some experience at Sysco dealing with some of these buckets of opportunities.
We had done some category management work.
We have done route optimization.
And so we knew that this is what we’ve been able to do what can we do if you can buy and then we made some assumptions.
And we made prudent assumptions but not overly really aggressive.
We are going to be candid about that.
As we’ve learned a lot more about this I would say every bucket probably increase in size certainly around merchandising and supply chain it will say inbound and outbound delivery transportation.
Those buckets got quite a lot larger.
So we’ve found it across the board but in certain places we found more.
And so we rebuilt synergies from the bottom up using more information through our integration planning efforts.
There is still a lot of information we are not allowed to have access to and we are abiding by all those rules.
So we expect that when we eventually close and we get access to some additional information we will true this up again.
But we’ve made pretty good assumptions and we are still being what I would call prudent.
We are not being overly aggressive or overly conservative.
All right.
And then lastly you talked about wanting to sort of tighten up expense control where are the biggest opportunities? And then secondly is that something that can be done while you are in the early stages of doing the US Food integration or is that something that has to come later? John I will start there as well.
I think in terms of the biggest opportunities they are generally always going to be on the operational side.
So some of our G&amp;A costs are up this year a fair amount of that was planned some of the work we are doing with these initiatives in the technology area.
Our selling costs are up a little more than we planned but our gross profit is higher.
So that one doesn’t concern me as much.
That takes you to the supply chain operations and we’ve just got more work to do there in terms of improving our productivity at a rate commensurate with where our costs go up.
And we tend to be very good in this area but we’ve got a lot of initiatives going on in this area as well.
I’ve mentioned Scott and he has been with us a couple of years.
And with our new enterprise structure his functional group working hand in hand with our operating company leadership to basically strike the right balance between what we need to do support our customers each and every day but also putting better and more consistent best practices monitor them better get our compensation schemes in line with our productivity.
So a lot of work to be done in that area and more to do but I would say that’s what the biggest opportunity is.
As far as the merger I would say on the merger Chris talked to this.
And I let him address it again.
I think we’re seeing opportunities through these synergies to do better.
The challenge there will be to do what we’ve done a nice job so far.
I mean so far when you hear me speak we’d be really proud as management team and frankly all of our folks.
We’ve done a nice job of being able to separate all the work and all the hours and the pressure is going on with the integration planning and still be able to run our business pretty well.
So that’s the biggest challenge I see post close here as to -- continue to run these businesses but drive out at that point of synergies.
So I think when we get to that point we’ll talk to you more and we’ll have to come up with some ways to speak to how we’re making progress here and still making sure we’re shipping groceries in the right way to our customers.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question will come from Greg Badishkanian from Citi.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is actually Fred Wightman on for Greg.
Last quarter you guys mentioned that there were some labor shortages in delivery drivers has that situation abated? And are you guys seeing any other pockets of labor pressure? Good morning.
We did speak to that.
We still have some of those situations.
It’s abated some.
The source of that is really two-fold one over the last few years -- we will see what the next few months bring with the price of oil but over the last few years several of our markets are very much energy driven or intensive.
There is a lot of good jobs out there on the energy side.
Some of those jobs are very competitive or more competitive in terms of lifestyle and wages to what we offer.
And so in those markets where energy has been strong we struggled to some extent too early to tell if that’s going to abate.
The other part quite candidly is we’ve had some internal issues in certain markets where as we’ve centralized some of our hiring practices and begun to coordinate that process between the OpCo and our SBS center.
Certainly we went pretty fast and aggressively and there were some markets where we didn't execute as well we should have.
So we're also catching up in those areas.
So there is still a handful out there too that we have some issues but it has abated and I would expect it to continue to improve.
And then you briefly mentioned this in your response to the last question but you mentioned that some geographies were performing better than others? Have you seen that trend become more pronounced especially in some of these oil producing regions? I’d say it’s pretty pronounced in Southwest and we’re seeing that for several quarters now.
I would also tell you -- interesting right now when we look at the numbers up December January or early February if you recall we had some really severe weather last year when we had -- we’re getting more weather now over the last week or two.
As you look at the markets you can kind of see where the weather impacted last year and whether weather didn’t impact last year.
So I would say the Southwest and the West Coast in particular were doing well.
It’s hard to tell how much of that is the market and how much of that is our leadership in those markets but those two in particular.
And right now looks like quarter is off to a pretty good start in terms of their season.
Moving on we’ll take Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just wanted to check Chris on moving the accretion to your two -- what that means for dilution in year one? I don’t know if you saw but I did put on my own estimate around $0.15 if you divested $5 billion of US Foods service assets and I just used value as I think suggested just their average blended operating margin.
Just would like to know if you think that’s at least in the ballpark in terms of reasonableness? Andrew I would -- I have to be very careful to comment about your own estimates and your own modeling so apologies for that.
But look originally we believe based upon initial modeling that we thought it would be accretive in year one as we have refined all of our estimates not just the numbers but the timing of the numbers and then overlaid the divestitures we think its year two that is accretive.
Frankly I’m not prepared to talk about year one dilution or anything yet.
We’ve got more work that we need to do to pin that down.
So best I can tell you is we’ve shifted some stuff based upon when we think we’re going to be rolling certain initiatives and where -- how we think we’re going to go after some of the synergies and that’s affected our -- when we’re going to achieve accretion.
But I mean you would as well as the divestures I mean clearly your … Yes.
…selling them below what you’re paying for? Okay.
Yes.
Just wanted to ask a procedural question on the FTC I think it’s all implied but I just want to make sure I understand it.
It sounds -- so you secured agreements from the commissioners to meet with them the five commissioners and to make your case? And does that been -- have they then agreed to vote what they want to conduct their vote at that point once you've done in the next few weeks meeting with them or the next couple weeks? Look Andy I think there is one thing I think at this point of the FTC we do agree on is that its time to move this process forward.
And we have plenty of time to talk and educate and listen and negotiate or whatever.
So what we’re at is they basically signal to us that it’s time to meet with the commissioners and so we’re preparing to do that.
And of course along the way since they’ve signaled for quite time their concern.
They’ve articulated earlier we’ve had parallel discussions with PFG.
And so we’re able to poll that agreement together here over the weekend.
We just fell it would be in everyone's best interest including our customers and our associates to kind of have better knowledge of what’s really going on.
There has been a lot of weeks so we just fell it made a lot of sense.
If we’re going to visit with the commissioners to have this agreement in place so that we can look them in the eye and tell them exactly what we are prepared to do and there is no uncertainty in terms of our ability to do it.
So that’s a little color I guess from my end.
Chris you want to add anything on process? Actually I think that covers it well.
One thing probably I’m going to speak a lot to is what happened after we meet with the commissioners.
There is nothing defined at that point.
That is the next step that’s what we’re talking about and it’s hard to talk half that point but that’s what we are.
Its time to move this thing forward as Bill said.
And just one other thing on this the deal on talking with the commissioners.
Now the PFG deal is it -- how would you think of your sense of how the commissioners view that deal as it stands? You think it’s ambiguous.
Have they signaled that that is not enough that could be enough or is it I guess that’s what you’re going to discover.
How should we think about whether the deal you struck with PFG is going to way with the FTC commissioner? I think you should look at it from the perspective of what we’re saying which is we’ve had a lot of time and a lot of opportunity to have discussions with the FTC and as well as address remedies to concerns that they have which we don’t share but which we certainly want to address because it’s disruptive type business it’s disruptive to the business that we are acquiring and it’s disruptive to our customers.
So we are trying to find a remedy here and obviously they haven’t agreed anything at this point.
So I think it will be determined.
Okay.
Can I just ask one another just a number question on the adjustment statement? The $78 million in merger integration costs this quarter was about $40.5 million last quarter and talking about the last quarter was mainly consultants.
Chris you might have talked about this maybe I didn’t understand it.
But what is the majority of that stuff up in the merger spending? Yeah.
It is mainly consultants yeah.
But that’s majority of that $78 million is what we call professional fees for outside consultants that are helping us.
Some of the uptick came from legal from the fact that we have started some foundational IT projects that are going to be necessary for integration so some of that stuff kicked in to the quarter.
As we also said though our merger integration planning it’s -- I think the word we use and it’s probably the word a peak.
It will be coming down from there and so that’s what we work for the quarter.
Okay.
Thank you and good luck with everything.
Thank you.
Thanks Andy.
Meredith Adler with Barclays has our next question.
Very informative.
I’ll actually go back and talk a little bit about operations and just want to understand.
You had 6% food inflation and when you do the simple math you wouldn’t end up with volume growth of 3.3%.
But obviously what that means is that you have the inflation but your sales didn’t go up necessarily by 6% because of inflation.
Is that right? As you’ve stated that’s right.
Is this -- is the question why? Well I may guess that the assumption then would be that you are still having trouble passing a long inflation? I think there is many of reasons Meredith.
I think some of it is mix right.
So lot of inflation is in this higher dollar cost boxes of meat and dairy this last quarter.
So it’s partially mix.
It’s certainly is partially as I’ve talked in the past alone to your point.
So one of the things we do with customers continually especially now is to try to listen to them understand what their needs are understand where they are going with their menu.
And if there is some more cost effective ways for them to buy from us and to still position their menu advantage is where and that’s what we do.
So if they can offer more poultry dishes or other types of ally card items that is the plan maybe what they’ve formally done with cheese or with beef then there is some of that going on as well.
I mean our case growth still is very good in these inflationary categories I think it’s the mix I think it’s -- trying to find the right price point if you will for our customers.
And I think it is hard to imagine inflation but our point is we’ve been doing a better job of it here over the last year or two.
And I think category management speed is beginning to help also and some of our other initiatives in terms of product training in terms of our sales people being able to sit down have good propel conversations with our customers.
So it’s a lot of things but probably mix would be as big as any.
And those comments about mix is it fair to assume that the category management process has come up with -- I won’t say identical but similar kinds of things? I mean you’ve said in the past that it’s not just about reducing SKUs.
So category management is about helping the customer buy better items or more cost effective items? No not exactly what we -- the goal is with category management is to help our customers and ourselves frankly optimize -- in our case optimize their SKUs over time There is plenty of work still to be down there help them use those products that we are bringing to them to augment their menu in the right way maybe changing up a bit makes sense.
But for both of us to make commitments for the customer to commit with us and for us to commit with our suppliers to take cost out of the system and to be able to buy these products better and to realize those savings both on Sysco’s bottom line as well as the bottom line.
And I think we are starting to see nice traction there on that part of it.
Longer-term we as an opportunity to really differentiate ourselves in the marketplace with expanded product lines maybe broader not as deep perhaps in some of the SKUs they don’t move as fast where we can have more customize offerings to customers as we better understand their needs and better understand the process.
And then also use this platform to bring more innovation to the offering.
So in the short-term I would look at it as an opportunity to partner more strategically with our customers buy more efficiently and to pass some of those savings along to the customer base.
And for both of us to optimize our SKUs with the long-term goal of being able to really bring more innovation and more differentiation to the product line.
That’s very helpful.
And then just one quick question maybe for Chris about fuel surcharges.
Can you say how much of the cost -- it’s hard because you’ve been hedged but if you give up the fuel surcharges how much does that offset the benefit of lower fuel prices? Yeah.
Let me come at that from this direction.
First I mean fuel charges are a bit different when you think about it with our larger customers and our smaller customers.
With larger customers we may have contracts that are pegged to certain fuel price.
They may go up they may go down.
They last for periods of time.
That’s not something that you just “give up” because they were structured into the cost structure of the contract.
Fuel surcharges on the street are different and obviously they can change on a daily weekly monthly basis.
So the concept of quote giving them up doesn’t -- it’s harder for me to address.
I will say this.
We look at fuel when we look at what’s happening to fuel.
We did not raise fuel surcharges when fuel prices started going up and that was kind of one of the luxuries of our forward buying strategy.
It gave us time to asses what was really going on before we needed to react.
Now that they are coming down we are looking at it actively to see what’s appropriate in the market and for our customers and we’ll continue to look at that.
But we wanted to flag is it’s a big story out there.
There is a reason why it doesn’t impact our fuel cost because of the way we smooth on an ongoing basis.
So it hasn’t in the first half we are flagging that it will to the extent at least to $15 million which is in our overall cost structure is a very small amount.
But that’s what we need to look at when we think about the fuel surcharges how much of that amount might need to be mitigated with adjustments to the surcharge.
Great.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll move on to Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Yeah.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Ed.
Two quick questions for you.
Chris just one follow-up on the $600 million in synergies.
Since -- ever since the deal was announced there was lots of talk around potential negative synergies from things that customer overlap.
I don't know to what extent you’ve had the ability to take a deeper look at that and maybe some color there would be good and also the $600 million net.
Does that basically contemplate any possible negative synergies as well? Yeah.
Look we continue to look at that.
Early on we obviously needed to make some assumptions just to figure out what we thought an appropriate what the return would be in whether it was an appropriate return to the amount of investments.
So we made some assumptions.
As we’ve gone toward the integration planning process we’ve continued to refine our thinking there and one thing I can tell you is there is no good science around predicting that.
I can make a guess you can make a guesses and we could be wildly different in our guesses.
And then secondly there is no real way to measure it even after the fact.
So what we’ve done instead is just try to get into what would cause a customer to want to leave and then what can we do reason by reason to medicate that risk.
And so we’ve spent an inordinate amount of time through all of our integration planning teams to go after those issues.
Everything that we are working on is based on the principle of we want to make this as at least disruptive to our customers as we possibly can our customer and US Food’s customers as we possibly can.
And so we are not spending a lot of time trying to estimate potential disruption or losses of customers.
We are spending all of our time trying to make sure that we know what might cause them to leave and how we’re going to address that right out of the box so they don’t leave.
Now to address your question we are calling these net operational synergies because we do believe it takes into account what we might see in the way of disruption.
But it’s our estimate and we frankly hope that we’re going to be wrong and it’s going to be better than that.
Okay.
Good.
Thank you.
And then my just one follow-up question here.
You’re growing gross profit dollar per case.
Again this is I think the fourth quarter now that we’ve seen it.
So it obviously speaks positively about the business speaks positively about the industry.
But I was curious about is how much of it is sort of internal initiatives things like category management versus just a better industry outlook as well? I was wondering if you could maybe help parse that out for us.
Great question hard to answer Ed.
I think we’re hopeful on the -- some of this positive consumer sentiment that’s been out there for a while begins to get to our customer base and that will translate into more industry growth.
Our quarterly numbers as you track them you see they have been float around between 2% and 3% here over the last few quarters.
We do have a positive growth for the locally managed customers now which we didn’t have a year ago.
So that’s a big part of it which coming back to mix and the different way customer mix.
We’ve spent as you can appreciate a lot of time and effort over the last 15 months with best practices and how to manage margin better and still effectively deliver customers need in terms of offerings.
But clearly the category management is driving a fair amount of it right now.
And we’re doing a better job of integrating it as I said in my prepared comments into the everyday business activities.
So I would say that’s a large part of it.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Moving on to Vinnie Sinisi with Morgan Stanley.
Hey great.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to ask you guys about the ERP rollout.
It seems like parts of it are going to continue to move forward here.
I know on the past you’ve said that with the merger pending that you are kind of taking a bit of a step back on some of those processes.
So can you just kind of recap for us all in terms of -- is this now going to really restart here or are some parts of it or which parts of it will still be waiting on the outcome of the merger? Good morning.
I think it’s more of what we talked about over the last couple quarters in terms of we are not doing new deployments right now until we have a better sense for where the merger is going to play out and when and some of the geographic issues that will come with that.
But what we’ve been able to do and we did -- when we talked about in the last earnings call we’ve been able to go in and put in some significant enhancements into the software that are now being utilized by the 12 OpCos that are on and the core SAP software platforms.
And the other thing we are doing more of which we spoke to here today is taking some of the other applications whether they’re financial or HR maintenance that type of thing even for the SA -- even for the non-SAP OpCos bring those into SPS accelerating network to where SPS is now supporting in certain areas not just the 12 OpCos that run SAP but these are the functional support software packages as well.
So to summarize I think it’s a combination that we’re continuing to enhance the support around and the software that the 12 OpCos are using as well as beginning to leverage SPS in a different way and as I said.
So A we’re providing better services to the 12 OpCos today but also when we do begin to redeploy again those future conversions can go more more smoothly.
And then we’re still -- we’re going to defer any further deployments until we understand the timing of the merger a little bit better.
Okay.
Great.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
And then just as a follow-up.
Going back to the 11 facilities that were called out today any further color that you guys can give in terms of perceived market share or the competitive stands in those areas? And then also just as a matter of process I just want to make sure that I'm correct here.
When dealing with the FTC so those 11 the proposal of those 11 facilities you kind of have already gone to the first level of discussions.
And now it’s in a sense being escalated to the five commissioners.
I just want to make sure that that is correct.
Yes.
So let me be clear or try to be clear.
We’ve had multiple discussions over multiple months with the FTC.
And we are trying to the best of our ability to understand not just the nature of their concerns and the depth of their concerns and the breadth of their concerns but also how we think we can remedy those concerns based upon our knowledge of this industry based upon our knowledge of how to shift groceries to customers and our knowledge of competitive positioning.
So this package is a package that we have developed that we believe addresses their concern.
We have received no approval from the FTC at any level in this package.
Okay.
And then just I guess maybe you can say so much at this point but any further color on the specific markets where these 11 are located? No we’re really not going to get into the talking about market share and the individual markets.
Okay.
Now totally understandable.
All right.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Good luck going forward.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We move on to Ajay Jain with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess Bill based on your prepared comments on the merger and the objections by the FTC staff.
I'm just wondering if your announcement with Performance Food could really set the stage for litigation with the FTC.
So if the process goes in that direction do you think you can wrap up any potential litigation and complete the merger process? By the time the agreement is set to expire I think that deadline is in September if I'm not mistaken.
So do you feel like you're potentially running out of time to the extent that's an issue at all? So I want to make I am answering this right.
We think we have ample time if we do end up in some litigation to work through that and still bring that to some type of closure before the expiration of the merger agreement.
And just finally on -- as a quick follow-up on the merger-related expenses can you just quantify little bit better how much you expect that to moderate in the back half of the year? I would love to be able to have a forecast for merger-related expenses and certain of those line items.
I can do that.
I can say these consultants were we don’t need them anymore and these consultants we still do.
But a lot of just depends on what we’re doing in the fourth quarter -- in the third quarter and the fourth quarter of the year.
So it is rather difficult to estimate those expenses on a go forward basis.
So I mean to say they’re moderating they’re certainly not going to go to zero.
There is work that we are going to continue to do to prepare but we’re certainly looking to stand down any teams that have completed their work.
So that we can reduce those expenses and we look at that literally every month to decide how many consultants we need here supporting us.
But it’s too hard to call frankly where we’re going to be in the process and what work needs to be done.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question will come from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Great.
Just really quickly from me at this point.
The overall trend of inflation kind of going forward calendar ’15 and if not calendar ’15 at least back half of your fiscal ’15 and just in terms of where you see it trending and from a gross profit per case perspective it was potentially kind of getting back into a place where passing out pricing can be easier to the customer in relation to a previous question? Thanks.
I don’t think we are there yet John.
I do think we are beginning to see some subsiding in the trajectory of the inflationary rate.
So hopefully we have peaked here at the 6%.
It’s still early this quarter.
The individual categories are moving around.
Right now the bulk of the inflations we see here today is more in the meat side and dairy beginning to level out.
So we don’t make predictions or give guidance.
But I -- you really asked two questions.
I think the inflation overtime over the next six nine 12 months should subside to some degree.
I don’t know where it ends up.
But hopefully less than the 5% to 6% because as we always said that’s not good for our customers and that’s why sometimes it’s a -- actually most of time is how to pass those along as fast as you would like.
So I think we are seeing a little early but too early to call until get into March and April and we kind of back into the heavier volume months.
Thank you.
Welcome.
We will move on to Kelly Bania with BMO Capital.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess just another one related to the merger.
Just based on your discussions with FTC over the last year and what their concerns are? I am just curious how you would characterize what you perceive is the likelihood that the FTC will accept this proposal as a remedy.
I mean does this address all of their concerns in your point of view? I appreciate the question.
I don’t think I am in a position to really address the likelihood.
There maybe other people out there that can give you a better handle on that.
I would just continue to say that we believe strongly in this merger.
We believe it’s pro-competitive in what’s already and incredibly competitive industry.
We believe it’s good for our customers.
Clearly there will be some disruption.
So I am sure there has been some concerns convey to the FTC and to us from that standpoint.
But that’s not unusual mergers.
We spend a year and tens of millions of dollars preparing integration plan to mitigate as much disruption as possible and we think over the medium-term to longer term.
This is very good for our customer base.
This is going to be for our shareholders.
We think it will actually raise the bar for competition in our industry which long-term is good for everybody in our industry.
So we believe strongly in our case and that’s probably all I can should and can comment on.
Okay.
And then just maybe another follow-up how were these 11 DC selected just give us some quick math I think you still have about 80 DCs and these look even like they are either larger or more highly productive than the average? Just any comments there would be helpful.
Yeah.
I am going to start and Chris can give you probably little more essentially I think you can see as if you put together all the color we are trying to provide today.
We try to put together footprint that would address the Western part of United States in a way that we complement the current footprint FTC has which is across the country but it’s a little less dense in the West compared to U.S.
So what you are seeing there primarily is an attempt both with large and medium sized facilities to address that.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Welcome.
We will move on to Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Hi.
Good morning.
So one of the challenges on the divestitures is there anyway to guarantee that the customers really follow the facility divestitures? And I wonder if there is anyway you could give us from a big picture standpoint what the market share on the national accounts look like before and after the divestiture? Well there is no way to guarantee.
But again we have done a lot of work on the integration planning and working through this TSA agreement with PFG to address that and Chris has been leading that work.
So I’ll let him take that.
Yeah.
I mean one other things as I said in our integration planning one of our primary principals was the least amount of disruption to our customers US Foods customer.
We took the same approach in our discussions with PFG and obviously they care a lot about that as well and so we’ve structured it in a way that we believe it’s going to be least disruptive to those customers.
So if you think about our customer that’s being serviced out of the call it Denver facility for US Foods today that same sales person or the same trucks food coming out of that same facility is going to go to that customer ones it is owned by PFG.
So we believe that’s the least amount of disruption to the customer and as long as they continue to get good service at fair prices and value we don’t believe there is a reason for them to want a change.
So I’m agree with Bill there is no guarantee but I believe we except this stuff in a way that’s the customers will continue to get good service and good value going forward.
Are there long-term contracts that transfer and is there a non-compete agreement or anything like that on going after this customers? Yeah.
There is a lot of things that will be contained in the 8-K which we will file later this week.
So I’d encourage you to look into that.
There is an enough in there I think keep you busy for awhile.
But as you might imagine we intend to and FTC of course would want us to set PFG up for success here and again and do it in a way that our customers don’t feel or experience that disruption.
So everything that’s necessary to make that happen we put into the TSA or the agreement.
I think just to illustrate that for maybe -- from a layman standpoint.
What Chris and Russell and our teams have done is basically as you look at don’t just look at this facilities from a customers perspective they are going to be position at the same sales persons same driver the same customer service team in this TSA agreement which you can look at once we get it out in the K -- 8-K.
We have taken a lot of measures to position PFG to be successful as they transition that business.
So we have done a lot of things to position them for success early days here.
Okay.
And I know you’ve address this the $600 million synergy number but you stand back and look at the deal from a broad perspective US Foods have lost earnings power while it’s been waiting for the transaction to close.
If you look at where they are today add in the synergies where do you think you will be on EPS accretion by year four or five? We have not given and I’m probably not going to today give any kind of forecast for earnings accretion.
We obviously have re-looked at the transaction based upon everything that’s happened over the year and based upon this divestiture package and we still feel this is a very nice return for Sysco and our shareholders.
We have got to obviously get the deal close and then we have got to work on executing against the synergies and we now also and will be a little more add a little more complexity we also need to work on the divestiture package and make sure that that set up alright.
As long as we continue to service the customers ours and US Foods we get a very nice return out of the transaction and that’s where we are focused on.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions.
At this time that does conclude today’s conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to Sysco's Third Quarter Fiscal 2015 Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
We will begin today's call with opening remarks and introductions.
I'd like to turn the call over to Shannon Mutschler Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tim.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Sysco's third quarter fiscal 2015 earnings call.
Today you'll hear prepared remarks from Bill DeLaney our President and CEO; and Chris Kreidler our CFO.
Before we begin please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ materially.
Additional information about factors that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings.
This includes but is not limited to risk factors contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 28 2014 subsequent SEC filings and in the news release issued earlier this morning.
A copy of these materials can be found in the Investor's section at sysco.com or via Sysco's IR app.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in our presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation and can also be found in the Investor's section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volume include total Broadline and SYGMA combined.
To ensure that we have sufficient time to answer all questions we'd like to ask each participant to limit their time today to one question and one follow-up.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and CEO Bill DeLaney.
Thanks Shannon.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning Sysco reported third quarter fiscal 2015 financial results.
Sales increased 4% to $11.7 billion.
Adjusted operating income decreased 3% to $377 million adjusted net earnings increased 7% to $238 million and EPS increased 5% to $0.40 for the quarter.
Net earnings and EPS for the quarter were in line with our expectations as solid volume and gross profit dollar growth along with a favorable tax rate offset the impact of moderating inflation trends on favorable foreign exchange translation and higher than planned operating expenses.
Case volume grew 2.5% for the quarter and we were pleased with our growth both with locally managed and corporate managed customers.
Overall weather was not a major factor in our year-over-year comparisons for the quarter as we benefited from favorable comparisons in January and February but were hampered by severe weather in the Northeast and Mideast in late February and most of March.
This last point is important to note because March provides a disproportionately large portion of our third quarter volume and was a relatively mild weather month last year.
We experienced similar trends in April but expect the year-over-year monthly impact of weather will dissipate as we move into May and June.
We continue to roll out and successfully execute our category management initiative and the benefits from this process contributed to our gross profit dollar growth during the quarter.
Through category management we were able to support our customer's growth by lowering our product cost and developing innovative product development ideas.
This is vital to mitigating gross margin pressure as we move forward in what remains a fiercely competitive market environment.
Regarding expense management we established appropriately aggressive goals for cost per case management for fiscal 2015 after a very strong expense management performance in the prior year.
We experienced modest improvement in sequential trends in the third quarter but will fall short of our original goals in this area for the year.
With that said our entire leadership team in intently focused on enhancing productivity in a sustainable manner while delivering exceptional service to our customers.
I expect our performance trends in this area to improve modestly in the fourth quarter and more so in fiscal 2016.
Moving to our multi-year business transformation initiatives we are pleased with the progress we've made on achieving the steady state cost saving goals we set as we began fiscal 2013.
Fiscal 2015 is the third year of that financial roadmap and we have already exceeded our original target of $600 million which was comprised of approximately $300 million in annual savings in both operating and product costs.
While pleased with this progress we've made over the past three years – on these initiatives it is more clear than ever that transforming Sysco's business will be a perpetual process as we strive to fully realize our vision of being our customer's most valued and trusted business partner.
Foundational to our ultimate success is further developing and continually enhancing our technology platform.
We have now embedded this work in the overall scope of our Business Technology group under the leadership of Wayne Shurts.
We have learned a great deal from the challenges we encountered in deploying SAP and all of the standardized processes it requires.
Over the past two years under Wayne's leadership we have refined our business processes strengthened our technology support capabilities stabilized the SAP system and enhanced its efficiency.
While there is more work to be done we are well-positioned to move forward with a cohesive enterprise-wide module centered approach rather than our previous OpCo-by-OpCo multi-module approach.
As our deployment process matures and evolves in the future we expect this change to result in smoother conversions better execution and an improved experience for our customers.
On the acquisition front we recently completed our previously announced agreement to acquire 50% of Pacific Star Foodservice a leading food service distributor in Mexico.
We have developed a strong relationship over the past several years with the ownership and management team of Pacific Star and we are very excited about the potential opportunities that this partnership will provide to profitably grow our business in Mexico.
Regarding our pending merger with US Foods the hearing related to the FTC's motion for preliminary injunction begins tomorrow May 5 and will last up to seven business days.
If we receive a ruling in our favor we will proceed to closing unless the decision is appealed.
In the event of an unfavorable ruling we would assess together with US Foods' ownership whether to pursue the case further.
We remain resolute in our belief that this transaction is pro-competitive good for our customers and will accelerate Sysco's business transformation.
We announced in April that Joel Grade has been named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective September 1 2015 following Chris Kreidler's decision to leave the company.
Joel is a veteran Sysco leader with nearly 20 years of experience in key finance and commercial roles.
He is uniquely suited to step into the CFO position because of his deep knowledge of our local operations and people.
We are fortunate to have a leader like Joel ready to take on this key position and I look forward to working closely with him in his new role as we move forward.
We appreciate the numerous important contributions Chris has made on Sysco's behalf since joining us five years ago.
He has agreed to remain as CFO through August and he will work closely with Joel and Sysco's senior executive team to ensure an orderly transition of his responsibilities including staying on through the end of December as an advisor.
In closing I am pleased with the consistent case growth we've seen in our locally-managed and corporate managed business which demonstrates our associates' unwavering focus on providing consistent and excellent service to our customers.
In addition our leadership team is making good progress in driving out initiatives to enhance both gross profit dollar growth and expense management.
Our ongoing work to fundamentally reshape our company is challenging but gratifying and we strongly believe that the steps we are taking will reinforce our leadership position in the ever evolving food service industry.
Now I'll turn things over to Chris so that he can provide additional details on our financial results for the third quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
For the third quarter sales were $11.7 billion an increase of 4.2% compared to the prior year.
Our sales growth rate was substantially lower than the 7% rate we saw during the first half of the fiscal year because of the rapid decline in food cost inflation and the impact of foreign exchange translation.
Food cost inflation declined significantly from 6% in the second quarter to 3.7% in the third quarter.
Our estimate for food cost inflation represents the weighted average change in Sysco's cost of the same products year-over-year.
At 3.7% it would appear we are getting close to what we normally describe as the sweet spot for inflation of 2% to 3%.
But the 3.7% is an average across all of our product lines and sometimes averages don't tell the whole story as is the case here.
Specifically the meat category experienced low double-digit inflation in the quarter and poultry inflation was in the high single digits.
On a weighted average basis these two categories accounted for 3.2% of the 3.7% of inflation we experienced across all of our categories.
At these levels passing along all of the inflation can be painful to our customers putting gross margin under pressure.
In addition rapid declines in food cost also make it challenging to leverage our fixed costs.
The impact of changes in foreign exchange rate had a much larger impact than usual this quarter.
Similar to many companies with significant operations outside of the U.S.
the strengthening dollar depressed our foreign sales as we converted them to U.S.
dollars.
This quarter's decrease of 1.3% was the highest in the past three years.
The impact has typically been in the range of zero to 0.5%.
Sales from acquisitions increased sales by 0.6%.
Case volume grew 2.5% during the quarter including acquisitions and approximately 2.2% excluding acquisitions.
Gross profit in the third quarter was $2.1 billion a 3.1% increase while gross margin declined 17 basis points to 17.52%.
Benefits from category management contributed significantly to our gross profit during the quarter.
In addition case volume growth for our locally managed Broadline business continued to increase slightly on a sequential basis as it is done the last two quarters.
Solid local case growth is important to drive gross profit dollar growth.
Case growth for our corporate managed customers remains strong but competitive pricing pressure in this segment contributed to gross margin pressure.
Certain items for the third quarter totaled $91 million and related to merger and integration planning expenses and interest on the merger debt.
Of this amount $50 million was recorded in operating expense and $41 million was recorded in interest expense.
Merger and integration planning costs that impacted operating expenses were mainly related to work to prepare for the integration of the two companies' technology platforms.
These expenses in total were lower in the third quarter compared to levels in the first half of the year as we scaled back our integration planning work in certain areas where a significant amount of work has already been completed.
Merger costs that impacted interest expense relate to the debt that we issued last October that is intended to refinance US Foods' debt upon closing of the transaction.
We are treating this interest expense as a certain item until the merger closes.
Adjusted operating expenses for the third quarter increased $73 million or 4.5% due to a $61 million increase in payroll expense.
Payroll expense increased mainly due to higher pay for our sales organization as a result of higher gross profit investments in new administrative support capabilities higher incentive accruals and newly acquired operations.
These increases were partially offset by lower delivery costs mainly driven by savings in fuel expense.
After excluding incentives adjusted operating expenses would have increased 3.9%.
Our cost per case performance improved modestly from earlier in the year but as Bill mentioned expense management remains a challenge for us.
Adjusted cost per case performance for the third quarter in the North American Broadline business which is the portion of the business we have given guidance on previously increased only $0.03 in the third quarter.
However excluding the benefit from currency translation cost per case would have increased by $0.09.
We have previously said we expect cost per case to increase between $0.05 and $0.10 this year.
We would expect to be in the low end of this range including the impact of foreign exchange and on the high end of this range excluding foreign exchange.
We are focused on driving improvement across our operations with multiple initiatives that implement best practices enhance our operating training programs and improve our ability to measure and analyze our performance.
Adjusted operating income from the quarter was $377 million down 2.7% from the prior year and adjusted operating margin was 3.2% down 23 basis points from last year.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 34% compared to 39% in the prior year period.
This quarter's rate was positively impacted by the favorable resolution of a state tax matter.
In the prior year the rate was elevated due to the non-deductible portion of a $20 million legal settlement that we disclosed at the time.
Normalizing for these types of discrete events our tax rate would be roughly 37%.
This is lower than our historical rates due to the increasing amount of business earnings in international jurisdictions that have lower tax rates as well as reduced state taxes from legal restructurings.
Adjusted net earnings increased 7% to $238 million and adjusted EPS increased 5.3% to $0.40.
Cash flow performance in the first 39 weeks of the year was relatively strong after taking into account the cash impact of certain items.
Cash flow from operations increased $12 million to $860 million versus last year.
This increase reflects the negative impact of two items.
First the cash impact of certain items increased $82 million year-over-year mainly due to merger and integration planning expenses.
Second as we disclosed earlier this year we made a $50 million pension contribution this year compared to none in the prior year period.
This difference is simply driven by different timing regarding when we make cash contributions each year.
Cash tax payments were $135 million lower than last year due to a lower effective tax rate which I discussed a moment ago and merger and integration planning expenses that reduced taxable earnings.
Free cash flow was $439 million in the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2015 compared to $484 million in the prior year period or a reduction of $46 million.
However after adjusting for the cash impact of certain items and the increase in pension contribution I mentioned a moment ago free cash flow was $617 million an increase of $86 million or 16% from the prior year period.
Capital expenditures for the first 39 weeks of the year net of proceeds from sales of assets increased $58 million to $422 million.
About $53 million of this increase is due to IT-related merger integration planning and the rest was due to timing of investment in our fleet.
Our cash flow from operations and free cash flow are always impacted by foreign currency translation but the impact for the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2015 is much greater than the last few years.
You will see in the cash flow statement a $77 million impact this year compared to less than $0.5 million last year.
This means our cash flows would have been $77 million higher on a constant dollar basis.
Turning to an update on recent acquisitions last month we completed the previously announced transaction to buy 50% of Pacific Star Foodservice a leading foodservice distributor in Mexico.
Pacific Star has operated since 1989 with distribution centers servicing customers in the major metropolitan areas of Mexico City Guadalajara Monterrey and Tijuana.
It primarily services chain accounts including fast food and casual dining restaurants casinos theme parks movie theaters and hotels throughout Mexico.
This partnership fits our international expansion strategy allows us to enhance service to our U.S.
customers who operate in the region and provides growth opportunities in an important region of the Americas.
In addition subsequent to the end of the quarter we announced our agreement to acquire Tannis Trading in Canada.
Tannis operates in the Ottawa market the fourth largest in Canada.
This acquisition which remains subject to regulatory approval will allow us to better serve our customers and achieve our goal of increasing sales in Canada.
Regarding our outlook for the remainder of the year there are a few additional items I'd like to point out.
First as we discussed last quarter because of the pending merger during this fiscal year we have not been in the market buying back shares to offset dilution from incentive-based compensation as we would normally be doing.
This has had the effect of increasing our shares outstanding in the first 39 weeks of the fiscal year due to the exercise of employee stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units.
As a result both adjusted and reported diluted EPS were lower by half a penny in the third quarter and a penny and a half over the first 39 weeks.
Unless we repurchase shares during the fourth quarter we estimate that our diluted shares outstanding may be greater than 597 million shares for the fiscal year.
This estimate is dependent on the level of stock options exercises and RSU vesting that occurs and does not include the impact of the shares to be issued in conjunction with the pending US Foods merger.
Second please note that we plan to pay off $300 million in bonds that come due in mid-June.
We currently anticipate using cash on hand to fund this payment.
Lastly our forecast for capital expenditures net of proceeds from asset sales remains at $500 million to $500 million – sorry $500 million to $550 million for fiscal 2015.
But we now expect to be at the high end of this range for the year.
In closing while our top-line has been negatively impacted by lower levels of inflation and a larger impact from foreign currency translations we are pleased that the business continues to generate solid case volume growth in particular in the locally-managed portion of our business.
We have opportunities to improve our operating expense management and have begun to make some progress in this area.
But importantly the business continues to generate strong free cash flow.
While we have work ahead of us to transform the business there are many exciting initiatives underway that will enhance our customer's experience strengthen our operating performance and increase profitability.
With that operator we'll now take some questions.
And we'll take our first question from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
Hello.
Bill actually a tactical question and then a strategic one.
So Bill on the tactical side it would seem that inflation probably moderates a bit further from here.
Can you offset that with cost reduction or is the uncertainty around US Foods and kind of where the business sits today hamstringing you from doing that? And then I have a strategic one.
John we have to.
I mean so yeah do I think we can? In the past we've been able to adjust our expenses accordingly and I agree with your premise.
I think you can see the inflation come down a little bit more just for the reasons Chris said we've got a couple of categories that are pretty high and the others – dairy's very volatile as you know so dairy is down a little bit.
Seafood is down a little bit but seafood is not a big part of the overall mix.
So I think essentially you're looking at an environment today where you've got two categories meat and poultry that are high which is difficult to pass along in a fast way and the right way and the others are pretty much neutral if you put them all together.
And yeah I expect that to continue here at least for the – whatever; a few – couple or three months as far as we can see out.
As I said in my comments we are seeing improvement on the expenses sequentially we're just not seeing it as fast as we had planned and I think you will see more expense improvement here in the fourth quarter relative to the first part of the year and we're certainly planning to do even more for next year.
And then strategically I know you don't have a lot to talk about this but have you done much planning if US Foods doesn't happen? And what would you do differently than you're doing today if that doesn't come to fruition? Well first of all one of the things I feel really good about is we have done a nice job here.
We spent some money doing it separating running the business day-to-day and keeping our people – the vast majority of our people focused on taking care of their customers and running their business and not having them be distracted by the merger.
And then we had another group of people and outside support folks who have done a great job under Chris's and Greg Bertrand's leadership driving out a very sound integration plan.
So I feel good about what we've done to date.
Yes we have done some contingent planning and it's not fully developed.
We have had discussions as a management team and with our board and we will continue to have those discussions and once we have a ruling then we'll probably take some more time but not a lot of time and go forth from there with some other strategic directions.
So yes we've done some planning but not in a position today to really talk a whole lot about that.
All right thanks.
And we'll take our next question from Karen Short with Deutsche Bank.
And Karen Short your line is now open.
Please check your mute function.
And we'll move on to Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Yeah hi.
Good morning guys.
I just have a follow-up to John's question here.
Bill in the past you guys have mentioned international M&amp;A as an area of interest.
I mean obviously the U.S.
market is top of mind right now.
But if material consolidation is not possible here where are your heads today on international relative to where they were in the past? Is it still something that you would be interested in? Certainly.
As you heard we are pleased with the joint venture that we just finalized with our partners down in Mexico and we have gradually built out some small footprint in Costa Rica and now Mexico Bahamas Ireland Canada was the first one obviously.
So I think where we are there Ed is I think it's just a matter of pace of place.
So we definitely when we talk about the strategy of the company that fifth point we talk about is always looking for other areas to expand whether it be through adjacencies or geographics.
And I just see it more as something we need to do continually and over the next three years to five years I would like to think we'll continue to find good partners in different parts of the world where our customers value our capabilities and find ways to grow there primarily to lay a foundation for the future beyond that.
So I see international more as something we need to do.
We need to continually build it for the medium to long-term.
Short to medium-term obviously US Foods is a big big part of our strategy.
It's not our strategy.
It's a big part of our strategy.
If that were not to work out we would revisit other strategic opportunities that we looked at in the past and look at our capital structure and all those types of things.
I'm just not in a position today to talk a whole lot about it.
And Bill when you think about the U.S.
business now there is obviously always puts and takes on what impacts the earnings.
I mean the backdrop doesn't really seem to be too bad right now with what's going on with restaurant sales and lower fuel.
But this quarter you're back to EBITDA actually being down a little bit year-over-year to a couple of quarters of good growth and I guess the question is what is it really saying about the outlook for the business I guess absent a deal? And you touched on a little bit but is there a need for some larger strategic refresh or restructuring if the transaction were not to happen or are you really just – is it more really more about fine-tuning? I think both all right? So we need to manage what we have the ability to control the most which is our business.
And we're pretty at running our business.
Obviously as we've said for a while now the market environment we are in it's difficult.
It's very competitive and it's not unlike many other industries and we don't expect that to change.
So again to kind of recap how we look at the world we see modest medium to long-term growth in the industry.
We expect to grow faster than that.
To do that we need to differentiate ourselves ongoingly with our customers and we need to take costs out of the system.
That's one of the reasons why this merger is so important to us.
If the merger doesn't happen we'll need to find other ways to continue to do that.
We may not get there quite as fast but I'm confident we'll continue to go in the right direction.
Specifically to this quarter you can look at in a lot of different ways.
The bottom line is we didn't manage our expenses as well as we would have liked.
If we had managed our cost piece maybe just a nickel better I think you would have seen a different result here and I would have been – I wouldn't have talked as much about planned expenses.
So we're going to have quarters where there is inflation and less inflation.
And we had good volume growth.
As I've said we managed gross profit reasonably well given the environment.
We just didn't bring our expenses in line as fast as we planned and I expect it will get better with that here over the next two years to three quarters.
Great.
Thank you and good luck with US Foods.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Karen Short with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Sorry about that before.
Just guess curious I mean I know we've talked a lot about the expense issue and I guess I'm still confused as to why it's been a problem for two quarters in a row.
I mean I know you pointed to some things in terms of comps that affected expenses but anything else you can kind of put some color on? I'll do my best Karen.
I would say this quarter was a little different in that our selling expense was higher than where it was the first half of the year.
We were up a couple pennies the first half of the year in selling and that was fine.
We had a lot of gross profit dollar growth and that's going to drive selling expense.
So this quarter was up more than that.
It's still probably fine but it just can't be sustained.
I mean it's just we just a situation where seasonally it's a low volume quarter.
It's also a time that we bring MAs on in terms of training and we had some operating companies that were behind in their head count and I think that put some pressure on us here as well.
So selling costs is a little higher than what we planned.
On the operation side we're making progress.
We're driving out a lot of change there Karen and we've been driving out very aggressively over the last year to two years.
And that puts a lot of stress on the operating companies at a time when they still need to provide really solid service to our customers.
And so there's been some challenges in terms of how fast you can drive that change and how well it's received by our workforce and how well our leadership including me are able to drive that out.
So what we're doing here is transforming a company and we're bringing more standardization to our best practices in the field.
We're functionalizing that part of our business in terms of the OpCo and our end-to-end supply chain organization now and it's just taken a little longer to get where we want to go.
The good news is we are seeing sequential relative improvement and that's what gives me some confidence here.
Hey Karen this is Chris.
I'll jump in and just elaborate on one point Bill made.
Remember a couple years ago we talked quite a bit about some of the changes we made in our sales organization and we saw that disruption.
We saw that disruption and slowed growth in terms of case volume on the local side especially and we talked quite a bit about it at the time.
We pushed through a lot of change and it took a while for all that change to kind of be accepted and understood and appropriately reacted to in the field.
I think what you're seeing now is somewhat similar going on on the operating expense environment.
We are as Bill said pushing out a lot of change.
It's for the good.
It's going to lead to better results in the future but it's going to take a while for some of that change to actually drive all the way down to the operating company level.
And I think that's part of what we're experiencing right now.
Not an excuse.
We need to manage it better but I do think we're seeing some of that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I mean to your point on MAs and progress on the top-line I guess independent sales definitely seemed fairly strong although SYGMA was weak.
But anything to point to on what was driving the strength in independent? Well I think that's the good news.
I mean when we talk about initiatives they're not all about cost savings.
And I think what you're seeing there is some – several things that we've done over the last two years or three years starting with the CRM tool category management.
We're getting better executing that; some basic things we're doing in terms of working with our MAs and training and how to segment more effectively our customers and product categories.
And just creating more continuity if you will between the corporate sales organization and the field sales organization as well as the OpCos overall.
So we're pleased both on the local side and the corporate side.
If you go back four quarters or five quarters we had no growth on the local side.
So I think that's a bright spot and that's certainly something we've emphasized and something we need to continue to emphasize.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just last question on the expense side.
What's driving the merger and integration increase? Because I guess I was under the impression that you had kind of completed all you could from a merger and integration expense perspective until you know more – or until hopefully you close the merger and it still seemed to be-I mean it's still increasing.
Well it's actually not increasing on a sequential basis.
It's starting to decline.
We hit our peak last quarter Karen and it's coming down from there.
But I'll take your question to where I think you want to go anyway why is it not perhaps dropping faster? There are a couple reasons.
I mean the interest portion of that obviously is not going to go anywhere but even on the operating expense portion there is a lot of work that continues to be done to prepare the two IT systems to be able to merge.
We're not touching the US Foods system or vice versa but we're creating the conduits that will be necessary to allow them to merge.
Unfortunately as this deal has drug out we were able to stand down certain aspects of what we were doing from a planning perspective because we can stand them back up rather quickly; but a lot of other areas we need all the time we could possibly get to be prepared for merging and integrating and we continued some of that work.
So it's come down somewhat.
I expect it to not increase again of course until we complete the transaction; and of course we'll give you new guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And we'll take our next question from Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to talk a little bit about cash.
I spent many years in fixed income land and cash is cash.
You can't really define it.
And it just looks to me like in fact you're not covering your dividend or didn't for the first nine months of the year.
And then – so I'm wondering you have a $300 million payment you're going to make this year.
Could you talk about: are you going to borrow? Do you have a revolving credit facility that you're going to borrow under? And sort of the same thing holds true if the deal does not go through you probably will have your bonds will be put back to you the $5 billion but you're not sitting on that much cash.
So what do you think happens? How do you fund that put if it happens? Yeah.
Let me take the two pieces of that Meredith.
First the $300 million as I mentioned we will pay that out of the cash that we have sitting on the balance sheet which is just shy of $5 billion.
That's what we'll do initially.
If we then repay the bonds because you correctly point out if the merger agreement terminates there's a process for those to be redeemed we would pay those back out.
Whatever we can't pay out of cash we would put into our credit facility.
We do have a very large commercial paper line backstopped by a credit facility about a $1.5 billion.
So we have got plenty of capacity to put on the balance sheet.
We would then look at whether we have enough capacity for just general working capital needs and we'd look at whether we need to term out some of the debt that we've taken on the balance sheet the last couple of years the acquisitions we've done et cetera.
We would do that after that point in time when things settle out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just have one other question.
You said that...
Meredith do you mind if I just jump in still? Just on the cash point I was just going back to the earlier questions we had.
First of all we're going to cover our dividend here.
If you adjust for the merger related expenses and things like that we're going to more than cover our dividend from free cash flow this year.
Second of all the way I look at cash is strategically we include debt capacity.
So obviously as you well know we're very highly rated company from a debt perspective.
We have plenty of debt capacity and certainly want to utilize it prudently but I'm very confident in our ability to fund whatever we need to fund.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm not actually worried about liquidity.
You're not going to run out of liquidity.
My next question just quickly is about category management and cycling the improvements you've seen so far.
I think that we'll cycle some in this next quarter but it sounded like you had more coming.
How do you think that balances out in terms of the benefit to the gross margin? Well you're right.
We're finishing up the third year and we said from the beginning category management would be somewhat backend loaded and we've seen those benefits this year.
I think the key that – the way to look at that Meredith is just we are now maturing to a point where well we speak about category management it truly is embedded in how we merchandise and we have centralized merchandising here to a large extent.
We certainly have standardized all of it.
We still do some locally in terms of working with suppliers but for the most part we're working with the suppliers here at corporate and then working closely with our operating companies.
So from that standpoint we've realized a lot of benefits but we have some more launches here to do later this year and into next year; not a significant part of the overall volume.
And then I think what you'll see us do is we'll get into renewals and we'll continue to perfect what we started here and get better at it and probably have more time to focus on the innovation side of it which is critical obviously to growing the business as well.
So I look at it as something which we would continue to get better at which would continue to help us mitigate the overall margin pressure that we face in the business itself but something that we feel really good about at this point.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
And let's take our next question from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning.
Bill I wanted to ask you about the sales trend during the quarter into April and – it was pretty abrupt from quite strong to kind of weak.
And I didn't see Sysco's numbers but for the industry.
It sounds like you guys outperformed that but what do you think is going on with the industry? I mean you kind of alluded to weather because last year was easy and this March was tough.
What do you think is going on in April? And I mean do you have some insight into things maybe stabilizing or turning back up here in the later part of April or early May? Yeah Andy if you notice I really didn't talk a lot about the industry or the market because it's hard to make that call right now.
While I did talk about weather I didn't whine about weather this year.
So I feel good about that.
What we saw was this and what I alluded to in my comments we had – last year if you go back and look at the weather it was pretty harsh in December January and the first three weeks in February and it was harsh in areas where typically you don't see it: Charlotte Dallas Atlanta and other places.
And so we had some favorable comparisons in late December January and February.
Unfortunately January and February are not exactly big months for us.
Then if you recall last year there was a little bit of a cabin fever impact up north and I think people got out in March just because they needed to get out and then March was reasonably mild and so was April.
And so the camps and the clubs started to open up earlier.
So we had good volume in March and April relative to the rest of the year last year and I think we're seeing softer volume this year.
What I'm trying to say to you is I think weather is impacting that.
I just don't know to what degree and I think I can make a better call on that after we see May and June here because we'll be back to apples-to-apples.
In terms of what I read and what I hear it's probably not a whole lot different than you.
The good news here is the consumer sentiment is positive.
It's up and down a little bit but it's still positive.
The sentiment of our restaurant operators is positive and it's remained positive.
So I think people are generally seeing – at least maintaining – they're seeing good things and they're hopeful that it'll translate into better things.
Probably the biggest positive out there right now I would say would be the lower fuel prices.
They've come back up a little bit but all-in-all the consumer is getting a raise if you will at the pump.
What's not clear there at all is to what degree.
It appears that the consumer is paying down debt with some of that saving some of that and spending some of that.
It's not clear how much of that we are getting perhaps some but I don't think a lot at this point.
With that said I think to the extent that the fuel prices stay down for an extended period of time that will be good for our customers and I would expect that that would help us over time.
So it's a long way of saying it; it's hard for me to really explain what's going on in the market right now because of kind of the unusual weather comparisons as well as the impact of fuel but I think we'll have a better read on this as we get into the summer.
Okay.
No I was looking for more color.
But I just want to clarify with following up just on what you're saying.
In your preamble you said you expect things to get better.
It sounds like it's more of a macro view of the business rather than something you've seen in the last week or two as a trend that has turned up.
Well I expect the macro to clear up is what I try to say.
I wish I could give you more.
In terms of our performance what I alluded to in my comments was March was softer and April softer.
But again I do think some of that is the comparisons.
We'll see.
So let's summarize here.
You've got moderate inflation you've got some FX but let's put that to the side.
And you've got softer volume in March and April.
I would expect it to pick up.
I'm still very pleased with what we are doing.
We are growing our volume both on the local side and the corporate side.
So relative to the market I'm pleased where we are at there.
I just wanted to ask Chris a question on the incentive compensation accrual you've called out.
It's kind of housekeeping but it seemed like quite a big number compared to trend and well above what the stock option alone would be.
Did I do that math right? And if so could you give us some explanation of why the accrual was so big? Yeah I'm not so sure.
I can't respond to the last part of – compared to what you're thinking but the accrual itself is just what we anticipate paying out on those incentive accruals versus where we are on our objectives and on a year-over-year basis we're just in a much better place.
So last year at this time we were not hitting our bonusable objectives and so we had very little accrued this year.
We are accruing still at target because we are on pace to hit those objectives.
So on a year-over-year basis that's where you get the increase.
Okay.
So you're saying it's on trend with prior quarters there was no catch-up Q3 just your on trend with the bonus accrual? Not this year.
Yeah this year there's been no catch-up from quarter to quarter.
No.
Last year it bounced around because every quarter you got to look at where you are versus those objectives and so we went through the first quarter fine.
But then we had to start reducing the accruals Q2 and Q3 because we were no longer on track to hit the target.
Fine.
So you were just calling out a tough comparison and we can do the adjustment if we like and it is what it is.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's really all it is.
Like say I normally – I try to put things on an apples-to-apples basis as much as possible and when I look at our performance this year especially on operating expenses I don't like to say well we have to compare those incentives versus a year where there were no incentives whatsoever.
Now we still have to pay for those incentives and so those are real dollars and they are really going to go out the door so we don't try to again excuse it so much as just when you are looking at a percentage increase I like to try to do apples-to-apples.
That's why I gave you the number.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Kelly Bania with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks taking my question.
I was just curious in the quarter how you think about market share or what your market share may have been and I ask because it looks like some of the broader industry sales trends at least for the restaurants it seem very very strong this quarter.
So I was just curious what you would think how you performed relative to the industry during the quarter.
I'll take that one Kelly.
First of all we don't track market share quarterly.
We look at it annually through different industry sources primarily technomics and we look at the overall market U.S.
and Canada and then obviously we look at our numbers and generally if you go back and look over the long-term Sysco has been able to grow its share about half a point a year and I think we are continuing to do that.
I can't really speak to this quarter on market share because I don't have the market data.
Certainly there was some strength in our customer base but not throughout the quarter and certainly not with all customers.
So again I was pleased with how we grew the business but we don't really track the market share quarterly.
Got it.
And then if I could just follow up with one more.
Just in light of McDonald's announcement to shift towards using antibiotic-free chicken on their menus I was just curious how Sysco is maybe positioned in terms of supply of antibiotic-free chicken.
Do you see that as an opportunity? What kind of conversations are you having with suppliers and your customers around these products and what could any sales and margin implications for Sysco be if there is a broader shift from your customers to products like this? Yes.
I think if I could broaden the question a little bit and not make it about chicken but just in general that's one of the key things that we think category management will help us focus on with a brighter light which is be working with our suppliers and our customers is to better understand what the customers' needs are and how we can as we optimize our SKUs and strategize together and do a better job of positioning a product in the way that our customers would want to see it whether it's organic or local or whatever it was important to them.
So with us it always starts the way you posed the question which is what's important to the customer? What does the customer need? And we are doing a lot of work on the customer side through the marketing department customer loyalty and issues to understand customer needs and then connecting that to the work that we are doing with our suppliers and category management and the data they provide us to better optimize our SKUs.
Now it's early days and plenty of work to do there but it's a big opportunity for us going forward.
And I would also say to you we have over the years made some good progress on the sustainability front and I think you'll see us continue to raise the profile of that work within the company and that group will work very closely with our customers but also with our merchandising and our marketing team.
So bottom line is we do everything we can to understand what the needs of our customers are.
I think we are better positioned to do that going forward and I think we can speak more specifically about that as time goes on.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Hi thank you.
Could you just give a little more detail on what we could expect from the court action this week? How long will it take before we hear a decision? And if the court rules for you is it a foregone conclusion that things will just be approved as stated? Or do you still need to negotiate with the FTC? And if there's a ruling against you how long does it take to get through the administrative hearing with the FTC? Great questions Mark.
This was new ground for all of us.
I would say as far as the timing obviously that's in the hands of the judge in terms of how long the process takes.
The hearing starts tomorrow and the judge has given us up to seven days so we'll go through – it's likely to go through the end of next week.
Then there'll be some as I understand it some briefs or papers filed by each side with the judge to review.
And then he'll take the time that he needs to come back with a ruling.
So we don't know exactly how long that is but I would think it's closer to weeks than months.
But again that's his call.
As far as what happens as I said in my comments if we were to prevail then we think there's a short period of time where the FTC has an opportunity to decide whether they want to appeal or not.
And we would wait on that and then go from there.
If they were to prevail we'll sit down internally and then sit down with the sponsors the owners of US Foods and charter a course from there as well.
So to be determined but that's – those are the different ways it could play out.
Okay.
And maybe you could talk about the state of US Foods while we're waiting because we have seen some margin declines in their business through this year we've been waiting for this deal to close.
I really can't comment much on US Foods.
I think it goes without saying that this process is taking longer than we would've liked.
And it's probably a little bit harder on them than it has been on us.
So early days certainly they lost some sales people and I think their sales were hurt.
I'm not close enough to it nor should I be in terms of what their margins are right now.
And obviously they pulled back here some on the integration planning over the last couple of months.
So we'll – I think I'll just leave it at that.
I probably shouldn't be commenting on US Foods.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And let's take our next question from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Thanks.
At this point just one I think easy question for you guys.
SYGMA in general had a very strong year in fiscal 2014 and has been pretty slow year-over-year to this point in fiscal 2015.
Can you shed some light in terms of what's happened there whether some was by choice maybe some wasn't by choice? How you feel about the overall growth of that segment over time? Thanks John.
I'll start.
I'll let Chris jump in too.
I would say it's been a couple of years since SYGMA has had a strong year and it's got a lot of attention.
We have restructured there somewhat and put Greg Keller over SYGMA full-time.
And Greg grew up in the SYGMA business.
He's been running our national sales area up until the last several months so he is very well-versed in the SYGMA business.
He's very well connected with our customer base.
He's got a lot of passion for that business.
So I believe we're in good hands there for leadership.
There's some things that we're working on there both in terms of how do we better position ourselves in terms of the needs of those customers and still run expenses very tight.
So it's a very transaction service oriented business.
Not with a lot of touches like the Broadline but there's very little margin for error in SYGMA.
So we've had to invest some money over the last year or so in terms of facilities and drivers and people like that and things like that to strengthen the business.
And that's hurt us on the bottom line.
We've also had to just take a look at how well we're running the business overall.
So I'd say we're in transition with SYGMA.
We like the business strategically.
It's a very – that customer base or potential customer base is a big part of the overall opportunity.
And it's always nice when you're sitting down with customers or prospective customers for – to give them a choice in terms of which model they would prefer the SYGMA model or the Broadline model.
And the reality is sometimes they prefer both depending on their locations and our positions; so somewhat in transition there work to do strategically still very important to the company.
Have you...
John? Yes.
Hi.
Yeah.
Just add a couple of other points.
As Bill said it's a business where expense control is incredibly important.
It's a low margin business.
There have been some regulatory changes on the transportation side drivers and work rules and things like that that while we can handle those fairly well in the Broadline they affect SYGMA disproportionately.
And we're having to overcome some of those things.
And as Bill said we just – we've got to look at the model and continue to find ways to offset increases like that; so I would echo the statement.
It's in transition.
We've got some work to do.
Has there been any significant account loss that's maybe been covered up by some account gains? And as you kind of look forward over the next couple of years do you have any big chain opportunities to add that could be coming up for bid? I don't think there's any overly significant account losses.
SYGMA is no different than the rest of our business.
There's a lot of pricing pressure in that business and so we've had to deal with that as well along the way as we've looked at expenses.
But again Greg is a very strong leader very strong sales guy.
So I'm quite optimistic that we'll continue to find the right mix of customers and do a good job for them.
And – but again the way we look at SYGMA today is we want to understand what the customer's looking for: what kind of model what level of support what economics are they willing to incur.
And if that's the SYGMA model then fine.
If it's not then we'll put them into Broadline.
They go back and forth and as I said some customers utilize both models.
So I think we're in a good place there in terms of the direction but from a customer standpoint we look at it across the entire spectrum which is: what does the customer want in terms of the trade-off of service and price? Thank you.
Sure.
And we'll take our next question from Vincent Sinisi with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Thanks very much for taking my question.
Wanted to just go back to the product for a second.
And it sounds like obviously early stages but so far if you've been seeing any incremental demand increases from more of your customers wanting natural organic types of products would you say that so far you've been able to have access to the supplies? Have you been able to meet demands? And that now as you're continuing to go through category management is that something that will continue to evolve? Is that fair to say at this point? Hey Vinny.
Yeah that's what I was trying to say.
So yes we've definitely seen that trend over the last few years.
Now it's a trend.
And I have to tell you in the scheme of what we do it's not a huge amount of the business which creates part of the challenge where you need enough volume and you need enough velocity to make it work for the supplier and on the cost side and for the customers.
So I would say it's like a lot of things in Sysco today.
There's certainly parts of the country and certain OpCos where we do a very good job on the local side and fresh side and then there's others not so good.
And that's where I see the work in merchandizing and category management in particular with innovation getting us in position to be more consistent; and by doing that create more volume which will make it more economical.
So the trends have definitely been there.
We're responding to them.
We just – we need to continue to get better at it and – it's a catch-22.
We need to continue to grow the volume to make it work for everybody.
Right.
That makes sense.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
Inflation that you could see moderate over the quarter.
Was anything kind of internally surprising to you versus your forecast from a particular category specific standpoint? And then maybe just any additional color with your thoughts on inflation overall as we get through the rest of this year.
Yeah – surprising.
I guess probably it fell off faster than I thought it would from that standpoint.
It doesn't surprise me that dairy is down for example.
I mean dairy is a very volatile category but the fact that several categories are essentially flat that's probably a little surprising.
And I think as far as the rest of the year I can't – if you're going to give me the fiscal year I could probably look that far ahead.
And I think we talked about this with John earlier.
Yeah I would expect inflation to moderate somewhat more but I still expect to see some low level of inflation here this quarter.
Okay Bill thanks very much.
Good luck.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Erin Lash with Morningstar.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I apologize if I missed this earlier but one of the things that stood out to me in the operating expense line was that delivery costs were lower.
And I wondered if you could speak to that if there was an anomaly this quarter or whether that's a trend that you expect to continue in light of the fact that we've been hearing that truck driver shortages continue to plague firms across a number of industries? Yeah it was mainly driven – at least in our case it was mainly driven by lower fuel costs which we called out.
So is the truck driver shortage abating? I would say that it's not getting any worse.
We've kind of learned how to handle it although it's not exactly easy; but this particular quarter we just started to see some benefit from fuel.
And if you recall a quarter or so ago we talked about we'd start seeing some benefit in the back half of the year and this is it.
Yeah.
Erin I would only add – I think where we have driver shortages and where it's not self-inflicted it's generally in these areas where there has been a lot of drilling and a lot of energy.
And so as that's subsided somewhat I think that has actually created a little more capacity.
So we're not all the way back there but I think that pressure is a little less than what it was six months or nine months ago.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's very very helpful.
And then just my second question with regards to a lot of the press surrounding the avian bird flu and whether that will – or to what degree you think that that could impact your cost structure going forward.
Erin it's really too early for me to make a call on that.
I don't think to a large extent but it's certainly – those types of things are things we monitor regularly but at this point I'd say – I wouldn't say that's a big issue from a cost.
Yeah it's affecting some of the supply as you're reading and that obviously has some impact out there.
It's only if it starts affecting a very large part of the supply not just here in the U.S.
but offshore as well but it begins to impact our ability to find product and distribute it to our customers.
Thus far that's not the case.
But as Bill said we watch this stuff.
We stand up crisis teams when it's important and when it becomes relevant.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
And that does conclude our Q&amp;A session and our conference call for today.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Sysco's fourth quarter and fiscal 2015 conference call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
We will begin today's call with opening remarks and introductions.
I would like to turn the conference over to Neil Russell Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations Sysco Corp.</strong> Thanks Don.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Sysco's fourth quarter and full-year fiscal 2015 earnings call.
Joining me in Houston today are: Bill DeLaney our President and Chief Executive Officer; Chris Kreidler our Chief Financial Officer; and Joel Grade our Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we begin please note that statements made during this presentation that state the company's or management's intentions beliefs expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements and actual results could differ in a material manner.
Additional information about factors that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's SEC filings.
This includes but is not limited to risk factors contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 28 2014 subsequent SEC filings and in the news release issued earlier this morning.
A copy of these materials can be found in the Investors section at sysco.com or via Sysco's IR app.
Non-GAAP financial measures are included in our comments today and in our presentation slides.
The reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures are included at the end of the presentation slides and can also be found in the Investor's section of our website.
All comments about earnings per share refer to diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.
In addition all references to case volume include total Broadline and SYGMA combined unless otherwise noted.
To ensure that we have sufficient time to answer all questions we'd like to ask each participant to limit their time today to one question and one follow-up.
Finally we will be hosting an Investor Day on September 15 in New York and look forward to seeing some of you there.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Neil.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Sysco's financial results announced this morning reflect a year of solid operating performance an excellent progress in several key initiatives that have begun to provide a strong foundation for value creation.
Our favorable operating performance was driven by providing our customers with exceptional service growing our business with both locally and corporate-managed customers and stabilizing our gross margins.
For the year we achieved record sales of $49 billion an increase of 5%.
We grew our adjusted operating income and earnings per share by 3% and 5% respectively.
We generated $1 billion in free cash flow.
We earned a return on invested capital of 13% on an adjusted basis.
We increased our dividend for the 46th time in our history and distributed nearly $700 million in dividends to our shareholders.
In addition and subsequent to the end of our fiscal year we announced a $3 billion two-year share buyback program that will more effectively leverage our strong balance sheet and return additional capital to shareholders.
It is important to note that these accomplishments were achieved with minimal disruption from the U.S.
Foods merger planning and litigation processes that continued throughout the entire fiscal year.
And I'm extremely appreciative and proud of all of our associates who performed so well on multiple fronts.
Moving to our performance in the fourth quarter we are encouraged by the following; we generated case growth of 3.6% in our Broadline business.
Gross profit grew 3% in an environment with no food cost inflation and gross margin expanded by 35 basis points compared to prior-year.
Expense management trends improved from earlier in the year and our cost per case in our North American Broadline operations was essentially flat compared to the prior-year on a constant currency basis.
Key drivers of our improved operating performance for both the year and the fourth quarter were following: increasing acceleration of local case growth; effective implementation of our category management process; improved Sysco brand penetration especially with locally managed customers; significant progress in developing and growing our offerings for the Hispanic customer segment; collaborative and mutually beneficial joint business planning processes with a small but growing number of corporate-managed accounts.
One other meaningful factor that impacted our financial results was the degree of volatility and food cost inflation.
We experienced nearly 5% food cost inflation during the first three quarters of 2015 and we managed it very well.
However food cost inflation in the fourth quarter was essentially flat which unfavorably impacted sales and gross profit growth.
Early trends in fiscal 2016 are similar and we expect this to be a modest sales and gross profit headwind over the next quarter or two.
We are committed to mitigate as much of this pressure as possible through ongoing gross margin stabilization efforts and improved expense management.
Moving to market and economic trends as I speak to you today the data is mixed.
Consumer confidence and the outlook of food service operators are at historically high levels but have slipped somewhat in the summer months.
Fuel prices at the pump remain at historically attractive levels which should support higher consumer spending moving forward.
Restaurant spend is up but traffic is generally flat.
Overall the market environment appears to be modestly improved from a year or two ago but it is unclear what the go-forward trajectory for the industry growth is over the next several quarters.
Whether the overall industry grows over the next few years at 1% real growth consistent with the past few years or closer to the 2% in Technomic's recently released five-year forecast.
We at Sysco will continue to differentiate our products and service offerings in a manner that will allow us to both profitably grow our market share and provide an improved return on invested capital for our shareholders.
I will offer some additional color in our future opportunities after Chris shares his perspective on our financial results for the year and the fourth quarter.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by providing some highlights of our financial performance in 2015.
Then I'll discuss our results for the fourth quarter and I'll close with some guidance for fiscal 2016 around a few metrics.
For the year sales gross profits and adjusted operating expenses all grew about 5%.
Sales and gross profits benefited from high food cost inflation in the first half of the year but were constrained in the back half as that inflation moderated and eventually disappeared.
Expenses were growing too fast early in the year but were being supported by high gross profit growth.
Expense growth moderated in the back half of the year especially in the fourth quarter.
Our adjusted EPS also grew by about 5% this year.
One thing to note is that our diluted shares for the year increased 1.1% because we did not repurchase shares while the merger was pending as we typically would have done.
If we had held our diluted shares flat it would have added approximately $0.02 to our adjusted EPS and 1% to our EPS growth rate.
We achieved several of our objectives during the year.
We exceeded our final three-year target for annualized business transformation benefits.
Our successful implementation of category management helped to enhance gross profits and mitigate gross margin pressure.
For the year gross margin was flat compared to 2014 after declining in each of the last four fiscal years.
We continued our prudent management of capital expenditures with net CapEx of $518 million falling well within our guidance range of $500 million to $550 million.
We recorded another year of significant growth in free cash flow on an adjusted basis which grew to $1.3 billion up 22% over the last year.
With regards to cost per case we achieved our revised goal of limiting the increase to $0.05 to $0.10 for the full year.
Actual cost per case increased $0.09 per case for the full-year on a constant currency basis and decreased $0.01 in the fourth quarter compared to the same period last year.
It's important to note that our original objective when we started the year was to hold cost per case flat for the year.
Because we didn't achieve our original goal we also did not achieve our goal of growing operating expenses slower than gross profit for the year.
As the operating expenses were up 4.8% versus a gross profit increase of 4.5%.
However we were able to improve our cost per case performance in the second half of the year and achieved our goal in the fourth quarter where operating expenses grew by 2.2% compared to gross profit growth of 3%.
Let's turn our attention now to our fourth quarter results.
Year-over-year sales growth decelerated to 9% as food cost inflation declined significantly from 5.4% in the first half of the year and 3.7% in the third quarter to flat in the fourth quarter.
During the quarter we saw relatively modest inflation in the meat poultry and frozen categories; but produce seafood and dairy were deflationary.
Changes in foreign exchange rates continue to have a much larger impact than usual in the fourth quarter.
The strengthening dollar depressed our foreign sales as we converted them to U.S.
dollars and as a result decreased sales by 1.4%.
Acquisitions increased sales by 0.4% in the quarter.
Broadline and SYGMA case volume grew 2.2% during the quarter including acquisitions and 1.9% excluding acquisitions.
This result includes a decline in SYGMA's case volume as we work to optimize that business.
Broadline case growth which excludes SYGMA was 3.6% reflecting our solid performance with both locally and corporate-managed accounts.
We are especially encouraged that local case growth in our U.S.
Broadline business has grown sequentially in each of the last five quarters.
Gross profit in the fourth quarter was $2.2 billion a 3% increase while gross margin increased 35 basis points to 17.9%.
Our U.S.
Broadline business was responsible for the majority of this increase driven by a stronger relative mix of sales for our locally managed business benefits from category management and a very effective national promotion for our Sysco-branded products.
Case growth for our corporate-managed customers remained strong but competitive pricing in this segment pressured overall gross margin.
Expenses for certain items in the fourth quarter totaled roughly $430 million almost entirely related to the termination of the U.S.
Foods merger.
This included non-cash accruals for the two breakup fees paid to U.S.
Foods and PFG totaling $313 million; $67 million in litigation fees and other integration planning expenses interest on merger debt of $41 million and then $11 million write-off on merger integration capital.
This was capital we spent on projects that would only be useful if the merger was completed.
The vast majority of the merger-related capital we spent will benefit the company as we move forward.
We've included a table in our slide presentation to show the expense impact of these items.
I will provide more details about the impact to our 2016 financials in a few minutes.
Adjusted operating expenses for the fourth quarter increased $36 million or 2% mainly driven by the impact of higher case volumes which increased our payroll and more specifically incentive compensation accruals.
As I mentioned earlier we made progress in reducing our cost per case during the quarter.
Cost per case was down $0.01 on a constant currency basis and down $0.07 when we include the impact from foreign exchange translation.
Adjusted operating income for the quarter was $509 million up 5.8% from the prior year.
And adjusted operating margin was 4.1% up 19 basis points from last year.
Turning to other income there was an $18 million increase from last year mainly driven by accounting for our JV transactions where we consolidate 100% of the JV's results above the operating income line and then back out the non-controlling interest in other income/expense.
Our tax rate for the quarter was negative primarily driven by the merger termination fees.
Adjusting for these fees and other certain items our tax rate for the quarter would have been closer to 38%.
Adjusted net earnings for the quarter increased 5.7% to $309 million and adjusted EPS increased 6.1% to $0.52.
Cash flow performance for the year was again very strong.
Cash flow from operations increased $63 million to $1.6 billion while free cash flow increased $42 million to $1 billion.
Both operating and free cash flow reflect the negative impact of two items.
First the cash impact of certain items was $231 million in fiscal 2015 mainly due to merger-related expenses.
Second as we disclosed earlier this year we made a $50 million pension contribution this year compared to none in the prior-year period.
This difference is simply driven by different timing regarding when we make cash contributions each year.
After adjusting for these items free cash flow was $280 million higher or $1.3 billion in fiscal year 2015.
Capital expenditures for the year net of proceeds from asset sales increased $21 million to $518 million well within our guidance and internal budgets.
During the year we significantly increased our investment in business technology as we were planning for the merger integration.
While the vast majority of these additional investments will benefit the company even without the merger we wrote off $11 million as I mentioned previously.
We were pleased that our adjusted ROIC grew 70 basis points to 13.1% in fiscal 2015 reflecting the continued prudent and disciplined investments in our business and solid operating performance during the year.
Finally a housekeeping item to point out in our segment reporting; we have reclassified our specialty meat company results out of the Broadline segment and into the Other segment as these operations are no longer reporting to our Broadline leadership.
We've provided a schedule in the earnings release this morning to show the quarterly and full-year impact of this reclassification to both fiscal 2014 and 2015.
Looking ahead I'd like to provide guidance for a few metrics to set expectations for the coming year.
First fiscal year 2016 will be a 53-week fiscal year for us with the extra week falling in the fourth fiscal quarter.
Second as Bill mentioned we are starting the year off with little to no food cost inflation which will create a modest sales and gross profit headwind over the next quarter or two.
Third we will recognize additional merger-related expenses totaling $95 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016.
These will include: $50 million related to the payment of the 1% call premium on the merger debt which was redeemed in July; a $29 million write-off of professional fees related to the issuance of the merger debt; an $18 million write-off of the bond discounts on the merger debt; a $10 million gain on the termination of the interest rate swaps we put in place upon issuing the merger debt; and $8 million in interest expense incurred leading up to the July 14 2015 redemption of the merger-related debt.
These amounts will all be classified as certain items in the first quarter.
The negative cash impact of certain items during the first quarter of fiscal 2016 will total approximately $350 million including: $313 million reflecting the payment of the break fees accrued this quarter; $500 million for the bond redemption premium; partially offset by approximately $15 million in proceeds related to the gain on the termination of our interest rate swaps.
Fourth we expect to issue $2 billion in new debt around the end of the first quarter to fund both the accelerated share repurchases announced previously as well as term out a portion of our commercial paper facility.
Adjusted interest expense for 2016 will be significantly higher because of this.
Additionally prior to issuing our merger debt in October of 2014 we entered into swaps that locked in a portion of the interest rates.
These swaps were settled in fiscal 2015 and we expect to amortize about $10 million of that interest expense in fiscal 2016.
The share repurchase program we announced will positively impact EPS in fiscal 2016.
Because of the timing of the buyback implementation we don't expect to realize a full year's benefit from the reduction of shares in fiscal 2016.
We anticipate a benefit of approximately $0.03 to $0.04 to diluted EPS in fiscal 2016 driven by a 4% to 5% reduction in average shares outstanding partially offset by higher interest expense on the new debt issuance.
In fiscal 2017 we would expect to capture the full-year impact of this buyback on an annualized basis.
Fifth with regards to taxes a normalized tax rate for Sysco would typically be in the range of 36% to 37%.
And lastly our forecast for capital expenditures net of proceeds for asset sales is $550 million to $600 million for fiscal 2016.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Chris.
While pleased with our progress and accomplishments in fiscal 2015 we recognize that there's still much work to do if we are to fully realize our vision for Sysco to be our customers' most valued and trusted business partner.
The good news is that we have a sound strategy that is predicated on profoundly enriching the experience of doing business with Sysco enhancing productivity and innovation in all aspects of our business attracting and developing the best people available and exploring opportunities for growth within and beyond our core business.
The better news is that we have begun to realize the benefits of several years of transformative change to our business through a portfolio of strategic business initiatives.
And the exciting news is that we are now beginning to embed these initiatives in how we do business each and every day by putting the customer first and working cohesively as one Sysco.
Following the termination of the U.S.
Foods merger agreement and utilizing the knowledge that we have acquired through our ongoing customer insights work we have begun to update our three-year strategic business plan.
Specifically we see opportunities to further accelerate our case growth especially with locally managed customers through more impactful product and service differentiation together with enhanced sales and technology capabilities.
We also believe that we can build upon our recent success in stabilizing gross margin through enhanced product innovation growing our Sysco brand sales and improving our pricing analytics and support.
In addition we see significant potential to improve our productivity and reduce overhead costs throughout our supply chain organization and in the administrative areas of our business.
We will continue to invest in our business to fully realize these benefits and improve our return on invested capital over the next three years as well.
We'll discuss these plans in more detail including financial impacts at our September 15 Investor Day.
Lastly as most of you know this is Chris' last conference call with us.
I'd like to thank Chris for his numerous contributions to Sysco over the past six years and all of us at Sysco would like to wish Chris and his family the very best as they move forward.
We also look forward to welcoming Joel into his new role in working with him as our CFO.
And with that operator Chris and I will now take questions.
Thank you.
And we'll go to our first question to Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Hi good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey good morning Ed.
Could we start with the cost control side? Your operating expense growth is better this quarter than it's been in a while actually and congratulations on your flat number per case.
Can you provide a little bit more color here on basically I guess what you're doing within the business? And then Bill not maybe to steal too much thunder from the Analyst Day but when you talk about significant potential to improve productivity and reduce costs could you maybe give us a little bit more insight into what you mean there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We won't steal too much thunder from Investor Day so don't worry about that Ed.
I think on the cost side the way I look at our numbers is those of you who follow us know I look at them in terms of what are the key things we look at here? Volume growth in particular relative to the market and within that volume growth it's very important that we see good local case growth and we've seen that here over the last several quarters.
We need the contract business as well but we need that local business to grow as well to drive profitability.
And then I look at operating income growth operating income is always going to be not just mathematically but just from a business perspective it's going to be a by-product of the environment that we're in.
And at times sometimes the gross profit will grow faster and sometimes the expenses will grow a little bit slower.
And so I think any given quarter there's always things that move around that could impact the numbers.
So I think as you look at the year I think I would say to you that basically what we said in the prepared comments we're pleased with what we saw in the fourth quarter on the expense side in particular in the supply chain side of the business and really the business itself in the field where we had flat cost per piece.
Now for the year we didn't.
We were up almost a dime and I would say to you we need to bring that number for the year back down into that flat – up a nickel zone.
I'm not saying that we will or we won't I'm just saying that that's kind of where the numbers ultimately need to get to to drive the earnings growth.
So our plan to go to your earnings to your Investor Day Ed our plan is to become more consistent in terms of how we do that and to take the quarter we saw here in the field and to begin to put that up quarter-after-quarter.
Now with that said I also said that we're going to continue to invest in the business here in terms of things that will drive some of the commercial initiatives that are really panning out for us now both on the growth side as well as the merchandising side.
So it's always going to be a mix I think of timing of investment relative to what you think the value of it is.
And bottom line I would say there's some things in the fourth quarter for example bad debt.
We had an exceptional year of bad debt this year knock on wood please.
So that benefited our fourth quarter numbers as well as the year to some extent.
So I would say that somewhere between that 2% growth and the 4.8% is where we need to get to.
And I would say to you in terms of Investor Day I think what you're going to hear us say there Ed is we're running a business here.
It's very important that we accelerate our case growth.
We see opportunities to do that especially on the local side that needs to turn into leveraging our operating income which we did here in the fourth quarter and we were up for the year.
So I look at the fourth quarter as hopefully a proxy for what we can do next year.
Quarters are going to have their own unique volatility and I would think that you'll hear a message from us that says that we have opportunity on all sides including the cost side.
But the big opportunity here is always going to be for a company with our capabilities with our footprint with our people and with our technology today to grow faster than the market and to do that profitably and to provide a good return on capital.
So certainly opportunities for cost reduction they are significant it'll take some time for that to play out and we will talk about that more in Investor Day.
But I don't want to leave this question without emphasizing how important it is for us to grow the business as we did this quarter.
I mean this is a quality quarter for us both in terms of growth leverage and the mix of that growth.
And I think that's really what you're going to hear at Investor Day.
It takes all facets of our business to be in sync for us to go where we want to go.
Great.
Thank you.
And I'll let some other guys go on.
We'll go next to Karen Short with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
It's actually Ryan Gilligan on for Karen.
How would you guys characterize the competitive environment now that the deal is behind us and inflation is moderating? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think the competitive environment has changed that much at all.
I mean there's still plenty of competitors out there of all types as we've talked about in great detail here over the last year or two.
So I would tell you I think competition is very very acute.
In the short-term the way I would look at inflation we have for years said and truly believe that the optimal range of inflation for our customers and for us is probably in the 2% to maybe 3% range.
That's a level that typically our customers can pass on and do pass on and generally that's a level that the consumer will accept.
So when we're in those levels we're able to have the best of both worlds if you will in terms of a little bit of a tailwind on inflation at the same time.
It doesn't hurt demand to any large extent.
We very seldom find ourselves in that zone and right now we find ourselves in a zone where there's little to no inflation.
As we said there's some modest inflation and some modest deflation in the categories.
So I think the way I would look at that is it's a little bit of a better environment right now in terms of our customer being able to manage their business and when our costs aren't going up that much obviously we don't have to raise our prices as much.
So from that standpoint it probably does help in terms of case growth but in terms of the competitive environment I don't really think it changes that at all.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thanks.
And then maybe could you just talk about your labor cost outlook and if you think maybe there'll be a battle for talent going forward as U.S.
Foods rebuilds its sales force? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We'll talk more about labor cost I think on Investor Day.
But generally we've got 50 000 people out there and they generally get raises every year.
And our whole goal as I was speaking to in Ed's question is the closer we can get to improving our productivity every year in sync with the labor increase the better chance we have of keeping that cost per case in that zone that I discussed earlier.
I don't know that I would – look good people are always in demand in this industry and we have a lot of good ones.
And so our people are always going to have opportunities.
I would tell you our retention has improved here in recent months as we've kind of matured in a lot of our transformation work and I don't expect that to be a big issue for us in terms of retention.
But we work hard every day to provide our people with good careers and we work hard every day to make sure that we're retaining our best people.
We'll go now to Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Mr.
Wolf your line is open.
Please check your mute function.
Hearing no response we'll go to our next caller Vincent Sinisi with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks very much for taking my question and Chris best of luck to you.
Thanks.
Wanted to ask you mentioned about some of the technology investments that were made in preparing for when the merger was a possibility.
Can you just give a little bit more color in terms of how that does play in with some of your former initiatives that you've been continuing to execute on and kind of what we can expect going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think Vinny the biggest that you can expect and we will talk more about this at Investor Day as well is while there's been tremendous emphasis and appropriately so on implementing SAP and where we are in that we've kind of turned the corner there.
So on the one hand we've stabilized that system.
We've improved the processes and we're moving more toward a modular rollout approach as opposed to an OpCo multi-modular rollout.
And we're starting to see some good success there.
And the most recent example would be in our inventory replenishment system which internally we refer to as DPR.
So in terms of the base core business I think we're in a more steady state and mature place there.
We're running the business.
We're running it well.
We'll continue to improve that.
But I think where you're going to see us go – and this is not so much a learning but just a point of emphasis that came out from a lot of the planning work is that we need to accelerate some of our work on the online mobile platform area.
And we've got some things going on there that are very encouraging and we will talk more about that.
So anything we can do here to make it easier for our customers to order and order when they want to order and for our MAs to facilitate those orders would be a very high priority.
Great.
Thanks Bill and just one other quick follow-up if I may.
In the prepared comments you had mentioned about working specifically on the corporate managed front.
Anything just to call out there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the one thing I did call out is this joint business planning approach that we've taken and it really requires a different approach to doing business because it does require more transparency.
It requires a commitment that needs to be a win-win for both organizations and we're at that point.
Over the last several years we've worked very hard with all of our customers.
But on the contract side the large contract side we're certainly trying to utilize our supply chain network and our footprint to optimize getting product to their facilities and to their restaurants in the most cost-efficient way possible.
But there are some limitations to that until you really sit down and open it up a little bit more in terms of what each organization is willing to do.
So what I'm getting at there is where it makes sense and it's not always going to make sense.
It depends on the nature of the relationship and the strategies of the respective companies.
But we are starting to see some really nice progress with a couple key customers in particular where by working together we're able to reduce their costs and also reduce our costs at the same time and – this is really the most important part – find ways to grow the business together.
So more to come but that is something that we've been working on quite a bit the last year or two years.
Okay very helpful.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
We'll take our next question from Mark Wiltamuth from Jefferies.
Hi thank you.
I wanted to ask about the SYGMA decline in the quarter.
It was down 8% on sales.
If you could maybe talk about how that impacted the gross margins because the mix there has changed and obviously SYGMA is one of your lower margin businesses.
How much did it help the gross margin? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> How much did SYGMA help the gross margin? No the fact that that's down so the mix is lower there for SYGMA.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay I'd say for the quarter a very very modest impact but probably some.
I think to your broader question SYGMA is in somewhat of a turnaround situation right now.
We've got new leadership there at the top Greg Keller who knows that business very very well.
And this is a year where we went through some changes with customers.
There was some business that we lost that we didn't want to lose.
There was some business that we transitioned because it was the right thing for us and the customer.
And then there was some business where we had to adjust our pricing which hurt our margins somewhat.
So there's a little bit of everything going on there.
We also had some expense challenges there that we're working through.
So this was not a great year for SYGMA and I expect it to improve here as we go forward in the new year and in the following years.
I would say overall we're trying to optimize that customer base in a way that obviously needs to work for the customer as well as us.
And I think you'll see some more of that next year but I also think you'll start to see improvement next year – excuse me in the current year.
Were there notable losses that we need to carry forward as we model out Sysco in future quarters? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm not getting into specifics but I would look more at the fourth quarter than the first three quarters probably.
Okay thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
We'll take our next question from Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for taking my question.
Can you hear me? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> A quick question just first.
You used to talk about street business and now you're talking about locally managed.
Do you think you could just tell us what the definition is? Is locally managed the same as street business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Meredith that's a great question.
It's one of those questions we get from time to time.
So no it's not the same but it's very close.
What we did – this is about three years ago Meredith.
We changed our terminology internally to frankly bring a little bit more clarity and accountability to the ultimate responsibility for these customers.
So locally managed business is business where the customer generally – and there are exceptions to every rule in Sysco – but generally the customer the decision-maker of that customer is proximate; i.e.
within the selling radius of that local operating company.
So there's a high percentage of street business but there's also a fair amount of what we call local contract business.
And these would be chains.
And they could be of different sizes.
They could be local chains.
They could be somewhat regional.
They could even be across regions and that's why I say there are exceptions.
But in our world it's street business plus what we call local contract.
And then corporate-managed business is your very large regional chains and your national and international customers for that matter where the relationships are largely managed from corporate here and generally with the customer.
And then obviously our operating companies are responsible for handling those relationships locally with the units and servicing those accounts.
So that's as clear as I can make it and there is some fuzziness there in the local contract.
But the key is really how we look at the business and it's how we sign primary accountability for these customer relationships.
Inc.</span></strong> That makes sense.
I just wonder when you talk about growth in the locally managed business you could be talking about either small chains or business where it's contracted or business when you actually call on the customer.
So the growth you talked about is that coming from both kinds of locally managed business or is there more growth in the independents? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'd say it's coming from both kinds.
This happened to be a year where we actually lost a couple of very large local contract customers that were spread across multiple OpCos so that's in that fuzzy category which we call them local contract because the history of those relationships is local but they cross over multiple OpCos.
But I would say generally and even currently that growth is coming from both.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay and then I just had one other quick question.
I did notice that D&amp;A was much lower this quarter than the recent run rate or lower than last year.
Obviously fourth quarter is a true-up period.
Is there anything to comment on? And when you talk about cost per case do you include D&amp;A in cost per case or is that just simply a corporate item? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> D&amp;A are you saying depreciation and amortization Meredith? Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Go ahead Chris.
So depreciation and amortization to the extent that it applies to business technology we would capture that at the corporate level.
To the extent it applies to something that's at the local level it's captured within cost per case because it's applied at the local level.
Generally I don't think there's anything especially to call out this quarter about the change in that number.
As you pointed out there are some true-ups that occur at the end of every year.
We've had probably more than last year than we had this year so that's going to help your growth rate a little bit.
But in general operating costs were much better managed this fourth quarter than last fourth quarter.
The number we cited up $36 million happens to be the amount of the increase and incentives for the quarter as well.
So to the extent it went up it went up for the right reasons.
We were selling a lot more cases and rewarding people accordingly.
Inc.</span></strong> And so the lower growth in case cost in this quarter wasn't particularly due to D&amp;A? It was a part of that mix but there was no significant amount attributable to that no.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> To Chris's point there wouldn't be a lot of amortization in that cost but there's certainly a lot of depreciation in that number.
There is to the extent that at the field level that's exactly right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Kelly Bania with BMO Capital.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for answering my question.
Just wanted to talk a little bit more about gross margin.
You called out some of your initiatives a little better growth with some of the local accounts.
But if you just step back how helpful was the flat food cost inflation and where do you think gross margin has really stabilized at? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm not sure I can answer the second one but let me start with the first one Kelly.
So look I think it depends on whether you're talking about gross profit or gross margin.
I don't want to be too anal on this thing but that's the reality of it.
We pay our bills with dollars so gross profit dollar growth is very important here and we had 3% gross profit dollar growth which was less than what you saw earlier in the year but at a time when there's no inflation that was pretty good and we were able to manage our expenses pretty well.
That's why I was saying earlier those numbers are going to move around from time to time.
Obviously what we need to get back to more consistently is where that gross profit is growing faster than the expenses.
I think on gross margin when you're in an environment where your costs are not going up there's not as much pressure to obviously raise your prices.
And that allows you to manage your margin percent a little bit better.
So there's no doubt that that helped on the percentage part of it; but again we need to manage both.
And after three years of talking about how important gross profit dollar growth is I'm not going to sit here today and take a victory lap on gross margin.
I think it's good that it went up but I think it's more impressive that we were able to grow the gross profit at 3% with very little if any inflation and keep our expenses below that.
That will be somewhat challenging here as we said in the first couple quarters but we'll continue to work at that.
And we'd like to get the gross profit growth back up in that four to five zone over time like we saw but that will be somewhat driven by inflation.
I think the corollary here Kelly is when we have inflation let's say higher than normal inflation like we saw particularly in the first half of the year that's where it's very difficult to – and at times not even appropriate – to raise your prices as fast as your costs are going up.
And so when you have an inflation environment of 5% or 6% it's highly unlikely that your gross margin is going to keep pace on a year-over-year basis there.
So it's math but it's more than math.
It's the environment that our sales people work in and it's basically what's the right way to treat the customer.
So bottom line I think it helped on the margin but it hurt on the gross profit this quarter.
As far as stabilizing let's take it a year at a time okay? So we have a year here where we had essentially flat margins.
And I think what I should say or reiterate here because we've talked about that inflation or lack thereof I mean we did a lot of good things this quarter and this year.
So category management really matured this year and helped improve our margins.
We'll see some more benefit there in the new year.
Not as much but a trajectory the slope will flatten out a little bit.
Growing local cases is very very important in this business.
I don't think I can say that enough.
So what we said here is we now had several quarters in a row where we grew our local business.
That's where we provide the most value that's where we make the most money.
And we don't have to grow them at the same rate as the corporate-managed necessarily but we do need to grow them.
And I think that contributed significantly to the margin as well as the gross profit growth.
And then this quarter and really the year to some extent we saw the brand rebound a little bit and some of that was through some promotion work.
Some of it's just the natural by-product of connecting it with our category management work.
And anytime we can utilize our private brand to create value that's also positive.
So I think there's a lot of things that led to it there's a lot of things we need to keep doing well and we have some good things going.
But look it is competitive out there and I think if we can stabilize margins at this level we'll be very happy with that.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
Bill one of the things we've heard is that post the U.S.
Foods thing not happening the promotional environment's got a little bit more intense.
Is that fair? Is that what you're seeing? And then how might that tie-in with this disinflation? And does this – so we've gone from plus four to zero in a very quick period of time.
Does that breed more aggressive competition right? Because everybody's COGS is going down and they can be aggressive without giving up a lot of margin? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> John it's been a long time since I practiced accounting.
I'm not sure that COGS are going down in the promotion.
I think their sales are going down and maybe their marketing expenses are going up depending on how they account for it.
So I don't think that's a COGS issue.
Obviously cat management helped us there.
As far as the question on promotion I see there's been some chatter out there.
Yeah I mean look you've got a transition that's going on here.
I think in certain markets we are seeing some of that type of activity.
I've even read pieces where people are saying that we've stepped up our activity.
And the reality is we haven't.
I think we're always out there selectively doing what we need to do to retain good quality customers and business and selectively going after potential new business.
So it's not that we don't promote; but I would tell you I don't think our promotion activities picked up in any meaningful way from a year or two ago.
So it's out there I think we're going through this transition period so it may be somewhat accelerated but I think that's a little overblown right now.
And then if you look at case progression so take Broadline up 3.6% this quarter what had it been running? Is that an improvement? And then if you look at locally managed on top of that and you said that has improved so where has that improved from? Where was it a couple of quarters ago? Where is it today? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I don't know that we give – I'm not going to let you do the work on some of that John.
I don't know that we give guidance at that level.
But I can directionally tell you it has improved okay? So that 3.6% that's total Broadline it's got about a half a point of acquisition and everything.
So you're looking at 3% organic growth and I would tell you that that's – there's a little bit more there on the corporate side than the local but the local has moved up nicely over the last I think it's five quarters to six quarters and it's continuing to grow.
So I think the important part there is that piece of it is growing and continuing to grow.
Okay thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Wolf with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Can you hear me this time? We can.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We can.
All right.
I don't know what happened there.
In the interim most of my questions were asked but maybe I could tie it together.
I thought the gross profit growth with this inflation was pretty good.
So and you're saying even from U.S.
Foods you haven't seen an uptick if I can be so impolite your old dance partner there.
Have you seen an uptick from them specifically? Or I guess maybe you're saying if so it's not enough to really change the nature of the market.
So when you sound a little cautious on the first half of the fiscal year is it more on the expense side? Because if the market environment's not changing you have some internal initiatives to get the gross profit dollars at least going above sales is it more of an expense issue? It's just you can't – it's just hard to keep the expenses flattish or to get the leverage that you got this quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> If I came across as cautious I guess it's just my nature Andy.
But I'm trying to be balanced here and...
Yeah.
No I appreciate just being straight so I'm just talking to you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But I think this is an important exchange here right now.
So I think I'm really pleased with this quarter.
I mean the quality of this quarter was very good.
And we've got some good things going on here on the local case growth side so we need to sustain that.
And I think we still can grow some of the other cases as well.
So I think that's a positive I feel good about that.
There's not much we can do about whether there's going to be any inflation or if there's going to be a little deflation so that's where I'm a little cautious.
That does impact our top line and our gross profit dollar line.
And then on the expense side I would say encouraged by the fourth quarter and I just would look for gradual improvement there.
I don't think we can sustain 2% expense growth with 3% case growth.
Okay I don't think that's a sustainable ratio.
With that said I expect our expense growth to – on a relative basis to be better next year than what we saw this year relative to case growth relative to sales and GP growth.
So I actually feel pretty good about the part that we're managing right now and then my caution is that if you look at the quarter I see that as something.
We had three good quarters this year.
We need to have four next year and they need to look somewhere around what we saw here in the fourth quarter.
But the lines are going to move around depending what's going on in the marketplace.
But overall I feel good but yeah I'm a little cautious on that top line and GP line for the first quarter too.
Chris.
Yeah.
Hey Andy I'm just going to tie it back to some stuff we talked to earlier in the year.
We continue to say we'd like to see gross profit dollar growth of 4% or better.
That sets us up very very well.
Because of the level of food cost inflation it's difficult right now.
All Bill was really saying is we're going to have some headwinds on the sales line.
We're going to have some headwinds on the gross profit dollar line.
Obtaining that 4% is going to be difficult without some sort of reinflation in food cost.
The reason the 4% is 4% is because we acknowledge that we're going to drive cases and that's going to drive costs.
So as Bill just said I think very very well if we're going to have headwinds on the top line numbers it means we have to control the cost even more at a time when frankly we're driving cases.
So that makes the math a little bit tough.
So I'm with Bill.
I'm very pleased with the quarter.
Neither of us are pessimistic about next year or even the first half of next year.
We're just as Bill said trying to be able to balance with the current inflationary environment and how hard that's going to be to drive our equation.
Good.
No no I saw the quarter that way too.
And just lastly back to U.S.
Foods they are the number two player potentially at least in some markets if they were to really get aggressive could squeeze some margins.
Are you seeing them being pretty normal or are you seeing them ramp it up quite a lot? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Again Andy I think in certain markets our people are seeing some of that.
They've got new CEO there now who we know and respect a great deal.
I think they've got a lot to get through here in the next couple three months.
I expect that they'll do it and do it well and I expect them to be a rational competitor.
But in any given market any of us could at times be a little bit viewed as being overly aggressive or whatever.
So I'm sure there's some of that going out.
I'm not that close to it.
But if it was overly significant I think I would know about it.
And I don't have a sense that that's a big thing right now.
Okay thank you.
Congratulations on the quarter I thought it was pretty good.
Thanks Andy.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Andy.
We'll go next to Ajay Jain with Pivotal Research Group.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for the question.
Bill in your prepared comments I think you cited improved expense management and also higher payroll costs higher incentive compensation.
And so with respect to your expense outlook for this year overall would you say comparisons are starting to ease? And then can you give any additional breakdown on where you're expecting comparisons to improve and where you see continued pressure on earnings? Excluding the merger expenses and interest expense I'm just still trying or struggling to get a big picture perspective on whether comparisons should improve this year or at least be a little bit more normalized in fiscal 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Ajay look our plan is to grow our gross profit faster than our expenses.
And as I said a couple times now that may look differently in some quarters than others and there will be a little more pressure in the first quarter or two.
Our expenses this year were high as Chris took you through were higher than we planned.
And we can't have 8% 9% 10% case growth on a currency-adjusted basis.
So we had a good number here in the fourth quarter.
I expect this to continue to improve on the expense side in the field.
There are going to be some ups and downs there but I'm confident that we're on the right track there.
So I don't know that you can sustain flat every quarter but certainly low single-digit case increases – cost case increases would be what we're shooting for here.
On the corporate side it depends on the quarter.
We talked about some true-ups.
I mentioned bad debt.
So in any given quarter there could be some things on the corporate side.
I would just say to you that as we continue we have stood up a lot of capabilities here from cap-man to a lot of things on sales capabilities.
There's more to do there and so we'll continue to invest in our people and our technology to position this company to grow its business and grow it profitably and compete very well and do great things for our customers.
So long story short we'll talk more about this in Investor Day.
But as I said we expect to grow the cases.
I don't think 2% is sustainable with 3% case growth if we're able to continue to do that.
At the same time 4.8% is too high.
So I think you can assume from that that somewhere in the middle is what we're shooting for.
Ajay this is Chris.
Remember back early in the year when we were reporting very high gross profit dollar growth numbers we were calling out the fact that we were not pleased with our expense performance even back then.
It was being supported by the gross profit but we weren't happy with our expense management.
Since that time we've actually done better in the fourth quarter.
It's certainly the best quarter we had during the year so I'm going to be repetitive here with Bill that we were not at all pleased with the overall year performance but we were much more pleased with Q4; again calling out the fact that it might be a little bit swung to the other side of being hard to repeat.
So overall cost per case was higher than it should have been higher than we wanted it to be.
We got it back under control in Q4.
And certainly that's the goal as we look into next year but it's something we have to continue to focus on.
But again we saw real improvement in Q4.
We just have to continue to maintain that and make sure that we don't allow the increases that got ahead of us in the first part of this year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think if I could maybe just add one other thing to put this in context.
I've talked about quarters move around.
Years move around.
And I think if you look at our cost and our expense management over the last two years a lot of our initiatives matured last year and we actually saw a reduction in cost per case last year.
And I think it was a low single-digit reduction but it was up in the fourth quarter I believe last year.
So we've cycled some of that now.
And I think if you look at the two years together that's a pretty good proxy of what we're able to do and we're working really hard and I expect us to improve from this year.
That's actually a good point Bill.
We were down $0.06 per case last year on a reported basis and I think we're up $0.04 a case this year on a reported basis.
So you look at the two years together and we're almost back to breakeven.
And it's not a bad story but frankly we were expecting better out of ourselves.
So that's where we have to continue to work.
We'll take our next question from John Ivankoe from JPMorgan.
Hi great.
Thank you.
First just a housekeeping question.
The Analyst Day is going to be on September 15 I had something else written down so I just want to make sure I have that right.
We changed it to I think the original day was September 24.
We changed it to September 15 that's correct in the afternoon.
Okay thank you.
And then secondly the comments in the press release we will also continue to evaluate opportunities to optimize our capital structure.
That's obviously a very interesting comment and one's imagination can run wild just seeing a sentence like that within a press release especially.
So as you've talked and had more time to think about this with the board and perhaps even solicited investor feedback what do you think that optimal capital structure is in terms of rating? And whatever that is I guess at this point what are you waiting for to implement that optimized capital structure? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Actually John that's pretty much the same thing we said when we announced the share repurchase.
So our view on that is pretty straightforward I think at this point.
We kept our powder dry here for quite some time because we've been looking at a lot of different opportunities on the acquisition front some larger than others and we ended up pulling the trigger on the U.S.
Foods deal and that required a lot of capital and as we all know that ultimately didn't play out.
So where we're at today is we just felt it was appropriate to return some capital in the form of share repurchase back to our shareholders here over the next year or two.
But we still think we need to keep some powder dry here.
We continue to look for acquisitions as I said in my comments both within the core and potentially beyond the core whether it be adjacency or continue to build our international platform here.
So I would just say to you we're going to do what we're saying here which is from time to time we'll continue to look at our capital structure relative to what our other options are.
And for the most part it starts with investing in the business.
I think we've got a pretty good cadence there.
We've got pretty good – Chris has done a nice job coming in here and helping us get a little more structure and discipline around our CapEx spending.
We've improved modestly but we've begun to improve in our working capital management so there are some good things going on there.
But I would always like to have the opportunity to do some strategic acquisitions if and when they present themselves.
It's just at this point we don't need to keep quite as much capital available to do that.
Understood thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Thank you.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session and also brings us to the end of today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a good day.