Good morning my name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q1 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the podium over to Mr.
Andrew Blanchard.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Christy.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the first quarter of 2011 as well as our outlook for the second quarter.
First I'd like to address several administrative issues.
The press release containing our most recent financial results was sent out via Business Wire last evening.
Copies are available on our website or by calling Teradyne's corporate relations office at (978) 370-2221.
This call is being simultaneously webcast at teradyne.com.
Note that during this call we are providing slides on the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
To view them simply access the Investor page of the site and click on the Live Webcast icon.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The replays will be available along with the slides through May 14.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risks factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We have posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where available on our website.
To view them go to the Investor page and click on the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations link.
Also you may want to note that between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be participating in the Credit Suisse First Boston Semicap Equipment Conference in Boston on May 11; the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Technology Conference on June 1; and the Cowen and Company TMT Conference on June 2 both in New York.
Also please note that we've removed Diagnostic Solutions from the various lines in our P&amp;L as this business unit was sold to SBX for $41 million in the first quarter.
Consequently we've reported its revenue and expenses all net in one line as a discontinued operation and our comments and comparisons hereafter will exclude its results.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the company in the industry in the first quarter and will review our outlook for the second quarter.
Then our CFO Greg Beecher will provide more detail on our quarterly performance along with our guidance for the second quarter.
We will then answer your questions.
For scheduling purposes you should note that we intend to end this call after one hour.
Mike? Thanks Andy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
When we were together last quarter we had wrapped up a very good year and we're seeing strengthening demand in our SemiTest bookings after a one-quarter correction.
That momentum has continued as we posted a $100 million increase in bookings in this first quarter with roughly $75 million from SemiTest and about $25 million from our System Test group.
I'll get into some details behind those increases in a minute.
But the summary is that despite some macroeconomic headwinds and despite the tragedy and disruption in Japan our customers are adding capacity across virtually all of our product lines.
Now most of what we'll talk about today will sound familiar to you reflecting the steady course of our strategy these last couple of years.
That includes the focus on testing the silicon in high-growth consumer products a steady hand on fixed costs and an emphasis on new products and new markets like Hard Disk Drive test.
I should also note upfront that despite the terrible human toll in Japan our operations there were not severely impacted.
So the 200 or so people we have there have been fully engaged with our customers through this very difficult period.
Of the 109 customer test facilities that we serve in Japan with about 1 700 testers installed essentially all have returned to full operating status.
Now obviously we don't know whether any secondary effects will impact our customers in Japan or others outside the region but we're not altering our shipment plans in anticipation of any additional interruptions.
Greg will talk about what we've also done on the supply line side of the house to ensure that our own material flow and manufacturing schedule remains intact.
Now getting back to the first quarter numbers and our guidance for the second quarter.
We had solid uptick in orders in the SOC Test led principally by our IDM customers.
Mobile processors power management and Automotive were the strongest segments of demand.
As a result our FLEX Magnum and Eagle SOC products led the way while J750 products posted unit bookings just off their fourth quarter levels.
In particular the FLEX family had its fifth best quarter ever with 3 of the highest demand quarters being posted since the beginning of 2010.
So we continue to see 3 things in customer-buying patterns.
First the UltraFLEX is being adopted for next-generation mobile computing products due to its instrument performance and density.
Second the Eagle family is reaching into a wider range of emerging Asian Fabless companies.
And third the J750 often remains the market's choice in digital wafer probe and Microcontroller Test applications.
In each of these products our customers can look out over a 2- or 3-year horizon and see how our instrumentation roadmaps aligned to their product lines.
This is obviously important for IDM and Fabless specifiers but even more critical in OSAT environments where product life expectancy is so crucial.
In Memory Test our bookings were the second highest since combining with Nextest and were driven principally by FLASH Memory capacity adds.
We're not seeing much in the DRAM side right now so the booking strength is really coming from the lower-speed test applications.
And in Systems Test we've turned the corner with an expanded Hard Disk Drive customer base now placing production buys for 2.5-inch drives.
You'll recall that our Neptune product is a massively parallel system targeting mobile and enterprise drives that will ride both PC and cloud computing growth trends.
Now all of this brings me to our guidance for the second quarter.
Our revenue guidance will be up about $25 million in the second quarter to a $375 million to $400 million range.
That's in line with our average bookings these past 2 quarters and with an adjustment for our sale of the automotive diagnostic units and it also reflects that revenue recognition for new HDD customer installations will show up more heavily in the second half of the year.
Greg can break the numbers down between SemiTest and Systems Test for you in his comments.
The bottom line on Q2 though is a sequential step-up in revenues and profitability and our sixth straight quarter operating above our model.
And of course our balance sheet remains strong and flexible.
As always our demand visibility is connected to our customers' forecast which as you know look out weeks but not months.
So we can't really say much with certainty about new demand late this quarter or into Q3.
What I can tell you though is that the first quarter has been healthy but well below the peak quarters of 2010.
We started the year in SOC test without any big upsurge in OSAT buying and while there's great uncertainty about worldwide GDP growth unemployment and political unrest we see no wavering in customer new product launches.
So whatever we see in demand this quarter or next we feel very equipped to respond to as we have a lot of elasticity in the supply channels and our manufacturing capacity.
And finally I'm sure there are continuing questions about the pending consolidation in the test market and the impact on us.
So let me tell you this.
First obviously we're very pleased with the Nextest and Eagle moves we made in 2008 truly complementary products for us with solid financial performance.
Second the effects of consolidations in our industry play out gradually due to the execution time required to make platform transitions.
And third but most importantly our support strategies and our product roadmaps remain intact and are very visible to our customers and prospective customers.
So we're ready to step forward at a minute's notice if customers need us in these uncertain times.
Let me now turn it back over to Greg.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'd like to first make a few comments about our financial model and then I'll recap the first quarter results and provide guidance for the second quarter of 2011.
I'm pleased to report that in the first quarter of 2011 we achieved an operating profit rate of 23% marking the fifth quarter in a row of operating above our model 15% profit rate.
We've detailed in the past the many cost structure changes and new products that have contributed to our above-model financial performance.
So I won't go into these details again.
Instead though I'll summarize the 3 key drivers to give you some context before I get into further details.
First we've optimized the company and all functions and maintained steady fixed cost discipline.
Second we're well positioned with leading accounts that are supplying fast-growing segments such as mobile computing automotive and digital consumer.
And third we've grown market share both with Eagle and Nextest products as well as with our FLEX J750 and Neptune HDD test product lines.
In HDD test I'm pleased to report that we've received volume orders from multiple customers in the first quarter.
This further increases our confidence of doubling our annual HDD revenue to between $80 million to $120 million.
We'll update you more on our progress as the year unfolds.
I want to now update our model that has been in place since early 2009.
We plan to increase our engineering spending by about $2 million to $3 million a quarter starting in the second quarter of 2011 to fuel the next wave of growth.
As a quick reference we've averaged quarterly sales of $388 million over the last 5 quarters and an operating profit rate of 27%.
So this is a very modest adjustment to our overall model which you can find on our website.
There's one other item I'd like to highlight that will likely affect us this year.
We're looking at moving our pension accounting to mark-to-market accounting versus the past practice of smoothing losses and gains over a multiyear period.
You may have read it by a few large companies that have recently done this and there are many more looking at this now.
As you might expect it is generally preferable for investors that current-year pension losses and gains be recorded in the current year P&amp;L versus smoothing them over many future periods as it provides a better picture of the current-year performance.
If we make this change there'd be a large onetime noncash accounting charge as early as next quarter and we'll have a lower quarterly operating costs of about a $2 million thereafter.
This of course would have no impact on cash and is not reflected in our updated model.
I should add that we fully funded our U.S.
flows and pension plan through a $45 million contribution in 2010 and we also reallocated the assets much more heavily to fixed income.
Hence we do not expect to be making any significant further cash outlays to this U.S.
pension plan.
Shifting now for a moment to the tragic Japan natural disasters.
We've carefully looked and relooked for impacts from this crisis.
From what we know now we believe we've reacted where prudent which was to place about $5 million of buffer inventory for certain components that are sourced in Japan.
We also offer additional support to our Japanese customers.
So far we haven't seen any other action that may be needed on our part.
We'll continue to monitor the situation very carefully as we learn more.
Moving now to the first quarter.
We had sales of $377 million and non-GAAP EPS of $0.39.
Our operating profit rate was 23%.
Again the first quarter marks the fifth quarter in a row where we've operated above our 15% model profit rate.
Moving now to the demand side.
SemiTest bookings increased 26% to $316 million with strengthening in mobile processing power management and automotive devices.
Memory Test orders were $31 million in the first quarter.
On the other side of the bookings ledger Systems Test group came in at $75 million driven by volume HDD orders.
Moving to cash.
We ended the quarter with $1.1 billion in gross cash and $900 million in net cash after deducting the base amount of the convert in our Japanese debt.
So far we have not bought back any stock on our $200 million buyback program.
Let me remind you how we're thinking about cash.
We believe there will be attractive M&amp;A opportunities where we can exploit customer or technology leverage to accelerate the growth and profitability of the acquired business.
Said more simply the acquisition candidates will be better optimized in our hands.
We'll retain our strict criteria and discipline of evaluation fit and the need to at least earn our cost of capital of 15%.
As to the approved buybacks we'll continue to be opportunistic.
Now back to the first quarter results.
The top line of $377 million was up $67 million or 22% sequentially from the fourth quarter.
SemiTest was $319 million up $57 million or 22% and Systems Test group was $58 million up $10 million.
SemiTest product shipments increased 27% from a quarter ago.
Within the $377 million service revenue was $61 million and flat with the fourth quarter.
SemiTest service revenue was $49 million.
Total company product turns business was 32% versus 30% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 35% versus 33% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $28 million in the quarter.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Gross margins decreased from 52.7% in the fourth quarter to 51% in the first quarter primarily due to product mix.
R&amp;D expenses were $48 million or 13% of sales compared to $47 million or 15% of sales in the fourth quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were $58 million or 15% of sales compared to $54 million or 17% of sales in the fourth quarter.
Operating expenses of $106 million were up $6 million from the fourth quarter primarily due to higher variable compensation and the fourth quarter benefited from some true-ups at the end of the year with some credits.
Our net non-GAAP interest and other expense was $2 million.
We recorded a tax provision of $5.5 million or a tax rate of approximately 8%.
We have U.S.
NOLs and credits that totaled about $315 million on a pretax basis which will continue to benefit us well into 2012 as about 40% of our consolidated income is in the U.S.
In the first quarter Semiconductor Test sales were 85% of the total and Systems Test group was 15%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the first quarter was 1.15% for the overall company 1.13% for Semiconductor Test and 1.30% for Systems Test group.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $554 million of which 85% is scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue into the next 6 months.
Cash used for operations totaled $3 million after capital additions.
Depreciation and amortization for the first quarter was $33 million including $7 million of stock-based comp $7 million for acquired intangible asset amortization and $3 million for amortization of the GAAP-imputed debt discount.
As noted in the press release sales for the second quarter are expected to be between $375 million and $400 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.38 to $0.44 on 209 million diluted shares.
I should add that the guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and the noncash imputed interest on the convertible debt.
Our GAAP EPS range is $0.28 to $0.34.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our second quarter guidance is about 24%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages in the second quarter.
We expect gross margins to be 51% to 52%.
R&amp;D should be about 13% and SG&amp;A should be about 15%.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $2 million and the tax provision should be about 8%.
In summary our operating model and products are well positioned for continued healthy financial performance and we are strategically investing where we see greater growth.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Christy we would now like to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Satya Kumar with Credit Suisse Just a bookkeeping question first.
Was there any cancellation from the backlog in the quarter? Satya none to speak of.
Very small.
Nothing different from what we've had in the past.
Got it.
In terms of the Mobile Processor segment I was wondering if you're able to quantify how big that is for you now.
The strength that you're seeing in the FLEX product line I was wondering if you could comment if that's more unit driven or also you're seeing some improvement in the test times.
And recently there's been some concern with perhaps some weakness in the Mobile segment for some of the end customers.
I was wondering how you see that particular segment tracking into the second quarter.
A lot of questions there.
Let me see if I get some.
Obviously I think in the past we've said that a chunk of our business does come from the smartphone space.
If I took tablets and added that to smartphones the tester configurations tend to be similar so both of those are big drivers for us on a segment basis.
That was the strongest segment for us in this past quarter the Wireless Mobile Processor Baseband on segment.
So your question was -- could you give me the test question again? The question was approximately could you quantify how big that segment is for you now the Wireless Baseband Processing segment? And is the improvement you're seeing more unit driven or output test time driven and how do you feel your outlook into the second quarter? I'm breaking it down.
I'm pausing because there are many many segments and a lot of our testers are kind of hybrid testers that will be brought to cross over different segments.
If I look at the total market we think that the Mobile baseband part of the market is probably about 20% of the total.
And for us if I look at it here we've got a very good position in that market share.
So we're well north of that.
But as a percentage of our total this quarter it was the number one segment for us.
I can't give you the exact numbers.
We don't group them exactly the way you're describing because of the hybrid nature of the configurations.
I was asking the strength that you're seeing is that units or test time driven as well? And what do you see into Q2? I think it's more unit driven than it is test time driven number one.
Number two in Q2 the short-term forecast we have would say that that will be the strongest segment in the second quarter for us as well.
It'll be close.
In the past we've always had 3 to 4 driver segments for us with the Wireless Mobile Processor segment Power Management and then an Automotive segment and if I added Microcontrollers into that those are tended to be the 4 driver segments for us.
But the standout in maybe let's say 4 of the last 5 or 3 of the last 5 has certainly been in this Mobile Processor Tablet segment.
So I think that'll be the case going forward into the next quarter in short term.
Your next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri with Citi.
Most of the [indiscernible] companies had in the last couple of days talked about some pushouts mainly from Korea and Taiwan that have occurred anywhere from the past month to the last week or so.
Have you seen particularly with your OSAT customers have you seen say in the last week or 2 any sort of weaker bookings profiles from them or any pushout from them or any signs that you could see pushouts? Tim nothing in the very short term.
Obviously we see all the same reports that you're talking about.
The back end side of this is -- obviously the bookings are up so the demand is up.
And I think you'd be looking for -- is there a flinch here in a quick pullback from the increase in demand.
We haven't seen that.
So there's nothing I'd say that is a signal of that.
Now on the OSAT side the OSAT this quarter for us remains pretty steady to what they were in the prior quarter.
I think we said that -- I don't know if we reported but the percentages this quarter were 75-25 meaning -- or 24 for the OSATs.
In the prior quarter they were 26.
So roughly the same level.
And on increased bookings they were up a little bit.
But then really not anywhere close to where they were in the last cycle.
And I think how to read that is -- one reading is they're certainly not overdriving.
Therefore a pullback at this moment by them would be a pullback from a relatively base level of business and we haven't seen that.
Got it.
Okay.
And then question on cash.
Obviously you guys have been very very straightforward about saying that you're going to keep cash on hand because there are several targets that you're sort of looking at and you're still not buying back stocks.
So what's the sort of impediment right now to sort of getting these deals done.
Is it a price issue? Is it a timing issue? Because I think the Street and many investors want to see something done with that cash.
Yes.
This is Greg.
We look at a lot of opportunities and we tend to narrow it down to one or 2.
This is over perhaps a 12-month period and the one or 2 that we think would be a good fit and could do very well inside Teradyne already got stock based upon valuation.
And generally we believe that those situations may come back alive as the other parties get more information as to what a reasonable valuation is.
So it's a valuation not a hurdle that has been the thing that has not enabled us to bring a transaction to closure yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I have a couple of questions.
Can you tell your Q2 guidance directionally with your SOC Memory HDD sales? Sure.
This is Greg.
We can do SOC and Memory and we put HDD in with our Systems Test business so we can break it down that way Krish.
Okay.
Okay.
Let me just Semi Test first.
Semi Test is certainly up from the first to the second quarter.
They were up $30 million in that neighborhood.
And the Systems Test group is closer to being flat after a healthy first quarter.
We broke the bookings down.
All right.
And then how big do you think is the SOC market this year? I mean I'm just trying to do a quick backup running in calculation and looking at your first half SOC run rate it seems like it's 50% market share.
SOC market hasn't slowed down in the second half of this year.
Yes.
We've put on the website this run chart that shows you the monthly -- moving average of the monthly book-to-bill in each of the segments.
I think it's in one of the early pages on it.
But the projections for the market that we get from the outside are anywhere between $2.4 billion and $2.8 billion.
So that would be kind of in the same ballpark that 2010 was.
The size of the market in the first quarter is a little bit north of 600 we think.
So at a run rate it's at the low end of that $6.4 billion maybe a little bit above -- actually it's not $6.4 $2.4 billion mark.
Now -- so the other thing is you said the 50% market share that's a little bit generous to us.
Last year I know numerically we came up to about 49%.
I think we said on the last call we certainly said to investor discussions over the last 6 months.
And we think our running rate market share is in the mid-40s.
It was below 40s in '09 and '10.
We think that's ticked up to maybe in the mid-40% 44% 45% level.
Why is there a difference? Because we had very strong segment-buying patterns that favored us last year but we're staying sustainably in the 45% level.
So when we put all of that math together we think the first quarter is running at slightly above the $2.4 billion rate but not at the $2.8 billion rate.
That would give you a buy rate by the way of anywhere between 1.2% to 1.4% compared to 1.4% in all of 2010.
That is very helpful.
And then a final question.
The 2 of your large [indiscernible] customers merging can you just help us understand what it means to Teradyne and what it means for opportunity down the road? Yes we don't think it has a big impact.
Obviously in the medium term you'd say there could be an opportunity there for them to optimize the utilization of their installed base.
So I think anyone supplying for them would have in the medium term some impact.
We tend to have a footprint in many many many of the customers because of the market share position we have.
So we don't think there's the likelihood of a big shift one way or the other either towards or away from us.
We think the equipment we have is a broad installed base in those customers.
So I guess the only significant thing would be naturally when companies combine they really reassess their equipment so there could be a pause in the short term then a rationalization in the midterm which is measured in quarters.
And then they're back on the running rate that they've been in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Covello with Goldman Sachs.
First another one on the buyback.
Can you not do a buyback before you do the M&amp;A deal? Is there some sort of legal issue there that if you're engaged in a certain level of M&amp;A discussion you can't be buying back your own stock? Or is it more just you want to see the size of the deal and what kind of cash you need before you'll put the $200 million to work? Jim this is Greg.
It's the latter.
We'd only have a problem doing a buyback if we got far enough along with the party that the deal is deemed to be probable and that's generally when you have a signed agreement of some sort and you're deep into diligence.
Okay.
And then -- so the no buyback this quarter on the authorization was simply a function then of? We want to be opportunistic and we think it's just not a good time for us to buy and we see some attractive opportunities and I don't believe that they're fully brought to closure.
I do think we're in this terrain there's often discussions that we get close and they break down.
Three months later we get back together.
We get closer.
They break down.
And it might be the third time we get back together we can pull it off.
So there's still lingering discussions going on behind the scenes.
So I want to see how those opportunities run pan out.
Okay.
And then again just thinking about the order number versus the sales guidance.
I understand that some of the orders were for longer dated Hard Disk Drives orders that will ship later in 2011 but if I just look at the SemiTest orders they were up significantly.
And again I understand you're averaging the SemiTest orders over the last 2-quarter period to get sort of a baseline of what you think the SemiTest sales are going to be.
But is that how it works in actuality? I mean aren't the shipments -- haven't we really shipped most of the orders for SemiTest the load orders that we saw a couple of quarters ago now? Or were some of those SemiTest orders taking longer to ship for some reason? Well it's also a chunk of service that gets booked in in fourth quarter first quarter.
And then service tends to get recognized over the fourth quarter period.
So is that sort of the driving force? I think it would be that one single thing that will help reconcile what you just highlighted.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Chin with UBS.
This is Mahavir Sanghavi for Stephen Chin.
First question on OSAT.
Greg you mentioned that OSAT bookings and orders were in the same range as 1Q.
I was wondering if you could give some color on utilization rates at your OSATs and also what do you think the OSAT CapEx will be? Will it be first half loaded or second half given you're seeing not increased level of orders in the second quarter as you might have expected? Stephen the utilization rates I don't have OSAT versus IDMs.
In total the utilization rates now are -- the industry tracks now around 90% level.
I think the interesting thing on the utilization is that the bottom point that this cycle had was above 85%.
And normally that bottoming point is closer to 80% sometimes below 80%.
So utilization have trended up since the third and fourth quarter.
They're now in the 90%-plus level for us.
I believe that's true across the board.
We don't see a big differential across OSATs versus IDMs.
The CapEx for the OSATs -- revenue forecasts are going up for the OSATs so one would expect that their utilization will go up and their CapEx will increase.
But if anything they're the shortest lead time customers we have.
So it's pretty hard to predict what they will do.
I will say to you that in the short term meaning between Q1 and Q2 the very short-term visibility there doesn't say that we're going to see a big difference in the OSAT demand.
You put all that together and say that if there's going to be a CapEx increase then I guess you'd put it into the second half of the year.
But so far through the first 6 months we think they'll be pretty stable around the level that they were in the first quarter.
That's helpful.
And second question is on Hard Disk Drives.
Just wanted to get an idea about do you still think the Hard Disk Drive opportunity is as big as you originally expected given the recent 2 big acquisitions in this space? Well actually the picture is brightening from our perspective.
Why? Number one the unit volumes on the 2.5-inch Hard Disk Drives have continued to increase and test times have continued to increase as densities increased on the drives.
And so unit volumes of 2.5 inch last year exceeded the 3.5-inch volumes.
Number two growth will continue the forecast that we have and that we see from our customers say that those will continue as 3.5 inches now have turned over and start to decline.
So the sweet spot has now moved into the 2.5-inch space.
So that's a plus.
Number two the expansion of our position with multiple customers now is a plus.
As you know in the last 2 years we've been -- we've had a very narrow customer base.
That has opened up now.
Last year we talked about some engineering system installations.
We've now moved into production volume from multiple customers.
Now the same kind of question what will consolidation do there? In the short term with consolidation is not having an impact but obviously as companies consolidate they assess what their installed base is.
But in the short term that hasn't changed any of the trajectory of the adoption of the Neptune product for us.
But obviously it will have some effect as the customers who consolidate.
They will come out of that with multiple customers so that's a good picture for us.
So we're actually -- we actually feel better and more optimistic about that space.
Having said that I guess I should reaffirm the guidance we gave in this business we said we thought we would be between $80 million and $120 million this year.
And I think we feel very good about that projection.
Just a follow-up.
Can we assume that you have a higher share at 2.5 inch? Our share in higher -- we only supply 2.5 inch.
So relative to our total portfolio it's all 2.5 inch.
And we believe that we're gaining share in the 2.5 inch space because of the growth that -- if we hit this $80 million to $120 million plan which we feel very good about at this point based on the backlog we're quite sure that we'll gain share this year.
And your next question comes from the line of CJ Muse with Barclays Capital.
I guess first question on the HDD side you alluded to in your prepared remarks shipments in Q2 that wouldn't be recognized until Q3 Q4.
Can you share what the amount of that is? Let me just step back.
The HDD revenue in the first half of the year is in the mid-20s per quarter.
In the third quarter we'd expect it to be higher.
I don't want to quantify that now because there's a bunch of details in terms of what gets accepted when.
But it'll be higher than the run rate of about $25 million that we're seeing in the first and second quarter.
That's helpful.
And I guess on the Memory front I believe that you've been on record thinking about $150 million to $200 million range.
I guess has that changed and if you could kind of talk on both demand in the DRAM  side particularly given your strength you're seeing on the RAM side.
CJ the market size this year if you look at that run rate chart it only shows 3 months of 2011.
You get a little depressed because it's gone down and it's starting to pick itself up.
But again it's a very very low month level.
The projections from the outside say that could be anywhere in total from $700 million to $900 million this year.
Obviously well south of the $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion that it was 4 years ago.
And our objective this year is to get ourselves into a position where we've got -- shooting to get to about a 20% market share.
That's an ambition that would take us up from about the 15% level that we are at right now.
You do all the math and that says we could be anywhere from let's say $100 million.
If we hit that that's $120 million to $180 million.
So that would be a good accomplishment for us.
Obviously the disappointing thing here is that the size of the market isn't where it has been in the past and that really is the biggest headwind we're running into.
Now you had a question between about NAND and DRAM.
What's that? Yes.
I mean it sounds like NAND is working very well for you guys and I know that's a plus given higher margins there.
So curious if there is any color you can offer there.
And then on the DRAM side when you think high-speed Memory will come into vogue and you'll see a pick-up in that business? Yes.
The NAND side is really what's driving our business.
We've got the Magnum product for FLASH and for low-speed wafer probe for DRAM.
So over the last 6 months we've had business in both of those sectors but the current emphasis is on FLASH.
And so virtually all the business in that space for us has been on that side.
That's a plus from the standpoint of what our share is in that sector.
On the DRAM side I know I'm bit of a broken record is it's been very very slow.
The final test high-speed testing capacity expansion has been pretty anemic.
We're positioned to get some of that when it does turn on.
At some point I'm going to sound not very credible if I say it's coming.
Our hope is that that contributes some in the second half of the year.
We think it will do some.
I honestly can't say how much.
But if you wrap it all together it would be a piece of this 100 but I'd say if the market's $700 million to $900 million the $140 million or 20% level.
That makes sense.
Two last questions for me.
I guess the first one your service persistence test came in at about $12 million about anywhere from $6 million to $8 million below what you did run rate wise in '10.
How should we think about that in June and beyond? I want to make sure I have that again.
Say that again CJ? I thought you said your overall service revenue was $61 million and that you did $49 million for SemiTest.
So $12 million Systems Test versus $20 million in the prior quarter? Okay.
The $20 million had DS in it the our Diagnostics solutions business.
It's basically a service business.
So we've stripped them out.
But it's also -- there's not a smooth on the bookings side for service annual contracts.
I think they're distributed more heavily in Q4 typically then in Q1.
So I think that's the other part of the explanation.
Are you talking about revenue or bookings? No sir.
I'm talking about revenues.
And the important question is on System Test service.
How should we model that prospectively? Yes.
Got it.
It should be $12 million a quarter and in truth about $10 million is taken out from what used to be there because we sold our Diagnosis Solutions business which was largely a service-based business.
Okay.
Great.
And then final question you talked about higher R&amp;D and I guess the questions there is is that over just a period of time? Or is that a permanent change to your business model? We are going to update our model once a year.
I would assume that that will be in our model for the full year 2011.
At the end of 2011 we'll reevaluate our model to see what makes sense then.
But we do see good opportunities of further growth some in Hard Disk Drive by the way.
We've had good success there.
And in some other areas that are very close to our core where we can get very good leverage.
Your next question comes from line of David Duley with Steelhead.
Just a couple of clarification questions.
Did you mention what your service bookings were? If you could break out SemiTest in both product and service that would be great.
Okay.
So first quarter bookings and you want  service correct? Yes.
SemiTest was $71 million.
Systems Test group was $8.3 million and again exclude the Automotive Diagnostics business so it's much lower than it would be otherwise.
In total our bookings were $79.2 million.
And then just going forward you mentioned an area of strength as the Mobile Processor area.
Could you talk about -- in the past you've had 4 drivers.
Which ones would be the areas of strength besides the Mobile Processor going forward? Well I think as a pattern we'll be pretty consistent with what it's been.
It would be that first mobile processors wireless.
Power management has been and will be second strongest typically second or third.
Then it's bit of a horserace.
Microcontrollers and other logic like wafer probe Logic where the 750 [J750] is strong tends to be in the next tier.
And then it kind of flattens out into precision analog linear image sensor automotive.
Those things are in that third tier.
But the 3 top ones would be the mobile processors the wireless applications power management and Microcontroller.
Okay.
And on the Hard Disk Drive area you talked  multiple customers.
I guess I'm just trying to figure out does that mean you count one customer or  2 customers or is there more than 2 customers at this point? There's more than 2 customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini with Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> A couple of follow-up.
Mike your system -- I'm sorry your SemiTest system booking was up 20% on sequential [indiscernible] to 289 off of rather low levels in the second half of last year.
A peak of 411 Q2 of last year so given the kind of correction that happened in the second half of last year do you think that going forward you can take the 400-plus million to quarter's SemiTest booking? Mehdi we certainly could.
I hope we will.
I'm being a little bit flip with you.
We based this -- quarterly trends are really a function of this overall CapEx rate.
So I think the way I always start on this way is to say how are you sizing the company? And in our core business in SOC Test if you remember over the last couple of years we were on the conservative side of sizing the market and sizing our R&amp;D around the $2 billion rate.
In '09 and '10 that was the average size of the market.
In '10 and '11 it looks as if the average size of the market is closer to the $2.5 billion level.
So really that's the place to start.
It's true north that the market run rate going forward is going to be $2.2 billion $2.3 billion $2.4 billion $2.5 billion or north of that.
So the $400 million is a function of that size and then our market share.
I think it's fair in your models to put us in market share around 45% and then you have to take whatever you think and whatever the market is telling us about the overall CapEx rate.
And right now I think this range of $2.4 billion to $2.8 billion is not a bad place to be positioning it.
And therefore the math all falls out from that.
If it slows down significantly then you have to pick back up and the peaks the $400 million peaks come in those peak quarters when if you're getting back on the trend line of the overall market size.
And the math isn't complicated right.
It's just a matter of drawing the curves as to where the peaks and valleys are but really it's driven by what the total market is and what our share is.
LLLP</strong> Sure.
And given those kind of assumptions for the SemiTest system what about the services component? Should we also assume that that's going to be about a $200 million business for you? The service business for SemiTest that probably would be a little bit bigger.
Our Services business in total is about $60 million.
So for Semi it's about $50 million so I guess $200 million is probably about right.
That's fair.
LLLP</strong> And then moving on to the topic of the cash which I think given the cash from operation for the Q1 which is about 5% operating cash flow margin compared to last year that it came out about 30% for the year.
I think the level of disappointment started down at 10% to 15% some of the front-end equipment companies maybe out there buying back shares but you're approaching the cash situation differently.
You want to go out there and secure future growth.
So if you could provide more color as to how we should think about -- the way you think about acquisitions.
Because there's a dilution factor coming in.
It may be more prudent to go and use the cash for acquisition but there could be some near-term impact to the bottom line.
Are these concerns valid or help us better understand how we should think about it.
Okay.
I'll start where you started.
The first quarter low cash generation is simply due to the nature of variable compensation and profit sharing and some of our foreign taxes all get paid in the first quarter.
So first quarter is always our lowest cash generation period.
So there's nothing to be read into that.
That's just the way the first quarter has always worked.
In terms of how we're thinking about cash I think we've been quite consistent there are some good opportunities that we have identified.
We simply can't get to the right valuation.
Maybe we can in the next 3 6 or 9 months and if we were able to do that I'd think that would be a much better deal for our investors than buying shares back.
We bought $0.5 billion of shares back several years ago and I don't think that improved the company in a meaningful way.
Obviously if the stock for some unknown reason became more attractive we'd obviously make an opportunistic buyback.
And we do have an authorization for $200 million to offset dilution from employee equity instruments.
And our cash strategy is not cast in concrete forever.
This is just how we want to approach it now to offset dilution be opportunistic.
We have a bias for buying companies that could fit and be optimized in Teradyne better than on their own but we can't overpay and that's what slows down what otherwise could be some more exciting news.
LLLP</strong> Got it.
And one quick follow-up regarding the model.
Early on you said that you update the model once a year.
Does that mean that what you highlighted last year is going to hold through Q4 of this year and no change? I would expect so.
Your next question comes from line of Patrick Ho with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> You gave a little bit of color on the HDD test revenues and the trends over this year.
But in general what is the typical turnaround time between when you see the order and revenue recognition for those systems? If they passed the qualification period because otherwise it could be a 9-month period.
But once we get past qualification and we get an order there's still another evaluation.
So net-net it's probably 6 months.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So it's obviously a little bit longer than the core SemiTest turnaround time? Right.
But then once we're through the first acceptance is with a new product new customer then it goes back to a normal recognition and it'll look like our other businesses.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Got you.
That's really helpful.
And maybe just on an apples-to-apples basis and it doesn't have to be an exact number.
Could you give what the Automotive Diagnostics business could have contributed to revenues in the June quarter just so we have I guess a clear apples-to-apples at least between March and June? The June quarter in the June of 2011? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Yes '11 yes.
Well I'll give you June of last year because I don't have the books anymore.
June of last year was $9.5 million of revenue and the EBIT was breakeven.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And finally Mike maybe just to go back to the Memory Test side of things for a second.
How sustainable do you believe the current NAND FLASH test-buying trends are? Obviously we see that the overall environment seems to be still relatively healthy based on some of the consumer electronic devices that continue to consume NAND.
What's your take on the test buy rate and the sustainability for you guys and then maybe the whole segment as a whole? Well I think for this year the trend will be a much heavier FLASH component than a DRAM component in that total market whether that market ends up at $600 million or $900 million.
And I think that trend for the short term is certainly what we're expecting.
Beyond that I think there are a variety of forecast on it but our position with the Magnum actually it's favorable for us because we have a bigger footprint on the FLASH side of the business than we do on the DRAM side of the business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And maybe just a final follow-up off of that comment do you believe some of your growth with Magnum is due not only to market conditions but also potential share gains? Yes.
I mean maybe with one or 2 quarters ago we talked about extending the Magnum into a DRAM wafer probe segment.
So the position in FLASH has been growing gradually over the years even before Nextest was part of us.
And the expansion into the low-speed DRAM probe sector is what gives us some additional growth.
Obviously that has to be resuscitated and be a little bit stronger than it's been for us to get meaningful share.
But when you wrap all of that together that's what's driving us hopefully from the teens in market share up to the 20% level this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Atif Malik with Morgan Stanley.
[Technical Difficulty] My question is I'm a bit surprised at the test utilization number of 90% that you guys are talking about.
You still guided to 70% test utilization for second quarter but 1Q at 75%.
So is it something that you're going to see or starting to see with test utilization have to tried to come down and maybe you can explain the discrepancy with what's being seen and what you're seeing? Well it's a mixed bag and different [indiscernible] and it shifts -- it can shift pretty dramatically based upon the orders that they get.
If you look at the outside measurements of utilization it's clearly in the 80% to -- up to the 90% level and has trended up from this trough which was around 85%.
So it was a high trough and it's been moving up over the last couple of months.
Now I think the thing that supports overall reasonably high utilization in our overall installed base is that the bookings relatively has been strong.
So those capacity being added at a pretty healthy rate.
The run rate in the business we think at $600 million plus in the first quarter and shipments would suggest the $2.4 billion $2.5 billion market level.
So I think all of that says across the world the installed base utilization is high.
Having said that the fact that our OSAT bookings have remained stable at 25% 24% would suggest that in the OSAT sector that could be lower.
Got it.
And then another OSAT PowerTech they are actually raising the CapEx for this year for DRAM DDR3 testing not by a lot but at least they're raising it.
And I'm curious to know is your status still dual sourced kind of a status for DRAM testing and what aren't you seeing in your DRAM testing bookings? Well we're not into the entire market and the customers that we have in DRAM final test have been using as we've talked before have really been able to get productivity and adapted the system so they can test the current speed rates of the DRAM products essentially with a lot of their existing installed base.
So we're not seeing as much business there as you would get if we were populated across the entire market.
But that's why it's an opportunity that's in the future for us rather than baked into the numbers that we've reported.
Operator thank you.
And everyone appreciate you joining and please call if you have questions.
We look forward to talking to you in the next couple of months.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Kimberly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q2 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Andrew Blanchard Vice President of Investor Relation.
Thank you Kimberly.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the second quarter of 2011 as well as our outlook for the third quarter.
First Id like to address several administrative issues.
The press release containing our most recent financial results was sent out via Business Wire last evening.
Copies are available on our website or by calling Teradynes Corporate Relations office at (978) 370-2221.
This call is being simultaneously webcast at teradyne.com.
Note that during this call we are providing slides on the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
To view them simply access the Investor page of the site and click on the Live Webcast icon.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The replays will be available along with the slides through the August 13.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradynes results to differ materially from managements current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During todays call we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We have posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where available on our website.
To view them go to the Investor page and click on the GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation link.
Also we want you to know that between now and our next phone call Teradyne will be participating in the Morgan Stanley Semi-Cap Equipment Corporate Access Day in Chicago on August 24 Piper Jaffray's Semiconductor Summit in Boston on August 31 and the Citi Technology Conference on September 8 in New York.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the company and the industry in the second quarter and our outlook for the third quarter.
Then our CFO Greg Beecher will provide more details on our quarterly performance along with our guidance for the third quarter.
We will then answer your questions.
For scheduling purposes you should note that we intend to end this call after one hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us again today.
While we posted very good results for the second quarter we're experiencing a similar slowdown in semiconductor test orders that are affecting other semi-cap equipment sectors.
As a result our third quarter guidance ranges $320 million to $340 million down 17% to 22% from Q2 with a 15% to 17% operating profit rate and earnings per share of $0.22 to $0.26.
Now I won't focus too much on the second quarter as most of my comments today will be forward-looking given the market correction.
But I do want to register that our model has performed exceptionally well now for 6 straight quarters and will continue to do so number one.
Number two that we continue to grind out a number of important socket wins toward our market share objectives.
And number three that we're achieving some important product milestones this year despite the softening demand picture.
Equally important is the fact that as the market adjusts down as it did in the fourth quarter of last year our bottom line operates at about 10 points higher than in the past and is the strongest in the test sector a sign of our continued discipline on growing costs only when they contribute to sustainable top line growth.
Greg will take you through a detailed breakdown of the Q2 and Q3 numbers so I'll focus my remarks today on 3 things: First is how we're reading this market correction; second is what sectors we expect to be strongest over the cycle and how we're positioned in them; and third how some of our new products had been faring as they tackle emerging technical and economic challenges.
What happened in our main SOC test market is that we've seen a downshift in demand of 28% from our combined IDM tablets and OSAT customers.
Orders were down in all device segments except for image sensor where some new end products drove healthy growth.
Mobile connectivity and power management applications though continue to lead the way in our bookings while the biggest pullback was in automotive coming off a near-record order level in the first quarter.
By our estimates this will reduce the overall SOC test market in Q3 to the $500 million to $550 million range down from about $700 million in Q2.
Now if you fold the $500 million fourth quarter into the equation you'd end the year with a market between $2.3 billion and $2.4 billion or about 5% below the average of the last 5 years and you'd have us exiting that is the market exiting the year at a $2 billion annualized level which is 18% below that average run rate.
You'll recall that we've worked our way up to a normalized market share of about 45% in this space from the low-30s 5 or 6 years ago.
And we set our fixed cost to deliver model profits at a $2 billion market size.
So while these quarterly swings come with little notice we've built in some decent shock absorbers to navigate over the rough spots.
I don't think that there's any way to precisely time these inflections but it wouldn't be unusual to have a few quarters below the trend line followed by the usual recovery cycle.
But the important thing about this market is the segment shifts occurring within the overall test CapEx.
A combination of end-market growth and device complexity is resulting in higher buy rates in the mobile connectivity automotive and microcontroller segments and less in microprocessor and digitally dominant chip set applications where structural tests and built-in-self test continue to compress test repurchases.
Our engineering alignment to these growth segments combined with the focus on winning critical new sockets are at the heart of our share growth over the last 5 or 6 years.
On the SOC design end front we continue to add new sockets each quarter.
Our second quarter results were quite strong actually with 24 new competitive sockets added with key wins in the power analog and RF sectors.
Now we don't win every battle but the aggregate annual share numbers over the last few years continue to reflect steady progress for us.
Some of these wins are tied to new high-end UltraFLEX options which we introduced earlier this month at SEMICON West.
In addition to higher frequency and higher density the new generation of instruments allow much faster time to market for communications-rich devices used in smartphones tablets and set-top boxes.
In addition our ETS-88 system from Eagle had a record quarter with a number of performance analog design ins and it now has an installed base of over 100 systems.
You may recall that the ETS-88 is a unique entry-level offering in the Eagle line that allows simultaneous test of different device types and very efficient parallel test.
As a result it's proved to be very attractive to a variety of IDM and fabless companies in the analog sector.
So in summary we're seeing a natural digestion period in overall SOC test capital spending.
The market trend line has centered around $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion per year.
And we're entering a period where as I said it will be running at about $2 billion annualized similar to many past cycles.
More importantly we're sized to navigate through this without any disruptions.
And finally our longer-term competitive position remains solid.
Turning now to Memory Test.
We've not yet seen a similar pullback to SOC as our Q2 memory bookings were roughly flat to Q1.
I will say that we could see some correction here going forward given very recent caution and buying.
But we are on track to achieve our highest market share ever this year at somewhere between 15% and 20% based upon continued buying of Magnum and UltraFLEX products for FLASH DRAM and graphics DRAM chips.
The overall memory test market will come at the mid-$700 million level this year for the second year running.
As you know we've been shooting this year for revenues in the $120 million range and hope to come within striking distance of that even if things soften somewhat in the second half.
Our Systems Test business now was strong in the quarter with revenues up 16% to $68 million and bookings over $75 million for the second quarter in a row.
Hard Disk Drives led the way as we posted record 6-month bookings totals due to our expansion into multiple HDD customers over the last 12 months coupled with a broadening served market now including both mobile and enterprise drives.
Our HDD revenues through 3 quarters should break through the $120 million level which as you remember was the high end of our $80 million to $120 million targeted range entering the year.
So despite some caution in the overall HDD market we have some very good product and customer momentum underway.
In summary we're guiding revenues down 17% to 22% from our Q2 level as I said as main line SOC customers digest their new capacity.
But we will continue with stable or increased revenues in other areas including memory defense board test and hard disk drive with standout growth in our ETS-88 and Neptune HDD systems.
These last 2 good examples of our new market entry strategy.
As we showed in the down cycle at the end of last year we're in a very volatile short lead time market where these swings will be the norm.
Our strategy of extending our SOC core extending into memory innovating in the hard disk drive market and maintaining structural cost discipline will serve us well as we navigate these swings.
Now let me turn it over to Greg for the broader financial perspective and the financial details.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Before I get into the details around Q2 and Q3 I want to address 3 important questions that I expect many of you are asking at this point in the cycle.
First is the current reduction in demand likely to be a major or minor reset in tester CapEx? In other words how deep and long are we expecting this correction to be? Second how will our model perform in scenarios of lower revenue or varied mix? And third what measures are we taking short or long term to offset this lower demand? Let me take this one by one.
First regarding how long and deep do we expect this correction to be well let's first look back at recent cycles where we had 3 normal market corrections such as in the third quarters of 2006 2007 and 2010.
And the one major correction of 2008 2009.
Now from all that we've seen in terms of utilization rates customer sentiment SOC unit growth end market demand for our segments this decline in SOC orders looks much more like the '06 '07 and 2010 corrections than the '08 '09 major reset where severe global economic stress outweighed any semiconductor industry-specific issues.
These short corrections typically had 2 quarters of sequential SOC product order decline ranging from about 30% to 50% peak to trough.
We've shown this graphically in the slides on the website.
Now regarding how the model performed and actions were taken you'll recall we sized the company to achieve our 15% model profit rate when the SOC test market is as low as $2 billion a year despite its $2.5  billion average over the last 5 years.
We've also outsourced manufacturing and variablize a significant portion of our compensation.
This gives us a very strong shock absorber to do well in normal market corrections.
We clearly demonstrate this in our last low point the fourth quarter of 2010.
In this period we delivered a 20% profit rate with non-GAAP EPS of $0.35.
This performance was actually better than our model due to some year-end true-ups in our fringe rate and taxes so it is better to look at our model when thinking about this upcoming third quarter.
Our Q3 guidance is tracking to our model with a very high mix of HDD revenue.
The model is provided in the slide presentation on the website.
We expect to deliver a 15% to 17% operating profit rate with non-GAAP EPS of $0.22 to $0.26 in the third quarter.
As to the actions that we plan on taking well other than to reduce the inventory pipeline the variable nature of our compensation naturally kicks in and lowers our operating expenses consistent with our model.
So we planned no headcount reductions or roadmap changes as we set our model at a level that has proven to provide a very strong buffer against these market conditions.
Now I'd like to cover some of the key highlights in developments at the halfway mark of the year before I talk about the SemiTest demand environment any further the second quarter results and guidance for the second quarter of 2011.
The key highlight of the second quarter was that we exceeded our sales and earnings guidance with a top line of $411 million and non-GAAP EPS of $0.50.
The higher top line was primarily due to more Hard Disk Drive test acceptances than projected.
This added volume along with stronger performance in SemiTest drove the better-than-forecasted EPS.
As you can see from our earnings release we achieved an operating profit rate of 27% in the second quarter.
This marks the sixth quarter in a row of operating above our 15% model profit rate.
I'm also pleased to highlight that our performance over the last 6 quarters matches up quite well against the leading semiconductor equipment suppliers.
We've averaged a 27% operating profit rate over the last 6 quarters along with free cash flow of 24% of sales.
We've accomplished all of this by optimizing the company's model keeping fixed costs in check as well as steadily gaining market share.
Shifting now to market share gains.
The standout share gain story this year is Hard Disk Drive.
We expect to have nearly half of the Hard Disk Drive test market this year which should translate to sales somewhere over $120 million for the year exceeding the top end of our earlier estimate.
As to SOC test share you'll recall that we gained about 9 points last year which was from a combination of socket wins and temporary segment shifts.
This year we expect continued SOC socket wins at a pace consistent with the past but will likely be on the other side of the segment shifts as strong PC test buying may temporarily depress our share.
I'd like to add a quick thought about our longer-term growth prospects.
With the industry consolidation phase now behind us I personally believe the back end will begin to look more like the front end in the future that is over time one clear winner who has both superior financial performance and leading market share.
While we have accomplished the financial performance part of this today by virtue of the recent combination of Advantest and Verigy we're no longer the total ATE market share leader.
So we see plenty of growth opportunities ahead of us in our core SemiTest markets.
These opportunities are in addition to benefiting from a strong share we maintain in mobility applications automotive and consumer digital which should grow at a healthy rate.
The other quick highlight of the quarter is cash and marketable securities.
We accrued these balances by $91 million this quarter to a total of $1.2 billion.
Our cash plans are unchanged from what we've outlined in the past and we have an approved buyback of $200 million that  have yet to buy back again.
As a quick reminder since the beginning of 2006 we've bought back $503 million worth of stock at an average price of $13.80 and we acquired Nextest and Eagle for a total of $540 million in net cash.
We'll continually look at what is the best use of our cash for shareholders against the current alternatives and our cost of capital of 15%.
Moving  to the demand side SemiTest bookings declined 28% to $257 million.
SOC test orders were $227 million and Memory Test orders were $30 million in the second quarter.
Under the SOC covers the bright spot was image sensor with a strong sequential bookings increase tied to a share gain.
On the other side of the SOC ledger the segment with the sharpest drop off was automotive after very strong ordering in the first quarter.
Systems Test group came in at $76 million with continued strength in HDD orders tied to share gains.
In the second quarter Semiconductor Test sales were 84% of the total and that Systems Test group was 16%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the second quarter was 0.81 for the overall company 0.75 for Semiconductor Test and 1.12 for the Systems Test group.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $467 million of which 83% is scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $411 million was up $33 million or 9% sequentially from the first quarter.
SemiTest was $343 million up $24 million or 7% and Systems Test group was $68 million up $9 million or 16%.
SemiTest product shipments increased 7% from a quarter ago.
Within the $411 million service revenue was $69 million and up $8 million from Q1.
System Test -- excuse me SemiTest service revenue was $55 million.
Total company product turns business was 29% versus 32% a quarter ago.
SemiTest products turns business was 32% versus 35% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $39 million in the quarter.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
Gross margins increased from 51% in the first quarter to 52% in the second quarter due to higher volume.
R&amp;D expenses were $47 million or 12% of sales compared to $48 million or 13% of sales in the first quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were $57 million or 14% of sales compared to $58 million or 15% of sales in the first quarter.
Operating expenses of $105 million were down $1 million from the first quarter driven by lower-than-anticipated R&amp;D spending.
Our net non-GAAP interest and other expense was $1 million.
We recorded a tax provision of $8 million at a tax rate of approximately 8%.
We have a U.S.
NOLs and credits that total about $275 million on a pretax basis which will continue to benefit us well into 2013 as about 40% of our consolidated income ends up in the U.S.
Cash from operations totaled $80 million after capital additions.
Depreciation and amortization for the second quarter was $33 million.
This includes $7 million of stock-based compensation $7 million for acquired intangible asset amortization and $3 million for amortization of the GAAP computed debt discount.
As noted in the press release sales for the third quarter are expected to be between $320 million and $340 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.22 to $0.26 on 207 million diluted shares.
I should add that the guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and the noncash computed interest on the convertible debt.
Our GAAP EPS range is $0.15 to $0.18.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our third guidance quarter is 16%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages in the third quarter.
We expect gross margin to be about 47%.
R&amp;D should be 15% and SG&amp;A should be between 16% and 17%.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $1.6 million and the tax provision should be about 8%.
In summary we have a very resilient model.
Its  got a very strong balance sheet.
And we've got plenty of areas to further exploit for growth.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Kimberly we'd now like to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Stephen Chin of UBS.
This is Mahavir standing in for Stephen Chin.
Just one question on -- you mentioned about the downgrade of $2 billion exiting in 2011.
So is it right to assume that sales would be down Q-over-Q in the fourth quarter? Stephen (sic) [Mahavir] you're right.
I was trying to give a scenario that said if the market took a couple of quarter downturn and leveled out at that level then obviously if our share was exactly the same as the prior quarters everything would go down.
We'd go down.
Got it.
That's helpful.
Second question just wanted to get an idea about utilization rates because it seems that they've been very cautious because in their order patterns in the recent few quarters.
So any color on that? Yes.
The utilization rates our numbers would show that the breakout between IDMs and OSATs would have the utilization on the OSATs breaking away here in the last couple of quarters where the OSATs would be in the mid to high 70s while the ODM -- while the IDMs would be still in the 80s.
Got it.
I mean do you think then they would come back in -- likely in the first half of '12 now or do you think maybe fourth quarter? Well I think if everything is linked together I think that the CapEx starts to move back if it got down to this $2 billion rate and started to move back up then the OSATs tend to swing harder in their CapEx and therefore the utilization would start to get loaded and they'd move back up.
So I think everything is kind of synchronized to this buying cycle.
One last question.
Could you give some more color on what your market share is in the mobility test market? If you could maybe separate that? And also what percentage of sales for Teradyne are from the mobility market? No.
This question's been asked in the past.
We don't -- no one tracks the subsegments of test with the resolution that would allow us to do it so I'd have to speak in kind of relative terms.
Our strongest segments would be in mobility power management microcontrollers.
Our weakest segments would be in the processor -- PC processor.
When I say mobility mobile processors obviously are included in that.
So with the 45% overall market share you'd put us north of 50% in those certainly significantly -- I mean our market share in the PC processor space is very very low.
Your next question comes from the line of a Jim Covello of Goldman Sachs.
What do you think is a reasonable assumption for sort of a normalized breakdown between Systems Test and SemiTest as a couple years out as you continue to see share gains in Hard Disk Drive but also likely gains in other segments of SemiTest? Jim this is Greg.
I think over time the Hard Disk Drive will continue to grow but we expect SemiTest to continue to grow as well.
So I think what we're really saying now is a very fast growth in Hard Disk Drive from a few years ago where it's going to be north of 120% this year.
But I think from this point forward I think the percentages you get would be similar down the road because we have attractive growth plans in SemiTest.
And Hard Disk Drive is probably where most of our growth will be in the Systems Test group.
I don't think it will be nearly as much in the other 2 groups.
So likely staying somewhere between that 80-20 and 75-25 breakdown? Yes.
And then within Memory Test what kinds of things have to happen whether it be in the market or with your products or with competitors in order for you to gain additional share on top of what you already have in the Memory Test segment? Two things.
The first one is that the buying in FLASH has got to keep leaning more towards the higher speed FLASH -- DDR FLASH applications.
That's where we're positioned.
That's what our strategy is to intersect that.
And secondly for the DRAM buying to get some life to it those 2 things have to happen.
Obviously we've got to win sockets in new customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Satya Kumar of Crdit Suisse.
Two questions.
What do you think is the run rate for SOC CapEx in Q3? The run rate for CapEx...
Do you mean bookings or...
No the run rate for CapEx.
Yes.
I think that market will absorb -- we think it's in the mid-5s.
Somewhere between 500 and 550.
That's all in that's service and product everything.
Okay.
So essentially from -- the $2 billion run rate in Q4 is sort of modestly down maybe 5% to 10% lower than Q3? Yes that's what I was trying to do.
You're exactly right.
That's how I was thinking about it just a little bit down.
Obviously it could go further but I was trying to do some round numbers that would show you what the total market in 2011 would be and then what the run rate would be so.
Okay.
Switching to PC segment in light of the consolidation between Advantest and Verigy it looks like they're going to come up with a new strategy 90 days post the close of acquisition on what they want to do with the product roadmap.
And it does look like ultimately they probably will not go to customers with -- to the same customer with 2 different products.
Now does that open up an opportunity for you to become a viable second source in some of the PC markets? And are you seeing any sort of traction or discussions that are perhaps in early stages right now moving in that direction? Satya I think the broad issue in the competitive landscape with this consolidation move is whether the roadmaps will in fact change.
And I think there's a fork in the road.
One branch is that the products will in fact get rationalized and customers will in some sense be forced to switch or open up evaluations.
The other is that it's steady as she goes and the existing products all will have roadmaps that extend out in time.
So far it's the latter.
Obviously if it becomes the former and I think in some sense for shareholders that has to become the former then opportunities would exist.
I wouldn't just say it would be a PC opportunity I think across the board there could be some opportunities that open up because of the disruptions to that -- to the roadmaps.
And then lastly on the balance sheet obviously it's overcapitalized at this point.
And in the past you've talked about M&amp;As versus buybacks.
And you're talking about a 15% cost of capital.
And if I assume that the SOC run rate goes to this $2 billion level we're still looking at fairly good profitability for you even on the trough run rate basis.
Related to your cost of capital function and the balance sheet I'm just sort of struggling to see why you would not be a lot more aggressive on the buyback at current levels.
I just want to hear your thoughts relative to that cost of capital versus where the stock is now versus the anomalous CapEx.
Yes.
The first thing I'd say is it's probably not a good idea for us to say in any short-term environment what we intend to do over the next 90 days whether it's buyback or acquisitions.
So having said that we're doing what we've always said we would do.
We're going to buy back stock opportunistically and if we can find acquisitions that are a good fit and we could grow them faster then Teradyne would do that.
And we've been patient all along so we're expecting what we said we'd do and we'll report back to you next quarter what activity might or might not take place in this next quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Mike if I look at your gross margin guidance obviously it's down because of the mix of the HDD.
Is it all due to SOC slowing down and HDD coming up? Or is there any -- in some of the analog power management team you've had for the last several quarters is it actually slowing down now? This is Greg.
The vast majority -- overwhelming majority is the mix.
In our guidance the SemiTest business if I go from Q2 to Q3 it's down $110 million SemiTest.
Hard Disk Drive is up $30 million.
So that swing -- and Hard Disk Drive had some reasonable volume in the second quarter.
So there's a very high mix of Hard Disk Drive in the third quarter guidance higher than I think we have had for quite some time.
So that's 95% of what's going on in the gross margin.
Got it.
And then in the last 6 to 9 months has there been any products where you've seen pricing actually increase? Exclusive of mix no.
In other words if we had price increases the answer is no.
And then the final question Mike.
If you look at it longer term from like the newer technologies like [indiscernible].
How does it impact Teradyne when the industry moves [indiscernible].
I'm guessing it's more in the wafer level test side.
Please can you help us give some thoughts around that? That would be helpful.
Yes.
More moves -- performance at wafer level is what occurs and that's not a new phenomenon.
Obviously the other thing is that you have system level test very complex requirements with this new integrated devices but it's one more generation of that.
We're seeing in the tablet and mobility devices increase in RF ports multiple cores just a whole series of things that affect both test development and production test.
And this new introduction of UltraFLEX generation of equipment was targeting that so we've already launched that set of capability into the market.
And it's had very good acceptance already.
Y Our next question comes from the line of Wenge Yang of Citi.
Last night the [indiscernible] mentioned that the inventory correction should be largely over by the end of Q3 and they are actually seeing utilization rate to start to bounce back in Q4.
If that's the case what do you think about the SOC buy rate in Q4? Is it still tracking to the turbulent level or you think it can move up? Well I think -- to be honest with you we don't lose a lot  of sleep trying to call it quite that precisely but I will say that the characteristics in our market in a very short lead-time environment which is what the industry is capable of now is that in the downturn things tend to shut off quite hard.
We saw that in the third quarter last year.
We see that in this quarter and its across the board OSAT and IDM.
So you just have absolutely a shift into engineering buying or new product ramp buying.
And we don't have cancellations to speak of.
We have some shuffling in the slot blend but not a lot of pushing out and so as a result things turn on and off very quickly.
We're in a phase where things have turned off.
And I think everyone kind of squeezes down so far that the next move is that they say well we actually need some more.
We don't know whether that will stay down as I said and have a lower Q4 or whether that can come back.
Either scenario I think is possible.
But in truth we don't worry about it too much because the supply line flexibility is very very nimble for us.
This is Greg.
One thing that I'm sure you guys track is the inventory levels.
So if that does lead down at a rapid pace that's obviously good everything else being equal.
So that's something worth keeping your eye on.
It's not something that we focus on given how we can respond very quickly to customers but given the roles you guys have that might be a good thing to keep an eye on.
That's helpful.
So I think even with all the odd venues -- and I see unit growth is doing a mid-single digit.
And if we assume 5% to 6% unit growth annually what do you think is the required buy rate for SOC to support that kind of unit growth? If I would have put a range around it I'd put 1.3% to 1.5%.
This year if we take the numbers that I gave you earlier if it downslope all the way through Q4 that ends up at an annual 1.1% for SOC.
So the whole year would actually be a comparatively low year.
But if you're modeling it I think over time a longer period of time 1.3% to 1.5% would be a reasonable band.
That's very helpful.
Last question in terms of HDD you mentioned about a full year revenue is tracking to the high end at $120 million.
How much revenue have you shipped in the first half? And what's the number likely to be in Q3? We shipped less than the $120 million but what I'll say is this because we don't break out HDD in total as a segment.
By the time we get through third quarter we expect to be at/or maybe slightly above our high-end target for the year.
So whatever we get in the fourth quarter would push us above that.
Your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini of Susquehanna International.
LLLP</strong> A couple of things.
Mike could you elaborate on the number of customers you have in HDD? And what is the driver for such a sizable growth when the end market appears to be soft? And on the DRAM side could you also elaborate  on the number of customers and where do you see that number tracking into next year? And I have a follow-up.
Okay.
That's a lot.
Let's see I'm going to be intentionally vague on exact number of customers but we turned the corner within the last 12 months into multiple customers in HDD.
And that was multiplied by the applications that we were targeting the Neptune product app.
So we were extending beyond the mobile market into the enterprise market into functional test.
So we really expanded on 2 axis in Hard Disk Drive.
Now as a result of that -- and you know we're on 2.5-inch disk drives.
As a result we really have kept very good momentum this year as you can see with the revenues in the market that in total is somewhere between the $250 million and $300 million a year as a run rate.
So we've really been able to take a position now much broader than we've had in the past.
So the growth is really in 2 axes.
It's a multiple customers.
It is the much wider variety of applications that the product now addresses.
And in DRAM we don't really get into many.
I'm sorry but delineation of the number of customers I will say that we've got products now over the last year where we've got both DRAM wafer sort and final test and products and FLASH for wafer sort and final test and we have customers in all of those segments.
Obviously our market share objective requires that we expand share inside our existing customers but it's going to require that we get new customers going forward.
I can't tell you that we will announce customers as they come in but obviously if we hit our market share goals it means that we're getting new customers.
And maybe one other quick thing on the Hard Disk Drive we're strong on 2.5-inch Hard Disk Drive and there is -- there are more drives that are 3.5 that are being replaced by 2.5-inch Hard Disk Drives.
So that's another thing that's favoring where we're strong.
The 2.5-inch Hard Drives have lower power and has good performance so that's something else that's increasing our share of the market.
LLLP</strong> Great.
And actually Greg I have 2 follow-up questions for you.
A what is the mix of product and services for SemiTest and number two last conference call you talked about looking into a couple of acquisition opportunities and you walked away the last minute with -- valuation appears to be -- come down in the capital markets -- public market are those acquisitions now looking better compared to 3 months ago? Let me give you the semi -- this is Q2 semi-revenue.
All right.
The product revenue is $288 million the service revenue was $55 million.
Okay? On the valuation I want to leave it at the level I left it earlier that it's not constructive I think for investors or anybody to get any level of detail beyond what we have said earlier that we're going to look at all the alternatives be very mindful of our cost of capital be very mindful of where the stock's trading be very mindful of what opportunities are attractive in front of us.
So it all goes into our thinking.
And we'll report back each quarter what decisions we make.
LLLP</strong> Which got a higher priority buyback or acquisition? It depends upon the cost of capital return.
It all depends.
It depends if our stock goes lower obviously the buyback starts moving up.
If -- and that depends what is the acquisition you're looking at.
So there is no one answer.
It all depends upon the exact circumstances at the time.
Your next question comes from the line of the C.J.
Muse of Barclays Capital.
I guess first question when you think about this pause in overall SOC test and talking about around $2.3 billion for the year and how there's a heavier mix for PCs should we be thinking about a lower market share for you guys below the 46% level closer to the 44% 45%? Yes C.J.
I think there's a band obviously.
I think that's fair.
If you remember last year when we hit 49% we wanted to make sure all of our investors knew that we didn't think we gained 8 points of market share in one year.
We thought -- and quite correctly we explained that we were favored in share in part because of design ins which were real and long term and in part because the segments that we were the strongest in we're moving up relatively more than other segments.
So if you take the overall share where our expectation is that 44% 45% range would be that would be a reasonable place to be.
Okay that's helpful.
And then on the HDD side just to clarify did you say you expect to revenue $120 million within the first 3 quarters of this year or is that just shipments? Revenue in the first 3 quarters of this year.
Okay.
And then on Memory side you talked about sustaining kind of 15% to 20% market share but that things could be pausing here.
Do we still look at an $800 million to $1 billion kind of market size or should we trim that? Our guesstimate at this point -- we'll trim that.
We think $700 million to $800 million Okay.
And then last question for me.
On the service side you had a nice uptick on the SemiTest service.
I think it was up about $6 million Q-on-Q.
Is that sustainable into the second half of the year or are there onetime items in there? We think all is sustainable except for $1 million which is tied to the Japan earthquake.
Apart from that it should be sustainable.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Looking -- I understand the short lead times in the industry that you guys experience now but how quickly do you think you can respond given the fluid environment that's out there right now? I did notice that inventory did go up a little bit but you've been maintaining a pretty good days inventory and inventory turns.
How quickly can you respond if you get late quarter orders? We can respond very quickly Patrick.
I don't think we're -- we don't have constraints of any magnitude about being able to add slots and move the supply line up.
Now the corner case is that you get some very very specialized configurations that are heavy on a particular instrument.
But even at that level which we try to make sure that the pipeline is able to respond.
And I think that the '10 quarterly ramp history gives you some sense of how much we can move in any quarter both up and down.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
That's helpful Mike.
I know you don't want to quantify but in terms of market share gains which segments you've been gaining share in the SOC market you did mention that you're strong in microcontrollers and power management.
Qualitatively where are you guys winning the most new sockets and which market segments? It's across the board.
I think the -- if you took the last couple of years and said what's been the biggest thing that shifted I think actually it's been combining our distribution organization with the Eagle product line.
If you put the first bar on the Pareto though that's -- that would be the first bar.
And it's the ability to drive their product family into regions that they had not been before number one.
Number two is the extension of their product  down into the ETS-88 level gets us access to much smaller customers many of them Asia-based new fabless companies or even companies at the IDM level who are attracted by this double play that the product offers in terms of the variety of devices it can test and very very effective parallel test.
So that would be the first one.
And that's going into a market where some of the products that have existed in the past are long in the tooth.
The other segments have been -- as we over the last couple of years introduced new next-generation capability at the very high end on the UltraFLEX we've  been able -- there've been very big battles here and we've been able to share of those.
I'd say those would be the 2 top ones.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is a follow-up from Krish Sankar of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Greg or Mike if I assume your HDD market share remains static is it fair to assume Q4 is seasonably slow for the business? Our HDD market share I'd say if it stays static which it is very healthy now.
We have trouble trying to size the fourth quarter in HDD.
So at the moment looks like there could be some shipments there but I would not be surprised if they pause and schedule those out.
So we really don't have a good fix on the fourth quarter what they might take.
But seasonally would it surprise me if they took it in the fourth quarter? Not really but if they're taking the late fourth quarter that would surprise me.
I think it would have to be early in the fourth quarter for them to get productive use out of it.
Got you.
And then do you guys give a mix of IDMs versus OSATs in the Q2 or what do you think it will be in Q3? Yes.
The mix between what we call specifiers so it's IDMs and then the fabless companies who buy from themselves in Q2 on a bookings basis that was 73% of the total and 27% for the OSATs.
And just for reference that was 76-24 last quarter.
So actually the OSATs held up a little bit more.
And the reason for that is OSAT as you know don't just -- they're not just the surplus capacity industry a lot of the fabless companies use them.
So new fabless products -- driven products held up actually relatively better than the IDM space did this quarter.
But that's the breakdown.
Your next question comes from the line of Gus Richard of Piper.
First one on the Hard Disk Drive business long ago that had very low margins you guys have been doing cost downs? Can you talk about how the product margins improved? And are there more margin improvements going forward? And how would those play out? This is Greg.
The biggest challenge for us after the first product which was designed to meet a deadline to  get the customer to accept it was that we designed it in the U.S.
Since then we've made the changes necessary to get to a very competitive cost structure.
We're always still looking at some opportunities that might be small but we're still looking at them.
When you look at this year 2011 we expect after 3 years of being below model to be at our model profit rate or a little bit better.
So we actually like the position we're in right now -- the product position.
But there's always still some fine tuning we need to do.
The gross margins as I think you know are low 30%.
Now if we ship a lot in one quarter that obviously pulls it up to some higher number.
But on average it's about low 32%.
But the SG&amp;A and R&amp;D are very low.
So we get to 15% and sometimes more than 15% depending upon the volume.
We do have substantial volume to hit model profitability that's the other piece of this equation.
Right.
And then just with the mergers Verigy and Advantest have occurred how is the competitive dynamics of the marketplace changed? What are you kind of seeing? And what are your customers telling you? Two things.
One is obviously customers are voicing concern about uncertainty and that relates to whether things will change.
And their biggest concern would be will the product development plans for the products that they're buying change.
So that would be the number one thing.
Number two is I want to make sure -- these are both very capable competitors and anytime there's a consolidation as we had with our businesses with Nextest and with Eagle obviously the first thing you do is you want to assure your customers that they're going to get continued support.
So that I call that as business as usual.
The competitive landscape there is competition is making sure that they're stabilizing their customer base.
But this issue about long-term uncertainty would be the main one.
That's why over the last couple of quarters we've reemphasized that when  a consolidation takes place customers don't run for the exits.
They don't make changes immediately.
That happens over time and I wouldn't attribute any of the changes in market share that have occurred over the last year or any of the design ins specifically to the effect of that consolidation.
That will fold itself out or roll out over a longer period of time.
Your final question comes from the line of Atif Malik of Morgan Stanley.
I just want you to reconcile Advantest reported pretty strong orders for the second quarter especially from Taiwan and I believe those are for memory with orders kind of flattening off in third quarter.
So your comment that Memory Test market could be lower than $800 million estimate I just want to reconcile what are they seeing in the market that you guys aren't? Atif I think that their projections and the tone of their projections actually mirror ours which is that while there was -- our business in memory was steady theirs was strong that the outlook going forward this year has a lot of uncertainty to it.
So I think the tone of both are quite similar.
Great.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes today's call and we look forward to talking to you through the quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Satonya [ph] and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q3 2011 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to today's host Mr.
Andrew Blanchard Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Satonya [ph] Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the third quarter of 2011 as well as our outlook for the fourth quarter.
First Id like to address several administrative issues.
The press release containing our results was sent out via Business Wire last evening.
Copies are available on our website or by calling Teradynes Corporate Relations office at (978) 370-2221.
This call is being simultaneously webcast at teradyne.com.
Note that during this call we are providing slides on the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
To view them simply access the Investor page of the site and click on the Live Webcast icon.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The replays will be available along with the slides through November 13.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradynes results to differ materially from managements current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During todays call we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We have posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures where available on our website.
Again to view them go to the Investor page and click on the GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation link.
Also you may want to note that between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be participating in the Piper Jaffray TMT Conference on November 8 and UBS' Technology and Services Conference on November 17 both in New York; Credit Suisse's 2011 Technology Conference in Phoenix on November 30 and Barclays Global Technology Conference on December 8 in San Francisco.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the company and the industry in the third quarter and our outlook for the fourth quarter.
Then our CFO Greg Beecher will provide more details on our quarterly performance along with our guidance for the fourth quarter.
We'll then answer your questions.
For scheduling purposes you should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone.
Thanks for being with us again today.
I'd like to first just to recap both our quarterly results and the short-term outlook.
Second is to step back and look at how 2011 will close out with an emphasis on both our core business and on how our expanded product portfolio is performing.
And third is to frame how our acquisition of LitePoint fits into our overall strategy.
As always Greg will give you the financial details and outlook.
But he'll also add some insights into our model going forward as well as our operating flexibility and cash strategy after the LitePoint acquisition.
So let me go over how we're doing in the current market environment our third and fourth quarter [indiscernible] forward.
We exceeded the top end of the Q3 range and had another solid bottom line performance.
But the fourth quarter continues to track down as we step through the continued pullback in the SemiTest demand and see the normal choppiness in the HDD shipments.
So we've moved our Q4 guidance down in line with this order trend to a $270 million to $300 million range with a 6% to 11% operating profit level.
Now this does include LitePoint revenue but not a full quarter.
So you can see that our ongoing business has downshifted considerably since midyear.
Greg will break the numbers out in a bit more detail in his comments.
What's happened in our main associate test market is a sequential order drop of about 22%.
Power management and image sensors with a strong sector at or close to their highest levels during the last year or so followed by wireless and mobile processors.
But demand for precision analog microcontrollers and automotive were all off their Q2 levels.
Now I don't think there's any special significance here other than the higher caution customers have during pullbacks.
And most of these are of course tied to macroeconomic themes.
I mentioned last quarter that the overall market size expectation in SOC for Q4 could be about $500 million.
But I'd amend that at this point and put it more in the $450 million to $500 million range.
That means a sub $2 billion total market run rate as we exit the year.
And that includes some reasonably hefty tooling in the PC test segment.
So we'll see pretty tight times across the board and SOC for the short term.
Now the pattern in Memory Test was similar in Q3 with bookings down 37% from the second quarter.
Although we saw incremental business in both FLASH and high-speed Memory Test the overall market is now running at a quarterly rate of between $100 million and $150 million so a sub $600 million annualized market size.
Total OSAT bookings were at $55 million for the quarter which is very close to the most recent trough quarter Q3 2010.
IDM buying in Q3 this year was actually below the levels of that Q3 2010 trough.
So you can see that we're in a very cautionary environment.
That said we haven't seen anything significant in the way of cancellations.
So what's on the books is truly needed for new product introductions and ramps.
And our service business provides an additional floor of support averaging about $240 million annually over the last 2 years.
Now outside of SemiTest our defense and in-circuit test business units are holding up quite well with increased order rates in the third quarter and they're delivering model bottom line performance due to our ongoing cost discipline.
The defense sector uncertainties of the past year are stabilizing.
So we expect that business to be more steady going forward.
While the in-circuit business will more likely follow the cycle of the overall economy.
On the spending front we're making some selective investments in engineering and distribution that Greg talked about last quarter.
We see these as prudent and disciplined moves that are aligned with our continued drive for market share.
So let me now move to how this year will shape up in total.
Assuming the midpoint of our fourth quarter range will end the year with revenues of just over $1.4 billion and above model profits for the second year in a row.
Systems Test will have its best year ever with solid results in defense and in-circuit tests.
Storage test will exceed the top end of our expectations in revenues as the group has successfully penetrated new customers and expanded its range of test solutions in 2.5-inch hard drives.
Eagle Test has performed exceptionally well and has been a major component of our market share thrust in performance analog and mixed signal applications.
And despite a subdued memory market Nextest has made market share progress in both wafer and final test applications for DRAM and FLASH memory testing.
Our SemiTest strategy has been best focused on sectors like wireless power management image sensors and anything mobile as well as unsteady growth sectors like automotive and microcontroller-rich consumer end products.
And in virtually every arena across SemiTest and Systems Test we have new products in the field or in the pipeline for 2012 introductions.
Which brings me finally to the most recent move in our long-term growth strategy.
As we've discussed LitePoint gives us an extension into the fast-growing wireless test market for products like smartphones tablets and the array of wireless products connected to the Internet.
What's compelling about LitePoint is how they've married a unique ATE type tester architecture to a production solution that integrates the needs of the product brand the chipset designer and the contract manufacturer.
Litepoint's close enough to our core to get leverage from our technology and scale but separate enough to open up a new high-growth market.
So we can concentrate on expanding their business not being mired down by the challenges of overlapping products and markets.
We believe that it's close to a bullseye in the potential for growth and leverage and thus a great use of our capital.
In summary the short-term picture's one mostly of caution.
As such we'll stay disciplined but not frozen in the investments we make.
But the longer term course I believe holds a great deal of promise for our core test businesses in the strategic additions we've made.
Now let me turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Before I get into the details around Q3 and Q4 I'll first address the 3 questions that I expect many of you have.
First how does LitePoint affect our model? Second given the LitePoint acquisition what is our thinking around our cash strategy and future M&amp;A? And third what are our plans if we enter a deep or prolonged downturn? Taking these in order.
First how does LitePoint affect our model? LitePoint is expected to add about $160 million or more in revenue next year though its quarterly sales will be volatile as revenue is both tied to new programs and is somewhat seasonal.
The model sale is necessary to achieve our 15% operating profit.
We'll move from about $305 million a quarter to about $350 million with the addition of Litepoint's fixed cost and some other changes in SemiTest which I'll get to in a moment.
While Litepoint's fixed cost will increase the revenue required to earn our 15% model profit rate its lean cost structure will improve gross margins of the entire company by about 2 points at that $350 million model quarterly sales level.
The SemiTest changes included increase of about $3 million a quarter from our earlier model beginning in the first quarter as we increase engineering spend on product development to drive future market share gains.
We also expect Semi margins will decline about 1% over the next year based upon our best estimate of the pricing environment.
Recall this level of model operating revenue of $350 million simply describes our gross margin and OpEx at that revenue point that delivers 15% operating profit for the company.
It shouldn't be viewed as a cross cycle midpoint.
In fact as you can see in the slide in the earnings call package on the web pro forma sales over the 8 quarters ending in 2011 with the pro forma addition of $40 million per quarter of LitePoint revenue is over $400 million well above that $350 million level.
LitePoint is off to a good start for our first partial period with sales in the low $30 million range projected in the fourth quarter.
For the full-year 2011 we expect about $130 million in LitePoint sales.
Now LitePoint will also move our cash tax rate to about 10% to 12% in 2012 up from 6% in 2011.
And we'll talk more about cash taxes a bit later.
The second question is: Given the LitePoint acquisition what is our thinking around our cash strategy and future M&amp;A? The short answer is that our cash plans remain unchanged.
We'll continue to be patient and opportunistic in our buyback program so that it provides value to our long term shareholders.
The purpose of the program remains to offset dilution from employee equity instruments.
So far we've bought back 2.6 million shares at an average price of $11.83.
Well over the period of buyback authorization last Friday our stock has averaged $14.64.
We have $169 million left under the buyback.
As the use of cash for future M&amp;A we'll also continue with our strict criteria of earning our 15% cost of capital.
And any tenants that we consider must be a very close fit with either our technology or distribution capabilities.
Clearly our overriding focus will be on our core test businesses and fully ensuring that LitePoint is a success.
And the third question.
What are our plans if we enter a deep or prolonged downturn? If this were to happen as we've said before we would not plan to take actions to reduce headcount or change our product roadmap or support levels.
This is because our model was designed for full cycles including sharp downturns.
Our operating breakeven is set so that in a normal downturn we'll stay profitable.
Our lean model keeps our entire organization fully focused on growth and customer support through downturns versus having to turn our attention inward every few years to rework the cost structure.
And at the extreme a 2008 2009 or even worse scenario could actually play to our competitive advantage as we are significantly better prepared than our competitors from a cost structure or balance sheet perspective.
Now moving to the key highlights of the third quarter.
We exceeded our sales and earnings guidance with a top line of $344 million and non-GAAP EPS of $0.34.
The higher top line was primarily due to more hard disk drive test system revenue than projected as product acceptances were achieved ahead of schedule.
The third quarter marks the seventh quarter in a row operating above our model 15% profit rate.
Our financial health matches up well against the leading front end companies as we expect to average a 24% operating profit rate along with free cash flow of 23% of sales over the 3-year period ending this calendar year.
On the market share and growth front the key standout this year is in hard disk drive.
This quarter our hard disk drive sales exceeded its first half of volume and brought the year-to-date hard disk drive sales past the high end of our original target of $80 million to $120 million.
This was accomplished by expanding into multiple new customers and new applications in the 2.5-inch space.
This year will also set new records for our Systems Test Group.
This is on course to achieve our highest sales and profit levels ever.
On the SemiTest front we are continuing with SOC socket wins at a pace consistent with the past.
But as I mentioned last quarter moving on the other side of the segment shifts as strong PC test buying will temporarily depress our 2011 market share.
You recall that last year we said that about half of our 9-point SOC test share gains were temporary segment shifts favoring us and the other half were permanent.
This year the second buying has favored our largest competitor as PC-driven buying is unusually high.
We believe that our normalized share basis were in the mid-40s in SOC test.
In memory we expect to gain a few points with our very strong FLASH and DRAM test portfolio.
On the balance sheet we grew cash and marketable securities to $1.2 billion.
Subsequent to the close we spent $514 million including transaction cost to acquire LitePoint net of cash and tax benefits acquired.
At year end we expect our gross cash and marketable security balances to total about $750 million.
As I mentioned before our cash tax rate in 2012 is moving up to 10% to 12% from about 6% in 2011.
Let me explain this.
With the addition of LitePoint our U.S.
2012 taxable income is significantly increased.
This is because we eat through our unlimited variable tax attributes much sooner and start to encounter the tax attributes that have annual limits on their usage.
The bottom line to all this though is that our favorable tax attributes will be spread over a longer time period.
We've added to our [indiscernible] additional information on taxes to help you fine tune your models.
Moving now to the demand side.
SemiTest bookings declined 24% to $196 million.
SOC test orders were $177 million and Memory Test orders were $19 million in the third quarter.
Systems Test group came in at $44 million reflecting a decline in HDD orders after very strong shipments in the third quarter.
In the third quarter semiconductor sales were 70% of the total and the Systems Test group was 30%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the third quarter was 0.7 for the overall company 0.81 for semiconductor test and 0.42 for the Systems Test group.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $362 million of which 81% is scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $344 million was down $66 million or 16% sequentially from the second quarter.
SemiTest was $241 million down $102 million or 30%.
And Systems Test group was $103 million up $36 million or 53%.
SemiTest product shipments decreased 36% from a quarter ago.
Within the $344 million service revenue was $69 million flat with the second quarter.
SemiTest service revenue was $56 million.
Total company product turns business was 21% versus 29% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 30% versus 32% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $26 million.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Gross margins decreased from 52% in the second quarter to 49% in the third quarter due to lower volume and a much higher mix of hard disk drive revenue.
R&amp;D expenses were flat at $47 million or 14% of sales compared to 12% of sales in the second quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were $55 million or 16% of sales compared to $57 million or 14% of sales in the second quarter.
Operating expenses in total of $102 million were down $3 million from the second quarter driven by lower variable compensation.
Our net non-GAAP interest and other expense was 0 due to gains our marketable securities sold to fund the LitePoint acquisition.
We recorded a tax provision of $2 million; a tax rate of approximately 3% which reflects a reduction in our estimated full-year cash tax rate from 7% to 6%.
The lower tax rate and gains on marketable securities that were sold contributed $0.02 to our third quarter EPS.
Cash flow from operations totaled $71 million after capital additions.
As noted in the press release sales for the fourth quarter are expected to be between $270 million and $300 million.
And the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.08 to $0.16 on 202 million diluted shares.
I should add that the guidance excludes the inclusation [ph] of acquired intangibles the non-cash imputed interest on the convertible debt and estimated GAAP purchase accounting charges related to the acquisition of LitePoint.
The operating profit point at the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance is about 9%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages in the fourth quarter.
We expect gross margins to be 50% R&amp;D should be 21% to 19% and SG&amp;A should be 22% to 20%.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $2 million.
The cash tax provision should be about $1 million.
In summary if I step back from the short term for a moment over the last few years our strategy has been to exercise strong financial discipline while at the same time strengthen each of our core businesses.
This strategy has resulted in strong cash flow and market share gains.
We've used that cash flow for very close to the core of growth such as the Eagle and Nextest acquisitions and for the organic expansions into hard disk drive and high-speed memory.
We're also patiently returning capital to shareholders with our buyback program.
The 4 growth initiatives I've just mentioned have contributed about 1/3 of our EPS since the beginning of 2010.
We've now added LitePoint into the fold which has both a higher gross -- a higher growth rate and better margins than Teradyne with its highly differentiated product and solution set and lean cost structure.
We plan to stay on course which is to stay sharply focused on strengthening our core businesses maintaining financial discipline and deploying our excess cash for the highest possible returns.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Satonya [ph] we'd now like to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Stephen Chin with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just first question about just short-term items.
I was wondering if you guys would share about -- if you could see another wave of strong HDD opportunity from this investor [ph] perhaps? Stephen it's Mike.
I think it's too early to tell.
I wouldn't -- you maybe asking an HDD question.
But we have hundreds and hundreds of customer systems.
We have many more semiconductor test systems in Thailand than we have storage test systems.
So if you'd like I can broaden my comments to that.
Research Division</strong> Sure Mike.
Well let's see.
Let me say just a couple of things.
One is it's too early to tell definitively what the impact is going to be.
Our priority right now is to be side-by-side with customers trying to assess the damage and quickly mobilize so that if they need anything whether [ph] they are both with technical support and with material.
We do of course -- we're in the process of assessing where every system is.
And we've got some take here on status of systems.
I think it would be not appropriate for me to break down how many systems are affected and so on.
But there is a direct effect that we're looking at systems that have been directly damaged and then there are any environmental effects that may reveal themselves over time.
Right now everything we know is factored in.
So the guidance has got some amount of additional short-term equipment in it to try to plug any holes for folks.
So your question was in the short term is there an impact? Everything you see in our revenue plan is broken down there.
We obviously don't want to get into describing either product types or customers and how they're affected.
I think we'll leave that to those customers to delineate that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks for that Mike.
Just to expand on that do you think there may be perhaps a second wave of opportunity in the HDD space once the M&amp;A is sorted out? Well let's see.
For us I don't know if that's a market question or -- for us this last year we've been able to get into -- penetrate a number of new accounts with a number of new applications.
So consolidations will typically -- they can have 2 effects.
One can be some compression in buying because there's better utilization of equipment.
And the other one is that if there are new opportunities you can pursue those new opportunities.
I think we're tied more to the total market and how the market's going to move now.
If you asked me that a year ago I think the consolidation might have had a different effect because we were trying to design in at that point and maybe that gets slowed down by a consolidation.
So I don't think there's a kind of double effect here.
We'll track I think more of the market now than we would in a specific business combination.
Research Division</strong> Got it and that's helpful.
And just if I could switch to SOC.
On the SOC side 2 questions.
Are you seeing an impact from accelerated depreciation in the December quarter as what Novellus mentioned yesterday? And second how should we think about 2012 buyrates given the weakness at analog [ph] customers? Steve this is Greg.
I'll take the first one on accelerated depreciation.
No we have not heard that from our customers as a catalyst that might cause them to pull orders [ph] than they would otherwise.
So that hasn't hit our radar screen yet.
Stephen on the buy rate.
We're exiting the year at a pretty depressed rate.
I think if you annualized SOC it's operating at a sub-$2 billion level.
And then memory it's in the low 500-s.
So in these cycles if you are buying into -- that we're connected here at some mid-cycle level we obviously have a recovery ahead of us.
What's the magnitude of the recovery? Well this will be the second lowest buy rate year for those 2 sectors in more than 10 years.
And it's only -- the only lower buy rate was in the downturn in 2009.
The timing of that no one can call.
I think -- you see there's a chart in our -- on the web that talks about what the typical drops have been.
And we are close to that 50% sequential quarterly drop which is where some of the cycles have troughed.
But the duration of it uncertain at this point whenever you hear customers are very very conservative.
And that's what we're hearing.
But I think it has to come back this $2 billion to $2.5 billion SOC market I think is probably too north.
And memory is a little harder to call but $600 million $700 million in total market I think would not be unreasonable to get back to.
When is obviously everybody's question.
Research Division</strong> And your market share would be around 45% roughly? In SOC our market share would be -- I think that's a good number.
You remember last year we were higher than that because we had some of our sectors grow faster -- but around 45%.
That's a normalized market -- we call it a normalized market share for us.
Okay.
Can we have the next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Wenge Yang with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You showed a pretty good slide showing that in the last 4 to 5 cycles the downturn was recorded never longer than that even in 2009.
So for this time we are facing 2 quarters of order decline.
Do you see this downturn to behave similar to the past or do you see it different? It feels to us more like a normal cycle than it does -- 2009 I think it will remain a little higher [ph].
So if you would do comparables you'd look at those other 50% cycles.
Now could it go for an extra quarter? Sure it can.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I'll switch to the LitePoint so can you discuss a little bit more about the growth opportunities of that business? And you mentioned about a $1 billion market size.
What's the growth rate in the next couple of years? And what's the market share of LitePoint at this point? And what's the target market share coming up in the next couple of years? Okay.
Let me just give it to you quickly.
The LitePoint business this year will be in the $130 million roughly in that level.
So if the market is around $1 billion $900 million to $1 billion that means it's in the midteens let's say 13% to 15% 16% share.
As we've looked at this market it has -- the end market growth is higher than the semiconductor device unit end market growth and the tester market growth is higher.
We think the tester market could grow 8% to 10% compound for the next few years.
So that's the TAM we're looking for and as Greg outlined we think we can be in the 20%-plus growth rate compounded over the next few years.
So you can do the math and see that our market share can move up as it will grow faster than the -- it'll grow -- we hope it'll grow about twice the rate of the tester market.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Covello with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of questions.
First on the competitive environment now that we've seen a little bit of time go by with one of your old standalone competitors integrated into a bigger company what kind of things are you seeing that you might have not expected relative to the competitive environment and relative to that? Jim it's Greg.
I'll take that one.
At this point it still feels more as if it's the same.
We haven't seen any significant changes in either's approach and we certainly haven't seen any significant cost synergies.
So it feels a little bit more that it's the battle that we're have been fighting for many years.
I suppose that at some point there may be some synergies or some rationalization but that doesn't appear to be in the foreseeable future.
Jim I think the surprise from our end is not -- it isn't a big surprise because it looks like the same product set and same roadmaps that we're going to be -- have been competing with and will compete with.
I think from an analyst standpoint the surprise would be that there isn't more product rationalization in the short term.
But that's the battle we're in.
And as we've said in the past this won't shift things quickly.
It more shifts it on the basis of the normal socket war that transpires.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And if I could ask a follow-up on the analog side it seems pretty clear that your analog customers are under-shipping their demand as the supply chain goes through a little bit of an inventory draw down which obviously is healthy at the end of the day for your customers.
How much do you think analog shipments would need to increase before those customers could start to think about ordering again? Any idea on kind of percentage increase that your customers would need to see there? On their device shipments? Research Division</strong> Correct.
No.
I don't have a picture of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe if I could then get a different follow-up since we couldn't fairly address that one.
On the NAND side NAND's been very very healthy and NAND test has been okay.
But I guess I might have expected even more on the NAND test side in light of the health of the NAND market this year.
What are your thoughts around that? Well NAND has clearly been better than DRAM in the total market and for us.
You were saying that you would expect more from us or more from...
Research Division</strong> No more from that.
I guess I would have expected the NAND industry to order even more test equipment given what's been a pretty darn good year on the NAND side.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> It's been good for you but I guess I'm surprised it hasn't been even better or your customers haven't even had more activity there.
Well I don't disagree with you.
I think what happens is that as the device units and bit counts go up the testers don't go up anywhere close to that.
So the productivity side of the equation is still pretty effective in how customers are using the equipment.
But I think you're right to characterize that the NAND side of the equation is certainly better in the market and it's certainly been better for us.
The Magnum product's been doing pretty well there.
So if you take total memory market we'll gain a little bit of ground this year in share points.
But unfortunately that's in a smaller rather than bigger market.
Your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Going back to the Q4 guidance I understand on the top line LitePoint is going to contribute somewhere in the $30 million to $35 million.
But can you provide more color on the margin side? I see in your material that the non-GAAP gross margin is about 50% for Q4.
So should we assume LitePoint is at those levels? Mehdi this is Greg.
We're not going to break out LitePoint's gross margin so we won't do that.
So there's a lot going on when you go from any one quarter to the next.
For example there's a lot less hard disk drive shipments in the fourth quarter.
There are other ins and outs.
So you're not going to have a trail that you can quantify LitePoint.
What I did say earlier though if we had a normalized mix of business everything was normalized at the $350 million.
LitePoint would have an impact of about 2 points versus it not being in there.
So LitePoint will obviously improve our gross margins.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And what about on the OpEx side? LitePoint has higher OpEx.
So the higher gross margins gets diluted a bit with their higher OpEx but the operating margins that's still healthier than Teradyne on average.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then did you say that for Q4 the non-GAAP operating margin guidance is 6% to 8%? The operating profit would be 6% to 11%.
LLLP Research Division</strong> 6% to 11%? Yes.
And 9% is sort of a midpoint.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I may -- and this goes back to LitePoint again.
Sure.
LLLP Research Division</strong> There could be well over $130 million of revenue opportunity next year.There was also a commentary on the seasonality part of that segment.So how should we think about Q1 of next year versus like Q2 Q3? Mehdi the number for next year we said was $160 million plus.
The $130 million was this year.
Mehdi I think it would likely build and have stronger quarters in Q3.
Q2 could be strong.I think it would build through the year.
So I wouldn't look for Q1 to be a blowout quarter at all.
There's new programs that they're going after and making great progress.
So I think some of those things will take off midyear.So it is going to be quite volatile it's level of sales.So I think it's easier to think about it as $40 million on average a quarter or better.
But it can be quite a bit lower or quite a bit higher in any one quarter.
Similar to what we've done in having to describe the volatility that you see in the storage test.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then one final one.How should we think about kind of a booking direction in Q4? We're already almost a month into the quarter.
And I do understand you do more than half of your business in the latter part of the quarter.
But given the current business trend should we assume that there's another double-digit decline in booking or is it less? Mehdi as you know we don't guide for the reasons you'd just described.
I think that the -- if you go back to that chart that shows the prior troughs I think you could -- as we said you could see continuation at or around that level.
I don't think we actually have more visibility than that.
Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 of them.
Number one Greg you mentioned that Semi business might see a 1% decline in margins because of pricing pressure.
I do remember your comments I think in 2Q you said you saw some pricing pressure.
So my question is has the pricing gotten incrementally worse? Or has it stabilized that do you think just a spillover will affect next year on margins? I think it stayed on that same trajectory we've talked about earlier that the pricing environment for the last 6 months thereabout has been a little bit sharper than in the past.
But we have gone through these ebbs and flows many many times.
And what normally happens is when you introduce your new product down the road you do better because it had a different cost structure.
But in the near term -- and maybe we're conservative.
But in the near term we want to reflect in the models some of what we're sensing or seeing in some particular situations.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then on the LitePoint side from my understanding this is more of a focus box position that has really short lifetime.
I mean the lifetime is only like 12 to 18 months of these products if I'm right.
And along this [indiscernible] should be assume that LitePoint really does not have a service business and services and so does the mix of total revenues is going to go down next year? That's a great question.
LitePoint service business is very small you're right.
So it will be different than other parts of Teradyne.
It will not get up to 18% 20% being serviced.
It will be dramatically lower.
So yes you can model that.
And the life is certainly shorter.
It's not as short as you've mentioned.
I would think of it more as 3 years.
And -- but there's a high rate of technological change which obviously is good for us because there's always a new tester needed every couple of years.
Right.
For the incremental revenue from LitePoint it wouldn't carry the same 18% to 20% level that the other business does..
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then just the final question.
Your breakeven with that LitePoint I think was somewhere in the $220 million run rate for operating breakeven.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> What is it with LitePoint? With LitePoint it's about $250 million..
Your next question comes from the line of David Duley with  Steelhead Securities.
A couple of questions from me.
Is the growth that you expect from LitePoint do you think that will come more from current customers or from new customer wins? I think a big chunk will come from current customers in the near term.
As time goes on more will come from new customers.
They have very strong penetration into some existing customers and we expect their new product to gain market share at existing customers first.
But it's also being shown to some new customers.
But I think the traction at the existing customers is just much stronger.
Okay.
And as far as the SemiTest business do you think -- just not asking for guidance but do you think that the business has bottomed? And I guess I'll just ask that part first then I have a follow-up.
Well from an order rate I think we're in the ballpark plus or minus some amount.
But we're in the ballpark.
And I think that unless there's something very different going on which we don't think there is because if you look at the segments or if you look at OSATs and IDMs I think all of these things triangulate to this level being likely to be around the bottom level.
So your subset at the bottom isn't driven by looking at the last 5 or 6 cycles and looking at the duration of the cycles that's based on what your customers are telling you and where the levels of spending are? It's a combination of all of those.
Okay.
And the -- did you mention what the hard disk drive revenue was in the third quarter? And what should we expect for that business in the fourth quarter? We didn't mention that other than to say that it was more in that one quarter than the entire first half of the year and that with the third quarter revenue we're above the top end of our earlier range which was $120 million.
So over $120 million right now and there's a fourth quarter to go.
Third quarter was a big quarter.
Fourth quarter we expect to be quite a bit less.
But obviously this is a very strong year for hard disk drive based upon new customers and new applications.
Now I should also say we set hard disk drive up to hit model profitability of 15% when they're at $125 million of sales.
So we're obviously pleased that they're above that this year.
And we'll close out this year with a record year for hard disk drive.
And we'll look forward to next year in terms of any other expansions we can get.
Okay.
Final question for me is you mentioned what cash should end up the year at.
Can you just give us an idea of what the cash flow from operations is kind of in this I guess perhaps trough quarter? The trough quarter from ops about $60 million or so.
One thing that has a little bit of an impact on us is we still have decent amount of deferred revenue customer advances.
I know that's coming down.
But that balance does tend to reduce what otherwise would be our cash flow inflows about $60 million.
And you incorporated the reduction in the customer deposits in that $60 million? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two-part question on LitePoint.
You mentioned the seasonality aspect.
What's the normal seasonality for LitePoint? And the second question on LitePoint is what are kind of the average lead or cycle times? How quickly do you turn those products around for those customers? So far I think it's going to be hard to say normal.
But we think it's going to have the characteristics of being more of a midyear.
If you try to pick the peak quarter it's probably going to be Q2 to Q3 rather than the beginning or end of year quarters.
What was the second question? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just -- on the like the lead and cycle times in terms of that business relative to your other businesses.
This is Greg.
That's much quicker.
It's 2 to 4 weeks.
And those boxes have less variations or configurations.
So it's much quicker.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that could just increase your overall turns business for the whole company? It does.
And I'll add to that that the turns and some other quarters can be 90%.
So they're going to be a little more difficult to forecast with their volatility high terms business very little service business.
So we might continue to have a little bit wider range to compensate for that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Going to the hard disk drive business in terms of some of the recent events that have occurred have you made any adjustments in terms of your lead times your inventory management to potentially respond to any I guess sudden changes or requests from customers because typically I believe and you could correct me if I'm wrong it's typically over 3 months in terms of the lead times.
Have you made any adjustments based on potential customer requests? Patrick we have.
We're trying to position some material in the first quarter to be able to respond to the uncertainty.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And final question for me in terms of the overall SOC test market if we look at -- if we're approaching a bottom as you've suggested how do you look at the overall industry SOC test market in 2012 at this point of the game? Well let's see.
We -- I think we do 2 things.
We speculate only to the level of saying that we think this is a 1%-plus buy rate business and a $200 billion device market.
So we've been sizing our operations here around a $2 billion level which has certainly been the floor in the last 4 or 5 years below the floor of the market which has been in the $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion range.
So in a recovery year like you had in 2010 it's stronger than this year.
I think this year's number is actually going to end up at about $2.3 billion or $2.4 billion.
But we exit the year at a $1.9 billion rate.
So we always try to size the business conservatively meaning sizing the expense level.
But we expect to -- that market to be still in that -- I'll call it $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion range.
I'll add one thing to what Mike just said.
We've sized our cost structure for $2 billion.
But our inventory pipeline is often positioned to deliver revenue between $2.3 billion $2.5 billion that neighborhood.
So we sort of have 2 plans a revenue plan based upon where the market has been and what we have some belief that it's reasonable.
But we size it -- the cost structure at $2 billion to ensure healthy profitability.
Your next question comes from the line of C.J.
Muse with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> This is Olga calling in for C.J.
Just following up on an earlier question regarding the pricing declines that you're seeing in SemiTest can you talk about which areas or markets and specifically where you see the most pressure? And what that equates to on a blended basis in terms of year-over-year declines in pricing for your testers? Olga there's no particular segment or customer.
It's really the competitive environment that in some cases there are offensive moves and we're the aggressor.
In other cases it's defensive moves where we're moving price to protect the sector.
But if you looked at the last '10 [ph] you wouldn't see a pattern either in customer or market segment or product.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I guess on the LitePoint targeted model.
In the revised model that you offered  incorporating LitePoint does that include just existing OpEx structure or does that also incorporate your potential cost-cutting efforts as we go through 2012? It incorporates existing and actually added investment at LitePoint.
They need to hire some more people in Asia and other locations to achieve a higher plan than the $160 million.
So they're ramping up for more ambitious plan.
It's not significant hiring but some hiring.
And LitePoint is doing quite well financially now.
So we would certainly be on the side of investing more in LitePoint.
And that's all factored into the model.
We have put that in the model.
So in truth we might start off a little favorable to the model because all that spending may not be in right away in the first quarter of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a clarification question on the share buybacks you said that you had $169 million left and so far you're really targeting just offsetting the dilution.
Are you targeting a specific timing in terms of deploying the cash? Or is this more of an opportunistic type of just of monitoring the stock price? It's the latter.
It's opportunistic.
We want to be very patient in prior buybacks whether it was Teradyne or others.
Companies tend to buy back once they have a lot of cash and the authorization.
And that often did not work with hindsight.
So we'd rather be very patient very patient.
We have a conservative grid pick up larger amounts as the stock goes lower and lower.
So we may not meet our target in a 1-year period or 2-year period.
But we think over a longer term period it will be a better deal for the shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of Satya Kumar with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Did you give out your utilization rate for your tests [indiscernible] with subcontractor customers [ph]? Satya we didn't but I can for you.
Let me put it in context from last quarter to this quarter.
I think last quarter we were describing a total utilization rate maybe -- I think we broke it down actually.
Set the OSATs we're in the mid to high 70s.
In the IDMs we're in the 80s.
That's notched down slightly.
The IDMs are now in the low 80s.
They're probably in the mid-80s a quarter ago.
The subcons are and the mid-70s at this point.
So combined I'd put us around 80 with a slight little bias towards the under so high 70s at this point.
So it's pretty low level.
Research Division</strong> Just sort of macro level when you look at the packaging in the test industry in aggregate customers from what your subcontractors like -- will actually raise their CapEx.
And they seem to be shifting a lot more of their spending to packaging where the utilization rates seem to be a lot higher.
Do you see a mix shift happening just in the back in the test and back in the universe where the mix is going more for packaging and the testing productivity? Or pricing pressure is sort of making the testing market go slower? I don't think that the money is being allocated and what's left over is going to test.
I think that the test productivity has been very strong over the last few years which has allowed unit volumes to go up and the tester capital to stay at a steady rate.
So the allocation is based upon technology changes and with the test industry has been doing a very good job at is improving productivity and improving the useful license systems.
Now that doesn't work great for the size of the market.
But we're -- that's why our focus has been on share gains.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions on LitePoint.
You mentioned it doesn't include a full quarter worth of sales.
I was wondering if you can say how many weeks of sales are included in LifePoint? Is it everything after October 5? I'll make it easier for you.
We're missing about $4 million of revenue.
It was a full quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you looked at LitePoint's higher growth rates versus the market growth rates for 2012.
My understanding is LitePoint's very strong in the short-range wireless test market and the cellular market is obviously much bigger than and we have the LTE deployment and could be a big growth opportunity as well.
Is that part of the big area that you expect that LitePoint will get a lot stronger? And if that's the case what specifically can Teradyne bring to the table that might accelerate the option rate for LitePoint and the cellular market? Maybe you can put into context the QUALCOMM licensing that you guys announced as well? Satya you're correct that the opportunity upside in the larger cellular market is one of the places that we think LitePoint has great growth potential.
What Teradyne brings to the table -- frankly we're trying to make sure that the engineering programs and the customer support ambition of LitePoint is met.
And I think the bigger challenge is expanding in the field organization.
So that's where we're trying to directly help.
Longer term there's obviously some opportunity for us to cross-pollinate on technology because we're in the device testing end and they're in the product testing end.
So over a longer horizon we intend to figure out ways that we can exploit the combination of the full range of test from semiconductor all the way to end product.
But the focus right now is for us to accelerate to our larger worldwide footprint the staffing that they need to do to get this market penetration during this next year.
Your final question comes from the line of Jagadish Iyer with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Mike you talked about mobility a lot.
So I just want to understand how should we think about unit growth for your testers in '12 versus '11 given your share position there please? Unit growth for the? Research Division</strong> For Teradyne testers in the mobility segment.
Okay so you're talking about Semiconductor Test? Research Division</strong> Yes yes yes.
Let's see I'm pausing because -- I guess we're not looking at it in units.
We look more in terms of what's going to happen in the market segments.
And I can give you a picture of that if you hold just 1 second.
I don't want to do this in terms of 2012 Jagadish if that's all right because we don't think -- well next year we're going to have 12% more unit volume because then you get into well which testers at which level of price performance.
But I think the important thing is if you carved the Semiconductor Test SOC market into its segments the mobility segment is a little bit underside of the market [ph].
And I want to go back to a baseline of 2008 okay because I think that's a pre-downturn or pre-correction of 2010.
We think that market the projections we have and that the market is projecting is that that takes -- that moves up to be about 20% of the market.
So overall that goes up 17% over the next -- from '08 to '13.
So it's got a larger a piece of the pie.
I would add automotive and microcontroller to that which is actually growing a bit more than that from about 9% to 13% of our projections.
So what's being offset in the PC the chip test microprocessor or graphic segments are declining.
So when you factor all that -- and those are the kinds of numbers we're thinking about market growth.
And then you layer on top of that we think we've got a very competitive position in mobility automotive and microcontroller.
And that's what together gives us the projection that -- we're trying to gain 1 or 2 points of market share each year in the total market.
Research Division</strong> I've got 2 quick questions.
Two quick questions as a follow-up.
On the LitePoint acquisition if you think that LitePoint revenues are going to increase year-over-year not the quarter-over-quarter fluctuation in '12 can you draw some meaningful conclusions on the overall SemiTest orders or revenue trajectory for 2012? I'm not worried about quarter-to-quarter but overall for the year please? Well I think it's what I had said.
In terms of the tester market we think the sizing that you should use -- that we would use would be in the $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion market size.
I also think it's tricky to correlate LitePoint to SOC test because LitePoint has some sort of technological discontinuities where new standards are being introduced requiring a different tester.
And that opens up buying.
There's less of that in SemiTest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question is that you had one of your customers -- NAND customers really talked about growth in SSD space.
I just want to find out if there's any offering in the SSD space in the horizon? and how do you think the tester market is going to shape up for the SSD? Yes.
We're keeping an eye on the SSD module test area.
And there's nothing -- we don't have products in that space at this point.
But we'd certainly have technology both in the NAND test and in the storage test area that -- we're watching that market to see if it grows to a substantial size that would justify the kinds of platforms that we could develop or combine to address it.
So nothing in the short term.
But obviously we're watching closely.
And we think we've got a different portfolio of IP at this point to address it.
Everyone this concludes today's call.
Thank you for your interest in Teradyne.
And we look forward to talking with you down the road.
Thank you very much.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Cody and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q4 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Blanchard you may begin.
Thank you Cody.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 as well as our outlook for the first quarter of 2012.
First Id like to address several administrative issues.
The press release containing our most recent financial results was sent out via Business Wire last evening.
Copies are available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
Note that during this call we are providing slides on the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
To view them simply access the Investor page of the site and click on the Live Webcast icon.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The replays will be available along with the slides through February 11.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradynes results to differ materially from managements current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent financial filings with the SEC for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During todays call we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We have posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure were available on our website.
To view them go to the Investor page and click on the GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation link.
Also you may want to note that between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be speaking in the Stifel Nicolaus Technology and Telecom Conference on February 6 in Dana Point and Goldman Sachs Technology and Internet Conference on February 14 in San Francisco.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the company and industry of the fourth quarter full year 2011 and provide our outlook for the first quarter.
Then our CFO Greg Beecher will provide more details on our quarterly and full-year performance along with our guidance for the first quarter.
We'll then answer your questions.
For scheduling purposes you should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone.
Thanks for being with us again today.
As you can see we've raised our revenue guidance considerably from last quarter so I want to explain what's behind that in just a few minutes from now.
But first I'd like to recap all of 2011 as we made some very good progress on our long-term strategy in the year just closed.
[Technical Difficulty] From a numbers perspective 2011 was solid despite a quite significant slowdown in the worldwide semiconductor test market in the second half of the year.
We finished the year at over $1.4 billion in revenues and had another strong performance on the operating profit line.
It's a especially satisfying to be able to go through significant down cycles and still be well in the black something that has eluded most participants in this sector and in truth was a challenge for us until recent years.
We generated nearly $200 million of free cash flow during the year continuing a trend that we started back in 2006 when we began streamlining our product lines shortening our manufacturing cycle time revamping our fixed cost structure and steadily gaining market share.
As you know since 2006 we've generated over $1.2 billion in cash that has been put to good use in strengthening our core and expanding our serve markets all through the acquisitions of Nextest Eagle Test and now LitePoint.
And of course we've kept some of those cash resources in reserve for similar strategic purposes into the future.
A few other notes on 2011 before I shift to the current quarter and upcoming year.
Our Systems Test group had an exceptional year with record revenues and solid bottom line performance.
Our defense business was back in very good shape after a turbulent 2010 where many military programs were reassessed or slowed.
Our small but very competitive Commercial Board Test business had its best year in over 10 years.
In the storage test business that had its first revenue less than 3 years ago had an exceptional year of new products and new customers while logging a record year in systems shipped.
On the semiconductor test side we posted solid results in SOC test and Memory Test despite market contraction in both segments.
While our SOC business declined as expected our Memory Test business actually grew 11% year-over-year as our FLASH and DRAM test products gained further traction.
Finally our LitePoint business is off and running.
With about 100 days under our belt we're seeing almost exactly what we expected and then some.
By that I mean a dynamic company attacking a fast growing and fast-changing mobile electronic markets.
And one like our storage test business that will ramp up and down through the coming quarters as major technology driven tool decisions are made at the same time that it delivers good annual earnings growth.
So let me turn now to the current quarter and the year ahead.
Our fourth quarter bookings excluding LitePoint rose 49% sequentially to over $350 million.
That's higher than either the second or quarter of 2011 and I'm pleased to say that we saw order increases in nearly every business.
There were 2 major themes underlying these increases.
First semiconductor companies in the mobile sector are tooling up for new product launches this year.
While segments like automotive and microcontroller have back-end overcapacity the leading edge testers for Power Management baseband processors image sensors and wireless devices are in short supply.
As a result our high-performance FLEX products especially those with our latest generation of UltraPin technology are in high demand.
The second theme is in storage test where customers are ramping capacity early so that they can be positioned for market share opportunities during this year.
For us I characterize this as new not-replacement capacity.
In other words we're not getting orders to replace any of our systems affected by the Thailand flooding.
Our hard disk drive business is all new demand related.
In light of these 2 themes we're doing a couple of things in our Q1 capacity plan.
First we're ramping up the Neptune slot plan to respond to the healthy backlog we've built and second we're opening up some additional capacity in SemiTest in the event that the mobility sector continues strong or if other sectors start to show life.
So this upside strategy in SemiTest is what's behind our wide revenue range this quarter.
I should add that LitePoint is likely to create some additional wider guidance ranges going forward as they operate in an extremely short lead-time environment shorter than any of our other businesses.
So as we turn into this new year I leave you with the following 3 points.
First short-term demand has turned up in SemiTest and we're in the sweet spot for that upward trend most important being the new generation of mobile electronics.
It's not a market wide recovery as a number of segments remain subdued but it is a positive turn for leading edge mobile applications where we're very strong.
Second our Systems Test business which you recall held us back in 2010 had a terrific year in 2011 and enters 2012 with record backlog and very good prospects in the storage defense and board test sectors.
And third with LitePoint now in the fold we have an exciting new growth engine that we expect will deliver at least 20% top line growth this year.
We're backing LitePoint's expanded R&amp;D and customer support plans and leveraging our footprint and worldwide resources to accelerate their growth.
Finally we're making prudent investments in the future but with a discipline that's allowed us to transform the company's financial performance over the last several years.
Now let me turn it over to Greg for his perspective on the business.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'd like to first recap the financial highlights of 2011 and provide a perspective over a 2-year period capturing the results of the dramatic re-shaping of the company over the last several years.
I'll then cover the fourth quarter highlights and the first quarter guidance and close with some brief summary remarks.
Looking first to 2011 we had one of our best years of the last 10 years with sales of $1.4 billion a non-GAAP operating profit of 21% and non-GAAP EPS of $1.39.
In fact it was our second best year in that period eclipsed only by last year's record results.
Moreover post our revamping of the company in 2009 our annual sales have averaged $1.5 billion a year our non-GAAP operating profit rate has averaged 24% and our non-GAAP EPS has averaged about $1.80.
We also delivered $677 million in free cash flow over this 2-year period the ultimate validation of a successful model.
One other interesting way to quickly illustrate the strength of our financial model is to average together the 2 fourth quarter costs of 2010 and 2011.
When you do this you'll get a 16% operating profit rate.
This profitability rate exceeds our normalized operating performance of the prior 5 and 10-year periods before 2010 by more than 10 points.
What might be less well known is that the non-GAAP EPS contribution from our nonorganic initiatives such as Eagle and Nextest and our organic hard disk drive and high-speed memory initiatives totaled 1/3 of our EPS over this 2-year period.
So further expansion into closely adjacent markets where we can leverage our IT distribution or accelerate disruptive technologies has been a key part of our playbook.
Let me expand on this just a bit as it provides some insight into how we think about investing in future growth.
First on a nonorganic side we were able to add Nextest and Eagle and make them highly successful for 3 key reasons.
First we have a very healthy core SemiTest business to build from.
Second we added healthy complementary businesses with non-overlapping product portfolios.
And third we leveraged Teradyne capabilities where it directly led to hard savings or faster growth.
And we decided this upfront; not quarters or years later.
We know that if you don't have these 3 elements it is very difficult to create shareholder value.
The addition of LitePoint in wireless tests which expands our serve market by a $1 billion or more follows this same philosophy.
On the organic front we've been successful primarily because we've invested only after having a large rate customer work with us in the design phase to ensure we put into the product what mattered to them and equally important left out what wasn't valued.
Then we fanned out to the broader market.
On the capital allocation front we've used our hard earned capital very carefully since the major revamping in 2009.
In addition to LitePoint we also bought back our stock at opportunistic prices.
In 2011 we bought back 2.6 million shares at an average price of $11.84 totaling $31 million.
We have $169 million remaining in our authorization which we'll continue to use opportunistically.
It should also be noted that in all of our businesses each business achieved 15% or better operating performance in 2011 so there are no [indiscernible] in the group.
On the competitive front we don't intend to make any specific comment on the recent consolation moves in the SemiTest market other than to say we're well positioned against our larger combined competitor whether they continue to operate with overlapping product lines or if they go in a different direction with some near-term financial objectives in mind.
To shift to 2012 for a moment we're starting the year off with healthy sales growth in both SemiTest and storage test.
The more important story behind this new demand is that in SemiTest we're shipping new UltraFLEX configurations to test next-generation smart phones and mobile devices.
In storage test wherever the 2.5-inch HDD buying takes place we now have the products and customers to win this new buying.
I should quickly point out that LitePoint's first quarter with Teradyne reflects what we expect is normal seasonality combined with their tight linkage to large new programs and technologies.
Hence we'll have natural sharp swings and any one quarter shouldn't be extrapolated.
We remain very confident with our top line revenue expectations of $160 million or more in 2012 for LitePoint.
Now moving to the key highlights of the fourth quarter.
We met our sales and earnings guidance with a top line of $297 million and non-GAAP EPS of $0.16.
Stepping back for a moment on the market share and growth front storage test was the key standout in 2011.
Our annual sales were about 25% above our initial $120 million high-end estimate with over 80% from either new customers or new applications all in the faster growing 2.5-inch disk drive space.
On the SemiTest front we're continuing with SOC socket wins at a pace consistent with the past.
But as I mentioned last quarter we'll be on the other side of the segment shifts as strong PC test buying will temporarily depress our 2011 numerical share.
The second buying in 2011 favored our largest competitor as PC driven buying was unusually high.
We believe that our normalized share remains in the mid-40s in SOC test and we're very well positioned to ride the long-term mobility growth wave.
You saw a glimpse of that trend in the Q4 orders.
In a 2011 Memory Test market that was slightly smaller than 2010 we grew revenue 11% to $115 million which puts our share in the high teens up from 14% in 2010.
With our strong FLASH and DRAM test portfolio we expect to continue to add a few points of share per year going forward.
On the balance sheet we closed the year with gross cash and marketable securities just over $750 million.
You'll no doubt note that we had a large GAAP credit for the reversal of our tax valuation allowance.
This doesn't affect our non-GAAP earnings; it is simply bringing back onto our balance sheet our favorable tax attributes that we reserved a few years ago.
As mentioned last quarter our cash taxes should be 10% to 12% which is what we'll use in our non-GAAP EPS.
Moving now to the demand side.
SemiTest bookings grew to $233 million.
Associate test orders were $215 million and Memory Test orders were $18 million in the fourth quarter.
SemiTest service orders were $46 million System Test service orders were $24 million and overall system test group orders came in at $123 million reflecting a sharp increase in HDD orders as new customers ramp production.
As Mike noted in storage test we didn't have any damaged equipment that required replacement but we did see an acceleration of 2012 orders as customers position themselves for post-floor HDD demand.
In SemiTest while we can't directly quantify the amount we did see some nominal ordering to replace equipment damaged in the Thailand floods.
In the fourth quarter SemiTest sales were 68% of the total Systems Test group was 22% and wireless Test or LitePoint was 10%.
For the year just ended LitePoint posted approximately $130 million in revenue.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the fourth quarter was $1.3 million for the overall company $1.2 million for SemiTest $1.9 million for the Systems Test group and $0.7 million for Wireless Test.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $455 million of which 84% is scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $297 million was down $47 million or 14% sequentially from the third quarter.
SemiTest was $202 million down $39 million or 16%.
And Systems Test group was $66 million down $37 million or 36%.
Wireless Test was $28 million after purchase accounting adjustments.
SemiTest product shipments decreased 20% from a quarter ago.
Within the $297 million service revenue was $69 million flat for the third quarter.
SemiTest service revenue was $54 million.
Total company product turns business was 38% versus 21% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 40% versus 30% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $23 million.
Now moving down to P&amp;L.
Non-GAAP gross margins increased from 49% in the third quarter to 50% in the fourth quarter due to a lower mix of HDD revenue.
R&amp;D expenses were $53 million or 18% of sales compared to $47 million or 14% of sales in the third quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were $63 million or 21% of sales compared to $55 million or 16% of sales in the third quarter.
Operating expenses of $160 million were up $14 million from the third quarter driven by the addition of LitePoint.
Our net non-GAAP interest and other expense was $2 million.
We had no cash tax provision in the fourth quarter which reflects a reduction in our full-year cash tax rate from 6% to 5%.
Cash from operations totaled $40 million after capital additions.
As noted in the press release sales for the fourth quarter are expected to be between $360 million and $400 million and non-GAAP EPS range is $0.22 to $0.33 on 205 million diluted shares.
When you look at our Q1 guidance it includes a greater mix of lower margin storage test and expenses added for growth investments which we previously discussed.
I should add that the guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles the non-cash imputed interest on the convertible debt and estimated GAAP purchase accounting charges related to the acquisition of LitePoint.
Our GAAP EPS range is $0.05 to $0.13.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance is above 16%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages in the first quarter.
We expect non-GAAP gross margins to be 48% to 49% R&amp;D should be 16% to 15% and SG&amp;A should be 18% to 16%.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $2 million.
The cash tax provision should be about $6 million.
In summary 2011 clearly was a solid year.
The bottom out of orders in SemiTest appears to be behind us albeit with macroeconomic conditions presenting uncertainty in the year ahead.
Leading edge consumer mobility products are driving demand across a number of our businesses including LitePoint.
So [indiscernible] which is to stay very sharply focused on strengthening our core businesses maintaining financial discipline while investing core growth.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Cody we'd now like to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Satya Kumar.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering approximately what part of the logic SemiTest orders that you saw in Q4 are for digital SOC versus analog mixing with other applications? I don't think we can break it down Satya for us right here.
What I'll say is the strength from a product standpoint was in the high-performance end of the product line the UltraFLEX end.
We had quite an increase in that demand.
But the low-end digital the microcontroller types of applications were -- remained quite weak.
On the linear analog side those also were -- are also remain very subdued at this point.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Do you think that you're gaining market share on the high-end product segments? Obviously we're seeing some significant level of management departures at one of your big competitors.
Could you talk a little about market share in the high-end? And also the diversifica -- how diversified are these orders? We are seeing some pretty concentrated orders from some large customers in the Korean geography.
I was wondering if you could give some color on the geographical and customer breadth of these high-end orders.
Well I'm going to take a little bit broader time perspective on it.
We were in the low 30s percent a few years back maybe 5 or 6 years back.
We said last year as we had -- I shouldn't say last year 2010 when we had a very strong surge in market share part of that was driven by our position in the mobility segment.
Last year PCs were stronger so we dropped back.
On average as we said at the last call we're in the mid-40s 44% or 45%.
And we do think we've gained share in that what you call high-end what we would call the mobility product end of the business.
We think our share movement has also had -- other components have been in other mobility related products like image sensors and in the microcontroller and truly digital low-end space where the J750 remains a very strong product with over 4 000 systems installed.
Finally in all of this has been the Eagle test product line so on the performance analog side that has kicked in as well.
So it isn't a one-horse kind of story here in terms of the share gains but we do think on this high-performance mobility space we certainly -- that would be the lead -- the lead product with the UltraFLEX in recent couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> And the geographical distribution of orders? Greg you have got it a...
The orders are strong in certainly in Asia Korea is strong.
We've had a strong mix -- some of this is on our web site guys if you want to look at what we've posted but you can see bookings in Asia.
Fourth quarter to third quarter they were up 51% to 67% so very strong pick up there.
And it really is being driven by the mobility smartphone segment and that's the segment we have very very strong share so we think we can ride that wave and hopefully pick up some more share but also we think we're in line with the guys who are winning in those segments.
Your next question comes from Krish Sankar.
Research Division</strong> Greg can you just tell us what do you think was the SOC in the memory market size in 2011? And what do you think it's going to be in 2012? Okay the market size? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Let me do it Mike.
You said was it memory that you're asking about or SOC? Research Division</strong> Both SOC and memory.
Okay SOC we think ends up at hang on 2.5 if -- we're still estimating the fourth quarter but 2010 was 2.6 or -- between 2.6 and 2.7 for 2011 down slightly to 2.5.
All of that back-end decline.
And then memory the total market for memory is 740 in 2010 and just over 600 in 2011.
About 620 and we'll see how that shakes out as the fourth quarter finalizes.
Research Division</strong> Anything in 2012? I'll give you a range.
For planning purposes we think that memory stays in that $700 million range $600 million to $800 million but for planning purposes I think $700 million wouldn't be a bad number to use.
And it's a bit wider range in SOC; anywhere between $2.2 million and $2.6 million.
If you had to pick a number I'd pick $2.4 million.
Let me quickly add to that.
The 2011 SOC market had a lot of PC buying which we don't think will be anywhere near that level in the next year 2012.
So it was not a good mix of business for our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Alright and then along those lines in terms of your exposure to mobility if I look at your end customers is it safe to assume or characterize the fact that you guys are more exposed to kind of like I guess the Apple ecosystem versus the Droid ecosystem? Is that a fair way to characterize it? We prefer not to mention customer names but we're certainly well tied into smart phones and tablets.
Research Division</strong> Alright.
And then a final question from my end.
LitePoint you guys did about $28 million in revenues.
What was the -- was it profitable at $28 million? Yes it was.
The $28 million is under our watch.
It was actually a little over $30 million; maybe $31 million to $32 million.
It was a full quarter and we didn't have these GAAP purchase write-downs for service deferred revenue.
But yes it was profitable.
Your next question comes from Jim Covello.
Research Division</strong> First on the memory space I understand what you said about the market size but it seems like as good as the results are this quarter it didn't include any kind of big pickup from memory.
So what do you think it would take drive maybe some sequential upticks in that segment recognizing your comments about this fiscal [indiscernible] for the year? Jim what will it take to drive the overall market to go up? Research Division</strong> Yes sequentially.
So when or what [indiscernible] need to see a sequential uptick in the memory space? I think the one thing that will -- can push it in the coming year or 2 years the lower power DDR devices.
That's the one thing I'd call out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just your free cash flow generation's terrific $60 million in what was a tougher quarter in the fourth quarter a couple hundred million for the year.
What are the thoughts around incremental capital allocation? You've done a great job saving some for strategic acquisitions.
Any thoughts of a dividend as we see more people doing that in the semiconductor space? Jim we'll continue to pretty much stay the course we've been on which is to keep some dry powder for possible possible acquisitions that meet strict criteria that can leverage our distribution or technical capabilities.
Those opportunities -- we found 2 in 2008 and 1 in 2011 so there's no set time when you can predict those opportunities are available.
So we do think it's prudent to have a good buffer.
We're constantly looking at capital allocation with our board so it's an ongoing discussion.
There's no imminent plan to do any different other than what we've been doing.
The close M&amp;A has worked quite well for us we like that and buying back stock at opportunistic prices works well too.
But we'll continue to look at all other options as time goes on.
Your next question comes from Wayne Yang [ph].
First question regarding the subcon.
What's the percentage of revenue coming out of the subcon segments for your SemiTest? 46% this quarter.
Last quarter 28%.
So that's where we've seen the big increase in demand.
Subcon orders doubled from Q3 to Q4.
And again those are orders not revenues.
Alright I said it in orders.
That's right yes.
So subcon actually started to pick up their order base as well? Right? Right.
As the fabless companies who are participating in the mobile sector have driven these the new tooling the leading-edge tooling the subcons are -- they're moving strongly at this point.
Okay.
Switch to LitePoint.
You mentioned that orders could be very lumpy and there are also some feel-no factors so we shouldn't read too much into the order run rate in Q4.
What do you expect the LTE business to pan out in 2012? Is it more contributing to first half or second half? I think the contour we need a few quarters to get under our belt here.
But if you look at LitePoint business in the past I think our prediction here is that the middle 2 quarters of the year will be stronger than the first and fourth quarters.
Okay.
And obviously LTE is a very new business opportunity for the LitePoint.
Could you give some color on what's the business size and opportunity for the LTE side of the business in LitePoint? And how much LitePoint has LTE business today? This is Greg.
LTE business is a very significant opportunity for LitePoint.
The market for LTE or I'll say cellular is probably 4x connectivity.
And this business connectivity with LTE requires all new testers because of the increase in microhertz and different modulation schemes.
So there is a big new tooling required.
LitePoint has testers in the field now doing that type of testing.
So we think it's a very very good opportunity over 1 2 year period that we're going to pursue very aggressively.
And that's also behind some of the added investing -- investment we're putting into LitePoint this year.
Your next question comes from Mehdi Hosseini.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Coming back to hard disk drive Mike can you remind us how do you see the total addressable market changing from '11 into '12 given this replacement cycle coming which is independent of the floods in Thailand? And I have a follow-up.
Mehdi the sizing in that 2.5-inch space which is where we participate we see that as a $200 million to $250 million -- somewhere between $200 million and $300 million a year market.
And that includes commercial as well as in-house test platforms.
And we think that size is about right.
Last year and for the coming year hard to judge growth rate inside that but a $200 million to $300 million market is the way we size it for our own R&amp;D and planning purposes.
I think that migrates somewhat towards commercial going forward because the commercial equipment alternatives now I think are -- have the potential to outpace the in-house designs.
But I think that will be a slow transition.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Is there any spending pattern in the hard disk drive? In other words do you see this year a spending concentrate in the first half versus the second half given the run rate of booking in Q4? Well let's see.
As we enter the year it's unusual.
It's very different compared to the last 2 years.
And that is that the accelerated ordering part of it caused by the Thailand flood and the positioning for market share moves in the year has put the order pattern very front loaded.
At this point we haven't adjusted our view of the total market size just because the first part of the year is looking stronger than prior years.
Okay.
And then if you could help me reconcile what you reported for SemiTest booking with what the semi-organization has reported.
If I just look at the monthly numbers for back-end bookings are down 17% in Q4 compared to Q3 and this is again this is for back-end test and equipment but your bookings are up almost 20%.
Does that -- how should I reconcile this? Does that mean that test is growing to the extent that it's offsetting decline in assembly? Or is that the system versus services? Any color you can add here will be great.
The color would not be some big mix change in systems and service.
I think we're similar quarter-to-quarter on systems and service.
The total market numbers tend to be they come in the door a little bit later.
So the trend lines that you see and I think they're on our website of the market numbers don't show any recovery yet.
The story that we've got is that in the latter part of the fourth quarter we have a very strong push for this leading-edge high-performance UltraFLEX based product for this next generation of product launches during the course of 2012.
So that's very fresh news for us.
It doesn't show up in the macro numbers at this point.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And just to wrap up I'm going to take a shot at booking directions for Q1.
If I look at the slide that you have it is obviously very lumpy.
But since we have had 2 quarters of digestion and a strong Q4 booking especially SemiTest should we expect continued improvement in terms of booking? Well Mehdi I'm glad you took a shot at it because I'm not going to take too much of a shot at it but I will say that and I'll just talk SemiTest SOC for a minute.
The recovery we typically see the 50% decline in the cycles.
We've seen that we think that profit is behind us that would be point 1.
The other thing I'd give you to flavor it a little bit is that while the long-term picture 2012 is uncertain in the short-term the way we're playing it is to put a little extra capacity into the first quarter slot plan.
And I would read that as the kind of signals that there could be some upside in the very short term that we're trying to respond to.
I don't know whether to extrapolate that beyond the numbers I said for the total market but in the short term we just want to be prepared if it continues to be a strong push especially at the high-performance end leading edge end of the product line.
That's one of the reasons we have a wider revenue guidance in the quarter.
Your next question comes from C.J Muse.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question given the disparity in margins with UltraFLEX and some of your AP customers HDD and Eagle curious how you see the trajectory for gross margins through 2012? Clearly utilization is very important and that's going to make it difficult to have true granularity there but we'd really love to kind of get a view as to how should we think about through the year.
Hi C.J.
This is Greg.
On the model we put out a quarter or so ago $250 million of revenue we had a 50% gross margin.
I think throughout the year we're going to be a point above/below maybe 2 points above/below.
I think you're going to find us on both sides of that as the year goes on at the start of the year because of high storage test buying or on the other side of it.
But when that buying comes down and if other buying picks up whether it's analog or microcontroller I think that moves it to the other side.
So I think it's going to move up and down throughout the year and we've just started off a little bit on the other side of it right now.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And as my follow-up in terms of LitePoint clearly very well positioned in the move from dual-core to multi-core and fourth G but curious in terms of building out from your more concentrated customer base to expanding that particularly within China.
I noticed you're building out your infrastructure there.
We'd love to kind of get a feel for what kind of growth we could see above and beyond the existing customer base and when you think that would flow through the model.
This is Greg again C.J.
I think some of that with the early signs we think can be showing up the latter part of this year.
We hired a country manager who used to work at LitePoint before incredibly capable guy he's off and running.
So we are building a team around him.
For Asia? Yes for China particularly.
So I do believe there will be signs of progress as the year unfolds.
I think more of it will show up in 2013 but there should be some business in '12 that's directly a result of investing the infrastructure the people the talent and our new leader in China.
Your next question comes from Stephen Chin.
Research Division</strong> This is Mahavir Sanghavi for Stephen Chin.
Wondering if you could share any color on the orders from foundries some -- a large foundry customer's talked about integrating into the back-end testing as well.
So wondering if you're seeing contributions from foundry customers already or there's an upside from some foundry orders down the road.
I don't think we break it out and I don't have it in front of me but the profile of the customer mix the one thing that has changed in the quarter-to-quarter picture has been this increase in the subcon end of it.
I don't think there's a change of any note with regard to the mix the components of foundry inside it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could ask about LTE opportunity.
You talked about it being a 4x kind of opportunity compared to connectivity.
I wonder if you could share with us when you see that opportunity going to materialize over the next 2 years.
I think it's a 2-year 2 to 3 year exercise of demonstrating the product showing it has strong correlation.
The cost the simplicity the throughput that's easy to demonstrate that correlation takes some time.
So we're out there now and making progress and these sales cycles design cycles are long so some have started.
So I think there'll be some progress this year.
And they'll be progress next year.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to confirm in terms of how we understand it you talked about the LitePoint addressable market was in the $1 million range? Does that also include LTEs or is LTE in addition to that? It includes LTE but we also expect that market to grow over time but LTE is in that market.
Your next question comes from Thomas Diffely.
Research Division</strong> Mike you talked about some of the nice performance for the high-performance mobility space.
I was curious though how do you view the health of some of your [indiscernible] segments like the microcontroller and the analog.
Either on the utilization basis or when do you expect that to recover? Tom that's the quiet place.
There's really been no movement.
Automotive microcontrollers those are very very -- they're not dead but they're quite dormant.
At this point the capacity utilization for the market overall testers is maybe a touch under 80%.
So you've got an overall install base that's got some idle capacity and I think that would be centered on the microcontroller automotive space.
No projections at this point when that will pick up so it's really hard to tell.
But I think you correctly characterized it as a market that's got some cylinders that are hitting very hard and that are -- where capacity utilization is very high and the demand for extra capacity pushing.
But there are these pockets and the ones you pointed out are the softest ones.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you look at the memory space; with the slowdown in the DRAM market in general how does that in your mind change the kind of the evolution towards the higher speeds that creates a bigger market for you going forward? Well it's been slow.
Frankly the DRAM space-- we're very well positioned in FLASH we're moving our Magnum product into the low speed DRAM test so that's been some growth for us.
That's one of the components of gaining share.
And then we do have a pretty good position at the very high end of the DRAM test space.
But really the CapEx in those spaces is very small.
We continue to watch and hope that that will move more quickly.
This low-power DDR capacity need which we think starts in 2012 may be a place that can dislodge what's been a pretty dormant growth rate in that space.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally if you see consolidation between the DRAM and the NAND market this year does that materially impact your business in that space? I don't think so.
Any consolidation always puts a pause into things as the inventory of testers gets rationalized.
But I don't think it stops the work that we're doing on the design end because this is a place where we've got low share therefore consolidation doesn't change too much the 80% or so of the market that we are not currently in.
Your next question comes from Vishal Shah.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to understand your first quarter booking strength you mentioned.
Is that sort of going to come from the subcon space? Or is that going to be more broad based? Are you asking going forward? Research Division</strong> Yes.
You mentioned -- yes.
I don't have the forecast broken down here in front of me but we'll still see a chunk of subcon.
So I don't think we retreat back to the level we had in the third quarter.
Whether we can -- whether it'll continue to the level of the $100 million flat level that we had in the fourth quarter is yet to be seen.
But the subcons are the place where the growth in the Fabless mobility companies push so that'll continue to be a decent purchase in the first quarter.
But I honestly can't tell you whether it's going to go above we had in the fourth.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to just also understand your expectation of revenues from the HDD segment.
You mentioned the market size but if you can maybe provide us some color on what you think you can do this year.
I think you had mentioned something last year and just wondering if you have any idea of what that business is going to look like this year? Yes.
Last year if you remember or go back a year we were projecting that we could operate in the $80 million to $120 million range.
As we worked through the year that was obviously -- was moved up for us because we were really very successful at breaking into some new customers and getting production buys in those customers and then expanding the applications with the Neptune was doing.
So in fact 80 plus% of our business last year came from new customers new applications.
As a result we topped the $120 million mark and as we entered this year we've said that our projection for the year is at the top end of last year's range.
In other words about $125 million would be what we expect to be able to deliver in the course of the year.
Now we're only 26 days into the year so we'll update you as we go along.
The one thing I would say is that just because we've had this early demand that hasn't changed our view of what the total market might be but we certainly have a larger piece of that $125 million in house at this point in backlog.
So we'll give you an update as we move through the year as to whether that moves up a bit.
Your next question comes from David Duley.
Just had a couple of questions.
Did you have any 10% customers during the quarter and who were they? No we did not.
Okay.
And can we -- going forward you had some pretty spectacular gross margins with LitePoint before you acquired them.
Do you think those margins will continue at the current levels as you penetrate new customers? We think LitePoint's gross margins will be better than Teradyne's.
Will they be as good as they were in the past? Not sure of that.
It's possible but certainly better than Teradyne's.
Okay.
And final thing from me is when you look at the segments of your business that were quite strong during the quarter when you talk about mobility does that generally referred to application processes or baseband processes that go into phones? Yes.
And power management and RF.
Okay so you did also see the strength by the phones and the tablets that are shipping impact your analog and the other segments of your kind of mobile product line? Yes.
Power Management mobile processors wireless baseband image sensors those would be the top 3 sectors for us this quarter.
Your next question comes from Patrick Ho.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just going back for a second on the high-end digital and some of the strength you saw with the UltraFLEX.
Can you just comment a little bit on the concentration of customers? And following that is that coming from existing customers that are expanding into new sockets or are they new customers themselves? Well the majority is existing customers.
But it's new sockets of existing customers so there's always a new component and certainly in this case it would be new sockets of the last year that are driving this new business.
Pat you had a question as to what ...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Was it kind of concentrated to a few key I guess key customers? Or was it kind of broader-based in terms of the demand strength that you saw last quarter that was I guess extending into the March quarter? It's pretty concentrated because the leaders in the space are pretty concentrated.
So he said the specifier list would be a small list.
It fans out into the subcon.
So it's a broader set of actual name customers with purchase orders but it's driven by a concentrated market.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And maybe just going back to Tom's question about the low-end IC market what do you believe will be the catalyst that I guess spurs new tester demand for the microcontroller analog market given that we're still seeing pretty healthy demand in the smartphone and the tablet markets that do employ those type of devices as well? I think those are more general economic drivers rather than next big thing drivers.
I think you just have to soak up the capacity as the IC growth continues and that gradually happens during the course of a recovery.
A wide range of usable electronics.
So I think there's any one thing to look at there to spur a big uptick in the capacity utilization.
But as it turns it starts to -- and it starts to turn up then you get the obvious -- the inventory buying.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great and final question for me in terms of the HDD test business segment and I want to make sure I was real clear on this is you're suggesting that what you're seeing now is actually demand related and not replacement.
How are you accounting for the potential replacement buys coming in through the year in terms of the current forecast that you just provided? Yes the thing we wanted to be sure that people understood was that our business in terms of replacement of Teradyne business there's really been no replacement of Teradyne install base.
Our systems the customers were -- utilized our systems and those systems were kept essentially kept above the flood level.
So we don't have an insurance spike in our demand.
Now do we have -- was the install base of other testers affected? Obviously it was.
So some of our demand we think it's a positioning where we're able to get some of that business.
How much? I don't know exactly but a piece of our business goes into -- is therefore flood related but I wouldn't characterize it as directly Teradyne Neptune replacement business.
It was none of that.
Your final question comes from Jagadish Iyer.
Research Division</strong> Two questions big picture question Mike.
I was just wondering how should we think about the [indiscernible] SOC market 2 to 3 years from now? Is there -- are there some secular growth drivers which could take that up to probably the $3 billion level or we are probably going to be seeing hovering around the $2.4 billion $2.5 billion? That's my first question and then I have a follow up.
Yes.
I think the past really gives you some idea of the projection for the future and that is it's a low growth sector in total.
But inside the market there are segments that are clearly growing so as the market -- the path that -- the total market we don't think has more than low single-digit growth.
But if you look at the sectors of wireless mobile even automotive microcontrollers pure logic and linear that set of customers if you take the 100% of the pie we think that over the next few years those sectors gain about 9 points of share of that pie while the PC related sectors will be losing about half of that 9 points and then the shifting of 1 or 2 points in lots of other sectors.
So we're not counting in our strategy for the overall market to grow.
What we're counting on is the sectors that we're focused on to grow and that's been happening.
And we are also counting on just this relentless socket design win strategy to be able to nip away and to take fractions of share points just through hard work.
So that's fundamentally what we're looking relying on versus top -- total market growth.
Research Division</strong> The second question.
Now that you've had 100 days of LitePoint what kind of synergies have you seen? And Greg how should we think about the OpEx portion? You've done pretty well in the first half of '11 in terms of being under the model that you have prescribed so how should we think about the OpEx as you progress through the year? Very good question Iyer.
The OpEx synergies will be insignificant.
We're doing small things such as using they're going to use our HR system and we can help them hire people faster.
Small things like that.
We have some engineers speaking with their engineers sharing RF ideas roadmaps.
So there may be longer-term synergies that may help the customer.
But in terms of cost synergies I would say close to 0.
It's more they avoid costs they would've incurred as a public company.
They avoid those costs.
And we're going to invest in LitePoint for growth given their market share is 13% or so and they have disruptive products and there's these discontinuities which basically customers have to re-evaluate a whole new tooling decision.
The past fleet cannot do the job.
So we want to lean into LitePoint aggressively because there is so much so much upside.
So we look forward to speaking to you throughout the year in terms of how we're doing against that growth plan.
Research Division</strong> So is it fair to then say model like 35% on the OpEx side going forward? Is that a right way to look at it? Yes.
I think that's fair.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick last follow-up Mike maybe you can give us some color on that.
Within the Systems Test how should we think about the different components? I know you gave enough color on HDD side but how about the other components on that? How do you think it's going to grow this year? Let's see.
The other components of the defense business and the Commercial Board Test business and in total that's about $125 million of business.
Those tend to be slower growth businesses.
Commercial Board Test is not a growing market but we've got a small and healthy business there.
Defense going forward we think can grow to the tune of maybe 5% with a solid bottom line.
So I don't think they'll be big engines of growth for us but they'll be healthy players in the portfolio.
Operator that concludes today's call.
Thank you for joining us.
And we look forward to talking with you in the [indiscernible].
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Katie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q1 2012 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Andrew Blanchard you may begin your conference.
Thank you Katie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the first quarter of 2012 as well as our outlook for the second quarter.
First I'd like to address several administrative issues.
The press release containing our most recent financial results was sent out via Business Wire last evening.
Copies are available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
Note that during this call we are providing slides on the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
To view them simply access the investor Page of the site and click on the Live Webcast icon.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The replays will be available along with the slides through May 12.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statements contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We have posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where available on our website.
To view them go to the Investor Page and click on the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation link.
Also you may want to note that between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be participating in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch conference on May 9 in San Francisco Craig-Hallum Investor conference on May 30 in Minneapolis Cowen and Company's Annual TMT Conference on May 31 in New York and SEMICON West in San Francisco in July.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the company and the industry in the first quarter and provide our outlook for the second quarter.
Then our CFO Greg Beecher will provide more details on our quarterly performance along with our guidance for the second quarter.
We'll then answer your questions.
For scheduling purposes you should note that we intend to end this call after one hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone.
Thanks for being with us again today.
As you can see we're off to a very strong start in 2012 with nearly $400 million in first quarter revenues and a projection for $100 million or more in revenue growth in Q2.
This will be the second quarter in a row of adding about $100 million to the top line and represents just over 70% growth off the Q4 2011 trough.
And with it we'll post our best first half totals in nearly a decade.
Obviously a piece of this momentum comes from the SOC sector which is rebounding from last year's second half pullback.
This market recovery will lift all boats to some degree.
But I want to emphasize the 2 or 3 main stories behind these growth numbers that we are seeing which are unique to us.
First our focus on the complex SOC chips within the wave of new mobility products is producing unprecedented demand for our UltraFLEX system.
The chip coverage we have in the latest smartphones and tablets have fueled a sharp increase in demand for testers that cover baseband processors wireless connectivity chips and power management ICs.
Just about 90% of our SOC bookings increase in Q1 was accounted for by this upsurge in UltraFLEX demand.
Second our storage test product line will post first half revenue numbers nearly equal to the second half of last year which was itself a half-year record.
So the market acceptance of our 2.5-inch drive test product remains broad and strong.
And third we'll have very good growth from LitePoint as they outpace the market in end product wireless test.
In addition we'll continue to get steady top and bottom line performance from our defense our board test and our memory test units.
Obviously back-to-back quarters like we're seeing will stir questions about both the near and long-term sustainability of what we're seeing.
For the near term you can see that we're leaning into things ramping of revenues a bit faster than our trailing bookings.
We're doing this both because we see some short-term strength but also because we're getting a more versus less tone from our customers as we plan nearing capacity.
Over the horizon things understandably get less clear.
On the downside our global concerns about economic growth and on the upside our continued strong signals in the mobility sector coupled with the possibility of second-half recoveries in other segments like automotive and microcontrollers.
So let me comment on some of the broader market issues then step back for some thoughts on our longer-term strategy and how the business portfolio is coming together.
As you know the SOC total market run rate in the fourth quarter of last year was at $2.1 billion down from about a $2.7 billion run rate in the middle of last year.
PC-based buying was holding up but all other sectors like wireless automotive microcontrollers and precision analog were all well off their 2010 and 2011 peaks.
OSAT buying hit its trough in Q3 of last year that was quickly followed by IDMs in Q4 which posted a 10-quarter low as the year closed.
Now as we close out the first quarter the market run rate is up to $2.6 billion or $2.7 billion and for us IDMs are up over 80% from their lows and OSATs are up almost 2.5x the 2011 trough and 25% sequentially up.
With this strong first half in 2012 we could see a total SOC market in the $2.4 billion to $2.7 billion range even if the market pulls back some in the second half.
Now memory has not seen the same inflection as the last 2 quarters continue to reflect about a $600 million run rate.
While memory demand for us was up sequentially due to some successful design in work we're expecting an overall market -- memory market in the $600 million to $700 million range this year.
Of course the second half is a wildcard but the surge in SOC is not currently mirrored in the memory space.
In storage test we've come off a very strong year and our backlog position has a very good first half dialed in.
As I've mentioned in past calls all of our demand is in the 2.5-inch hard disk drive space where we've broadened our product offerings and our customer base in the last 18 months.
With a solid first half we expect to meet our plan for at least $125 million in storage test sales this year.
Which brings me to LitePoint which has been running at about a $30 million in quarterly revenue level since we combined in October of last year.
We're expecting our revenues to ramp substantially this quarter putting us on path for at least a $160 million revenue year and that's a 20% or more increase over 2011.
Since LitePoint lead times are very short we won't be surprised by significant swings in this business.
I will say that robust wireless unit growth will be the principal driver of the test market this year.
So as we launch into 2012 the results out of the gate are very promising.
Our 2 new businesses are on track for strong first halfs our SemiTest business has record demand for next-generation smartphone and tablet-driven components and some dormant sectors offer the promise to turn on as we progress through the year.
Nextest and Eagle Test are fully integrated and performing well.
Storage test has built a $100 million to $150 million per year business from scratch in under 4 years.
And LitePoint is expanding its footprint its solutions and its revenue base across the globe.
We do intend to increase some investments both in engineering and customer support to ensure that our momentum continues in the years ahead.
Now these have all been covered in prior discussions about our model P&amp;L.
And of course we remain alert to make other prudent investments with our hard-earned capital as opportunities present themselves.
Now let me turn it over to Greg for the financial perspective as well as for some extended comments on the LitePoint progress.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'd like to first offer some perspective on our strong start to the year including some comments on our model.
Then I'll cover the more detailed first quarter highlights and second quarter guidance and close with some summary comments.
Looking at the strong start to the year.
We're on course to have first half sales ranging from $890 million to $930 million.
Recall that our sales over the last 2 years have averaged $1.5 billion a year.
It wasn't too long ago in 2007 and '08 when using similar SOC test market sizes we average annual sales closer to $1.1 billion.
As you know Eagle and Nextest played key roles in this earlier growth along with our expansion into hard disk drive testing.
Most recently we added LitePoint into the fold in late 2011.
LitePoint's contribution is expected to kick into a higher gear in the second quarter along with a strong SOC test mobility demand on the UltraFLEX.
So as Mike talked about mobility is the key driver which brings along wireless power management baseband and FLASH memory.
We estimate that we have over 60% of the SOC test mobility buying and expect to gain additional mobility share with our UltraFLEX platform and some of our recent mobility design wins have a considerable lag before they hit production.
UltraFLEX which is now coming back into the spotlight with a strong growth in mobility was designed from the ground up to enable complex devices to get to market faster with easier to program software and deliver the highest throughput for these devices.
We also have strong share in segments that are well below their average buying of the last 2 years such as microcontroller performance analog and automotive.
So there is other SemiTest demand that has not kicked in yet but we expect will pick up as the year unfolds.
On the model front recall in our October call we update the model to include some additional engineering investment and distribution coverage in order to drive the next round of share growth.
We said that at $350 million of quarterly sales we'd expect a 15% non-GAAP EBIT and a healthy drop through beyond that level.
We continue to operate on that model.
And depending upon revenue level and product mix the drop through can vary significantly.
So the key take away is that while we're maintaining strict financial discipline the model does support our investments for additional growth particularly in LitePoint.
As a quick reminder the primary swing factor in any one period against the model is the mix of business given we have both large program buying and a wide range of products with different margins.
In Q1 for example the mix was heavy with storage test shipments which weighed on gross margins.
As you'd expect there is a direct connection with the level of operating expenses that the different margin businesses consume.
Namely the lower margin businesses consume less than operating expenses.
As you will recall the standout growth business last year was storage test delivering revenues of over $150 million.
Before that SemiTest share gains via Eagle and Nextest products with our distribution muscle were the main show.
While storage test and semi continue to deliver quite nicely we expect LitePoint to take some of the center stage.
LitePoint gained about 4 points of share last year in a $1 billion test market that is growing about 10% a year.
We expect LitePoint to continue to grow share this year from their current level in the low teens.
LitePoint offers production-optimized solutions that enable brands and chipset companies to get their products the volume faster.
In addition to gaining share longer-term outlook is driven by 2 important trends.
First the number of wireless devices continues to grow at a midteens or higher rate.
These devices range from the familiar smartphones tablets and PC networks to the perhaps less familiar networks connecting industrial equipment household appliances and smart grids.
Second expanding demand for more information across many different forms of devices like tablets smartphones laptops eReaders to name a few is driving a need for new standards to deliver this growing data volume.
In Wi-Fi it's 802.11ac where the first wave of adoption will be in products that have higher power such as PCs.
In server it's LTE.
Both these new standards cannot be tested on the installed base testers.
The higher performance requires new testers and the volume of data will also drive test times higher.
So we have the combination of unit growth and technology refresh that extends over a few years coupled with LitePoint's unique product lineup driving this business forward.
Last year LitePoint had sales of $130 million.
And inside of Teradyne its sales were $28 million as we acquired them in the fourth quarter.
This year we're on track to meet our LitePoint sales target of $160 million or more.
Now moving to the key highlights of the first quarter.
We met our sales and earnings guidance with a top line of $397 million and non-GAAP EPS of $0.30.
Storage test had a very strong start to the year with its second-highest quarterly revenue in history.
Moving to the demand side SemiTest bookings grew $130 million or 55% to $363 million.
SOC test orders were $335 million and Memory Test orders were $28 million in the first quarter.
SemiTest service orders were $62 million system test servers orders were $14 million.
And overall system test group orders came in at $53 million.
Wireless test orders were $42 million in the quarter.
In the first quarter Semitest sales were 67% of the total Systems Test group was 25% and wireless test was 8%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the first quarter was 1.2 to for the overall company 1.4 for SemiTest 0.5 for the system test group and 1.3 for wireless test.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $519 million of which 85% is scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $397 million was up $100 million or 34% sequentially from the fourth quarter SemiTest was $268 million up $65 million or 32% and Systems Test group was $98 million up $32 million or 48%.
Wireless test was $31 million up 10%.
We had 2 10% customers in the quarter and our top 5 customers accounted for 42% of our first quarter sales.
This level of concentration is unusual for us and reflects the strength in the mobility area.
In the fourth quarter for example we had no 10% customers and the top 5 were 30% of our sales.
Looking over a broader time period in the last 8 quarters we had 28 different customers among our top 10.
So you can see we don't encounter the dense concentration that some equipment markets see.
SemiTest product shipments increased 46% from a quarter ago.
Within that $397 million service revenue was $66 million a $3 million decrease compared to the fourth quarter due to a reduction in application demand.
SemiTest service revenue was $51 million.
Total company product turns business was 33% versus 38% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 37% versus 40% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $22 million.
Before I take you through some of the P&amp;L details I should quickly add that we've made a change in our accounting to mark our pension gains and losses to market versus spreading them into future periods.
This has the impact of changing some of our historical results and overall will lower our quarterly cost about $2 million a quarter.
In the fourth quarter on the GAAP there will also be an annual mark-to-market adjustment that will show up in the GAAP results only.
We've added a reconciliation table to our website and more footnote disclosure in our release on the impact of this change.
The fourth quarter comparison numbers that follow reflect this change and we've excluded the annual mark-to-market adjustment in our non-GAAP results for better comparability.
Now moving down the P&amp;L.
Non-GAAP gross margins decreased from 50% in the fourth quarter to 49% in the first quarter due primarily to mix.
The primary mix shift was a much greater percentage of hard disk drives sales as customers accelerate purchases in part as a result of the Thailand flooding.
R&amp;D expenses were $60 million or 15% of sales compared to $53 million or 18% of sales in the fourth quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were $68 million or 17% of sales compared to $62 million or 21% of sales in the fourth quarter.
Operating expenses in total of $128 million were up $13 million from the fourth quarter non-GAAP numbers driven by higher variable compensation and primarily LitePoint growth investments.
Our net non-GAAP interest and other expense was $2 million.
We had a cash tax provision of $6 million or 9% in the first quarter.
We expect a full year cash tax rate closer to 9% down from our earlier estimate of 10% to 12%.
Cash from operations used $16 million after capital additions.
Recall that in the first quarter we pay out the majority of employee variable compensation and we had very low DSO at year-end of 40 days.
On the capital allocation front we have $169 million remaining under our authorized buyback and we will remain opportunistic in the timing of buybacks to ensure that long-term shareholders are rewarded.
We'll also continue to relook at our capital strategy to ensure we provide the best possible returns.
On the M&amp;A front I want to first say that we very much like the portfolio of businesses that we have.
There is nothing that is missing from a strategic perspective or any hole that we need to fill.
We also recall that each business contributed model or better progress in 2011.
So on the M&amp;A front apart from telling you we'll maintain our strict and disciplined criteria when evaluating opportunities there is simply no predicting whether we find another good fit over the next few years.
We expect to grow cash and marketable securities by about $90 million in the second quarter and end with a gross balance of $833 million.
As noted in the press release sales for the second quarter are expected to be between $490 million and $530 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.53 to $0.62 on $210 million diluted shares.
I should point out that this guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles the non-cash imputed interest on the convertible debt and the inventory step-up charge related to the acquisition of LitePoint.
Our GAAP EPS range is $0.31 to $0.37.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our second quarter guidance is about 26%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages in the second quarter.
We expect non-GAAP gross margins to be 54%.
R&amp;D should be 14% to 13% and SG&amp;A should be 15% to 14%.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $2 million.
The cash tax provision should be $10 million to $12 million.
In summary 2012 is off to a great start with our second highest HDD revenue in history per quarter a very strong mobility market driving our SOC and LitePoint orders and the potential for other market segments to pick up as the year unfolds.
In this environment we'll stay focused on gaining share and maintaining financial discipline while also very selectively investing to drive our above industry rate of growth.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Katie we'd now like to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jim Covello from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first thing I wanted to ask about was just -- it really speaks to the diversification of your model that a couple of your segments or customers that had been big customers in the past aren't really very active right now and still you have terrific results.
You listen to the Texas Instruments call the other day and they talk about near record low CapEx.
And obviously the memory segment is very weak right now and still you're able to produce terrific results.
If I look forward I mean is it really -- you mentioned microcontrollers.
Is it really kind of that microcontroller kind of core analog business and then the memory segment that could drive even higher incremental growth in the back half of the year those are the 2 main segments that we should be looking at? Jim this is Mike.
Yes it would be microcontrollers automotive linear precision analog in the semi space in the SOC space and memory obviously.
Those are the ones that are -- that haven't seen the pickup.
Research Division</strong> And what do -- is it just simply a function of utilization rates? Or are there some technology transitions particularly on the microcontrollers side that could drive the pickup? And then in memory is it just pricing that we should be watching there? It's utilization on the analog and the microcontrollers side.
And then memory -- the forces that have kept the market low continue which are: Reuse of existing equipment reduction of test times increasing parallelism.
And I think you have to add in -- as we've come into the market especially in the FLASH space the test capital cost per site.
All of those things have had an impact on the market.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
If I could just ask one other quick follow-up.
You mentioned on the buyback the $169 million I think you said remaining and you talked about being opportunistic.
How do you guys define good value at this point with your stock relative to an improving financial model but also a decently improving stock price.
Is it a price earnings metric or is it just more mechanical than that in terms of how you think about being opportunistic to buy the stock? That's good question Jim.
What we do is we look at the intrinsic value of the company.
We do a DCF analysis with different assumptions.
So we come up to sort of a range of the stock.
And then what we do after that is we discount it twice which then becomes somewhat conservative discounts just to ensure that the number we buy back at has high confidence that it's a good deal for long-term shareholders.
If I go back a few years we didn't discount it as much and we bought back at prices that we wish we had not.
So we're very conservative in the price we pick given the history of many tech companies mistime buybacks they're buying back when they're healthy and they have a lot of cash.
So we want to be more opportunistic.
Your next question comes from the line of Wenge Yang from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
First of all when I -- you mentioned about 60% share in the mobility market test and also given some recent design wins could you comment a little bit more on which segments are you actually gaining shares? And also what's the reason behind share gains? Yes Wenge we said in the opening comments that we think we've got a roughly 60% share in the mobility market.
That's a little bit hard to pin down but -- because there's so many devices so many customers.
But we do think we're above a little above the 50% level.
If you look inside tablets and smartphones the devices that comprise those systems -- made up of a variety of different devices we're very strong really across the board.
If you said where are we the weakest? We're the weakest in memory obviously because we've got lowest share in memory but we're the strongest in the wireless transceiver space power management and so on.
Now winning is a matter of gaining a socket here and a socket there over time.
So we've got the portfolio of instrumentation to go after everything that's in those mobility products.
And as we win a socket and a generation of socket that's how we win the overall share.
There isn't a particular subsegment of the technology in those devices that we would say we've got 90% share or another place where we've got 10% share.
We've really got pretty good coverage from an instrumentation and economics of test standpoint to cover them all.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just a quick follow-up for Greg.
In terms of gross margin assumptions if I use UltraFLEX or the core SOC test as the corporate average is it safe to assume that the HDD is about 5% to 10% lower in terms of gross margin and LitePoint is 5% to 10% higher in terms of gross margin? Yes.
I would assume storage test is closer to a little more than 10% -- it's about 10% below.
So storage test would be the low -- 10% below and LitePoint we'd expect to be a little bit above the SemiTest.
If you look at the margin guidance for the second quarter 54% that's generally consistent with the model.
I should point out that there's still some healthy storage test business in those numbers.
Still higher than an average quarterly run rate but obviously as the numbers get higher the impact of storage test gets watered down a bit because you've got a big denominator.
So I think overall the margins are tracking to model and I think we really see the variations you have sales get a low and there's a heavy skew of either a higher or lower margin business.
That's where it really shows up.
Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of them.
Michael Greg can you tell us what is the third available market for mobility testing this year? In SOC test? Research Division</strong> Yes the mobility portion of it.
Try to fill that one.
Krish there's no good number.
Let me do it from our numbers out rather than being able to say what the total market is because all of the suppliers in this space group their bookings in different ways.
Our bookings have trended such that the mobility sectors if you add up RF mobile processors baseband power management image sensor all of those together have tended to be more than 50% of the total market.
So as a rule of thumb that's the way we think about it.
It's more than 50% of the total.
But it ranges from very general purpose high-performance UltraFLEX type systems to more dedicated systems like we find in the image sensor space or in power management.
So that testers are wide range of testers.
But I think when you put it all together you're in the 50% plus of the SOC market is connected in some way to mobility.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's been helpful.
And then 2 other questions.
In terms of your top 10 the 2 10% plus customers which segments were they -- were they like SDD IDM OSAT can you help us understand that? The 2 top 10% are IDMs.
Research Division</strong> So both are IDMs.
Got it.
And then the final question let's say the back half of the memory recovers at some point into next year the Memory Test business does recover.
Which one do you expect to recover first the DRAM or the NAND testing? We think that that NAND would recover more than DRAM.
Your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini from Susquehanna International.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I have a question on LitePoint.
You guys keep talking about a minimum up to $160 million of revenues here but at the same time you are gaining share.
This is a fast growth market.
Is there anyway you could give us a range so that we could better evaluate dollars of opportunities? Mehdi at this point we really can't.
It's such a lumpy business for 3.5 almost 4 months into the year.
I think for another quarter or so what we'll say is we believe we've got $160 million plus.
We're very confident of being able to meet or exceed that $160 million level.
We may be able as we get into the middle part of the year to give better resolution on that.
But I'd say 3 months ago we were saying from account standpoint that's our objective right now.
I'm pretty confident that we'll beat number but I really can't give you a range as to how much we might beat it by.
But I'm confident that we can meet and exceed that number.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Fair.
And Mike I appreciate the color you provided earlier about how you see the SemiTest market.
But maybe I want to go back to the cyclicality nature of the SemiTest and outside of memory in the core SOC what gives you confidence that Q2 is not the peak of the current spending cycle? Is there anything else that you see out there that you can share with us? You said what gives me confidence that Q2 is not the peak? LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes.
I don't think I said it was the peak or was not the peak.
What I said is that we had strong bookings leading into Q2.
And because of the short-term signals from customers we're leaning a little bit harder into Q2 capacity planning because we think that that it's warranted by the demand and certainly warranted by the experience of the last 4 months.
Calling the peak we're not doing that.
I think when you get into that we step back and say how big do we think the market will be this year? We've increased our view of that by $100 million to $200 million from the last call to this call.
So I don't think we've let the short-term overcook the view of what the market in total might be.
So as we march through the year and we get the numbers per quarter behind us will be able to say are we above or below the midpoint of the market.
But right now it's certainly very strong and I wouldn't be the one who want to call a peak at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of C.J.
Muse from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question.
I was hoping to probe a little bit deeper on the mobility SOC side and if you could talk a little bit about sustainability of the strength you're seeing here what kind of lead times and whether they've stretched out on the UltraFLEX side? And I guess the visibility there through the remainder of the year? C.J.
beyond 2 or 3 months of visibility is quite cloudy.
You've got new products that are coming out in the end market that are being tooled for and then you've got uncertainties around demand volumes and so on.
So not to be short -- to have a short horizon here but that really is the only visibility that our customers have in their markets and that they pass on to us.
Your second question? Lead times have typically run 6 to 8 weeks.
They were running that in the quarter but towards the end of the quarter they got extended closer to maybe 8 to 10 in the complex UltraFLEX segment.
So the lead times are pushed out a bit there but they're not as far push out as they had been in some other periods.
But we've done incredible scrambling to respond to this demand -- the UltraFLEX demand.
We've got orders in the first quarter that equals an entire year's level of orders in one quarter.
So it really has been a very very sharp ordering period.
And early in the quarter there was a lot of work going on scrambling with suppliers to beat that demand.
So we think we've captured the vast vast majority of the orders that were able to be captured in this quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And if I could move to LitePoint can you talk about -- on the connectivity side what kind of uplift you're seeing in terms of the revenue opportunity with the move to fifth-generation Wi-Fi AC? And then secondly as part of LitePoint can you talk about progress on the baseband side with the move to LTE? Any sort of update you can provide on your ability to garner share in that new market for LitePoint? Sure C.J.
First on the connectivity before I get to the new standard the business is very strong.
Just simply the unit growth it's very healthy in terms of the demand we're hearing from our customers.
So I think that's very healthy.
And then before -- and then we move to this 802.11ac.
That's sort of in the early innings we've booked some demand for that.
We'll be shipping some in this second quarter.
I do think that plays out over a couple of year period.
First products that have -- are plugged into a wall we'll likely use that because we need more power.
But over -- maybe it's 2 3 years that will be a bigger deal.
But it's a bigger deal in part for test because customers want to make sure that the product they buy either has a roadmap or can connect to the new requirements.
So we're well positioned there.
We feel good about our spot there.
We have very good share in that whole connectivity segment.
And in LTE we are -- we can't say customer names but we are -- we did win a key design and we are testing in LTE.
So we have our product out there.
Truth be told we're very small in this large market and that's another part of the upside a small player trying to replicate what was done in the connectivity side into cellular again breaking -- key breaking has occurred but we need to continue that trajectory.
And that's probably a 2 3-year timeframe.
So stay tuned.
Your next question comes from the line of Satya Kumar from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick clarification.
Did you give a percentage order breakdown for SemiTest between ideal and sub-quality in Q1? I gave some numbers but let me refresh that.
I got it here.
Hold on.
The breakdown was for IDMs and the specifiers and the Fabless companies it was about 63% and 37% in the OSATs.
Last quarter that was 54% 46%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Some of your OSAT customers talked about fairly substantial ramps and additional test capacity at least one has talked about tripling the new test capacity.
I guess are you seeing that sort of pickup come through yet? Or is it still opportunity ahead of you? No that's a big piece of this upsurge that we've got in the bookings plan and in this very intense slot plan alignment that we've got in Q2 and going into Q3.
As Greg said we've had in one product family here subset of our total product line in the UltraFLEX we've had almost the equivalent of the peak year between 2010 and 2011.
We came within I don't know 5% to 10% of hitting a full year's demand in one quarter bookings.
So that's clearly -- that fire is stoked and the OSATs are pulling on it.
Having said that the OSATs haven't -- they haven't hit the peak of the last cycle in the 2010 growth cycle.
So considerable growth from 2 quarters ago almost 3x the size in our OSAT business.
So they've clearly turned on.
And in the short-term we think they're going to continue to pull pretty hard.
That's the signal from our slot plan work that we're doing with them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on -- a question on SOC.
Could you talk a little bit about general market trends for pricing and market share trends within the apps processor segment for SOCs image processors especially at large IDMs? Yes this is Greg.
The pricing environment is unchanged.
I recall some number of a quarters ago I did mention it was getting a bit more aggressive.
There's been no real change to that.
We think it's sort of a new norm.
So it hasn't any stretch deteriorated it's just kind of a new normal.
And our gross margins as you can see are holding up pretty well.
And what was the second part of the question? On the device side -- on apps process -- different processors in the -- I think that quite frankly the demand for us has been so high.
I think the question let me turn the question around have we gotten 100% of the potential demand? Or has that -- have customers had to find other avenues to get the spike satisfied? And over the last I don't know 3 or 4 years I'd say we were awfully close to getting 100% of that business.
Frankly on this last 2 to 3 months we're probably in the 90% plus we're not at the 100% level.
We're really more on the 90% plus.
So the good news is we're riding the segment and the segment growth which is the hottest segment around the edges we didn't get 100% of that and we just couldn't respond to every piece of demand.
The result of that is obviously we've been working very hard with the supply line.
And as I speak now I'd say that customers coming in the door certainly the ones who are tightly connected to us and have been planning capacity we're able to meet those demands.
But 2 months ago we weren't at the 100% level we're much closer to that at this point.
Research Division</strong> That's good to know.
And one last clarification question again.
The CapEx -- SOC market outlet that you gave $2.4 billion to $2.7 billion.
Could you give a breakdown of that between complex SOC and the other segments? I just want to get a sense of how you're thinking of the mix between complex SOC and the other segments and how that might have changed over the last 3 months? And that's my last.
Yes.
Because we don't change our product strategy and our capacity planning based upon that shift we look more at that as a macro picture of where the segments are going to go long-term.
But as I said before a complex SOC if mobility is more than half and if you put all of complex SOC it's clearly obviously higher than that.
The thing I'd say to you on the SOC segments over time is that if you took the whole pie of buying and split it into these categories of the PC-based and then the mobility base and then microcontrollers and automotive and linear and so on the PC sector microprocessors chipsets graphics right now are a bit under 20% of the market maybe around 17% or 18%.
Over the next 2 or 3 years that drops probably by something between 3 and 5 percentage points of that pie.
And at the same time if you take mobility products which is the full range of the things we've just talked about that goes up by about 5 to 7 points.
So there's give and take in some of the other segments.
So that's what I'd say to you about what's going to happen with the complex SOC.
It's going to gradually take a larger and larger portion of that pie and that's how we've aligned our strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Raj Seth from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mike I had a quick follow-up on Jim's first question.
The areas of the business that haven't yet picked up microcontroller precision analog I assume LCD drivers a couple of other things is there any way to characterize that you can characterize the business levels you're seeing today in sort of a dollar sense relative to what -- if there is such a thing normalized business levels are in those segments? I mean how much potential exists in those market segments? Yes Raj hang on one second.
It's a tough question to ask because inside these subsegments things are obviously lumpy.
The microcontroller is at a low point of probably 6 quarters as we speak and the linear precision analog is a little bit higher against its range.
But you're trying to get at how much -- how many dollars are there where the powder is dry and I'd be winging it a little bit right now so I got to step back from answering that directly not because I wouldn't try to answer it for you but there's probably -- I'd say that they're at -- total collectively they're at 1/3 of what the buying level would be if they got back to their prior peaks.
I'm not going to give you the denominator and the calculation because then -- but there's clearly less than 50% of the total where it hasn't kicked in and that business could double or triple.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And you say less than 50%.
Is 25% kind of the right way to think about it or -- I don't want to get 1%? Certainly closer to 25% than it is to 50%.
But let me stop at that point because of...
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And a quick follow-up for Greg.
Greg how should we think moving into this -- what happens to inventory here in the context of your capacity planning et cetera in lead time discussion? And in Q2 what would you expect turns to be -- what's the assumption on turns and guide the quarter? Well inventory is a little tricky for us because a portion of our inventory is off the balance sheet so you guys don't even see it because we've outsourced to a contract manufacturer in Asia but then some of our other products LitePoint Nextest and Eagle Test there's a final touch inside of our companies.
So it's kind of a mixed bag but generally speaking you should see inventory likely increasing into the second quarter on the balance sheet.
In terms of turns we think turns can be very high in the LitePoint business.
I think in the non-LitePoint businesses they're going to be consistent with where they've been in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of David Duley from Steelhead.
A couple of questions for me.
Do you -- is there a refresh of the UltraFLEX coming or have you kind of just added instruments as you go? Because I'm kind of curious as to -- it seems like you have picked up share in this high-end mobility baseband processor side of the marketplace.
I'm wondering what the reason for that is and if you've got more legs to that share gain story coming? David this is Mike.
There's an ongoing refresh that is -- it's just a steady steady flow of new instrumentation.
Any instrument may take a couple of years to design and get into the field and then there's different segments to the system.
So there's always a constant flow.
There's actually been a bit of a refresh by us and by other players in the market that's underway right now on the digital side of this system and that typically is increasing frequencies and increasing density.
So we're in the process of that we've got very good RF instrumentation in the system.
And so as an ongoing evolution of the product we continue to do that.
I think the important point in this is that the platform that we got on the UltraFLEX is the base for that refresh strategy.
So we're not into a change the platform or the platform has run out of gas.
So those are very -- I think that's a fundamental strategy point of getting leverage out of a single platform that we now have at the high end.
Okay.
Now I'm a little curious.
And you talked about all these strength in mobility but I guess analog parts and microcontroller parts go into all these mobile parts -- these devices that you're talking about.
So I'm a little curious as to why the high-end can turn on and why some of these other sectors that really sort of the same markets haven't turned on? I just like your perspective there.
That's a great question.
That is a question Mark I think in the bubble above a lot of people's heads is.
Why wouldn't memory be turning on as much or -- microcontrollers and so on? And I think it's just a matter of -- there's lumpiness in the buying that exist in the marketplace that's pretty dramatic.
The swings in annual buying and certainly quarterly buying are quite dramatic so the tooling and therefore the utilization swings are significant.
Compounding that is the ongoing productivity so that as you increase parallelism that increases or decreases the utilization.
So I think it's more a function of how the tooling pattern has gone in the past and what's available.
And then there are some new devices that sparked the growth -- that sparked a new round of buying because of instrumentation in the testers.
But it's always had this patchwork kind of characteristic to it that not every front moves at the same time.
Right okay.
And final question for me is could you just talk about where -- you mentioned where your share at LitePoint is.
Could you just review that again? And how you're going to gain share and grow faster than the market is? Are we going to -- are the customers you currently have growing faster than the market? I imagine that's one driver but perhaps tell us about what looms with new customer wins? Yes.
There's 3 ways that are going to help LitePoint achieve this 20% or plus growth.
The first is simply the unit growth is very healthy in their core business which tends to be conductivity.
They are also into cellular but the connectivity unit growth rate is very high.
You probably heard Internet of things many things are getting connected to one another.
And LitePoint is very high share and works very closely with the chipset companies in that space and they tend to be the de facto company that is used in that test solution.
So units first.
Second is as 802.11ac makes its way obsoleting the installed base that does open up the market a bit for new testers.
So there is an opportunity and a threat for LitePoint because once a new tester needs to come in and you can't upgrade a tester by the exact next version.
So we're well ahead in that front.
We're shipping this quarter we've worked with the key chipset guy and we think we have a product that clearly can hold the market share.
So that's going to drive a big buying but that is not this year maybe some this year but it's not going to be a big part of the story this year.
The design ins will be -- I think that's more volume next year and some revenue later in the year.
And the next is the longer-term growth which is all upside in the cellular.
And the quick story there is basically taking the non-signal testing that LitePoint pioneered [indiscernible] 4 dots at the same time production optimized test with software that helps customers get their products to market faster.
But they're going into a new market and that's not easy to do.
So there's a longer selling cycle.
And they have got the designed in but it's getting the next design in the next design in the next design in so that's where a lot of the energy is going in.
We're also making sure the very strong core business that's growing very healthy is well attended to.
And operator we have time for just one more quick call -- quick question.
Your final question comes from the line of Charles Shah from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on LitePoint.
Just I understand the $160 million plus guidance -- $160 million plus guidance this year does it assume any contribution from the cellular market? And also where do you think your share in the connectivity segment goes this year? The $160 million we already have some server revenue in the numbers as I speak here today.
But the $160 million doesn't necessarily need that but we have it okay.
So we're confident with the $160 million plus.
So I hope I've answered that question.
What was the second part of your question? Research Division</strong> The market share trends in the connectivity segment You said that you gained 4% share last year.
Yes got it.
The 4% share we did in the total market connectivity in cellular.
If we just broke out connectivity the share gains would have been much more dramatic.
But we look at the markets together.
They're both testing phones tablets same customers so they're really to us the same market with different technologies but doing similar things.
So the 4 points was a very good growth much of it was in connectivity.
Again that's part of the total market.
Research Division</strong> And you expect that kind of trend continue this year you think? Well I think we're very confident with $160 million and plus revenue this year.
I think midyear we could be more explicit what that means.
And $160 million plus off of $130 million that's pretty good.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
This concludes the call and we look forward to talking with you in the weeks ahead.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sharon and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q2 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Andrew Blanchard VP Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sharon.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the second quarter of 2012 as well as our outlook for the third quarter.
First I'd like to address several administrative issues.
The press release containing our second quarter results was sent out via Business Wire last evening.
Copies are available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
Note that during this call we are providing slides on the website that may be helpful to you on following the discussion.
To view them simply access the Investor page of the site and click on the Live Webcast icon.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The replays will be available along with the slides through August 11.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure were available on our website.
To view them go to the Investor page and click on the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation link.
Also you may want to note that between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by Barclays Pacific Trust Morgan Stanley and Piper Jaffray in August and Citibank and Deutsche Bank in September.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the company and the industry in the second quarter and provide our outlook for the third quarter.
Then our CFO Greg Beecher will provide more details on our quarterly performance along with our detailed guidance for the third quarter.
We'll then answer your questions.
You should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call today.
As you can see we've posted some exceptional results in the second quarter and have registered a very solid first half.
So I want to spend some of my time breaking out what's behind those numbers.
But after I do that I'd like to recap the growth trajectory we're on and the strategy behind it.
Greg will go into some additional detail on LitePoint on our model and cash strategy and on what we expect to see in the second half of this year.
And of course he'll also run down the details on the second quarter results.
The bottom line of the halfway mark this year is continued strength in SOC test driven by mobility applications plus an additional boost from the microcontroller and analog sectors.
On top of that a new product ramp in LitePoint has delivered record first half revenues that put LitePoint on course to exceed our original projections for revenues and profits for this year.
The SOC story is an extension of what we saw last quarter that is very strong demand in mobility applications resulting in a record in UltraFLEX shipments and a near record in bookings.
On top of that we've had an uptick in the microcontroller sector with our best J750 order rate in 2 years.
That brings our J750 install base to over 4 000 systems.
Our performance analog business at Eagle had a strong showing with over 100 systems ordered in the quarter including a number of new socket wins for linear automotive and power management applications.
These milestones for the J750 and the ETS line are noteworthy as they are the workhorse products for high productivity digital and analog testing respectively.
They complement the versatility of the UltraFLEX with focused cost-effective architectures that have stood the test of time are constantly refreshed with new instrumentation and continue to log new design wins.
Now the only dim spot in SemiTest was in memory which continued to be subdued despite some good design in its first 6 months.
In SemiTest IDM and specifier orders were up 4% while OSAT declined by about 10%.
So we had a 2/3 1/3 split between the 2 end markets.
In Systems Test we've logged a very good first half in hard disk drive and our defense business has continued to strengthen through the year.
While the defense sector will show continued strong revenue in the second half we expect that HDD demand will low as capacity put in place in the last 6 months is likely to carry customers through the next 6 months or so.
In fact aside from our defense business we have a natural seasonality to our businesses that generally will be reflected in strong first half bookings correspondingly strong middle quarter shipments and a natural absorption period in the fourth and first quarters.
This is evident in SOC test where industry revenues will be close to a $3 billion annualized run rate for the first half.
So we're due for a normal digestion period in the second half.
The seasonality won't be exactly the same each year but that pattern has been developing in our industry as you all know.
And we'll ride that same cycle in our new business units as we do in the established core sectors.
That's what you see now as we move our guidance down in the third quarter into the $420 million to $460 million range with the midpoint being our fourth highest quarter over the last 8 years.
As Greg will note we'll have very strong operating results at that level.
Now the standout story so far this year is obviously LitePoint which broke all of its prior quarterly and six-month records surging past the $100 million level in revenues about 3x higher than its previous record.
That was achieved through 3 things: First we launched a set of new products which are were tightly aligned for the next round of smartphones and tablets; second we executed an ambitious production ramp and met some very demanding customer requirements; and third we hit our product acceptance milestones early which translated into those record revenues.
We're very fortunate to have a powerful team at LitePoint that's growing its customer base introducing leading-edge technology and investing in extended R&amp;D and customer support.
That team combined with Teradyne's worldwide organization has been able to achieve these more aggressive growth objectives.
So in our customers' eyes we've moved up in weight class as a supplier to the wireless industry.
I'd lay out the broader landscape as follows: 4 or 5 years ago we were focused on the core SemiTest market with SOC as our main bet.
We made our major R&amp;D investments in the mobility wireless and power management areas everything tied to smartphones and tablets.
We doubled down with Nextest and Eagle acquisitions as each of them extended our SOC footprint and market share and launched us into Memory Test at the same time.
Those additions have given us just over $250 million of profitable growth each year based upon a solid R&amp;D pipeline.
We then built a storage test business on the bet that the DNA of our core could be leveraged into the massively parallel architectures required in hard disk drive test.
That has delivered about $400 million in cumulative revenues now with $100 million to $150 million in revenues each year and leadership in the 2.5-inch drive arena the largest HDD test segment.
And finally we made a bet that LitePoint would outgrow the wireless test market arguably the fastest-growing test sector of all.
That combined strategy has moved us to an average of $1.5 billion on annual revenues over the last 2 years and puts us on course to move well above that this year and beyond.
So we continue to unfold a strategy that first focuses on our core SemiTest business which is sized to deliver strong market share and solid over-the-cycle financial performance.
We don't hold back on the R&amp;D spend in the core but we're realistic about market growth rates so we make measured but aggressive investments in the technology and end product sectors with the most growth potential like mobile communications.
Second we try to identify markets where our homegrown or acquired system architecture can be differentiated by offering time-to-market and cost of ownership advantages.
Third we've exited markets where we didn't have critical mass or a technology and distribution leverage.
You've seen a few of those over the last few years.
And finally we reinforce the habits of financial discipline in everything we do.
So a quick recap on the current state of affairs as we enter the second half.
As I said earlier a strong first half in SOC test driven by our focus on mobility; an expected seasonal slowdown but with solid earnings; a very good first half in storage test with upcoming absorption period; and exceptional results from LitePoint with a longer-term growth trajectory that's shaping up well.
Now let me turn it back to Greg.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'd like to first provide some color on our very strong quarter and also comment on our model.
Then I'll cover the more detailed second quarter highlights and third quarter guidance and close with some summary comments.
In the second quarter we had sales of $548 million and non-GAAP EPS of $0.77.
LitePoint our wireless test segment was a stand-out performer with $112 million in revenue and $189 million in bookings in the second quarter.
On the product front LitePoint successfully introduced 2 new wireless calibration and test products in the IQ family which were both aggressively ramped in the quarter and met customer acceptance tests ahead of schedule.
These new products further extend our lead in providing wireless test solutions that enable brand and chipset companies to get their new products to market fast while also meeting their aggressive cost targets for high-volume production testing.
I'll come back to LitePoint a little later.
But first I'd like to provide some overall comments on the year as we passed the halfway mark.
Our first half non-GAAP EPS of $1.07 gives us our best first half start in the last 10 years.
Looking around the corner we'd expect as Mike said normal second half seasonality to come into play.
This generally causes our revenue to peak in the second or third quarter and trough in the fourth quarter.
For us apart from adjusting our supply line our model anticipates and flexes variable costs down in periods of lower sales allowing us to deliver very solid earnings through the trough and across the cycle.
Let me take a moment now to give you a sense of how we think about our normalized sales and earnings.
I'm doing this now to remind you of the high-level structure as there have been a fair number of moving pieces over the last year.
You'll recall that our model was set so that at $350 million in quarterly sales we've delivered a 15% non-GAAP operating profit.
Now if I take our average quarterly sales over the last 10 quarters and insert LitePoint at $50 million a quarter our average quarterly pro forma sales would total $430 million a quarter.
So while we only need around $350 million a quarter to generate a 15% operating profit our pro forma run rate is about $80 million north of this level.
Operating with this lean financial model drives our above-industry profitability and strong free cash flow.
Looking at this over a slightly longer time period and on an annual basis reveals that we've grown the company from an average top line of $1.1 billion in 2007 2008 average to $1.5 billion in 2010 2011 average and we're on track to step that up to a new level in 2012.
Looking at it from a free cash flow perspective over the last 2.5 years our free cash flow as a percent of sales has averaged 18.5%.
One other quick way to get a sense of the changes we've made is that in 2007 our quarterly breakeven was about where it is now.
And we didn't have LitePoint Nextest Eagle or storage test businesses at that time.
This growth combined with steady financial discipline allows us to be on offense in exploiting new growth whether geared towards expanding LitePoint more aggressively funding new investments in our other test businesses or adding new inorganic growth engines.
We fully expect our core and past growth investments to continue to generate very solid earnings providing the necessary cash to in turn fund other new close to the core growth continuing the cycle of increasing our earnings power and cash flow generation in an otherwise cyclical SemiTest market.
This is in part why we have been cautious in buying stock back as we believe there may be other good opportunities where we can put our hard earned cash to very good use.
Please note though there is no predicting whether we will find other suitable M&amp;A candidates.
And as such we continue to evaluate our capital allocation alternatives.
In 2012 we expect nearly 50% of our earnings to come from new markets we've entered in the last 5 years.
This includes performance analog memory tests hard disk drive and most recently wireless product test.
So in short at the halfway mark to the year we're averaging quarterly sales of $472 million with a 26% operating profit rate which tracks quite well against our $350 million 15% operating model.
As you can see from our guidance using the midpoint we also expect to operate very favorably toward 15% PBIT model in the third quarter at $440 million in sales and a 24% operating profit.
Turning now back to LitePoint.
We expect to continue to grow and to gain share.
The overall served market is growing led by healthy trends in mobile computing particularly the growth of smartphones and tablets the emerging Internet of things that connect every day household appliances to the Internet and a bevy of other new wireless applications or familiar devices such as set-top boxes and TVs.
So in addition to the healthy unit growth we're benefiting from an increase in the amount of testing.
Smartphones are moving to dual Wi-Fi bands which increase the number of channels by fivefold.
And they are adding multiple antennas which increases coverage and support faster data rates both of which increase test times.
The new standards such as 802.11ac and LTE obsolete the existing installed base of testers as these new standards require more bandwidth more computing power and more complex modulation.
So we have a combination of strong unit growth test time growth and an equipment refresh that extends over a few years.
So the future looks quite promising even before factoring in further share gains.
To put some guideposts on the LitePoint revenue range going forward when we announced the purchase in September of last year we planned for 20% revenue growth per year for several years.
That plan had revenues of approximately $160 million in 2012 and $190 million in 2013 totaling $350 million for that 2-year period.
Driven by the strong 2012 to date and current outlook our updated view shows revenue over this 2-year period will likely be closer to $450 million.
That's $100 million greater than our initial plan.
Keep in mind though that LitePoint's quarterly volatility will remain very high with its very short lead times.
Moving to SemiTest.
Mobility remains a key driver for us.
Microcontroller and analog related to power management did see solid improvement in the quarter.
Now to the key highlights of the second quarter.
We had total company bookings of $502 million and LitePoint bookings of $189 million.
SemiTest bookings were essentially flat at 358 million.
SOC test orders were 337 million and Memory Test orders were 21 million in the second quarter.
SemiTest service orders were 67 million.
System test servers orders were 9 million and overall Systems Test Group orders came in at 45 million.
In the second quarter SemiTest sales were 67% of the total.
Systems Test Group was 13% and Wireless Test was 20%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the second quarter was 1.1 for the overall company just shy of 1 for semiconductor test 0.6 for the Systems Test Group and 1.7 for Wireless Test.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $562 million of which 81% is scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $548 million was up $152 million or 38% sequentially from the first quarter.
SemiTest was $365 million up $97 million or 36% and Systems Test group was $71 million down $26 million or 27%.
Wireless Test was $112 million up 257%.
We had 1 10% customer in the quarter and our top 5 customers accounted for 36% of our second quarter sales.
This level of concentration continues to reflect the strength in the mobility area.
SemiTest product shipments increased 45% from a quarter ago.
Within the $548 million service revenue was $68 million a $2 million increase compared to Q1.
SemiTest service revenue was $52 million.
Total company product turns business was 45% versus 33% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 40% versus 37% a quarter ago.
The increase in product turns business reflects the nature of our wireless segment which as described to you in the past has shorter lead times and visibility.
Memory revenue was $16 million in the quarter.
Now moving down the P&amp;L.
Non-GAAP gross margins increased from 49% in the first quarter to 57% in the second quarter due to volume and mix.
R&amp;D expenses were $65 million or 12% of sales compared to $60 million or 15% of sales in the first quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were $73 million or 13% of sales compared to the $68 million or 17% of sales in the first quarter.
Non-GAAP operating expenses up $138 million or up $10 million from the first quarter driven primarily by higher variable compensation.
Our net non-GAAP interest and other expense was $2 million.
We had a cash tax provision of $15.5 million or 9% in the second quarter.
We continue to expect a full year cash tax rate around 9%.
Cash flow from operations generate $71 million after capital additions.
We ended the quarter with gross cash of $829 million.
DSO was 57 days up from 51 in the first quarter due to the shipment profile being weighted toward the latter part of the second quarter.
On the capital allocation front we still have $169 million remaining under our authorized buyback and we remain opportunistic in the timing of buybacks to ensure that long-term shareholders are rewarded.
We'll also continue to relook at our capital strategy to ensure we provide the best possible returns.
We expect to grow cash and marketable securities by about $120 million in the third quarter and end with a gross cash balance of $950 million.
As noted in the press release sales for the third quarter are expected to be between $420 million and $460 million and non-GAAP EPS range is $0.41 to $0.51 on 208 million diluted shares.
I should add that the guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles the noncash imputed interest on the convertible debt and includes taxes on a cash basis.
Our GAAP EPS range is $0.22 to $0.29.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our third quarter guidance is about 24%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages on the third quarter.
We expect non-GAAP gross margins to be 55%.
R&amp;D should be 16% to 15% and SG&amp;A should be 17% to 16%.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $2 million.
The cash tax provision should be $8 million to $10 million.
So in summary 2012 is off to a great start.
Our growth in this year have delivered another step-up in revenue our fast first half earnings are the best in 10 years.
We're very well aligned to the secular growth in mobility devices and we have a very resilient model that can handle the normal seasonal swings and orders in revenue while still delivering strong earnings through normal troughs and across the cycle.
In the current environment we'll stay focused on maintaining financial discipline investing to support growth in our existing businesses and very selectively investing to drive our above-industry average growth.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Sharon we'd now like to take some questions.
And as a reminder please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jim Covello from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First I'm just trying to understand some of the go-forward dynamics of the LitePoint business.
It seems like you turned a lot of those orders into revenue in the current quarter.
Do you think that's going to be the dynamic of that LitePoint business that's going to be more of a turns business with orders as opposed to some of the longer dated orders to revenue dynamics you've seen in some of the other new segments that you've rolled out? Jim it's Mike.
It will be a faster turn business for us.
The granularity of the units are smaller.
But that piece of the business is just a faster rep rate.
We can't say exactly what the lead times will be.
We'll have to watch for a few quarters and be able to give you some sense of that as we go forward but it's clearly going to be inside our larger system structures.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then if I could ask my follow-up on LitePoint as well.
It's been -- it's such a terrific acquisition great growth and terrific margins.
How do you see the margins playing out in that business? Do you think it's going to continue to stay at above corporate average gross margins? Or would you expect some moderation as the business -- as the growth rates sort of stabilizes there a little bit? Jim this is Greg.
We would expect for the foreseeable future the margin should stay above the company average.
LitePoint is quite a bit ahead of some of the technology areas and that gives customers a much better advantage in getting the products to market fast with low cost production tests.
So I do think it's a unique value proposition that can continue to return good margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Satya Kumar from Credit.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned earlier on that you had some new products that you had introduced in wireless that -- Wireless Test and LitePoint that helped you.
Could you provide a little bit more color on whether it was pertaining to perhaps the Wi-Fi side? Or are you starting to make some penetration on the LTE side as well? We're not going to get specific on those products but I will say it's the Wi-Fi side.
So those products are Wi-Fi and they were very successful right out -- right from engineering and they were ramping at record time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are these products tied to any particular sort of -- particularly strong product cycle that may be happening downstream if you were there in smartphones and tablets? And what -- obviously at the time of your guidance Q2 you didn't expect this level of performance at LitePoint.
At what point did you start getting this visibility and how quickly that that business trend had been happening? Satya we can connect to specific end products.
But on your second question if you remember on our call last quarter the guidance we gave in revenue included the low end of the range for LitePoint.
And because it's such a turns business because we had new products ramping and the question was whether those acceptances would be second quarter versus third quarter it took us well through the middle part of the quarter and into the third month of the quarter to see how that was going to shape up.
And quite frankly acceptance has turned out to be very good for us and that emerged really in the last few weeks of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And one last question.
You're obviously having a pretty steady revenue pattern over the last 2 or 3 years as you just had noted and it seems like revenue has stepped up to higher level.
It's a bit more diversified as well.
And I think you mentioned a couple of times that you're looking at your capital strategy.
I understand your position on being opportunistic on buybacks.
What are your thoughts specifically if at all on initiating a dividend however small it might be? How serious is that as you consider that at the board level? That among other possibilities are explored with our board on an ongoing basis.
And I think what I've consistently said is don't expect any sharp turns from what we have been doing.
And as -- if you look at what we've done historically we've been more recently very opportunistic on buybacks.
And the returns we've gotten from LitePoint -- and what we expect to get from LitePoint as well as Eagle and Nextest we think are quite significant.
So we think that's a better use of hard-earned capital.
We acknowledge we may not find another good fit.
So it all depends are there -- these other good fits out there.
And when you're looking at somebody like LitePoint it's very hard to use your own stock.
The other party is a different industry so that complicates the deal.
So we need enough good dry powder so that if there are these good opportunities that we can move.
I think last year I think this time we had $1.2 billion of gross cash.
So we grew cash to a reasonable level which gave us a good war chest to do a sizable deal.
So in summary I think expect what we've been doing in the past but we continue to look at it.
Your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini from Susquehanna International.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Two follow-on one on the SemiTest.
Mike would it be fair to say that given the changes going on in customer there are new applications for controller IC? And in that segment of the test there are changes going on that is creating the opportunities -- opportunities for SemiTest? Mehdi I think it's an ongoing -- every segment has got new applications.
And that's why the design-in work we do to get new sockets on an ongoing basis gives -- is really the essential strategy of the business.
But you may want to refine that question.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just let me -- actually let me refine it.
If you think about what's -- if you look at the end market there is increased conversions and more functionalities added to the silicon.
So one could argue that your SOC test business in the long term could actually see fewer opportunities because there will be fewer chips.
But on the controller side there is increased application and there is increased focus on embedding controller into the complete solution or more of a "system in a package" solution.
So as a background I see increased wafer-level test for controller to be included into the SIP.
And that could drive new demand for controller.
So am I right in my thought process? Or are you seeing something different? No I think you're right.
And if you remember last quarter when we talked -- maybe the last couple of quarters that that's why our focus has been on more highly integrated devices and in this mobility sector because we think that as the dollar shifts continually in that direction I gave some numbers last quarter how that segment of the market would take we think at least 4% more of the pie over the next couple of years.
It turns out even more than that this year.
So I agree with you on that front.
And I think the other thing is that if you look back at our history really over a 20-year period we've been focusing a major part of our R&amp;D at a strategy that would exploit that higher integration and a higher buy rates that exist and a more buy and the capital that exists in that sector.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on LitePoint I appreciate an update on the TAM.
But the problem I have is the second quarter was so strong.
So to get to the $450 million revenue opportunity for '12 and '13 then I need to model a significant decline from first half of '12 into second half of '12.
Are you just being conservative? Or is that very difficult to assess the size of the market? Mehdi LitePoint should operate like our other businesses in terms of strong Q2 Q3 trough in Q4 Q1 low maybe picking up a bit.
So it's on the same pattern that the bulk of the buy is in Q2 and Q3.
What we did say is $100 million more than what we described to you guys a quarter ago over a 2-year period.
So I think that's just remarkable growth compared to -- we said 20% plus.
So the math is it's much higher than a 20% plus growth rate for the first 2 years.
Could be somewhat higher? Of course Could be somewhat lower? Of course.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Chin from UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is Mahavir Sanghavi for Stephen Chin.
A quick question on LitePoint about share gains.
I mean you talked about 3 reasons that led to LitePoint's strong results.
I was wondering if share gains is another opportunity down the road or if you can share with us what the share was in the first half.
Previously you've talked about mid-teen share in the LitePoint business.
So I'm wondering if you could share some light -- shed some light on that.
And also the second question about HDD.
It looks like your HDD customers had a -- one of your customers reported last night they had really great results.
So I was wondering if you could talk about -- if you can perhaps start to see some HDD pickup likely in your first half '13 after some digestion in the second half '12.
I'll take the first LitePoint one and then Mike will take the second.
On the LitePoint LitePoint the bulk of the growth is a very healthy market for the reasons I mentioned in my prepared remarks.
Apart from that there have been share gains.
We have doubled the number of customers that are over $0.5 million from a year ago.
So we do have many more customers in the fold.
We've gained a little bit of share in a new market as a foothold and hope to expand from there.
If you step back and say where is LitePoint in the total market? Our share would be up this year.
It's up this year in part because the market were in connectivity I believe is healthier this year based upon some of the trends I mentioned and is buying more compared to what the cellular test market would otherwise buy.
In addition to that there's been some number of share gains where we've broken in and gotten a little bit more connectivity business and we've got a little bit of cellular business.
Stephen on the HDD side the trajectory we're on and the market is on has been as we said it's been a strong capacity add period here in the first half.
And we do expect that to slow down.
There's more capacity in the market -- test capacity right now that there is demand.
So we see the next quarter or perhaps 2 to be slower.
As that gets absorbed you could see a pickup in the time frames that you talked about.
But the signal we wanted to give to you was that you can't -- we can't just multiply the first part of this year and say "That's what's the size of the market's going to be." We do expect it to be slower and absorption period in the second half of this year.
As you know we're focused on 2.5 inch.
That's where our -- all of our businesses we fanned out to a number of customers now broader set of application so we've got a very good position on the front.
And that market as you know that's the biggest piece of the HDD CapEx.
Research Division</strong> Greg one quick follow-up.
Just you had one customer greater than 10%.
Was that a LitePoint customer? We're not going to speak to that level of detail.
We simply have -- we do have at the company level the customer -- one customer at the company level that's more than 10%.
We had one in Q1 one in Q2.
And then over the 6-month period we have one customer at 10% spot on.
Your next question comes from the line of Jagadish Iyer from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Two questions and I just have a quick housekeeping question.
But first on the question if you look at Mike the second half SemiTest revenues in comparison with first half and compared to similar periods in 2011 where you compare first half '11 versus second half '11 clearly there was a 30% decline in SemiTest revenues in '11.
How different is it this time given the backdrop of commentary from companies like TI recently that things are softening? So can you please elaborate which associated segments will be stronger in the second half and which one will be weaker in the second half? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes.
Jagadish so let me come at that 2 ways.
One is you're right we're about -- the signal we're giving the second half would be softer.
The numbers behind that if you recall the industry in  SOC was running at an annualized $2 billion rate as we exited 2011.
First half of this year it's just a nudge under $3 billion.
So the ramp-up has been dramatic.
You know the $3 billion would be about $400 million higher than the market size for the last couple of years and the buy rate would be higher than the regular run rate.
So we do expect a correction in the second half.
The slide that we've shown in our package it's available to you.
so we think we end up between $2.5 billion and $2.8 billion so take the midpoint of that $2.6 billion -- - between $2.6 billion $2.7 billion.
And that means that you have a correction with a likely correction in the second half of this year.
That's what we would expect.
The segment information let me tell you I think this is a little bit of a repeat of what we've said in the past because the pattern is very similar and that is mobility it has been the driver.
That's our RF mobile processors base band.
We've had and I think the market likely has had 3 quarters of growth sequential growth.
Power management has been very strong the last 3 quarters grown so much that actually it was down a little bit for us this quarter.
And in places like microcontroller and linear were up after finally a few quarters of down.
Those were both up.
So our expectation is that everything recedes as we go into the second half of the year but the order of buying in other words the Pareto will still probably stack up with the mobility sector for us power management microcontroller linear in that order.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up.
How should we think about LitePoint in the context of broader market growth for the total LitePoint's market? And how does LitePoint grow in '12 versus '13? How should we think about that in terms of the broader market? Is it outgrowing? I mean any color on that.
We would expect LitePoint to outgrow the wireless market for the next several years.
I think we'll -- as we log a few more quarters and a couple more years we'll hopefully have a better picture.
This market doesn't get tabulated the way the SemiTest markets have been for the last 5 or even 10 years.
Our estimates were that the test market was going to grow at about 10%.
We were shooting for a 20% growth.
We're clearly well above that.
So the kind of accuracy of measurements we can't give you the same in the LitePoint and test market.
But I think it's pretty clear with the level of growth that we've got if we can sustain that on an annual basis then we're clearly moving faster than the market is.
Research Division</strong> One -- just a quick housekeeping.
Greg I just wanted to find out your accounts receivables kind of increased in the second quarter.
Any color on that? That's simply shipments were skewed towards the end of the quarter and therefore the payment wasn't due from the customer.
You're next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
Greg and Mike when I look at your LitePoint booking which has been phenomenal in Q2 can you tell me how many customers are in this? Of course.
Yes I don't have that handy but there's too many to -- 30 or 40 but I don't -- we have to go back and count.
It's a -- if you put the Paretos next to SemiTest it's actually a lighter Pareto than SemiTest.
But because the units value of the systems is smaller.
At that -- at the end of the Pareto the numbers are very very small.
But it's a very very broad and distributed -- geographically distributed market.
Obviously the big guys are the big guys and take up a large chunk of the business.
But it's a very wide terrain.
Research Division</strong> And then other question on the competition both on your core SOC and the wireless side.
On the core SOC I mean there seemed to have been some movement in Q1 especially in the mobility side with one of your Japanese comps taking some market share because of you guys being capacity constrained.
I want to find what are the situations in Q2? Has it resolved itself because you expanded your manufacturing? And along the same lines for wireless do you have any thoughts on Agilent picking up the test assets of AT4 systems not the certification but it seems like they picked up some of the test business.
How do you think of that looking ahead on the LTE side? Let's see.
First question.
The bottlenecks we had in the first quarter are behind us.
Those were caused by us having really a year's worth of demand in our high-end system UltraFLEX coming in one quarter.
Unusual for us not to get every piece of business that comes in the door.
But that is behind us.
At this point we've ramped that product very aggressive and we're positioned to be able to -- not to be capacity constrained at this point.
Second question on wireless say that again.
Research Division</strong> It was on the Agilent acquisition of the test assets of AT4 systems which competes on the LTE side with you guys.
Yes.
This is Greg we haven't seen that particular transaction.
If I can step back what we're doing in this market is we're working with the lead accounts where we've helped them on connectivity and we have deep relationships and credibility.
And we're demonstrating our product which can do 4 ducts at the same time.
The competitors can't do that.
They're trying to.
So it's simply a design-in cycle that takes a period of time.
And if you are successful you tend to get in as a second source for some piece of business.
So we're on that path we feel good.
How we're doing? It just --  it takes time.
It can be a year process and we're tracking it very carefully where we are.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mike in terms of the SOC test seasonal aspects do you believe that there's been any change this year relative to past years given some of the current  market sentiment and maybe some of the caution that's emerging? Could this year come a little bit earlier in terms of that seasonal pause? Yes.
But measured Patrick in months.
The first quarter demand certainly from a unit standpoint would be one of the top first quarters that we've seen in the past.
And first quarter of 2010 with the 2009 correction was big obviously.
But I'm not sure.
Are you getting at whether...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess what I'm trying to get at is sometimes you do see September still being a relatively healthy SOC test quarter.
I'm just wondering if it's because the market sentiment has obviously changed whether you've seen that kind of pulled into the June quarter and that's why you're seeing the pause now versus say in Q4.
Well I think definitely there's a sentiment.
The big question mark on world economies and consumer demand and transition of mobility products and all of that stuff is putting a pause.
And so I'd mildly agree with you that things are uncertain.
The reason we've said that we -- that Q3 is down is 3 reasons.
One is the vibrations from the customers are suggesting that they've put a lot in place and they will probably put less in place in the third quarter number one.
Number two history tells us on the exhibit we've included in this -- on the website history tells us that third and fourth quarter are usually down.
So I wouldn't say this would be unusual they're usually down.
And number three with the run rate in SOC at $3 billion we think it has to back off a little bit despite the dollar growth in the SemiTest device market the SOC -- I'm sorry the SOC device market that comes down too.
So if you put all those 3 together and the betting man says that the third quarter and certainly the fourth quarter are likely down.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
Going to the LitePoint for a second you mentioned that you guys did really well going from the engineering side to the product ramp for some of the new products.
Has that -- did you add capacity I guess earlier this year or late last year for that ramp? Or is this is something that you've been able to just leverage with your existing capacity? And what's the outlook going forward given the strength in the June quarter? All right.
We grow that capacity as we do in SemiTest with our manufacturing partner -- set of partners but main partner.
And we've been able to ramp the capacity on these products with that same infrastructure.
So -- but obviously inside that factory it was a very ambitious and aggressive ramp program not just in unit volume but in the introduction of the new products that Greg talked about.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Vishal Shah from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Greg I wanted to just understand the increase in LitePoint revenues $100 million.
Is that going to be all from Wi-Fi side? Or you also embedding in the increase some share gains in the cellular side as well? I'd rather speak to the not any one quarter.
But if I could speak for the year for the year...
Research Division</strong> I am talking about your $350 million to $450 million guidance for the 2 years.
Okay.
Let's just say 2012 at the moment okay? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So 2012 we would have -- certainly have cellular test business.
That would be a small piece of our business.
We would have 802.11ac you didn't ask about that but that's another new product so it's a small amount of that business which will ramp much more in the future.
But yes there is cellular business in there's some good chunks in there but it's not significant in the grand scheme of things.
And we expect it to grow in the subsequent years.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And as you sort of think about the higher revenue run rate has your outlook on the operating margins for the segment changed? You had talked about slightly better margins more than 15% target model.
Should we now sort of think about few hundred basis points higher margins? No I don't think the margins are going to go up.
I think as -- the more successful we are with some large volume deals there's -- our best guess is those stay similar where they are.
We do spend a fair amount on the OpEx too in this business.
To give an example OpEx was running at about $12 million a quarter in 2011.
In 2012 we're going to close at $23 million a quarter.
So we're about doubling it.
So we're investing a lot.
So while the gross margins are great there are a fair amount of costs that are below gross margins as well.
Your next question is from the line of C.J.
Muse from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question on LitePoint.
If you look at the order run rate versus revenues over the last 3 quarters it looks like your backlog is around $80 million.
So curious is that calculation correct? And is that the kind of number we should think about in terms of revenues there in the September quarter? In that number there is some extended warranty too that is deferred revenue that gets recognized over a period of time.
So 10% of it you'd almost want to  haircut C.J.
because that's service revenue over a period of time.
But then the bulk of it would be product revenue.
The numbers are a little higher than what you put forth but you're close enough with your guess.
And yes so that's in part in our guidance.
But keep in mind with 2-week lead times it's also possible those orders could get canceled pushed out.
Therefore it is a little trickier forecasting LitePoint than our existing businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
I guess if you think about that kind of number and if you assume nothing in December you're still around the $225 million run rate.
So curious on the $450 million guide for the 2 years combined is that just conservatism? Or should be thinking about a higher number given how you talked about seeing faster than mobility growth year-on-year in '13? Well I think time will tell.
Is it conservative or not? There's so many different things we have to look at and evaluate.
Dual bands for example this year the Wi-Fi.
That's driven much more buying.
That's in the base now.
So the next round of testers aren't going to quad bands.
So there isn't that extra jump.
So we sort of -- because of that we're -- we see that might be a little bit of an anchor but then we see balloons in terms of cellular as well as unit growth.
So there's so many things in the stew that we look at that it could be up could be flat.
And we just thought at this point this is what we feel quite confident with and we don't want to put numbers forth that we're not quite confident with.
But C.J.
I think -- to be fair I think I'd second your proposition there and that is what we wanted to do was to indicate that this is a very strong picture.
And yes we -- maybe we are being conservative but honestly it's not a bottoms-up forecast that gives us the $450 million number.
It's more of a top-down thing that says if we sustain this level we could see some backing off in 2013 because we can't build it all up from the bottom.
But even if we do there's another -- there's an extra $100 million on the table.
So legitimately if we could keep on this trajectory then obviously we've got more than $100 million plus in that picture.
It's a top-down calculation.
Research Division</strong> But from a revenue per handset perspective how do you think about kind of current Wi-Fi purchases versus AC and cellular particularly as we move to LTE? Revenue per handset in terms of...
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to understand the rising test time for LTE AC and -- so what that means in terms of incremental testers required vis-a-vis what your seeing on the Wi-Fi side? Great.
I think the trend will be positive there because obviously it's a new standard and existing testers don't support that.
So you need to buy a new tester.
And often you find test times are longer.
Anytime you can get more through I'll call it a pipe there's more to test whether its more channels more signals so test times are likely to go up and you need new testers.
So I do think that's a very favorable trend and that's going to play out over quite a few years the LTE.
That's not going at a rapid pace right now.
Research Division</strong> Got you that's helpful.
And then one last question for me.
On the SOC test side it looks like you've widened the band there by about 100 million to the downside and 100 million to the upside versus kind of the prior conversations.
So curious on that front what would drive that to the high end? And what would get us to the low end? What are your thoughts there? I think the main thing that would push to the high-end is if this new product launch is in the growth in the mobility sectors stay for another quarter then you get to the high end.
I think it only takes another quarter of that to happen.
So that's why we got the range there.
But there's nothing magical about having one more quarter and have one year that's a little high because we saw in 2010 an accumulation of held-off buying from 2009 period.
So you could get to the top end since we're halfway through the year and honestly it takes only an extra quarter of push.
Our expectation though both in short-term information from customers and in the macro calculations are that the absorption period starts here over the course of this next quarter.
We could be wrong.
[Operator Instructions] Okay operator.
I think we have an empty queue.
So we will conclude today's call.
Thank you for your interest in Teradyne and we look forward to talking with you down the road.
Many thanks guys.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Andrea and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to our host Mr.
Andrew Blanchard VP of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference sir.
Thank you Andrea.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the third quarter of 2012 as well as our outlook for the fourth quarter.
First I'd like to address several administrative issues.
The press release containing our third quarter results was sent out via business letters[ph] last evening.
Copies are available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
Note that during this call we're providing slides on the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
To view them simply access the Investor page of the site and click on the Live Webcast icon.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The replay will be available along with the slides through November 11.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We have posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where available on our website.
To view them go to the Investor page and click on the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation link.
Also you may want to note that between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by Piper Jaffray UBS and Credit Suisse.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the Company and the industry in the third quarter and provide our outlook for the fourth quarter.
Then our CFO Greg Beecher will provide more details on our quarterly performance along with our guidance for the fourth quarter.
We'll then answer your questions.
You should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone.
Thanks for being with us on the call this morning.
I'd like to cover 3 things with you today so that I'll address a range of short and longer-term questions that I suspect are on your mind.
The first is a brief recap of the last quarter which has a solid set of numbers as you've seen; second is a comment on the sharp downturn in bookings that are linked to both seasonal and program buying trends; and third is to give you a first look over the horizon in 2013.
Anytime our industry has a slowdown there are questions around what's temporary and what's permanent in nature.
So I want to give you our perspective on that.
And looking out into 2013 is the best way to see through the step down in the short-term environment.
So a quick recap of the third quarter starts with better top and bottom line performance in the high end of our guidance range.
SemiTest revenues were down 15% from Q2 in line with our expectations after a very strong first half.
LitePoint posted back-to-back revenue records in the last 2 quarters and our Systems Test business was steady in commercial board test and defense but dropped sharply in storage test after a record first half and as worldwide HDD test utilization fell off.
Bookings in all sectors saw a significant seasonal or program buying declines.
And SemiTest bookings fell 60% from second quarter levels a sharper reset than we usually have but actually not out of line with the cumulative numbers we saw in our peak-to-trough pattern last year.
You'll recall that SemiTest bookings dropped in Q3 last year to about $200 million following 2 quarters that averaged $310 million.
This year the drop to $154 million comes after 2 quarters that averaged $360 million.
So it's not surprising to go a little bit deeper after a higher sustained peak.
As you might expect all SOC sectors saw sequential order declines but mobility-related products from power management ICs to mobile processors continued as our strongest segments.
Despite the third quarter decline in this area we've already booked $100 million more in mobility test configurations through 3 quarters in 2012 than we did in all of last year.
Microcontroller automotive and linear applications are where we've seen both sequential and year-over-year declines as these areas have shown lower device growth and overall lower test utilization rates.
Memory Test continues at very low buying levels and an important new design enforced in Japan hasn't moved the needle much yet in what's now a market running at about $500 million in total.
Storage test orders have been subdued for the last couple of quarters and we expect that to continue until we get into 2013.
In our Defense business which continues to be healthy we'll always be choppy on the new order front as program buying comes to us in chunks.
Now all of this leads us to a Q4 revenue plan that is down to just around breakeven in the fourth quarter.
We do expect this fourth quarter to be the trough as the collective buying patterns in all of our businesses reflect consistently stronger first halves over second halves.
We expect LitePoint to follow this pattern now that we have a full-year of their business under our belt.
So while the fourth quarter is the low point it will cap off a very good year for us.
At the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance annual revenues will be between $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion with operating profits north of 20%.
We continue to have an overall solid SemiTest operation despite the weakness in the memory market.
Our Defense and Commercial Board Test units are of course smaller than SemiTest but nevertheless steady contributors.
And LitePoint has added a very compelling growth engine.
This year LitePoint has been able to bring an array of new products to market that cover the latest wireless technologies with very competitive test economics.
And Teradyne has helped provide the necessary muscle to execute the very steep production ramps essential to new consumer product launches.
So it's now obvious that LitePoint will far outstrip expectations for revenue growth in its first 2 years.
As you recall our original plan was for 2 years of 20% compound growth starting in 2012.
That would have given us $350 million in revenues in our first 2 years together.
Last quarter we up that to $450 million based upon end market growth rapidly changing and increasing test requirements and market share gains.
We now believe that we can stretch that to $550 million to $650 million in the first 2 years which means very strong back-to-back years.
Now I've asked Greg to further flesh out the latest from LitePoint in his comments.
So we expect 2013 to be good for us albeit in a market that is likely to have more headwinds than tailwinds.
In semiconductor test the market could see lower mobility buying early in the year as the industry digests the heavy 2012 equipment investments.
However we still expect mobility to remain our strongest segment.
There could be some rebound in the automotive microcontroller and linear sectors but these could also be slower to recover if economic conditions remain sluggish.
All of this means that our planning assumes only a $2.2 billion to $2.4 billion SOC test market in 2013 down from about $2.6 billion this year.
Memory will likely stay low but that doesn't swing the pendulum much for us as you know.
We will have 2 major new product launches in SOC test and one in storage test in the coming year.
That and some longer-term R&amp;D investments are behind the increased engineering outlays that Greg will detail.
I can't go into our development plans with LitePoint but wireless product test has a very fast evolutionary cycle.
So we'll be fielding filling new products there on an ongoing basis.
Also we're closing out another solid year albeit on a quarterly down cycle that's expected in our business.
But the fundamentals remain strong and we look forward to a recovery trajectory as we end the first half of 2013.
Now let me turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'd like to first provide some perspective on 2012  before I update you on some model changes connected with our growth initiatives.
I'll then cover third quarter highlights and fourth quarter guidance and close with some summary comments.
So first looking at 2012.
As Mike said we're projecting our third consecutive year of very solid bottom line performance with a 23% operating profit and free cash flow of about $300 million 18% of sales.
Looking over the 3-year period starting in 2010 our operating profit rate has averaged 24% putting us alongside the top-tier semi equipment suppliers.
This strong multiyear performance is a result of an efficient business model coupled with very selective growth investments.
From a strategic point of view this solid multiyear financial health provides the necessary foundation to expand selectively into new markets and grow earnings.
Since 2008 as you know we've entered 4 new markets with an aggregate market size of around 2 billion.
We're on track with these new market entries to account for over 40% of our 2012 profitability.
And we have further expansion plans in these newer businesses that I will update you on in 2013.
Now coming back to the current year recap.
We expect a top line of over $1.6 billion operating profits of $373 million or 23% and non-GAAP EPS of $1.61.
This 2012 operating profit rate will be 17 points higher than prior to our remodeling at comparable SOC test market sizes.
We have both a very strong balance sheet with gross cash and marketable securities of $1 billion up from $755 million at the beginning of the year and an operating model back in whether -- whatever macro headwinds get thrown at us.
Rest assured we'll continue to focus on close-to-the-core growth to leverage our technology or distribution strengths.
We have no intention of drifting away from what we know and where we have a strong competitive advantage.
In setting our financial model we long ago accepted that model profitability or better is needed over a normal business cycles as there is no promise of relief from the next business cycle.
You can look at the study test intensity trend line in SemiTest showing increased ATE productivity.
While there are valid theories that support increasing capital intensity in the future we plan our finances off the existing trend line.
If the theory is proved to be correct and intensity increases so much the better and we'll see higher profitability.
We also recognize that SemiTest market share moves in small increments as we compete at a device socket level versus a technology node.
So permanent share gain moves slowly even though there may be temporary market share gains resulting from the ebb and flow of segment shifts.
This is why we're continually reinforcing the importance of our operating model.
We understand we must bridge between the dynamics of the market and the necessity to deliver model or better results under normal business cycles.
Now let me move to 2013.
To fund that next round of growth we plan to modestly increase our engineering and support spending.
This added growth investment means we'll deliver 15% operating profit at quarterly sales of $375 million versus $350 million in the past.
We used 15% because that's what the industry generally needs to earn to achieve its cost of capital.
In fact we have consistently exceeded this level averaging 24% operating profit since the start of 2010.
Let me also answer a question we often get about how to model LitePoint in 2013.
First for 2012 we expect sales of about $290 million well over double LitePoint's prior sales of $130 million and well above our target of $160 million for 2012.
Two key factors were responsible for this.
The employment of our equipment within leading wireless device players who gained market share and had large capacity requirements and the 40% plus growth of the smart device market in general a market that not only requires new test capacity due to volume increases but also due to the use of dual band Wi-Fi with its longer test requirements.
So after a truly extraordinary year in 2012 we expect 2013 LitePoint revenues to be in the $260 million to $360 million range.
Independent of next year we expect solid Wireless Test growth as far as the eye can see.
Wireless unit growth is expected to run in the mid-teens.
A host of ongoing new wireless transmission technologies should continue to drive test volume up.
And lastly we expect to continue to gain market share.
On the other side of ledger the buying in any one year often contains program buying which doesn't fit neatly on an annual trend line.
Additionally we naturally expect to create productivity from next-generation testers.
Staying a bit longer on our Wireless Test business.
LitePoint was a standout performer again this quarter with $119 million in revenue a new quarterly record.
We've highlighted the favorable connectivity market trends from unit growth the addition of a second Wi-Fi band 802 11 AC and MIMO so I won't go through these again.
We also continue to gain market share with our fast to market solutions approach in our production-optimized testers.
Strategically our LitePoint growth focus is to expand our very small cellular footprint into higher volumes.
In cellular there was a long design cycle that we're progressing through and we expect to have a bigger cellular presence next year.
Although cellular test margins will be lower the profit dollar should add nicely to EPS over the years to come as the cellular test market is considerably larger than the connectivity test market.
I'll come back to the third quarter highlights in a moment.
But first let me add a few comments on the sharp drop in total company bookings.
Customers are clearly in a wait-and-see mode and this behavior fits with normal seasonality.
For us this sharp drop doesn't have significant implications on our cost model as the model nationally flexes variable costs down in periods of lower sales.
Of course we put even more focus on all spending in times like this but the point here is our model is designed to handle wide swings in business level.
Now moving to the key highlights for the third quarter.
We had total company bookings of $231 million SemiTest bookings were down to $154 million SOC test orders were $148 million and Memory Test orders were $6 million in the third quarter.
SemiTest service orders were $33 million Systems Test Group orders dropped to $25 million with $7 million of service orders Wireless Tests orders were $52 million.
In the third quarter Semiconductor Test sales were 67% of the total Systems Test 7% and Wireless Test 26%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the third quarter was 0.5 for the overall company 0.5 for the Semiconductor Test 0.7 for the Systems Test Group and 0.4 for Wireless Test.
At the end of quarter our backlog stood at $330 million of which 73% is scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $463 million was down $85 million or 15% sequentially from the second quarter.
SemiTest was $310 million down $55 million or 15%.
And Systems Test Group was $34 million down $37 million or 53%.
Wireless Test was $119 million up 6%.
We had 2 10% customers in the quarter and our top 5 customers accounted for 47% of our third quarter sales.
This level of concentration continues to reflect strength in the mobility area.
SemiTest product shipments decreased 18% from a quarter ago.
Within the $463 million Service revenue was $70 million a $2 million increase compared to the second quarter.
SemiTest service revenue was $55 million.
Total company products turns business was 31% versus 45% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 30% versus 40% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $24.5 million.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Non-GAAP gross margins decreased to 56% from 57% in the second quarter due to lower volume.
R&amp;D expenses were $62 million or 13% of sales compared to $65 million or 12% of sales in the second quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were $69 million or 15% of sales compared to $73 million or 13% of sales in the second quarter.
Non-GAAP operating expenses of $131 million were down $6 million from the second quarter driven primarily by lower variable compensation.
On the operating line we posted a 28% profit.
Our non-GAAP interest and other expense was $2 million.
We had cash tax provision of $19 million or 15% in the third quarter.
We now expect a full year cash tax rate of around 11%.
And looking at 2013 we also expect a cash tax rate of about 11%.
Cash from operations generate $260 million after capital additions.
We ended the quarter with gross cash of $1 billion.
DSO was 40 days down from 57 in the second quarter due to the shipment profile being weighted toward the front end of the third quarter.
We expect to grow cash and marketable securities by about $20 million in the fourth quarter and end with a gross cash balance just over $1 billion.
On a capital allocation front you should expect a steady course from us with no sharp turns.
We have a balanced approach and are applying lessons learned from the past.
We remain opportunistic in our buyback program to ensure that long term shareholders are rewarded.
We also believe there may be other good nonorganic opportunities but there is no predicting whether we'll be able to bring any of these to closure.
Consequently we'll continue to evaluate our capital allocation alternatives.
Also I should add that as our SemiTest profitability has improved and the geographic mix has shifted overwhelmingly to Asia we now have a larger portion of our cash about $300 million offshore and subject to U.S.
tax if repatriated.
As noted in the press release sales for the fourth quarter are expected to be between $235 million and $260 million.
The non-GAAP EPS range is a loss of $0.04 to income of $0.05 on $192 million diluted shares.
The diluted shares are lower than normal because at this profit level including interest and excluding the convert shares is more dilutive.
I should add that the guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles the noncash imputed interest on the convertible debt and includes taxes on a cash basis.
Our GAAP EPS range is a loss of $0.12 to $0.05.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance is about 1%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages.
In the fourth quarter we expect non-GAAP gross margins to be 52% to 53% R&amp;D should be 24% to 27% and SG&amp;A should be 25% to 28%.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be above $2 million.
We expect little or no cash tax provision in the quarter.
In summary 2012 will go down as another very good year.
Our growth initiatives are delivering and we have a time-tested model that can handle the normal seasonal swings.
We're also making some modest additional investments for our next leg of growth and some of these returns should show up late next year.
We'll continue to stay focused on maintaining financial discipline growing our core business and selectively investing to drive earnings growth.
Now I'll turn the call back to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Andrea we'd now like to take some questions.
And as a reminder please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from line of Weston Twigg with Pacific Crest Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the R&amp;D line you talked a little bit about it.
But can you give us a little bit more color in terms of how R&amp;D might trend through the year with the new products that you're releasing? Yes this is Greg.
On the R&amp;D line we're upping our investment.
In OpEx in total we're upping our quarterly investment on average about $12 million.
Much more of that is in R&amp;D the substantial majority.
Half of that is in LitePoint.
As you know LitePoint has grown quite remarkably.
And with that there's other opportunities for further growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then on the SemiTest business I think you mentioned this earlier but can you give us an idea on the growth of rate you're expecting for next year in core SemiTest? Did you say it was going to be down a little? We expect the markets to be down a little bit next year.
It's been averaging between $2.5 billion and $2.6 billion.
And our planning basis here says that that is more on the $2.2 billion to $2.4 billion.
There's not a buildup segment by segment that gets you to that.
It's really an estimate of how strong the comeback is in the first half.
Interestingly last year by January we were expecting the full-year to be $2.1 billion.
But there was such a strong first quarter demand that resulted in both first and second quarter shipments that by the time we got to April that looked closer to $2.5 billion and then we think it ends up at $2.6 billion.
So the idea of having a little caution is an integration of a lot of different things.
We do expect the third quarter bookings level to be the trough bookings for us.
Traditionally we've had an uptick in the fourth quarter.
We think we will this quarter and then it gets stronger in first and second.
But it's a little bit hard to call exactly when that would kick in next year.
So we're being a little cautious and we're sizing that down 10% to 15%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's very helpful.
But you do expect a bookings uptick in the Q1 timeframe or you're just sort of trying to wait and gauge that level of that uptick? Yes I think that if you were bending in and you looked at the patterns you'd say that you had come up some in Q4 and then it would typically kicks in in the Q1 and Q2.
Calling it exactly whether it's going to be strong in Q1 these coming years as it was last year.
So that's a tough call.
Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar with Banc of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 of them.
One either Greg or Mike.
When you look at LitePoint especially with some of the test markets and you expect to gain some traction how much mil [ph] of that is baked into your $260 million to $360 million guidance for next year? Krish are you asking about cellular? Research Division</strong> Yes something like that.
How much revenue do -- what you expect from that? Your line broke up that's why we didn't hear it.
Go ahead.
Krish this is Greg.
There's a -- you can imagine there's a wide range of scenarios we gave you sort of a tighter range as to what can happen.
But there is cellular revenue in that range so we do expect to have more meaningful cellular revenue in 2013.
On the connectivity market it was very strong in 2012.
Our best guess is that market would be flat or down a little bit in 2013.
We think the cellular gains we'd get can give us in total a very good result.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then a question on what you called SemiTest business.
It looks like SOC market as a whole would be down 12% next year from $2.6 billion to $2.3 billion.
How will the mobile market that's in that be -- was it going to be done more than that? Or that it's going to be in line with the decline? Krish mobile has been very very strong.
And we think it's above the trend line.
So we think there's some absorption on the Mobile Test sector.
So I don't have the exact number but if you drew an arrow that could be flat to down next year.
If it were up that would be exceptional.
So we think it's a bit above the trend line.
The other sectors which have both the down quarter market in Teradyne we think have some potential for recovery during the course of next year.
Net-net though we think the overall totals are down in that 10% to 15% range.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Covello with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question is relative to the product portfolio.
You guys have done such a terrific job over the last whole bunch of years of being very [Audio Gap] and what to kind of take away over time.
Obviously we are in a cyclical downturn for a number of the businesses but the one segment that feels a little more secular is Memory Test in particular DRAM test.
That may be getting carried away in the cyclical downturn to think that's secular or do you think there might be some secular elements on the DRAM side that you would think about? And what kind of commitments you want to be making to that long term? Jim it's Mike.
Obviously the Memory Test market that used to be $1 billion plus really up at its peak to $1.5 billion is -- we now got 3 years where it's been between $500 million and $700 million.
So from a total market it's obviously disappointing to anybody supplying into that space.
Our position in it is a 15% to 20% share position.
So we haven't established the kind of position there that we have in SOC.
I think the way these design ins go in the amount of capital the new products that's being bought it looks to us like these days are relatively subdued market.
And even though we're making some progress on account front and in coverage of the various segments in the market it's going to be a smaller player for us.
Our commitment to it is going to be consistent.
We build the products for Memory off of platforms that are both SOC and Memory platforms.
So it's a hybrid investment for us that gets amortized over both of those markets.
So I think you'll see a still in that space if that's the direct question you're asking.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Next question would be on the OSAT side of the market ASE and SPEL are talking about better fourth quarters because of some pickup in mobility.
Now I know we're in kind of a pretty deep hole or starting in a pretty deep hole given the severity of the downturn.
How much do think those kinds of customers need to pick up before you would see any kind of meaningful improvement in their orders to you guys? This cycle has been a stronger OSAT cycle.
And even with the downturn the OSATs for us have not gone down to the trough that they were at last year.
And I think that's clearly because they're bigger players on the mobility supply for the Fabless companies.
Our expectation is for them that the trough for that segment in bookings will also be in the third quarter and we think that comes gradually back.
So I don't know how much they have to move but we expect them to move a little bit back up here just in concert with the IDMs.
They should move back up in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
And then final question if I might.
You guys have talked about in the past a buyback at maybe a $12 level.
I think it's a stock price number that you've thrown out there.
When you think about the buyback and you guys have been so thoughtful about not buying stock either at the top of the cycle or at a very elevated price and you have saved a lot of capital that way that you've used for smart acquisitions.
But when you think about a buyback do you think about it now more in terms of the dollar price or do you think about it more in terms of we're pretty clearly at or very near the bottom of the cycle even if it could last a little while and may or may not.
But do you think more about it in terms of having an opportunity to buy stock back at the bottom of a cycle even if that's a $14 or so? Or do you still think kind of something like a $12 price would still represent a better idea for us to think about when you could be more aggressive there? Jim there isn't an exact formula that we use because there are so many factors that go into it including what nonorganic opportunities are out there as well as what the price is at any one point in time.
So we do look at it carefully and we really want to be very patient.
Because in our past we bought back like many others at the wrong time and it was a bad deal for long-term shareholders.
So we'd rather be on the side in fact even perhaps getting criticized that you guys are going too slow.
And if that day comes when we buy aggressively then hopefully our patience will be rewarding for the long-term shareholders.
So we continue to look at it.
And there is no exact formula.
Your next question comes from line of Stephen Chin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Stephen Chin actually from UBS.
Nice contribution[ph] on LitePoint.
I just want to follow up Mike on your early views on 2013.
It sounds like you think SemiTest CapEx is down next year and LitePoint is up slightly in 2013.
So that would imply Teradyne's sales next year would be flat to down slightly.
So I was just wondering if you could share with us some of the variables that you think could surprise on the upside.
Is it mostly Wireless SemiTests? First of all I want to declare we're mortal here in our estimating the market sizes.
As you know last year at this time as I said actually later in January our view of the market at that point was that it would have a relatively normal recovery fourth quarter first quarter second quarter recovery.
And we were looking at a market -- and I'm talking about SOC test now that we would be about $550 million a quarter.
It actually was over $700 million in the first quarter.
So we're mortal in our ability or inability to read the tea leaves that our customers are telling us even on that short cycle.
So for our own planning purposes we're saying we integrate a series of things it looks as if this could be a slightly more gradual recovery based upon inventories utilization rates and so on.
So you do all that math and you're right you get a smaller market.
If our market share stays around where it is then we end up with a smaller SOC business.
So that's the SOC story.
On LitePoint.
LitePoint's an even shorter lead time environment.
So the visibility on LitePoint is even tougher to call.
And that's evidenced by the fact that when we walked into the year we were -- we had an ambition to get to $160 million.
And now we're going to do nearly twice that.
So again we're pretty mortal on that front.
What's different in LitePoint is that we're making some gradual progress on the design -- and I said we've won this year in terms of fanning out additional design ends.
We've got a much bigger footprint in our Asia regions both in Taiwan and China.
So there's a lot more business in play for us and that's why we're more optimistic on the LitePoint front and also why there's such a wide range on what could happen with LitePoint next year.
So there are a lot of balls in the air.
But directionally we've got a more conservative view with SOC test.
We've got a kind of similar view to what Memory could be.
In LitePoint we're optimistic about having another very good year.
But that will come from a lot of different pieces of the business than we might have built in our 2012 view.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just another follow-up question on LitePoint next year.
Do you have any early thoughts on the percentage of LitePoint's sales next year that you think will be from connectivity versus LTE since it seems like LTE could be a good opportunity for you to gain more share? Yes connectivity will still be clearly more than 1/2.
But it's possible.
So it can be considerably larger than where it's been in the past.
Your next question comes from line of CJ Muse with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question it looks like based on your guide you're going to gain about 100 bips a share in SOC test in calendar '12.
I'm just curious.
As you look to calendar '13 I've got to think NPU spend is lower graphic spend is lower and that your share will move higher.
So I guess a was the calculation correct in terms of '12? And then b as you look to next year what kind of share gains do you think you could take in terms of your greater share in mobility that will dominate the spend? TJ I think you're pretty close to right.
I think the market will end up growing about 5% and will grow about 7-ish percent in the market this year.
So we're going to take a little bit more.
Remember the segments shift.
So we can have an arithmetic variation and share year-to-year and actually be gaining ground in it or losing ground in it.
So -- but I think your short-term calculation is about right.
For us and this is a bit of an old record but we gained share based on very very small increments around individual sockets.
That very good momentum on the socket front if you cover it up the socket were to take place.
Our net gains there have been positive the last few years.
But the ambition here is it's in single digits to be able to try to piece all of those together and get a point of share or 2-points a share real share growth each year.
So it'll move the needle very gradually in the coming years.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then gross margin.
If you look year-over-year a much lower revenue guide for Q4 but up 200 or 300 bips.
Is that strictly mix related to LitePoint or are there other issues helping out there? C.J.
it's mix.
When you look at our gross margin quarter-to-quarter invariably it's going to move around considerably simply based upon mix whether it high SOC LitePoint or high hard disk drive or some other mix.
So there's nothing other than mix going on.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess in HDD can you comment on what your expectations are there? I get that visibility is extremely low but curious whether you think that that business can grow in calendar '13? The sizing that we have is consistent with what we said in the past.
And that is we've got to get about $125 million a year to hit our model investment rate.
We'll be below that this year.
We were above it on a 2-year basis.
We're about on that rate.
But this is -- if there's any business that's had a first half second half dramatic difference it's HDD.
Virtually all of our revenue was in the first half of this past year.
So you're right that it's a very hard one to call.
We do want I expect to bring some new products to market this coming year.
The idea there is to widen that TAM so that we can ensure that we get to this $125 million market even if there is some compression in the total market.
So that's the game plan there.
We haven't sized up what the potential is.
If you looked at just the history you'd say that the potential is in a good year for the market and a good market share position for us.
We've done above that $125 million.
But right now for planning purposes were using $125 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just follow-up on that.
The new products you talked about.
When will they be launched? Are they focused strictly on the 2.5-inch? And I guess how should we think about the potential for revenues off of that? The new products are in the second half of the year not the first half so they would show up then.
And not to be too queued we haven't disclosed what the target is for the new product development.
And we're holding off on that until we get some market penetration with it.
But we are opening up the TAM next year so that the idea of getting to the $125 million and then getting above that is what's in our sights over the next couple of years.
As we get closer towards the end of the year I think we're going to feel better about our position with the product coverage that we'll have.
Your next question comes from the line of Satya Kumar with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> On the Wireless SOC test side perhaps there's a perception in the market that your market share is stronger than Korean-related ideas[ph] versus perhaps more even market share at the time in these OSATs.
If you do end up seeing a significant shift in manufacturing from Korea over to Taiwan for its shift in general is that a factor that we should think about in terms of SOC market share for Teradyne for 2013? Yes.
I don't think that that would affect our market share if there is such a shift.
Research Division</strong> And why is that? Is it because your market share is similar or...
It's because we've got a very solid IDM and OSAT installed base of the platform the UltraFLEX platform that's used for those applications.
You want to stick with the tester that works well.
And it's the leading tester so you're not going to jump off the tester if you're moving.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The question on sort of the longer-term outlook for testing I think you briefly alluded to this that perhaps testing intensity may go up but it's hard to say.
2012 has been largely a year of testing leaning at 28-nanometer chips -- and if you try to just look at the SOC part reaching its maturity pretty nicely.
We're starting to see 20 nanometers start to covering that.
And there are some in the industry who claim that the trending mode in mechanisms that you start to see with 20-nanometer are a lot higher than we see at 28 how do you see do you have any early sense of testing possibly for 20-nanometer chips compared to 28-nanometer chips? Satya I think this is going to be the constant push-pull of failure modes more testing more integration on chips more complexity longer test times.
That's the push and then the pull is parallelism and pipelining of tests.
And so I don't think there's a step function change in it.
I think it's going to be that continuous tug-of-war between those 2 forces.
If you were saying well who's going to win on that? Well that's the increasing test.
I think that the market has found the need to invest in SOC around $2.5 billion a year.
And they're finding a way to do that and to get the coverage for these more advanced nodes and be able to keep the capital spend there.
That's the constraint that we see is that the market isn't going to be growing dramatically in total.
So we've got to keep being able to do more testing -- more sophisticated testing but doing it faster and that's been the formula for progress in this on the whole front.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lastly on the balance sheet I know there was a question with the buybacks.
But I understand your point about wanting longer-term shareholders.
I mean if I look at the stock over the last few years it's been a very typical sort of stock that moves with just the seasonal pattern and there's no is underlying business sub because there isn't any other mechanism either buyback or the dividend that returns share cash to shareholders? Given that your business is likely to remain highly seasonal for the foreseeable future how are you thinking about the situation around dividends in terms of cash if you generate some cash if you go along in order to award its long-term shareholders? It's something we continually look at.
We've balanced that again LitePoint Eagle and Nextest.
Those were cash acquisitions.
It's a lot easier to conduct a transaction with cash.
So that the Company doesn't have to due diligence on your stock.
You can move faster.
So the path use of cash we think has worked out quite well in the M&amp;A front.
If you look at our stock path buybacks over a long period of time that really hasn't worked out as well.
So that's one kind of bucket of information.
If you say going forward we certainly recognize that as cash continues to grow we need to continue to look at what's the best use of our hard-earned capital.
And we've said that in many calls and with many of our investors.
So consciously look at that we know that dividend tax rate may go up so that's not something we'd look to right away.
But even if that tax rate didn't go up we'd still look at what's the best use of our cash.
And it could be continue to hold it for nonorganic acquisitions.
And at some point if cash grows too large then we'd feel more pressured to do something returning capital.
But we're planning on taking a steady course.
Your next question comes from line of Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just a follow-up on the bookings guidance for next quarter.
You said fourth quarter will be up.
Are you assuming bookings recovery in just the high-end SOC segment or you're also looking at recovery in the microcontroller auto or linear segments as well? Vishal I think it'll be across the board.
Actually we think it might be steady in the mobility sectors and with the recovery in the other sectors.
But it's a very dynamic forecast.
So that could change week-to-week.
But if you ask me right today you'd see that the sectors that have been quieter are the ones that we think in a very short-term might see a comeback during this quarter.
But again the step up in the fourth quarter that you've seen in the last 2 years '10 and '11.
I take '09 out because of the unusual nature of the overall markets then.
You'd say that that modest step up has been followed by a stronger step up in the following 2 quarters.
But the direct answer to your question is it would tend to be in all the other sectors with probably a steady level of business in the mobility sectors for us.
And that's what helped us the best obviously through the year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just on LitePoint you mentioned 50%-plus revenues from the Connectivity segment.
What do you think that percentage was this year? In terms of the market share? Research Division</strong> Mix of cellular versus connectivity would it be 80:20 Connectivity-Cellular or even more than that? Okay.
In 2012 Connectivity was well over 90%.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as you think about that segment I mean I know you guys have gained some market share this year.
But what is the competitive environment like? Are you seeing increased pressure in pricing and margins in that segment next year and how should we think about margins for that segment next year? Yes we are seeing increased competition.
We do still see that we have the best products that have been optimized and can do testing that the other parties can't quite do.
But they had some spots that have some appealing products that they are pushing.
So it is a little bit more competitive than the past.
I don't think there's any significant impact that you'll see from that.
We think we can continue to maintain our north of 50% market share looking into the future.
On margins what I'd like to say on margins is we're confident that the LitePoint margins will stay above the company model for margins.
But where they are at any particular point in time we don't want to get into that because there's so many different factors that we'd have to explain to you so you'd understand why that could be a little bit higher lower or sideways.
Your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini with Susquehanna International.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Greg going back to your comment about the 15% EBIT margin at $375 million revenue how should we think about operating drop through as your revenues are scaled above and beyond $375 million? Is there a metric or a range that you could offer us? Yes Mehdi.
We used 52% in our modeling.
There's a wide range.
But if you average it out 52% is a pretty good number.
Again sometimes it's going to be well above it other times below it.
You could look to this past year and the drop through quarter-to-quarter has moved around considerably depending upon the mix.
We've had drop through Q4 to Q1 only 36% at the PBIT line Mehdi.
I think Q1 to Q2 was 70% then Q2 to Q3 is 53%.
So my point is it's all over the place.
But if you average everything out and normalize everything our estimate would be 52%.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then going back to as a follow-up to a prior question.
You obviously put a lot of  emphasis on longer-term return to shareholders.
But you're also facing seasonality in your business.
Is there any new thought that you discuss to help ease the volatility in the business as it relates to the stock? Because as much as you are focusing on long-term return to shareholders you can't avoid the seasonality in the stock.
And I'm just curious if these conversations come up at the Board meeting or there are new ideas that you are contemplating.
Yes I mean those discussions do come up Mehdi.
And we have looked at companies that are serving semi-equipment and in fact pay a dividend.
And in truth we see they have the same generally peaks and troughs and stock price.
And normally you might think a dividend could give you less volatility.
I don't know if the data [indiscernible] is convincing on that.
But we have looked at that and we continue to look at thoughts like to figure out what's the best use of our hard-earned capital.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one question on the LitePoint.
On the business or the opportunities in LTE to what extent is that coming from gaining market share against the stronger incumbent versus consolidating market share among the smaller players? It would be the former.
Your next question comes from the line of Jagadish Iyer with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First how should we be thinking about LitePoint in terms of overall industry growth? Can you talk about how your market share growth is versus industry growth for next year please? And I have a follow-up.
Yes.
In Mike's comments and my comments we did give a range for LitePoint for next year.
I think it was $260 million to $360 million revenue.
That's a wide range.
But and they were $290 million this year.
And I think we also commented that Connectivity market LitePoint's major market could be flat to down a bit next year.
And Cellular is where we see the opportunity to get some meaningful business in 2013 which would put you to the upper side of that range.
When you step back though from what's going to happen next year there are very favorable trends in both Connectivity and Cellular where you have products that have short lives.
They get obsolete quickly.
New technology has longer test times.
You have high unit growth.
So new testers would be bought for that.
So there's a number of very good factors going on for a period of time that we think putting aside where next year falls we feel good about the year after and the year after.
So we think it's going to be a very good market for some number of years and you can just look around with some of the plans.
Wireless is going virtually everywhere whether it's Internet things Machine-to-Machine.
Those trends haven't really taken off but it's really these smart devices is driving the business today.
But there are some other things that will be coming.
Research Division</strong> My second one.
Mike if you look at 2010 your SemiTest revenues versus what would likely to end up this year and there is a drop from about $1.4 billion to about $1.1 billion.
Is that purely from how the market has kind of shrunk? And how should we be thinking about longer-term in terms of the next 2 to 3 years in terms of how the associate market can potentially grow? Is that going to be just capped between 2.2 to 2.7? Is that the range that we should be thinking about? First question is the answer is yes.
It's a -- there were segments that were growing faster in 2010.
And the buy rates inside those segments are stronger so our revenue was higher.
Number 2 for planning purposes we've actually thought about the market as being more compressed to force us to make tighter decisions around our investment portfolio.
Three years ago we were looking at a market that was -- we would size it between $2.0 billion and $2.2 billion.
It's actually delivered $2.5 billion to $2.6 billion the last few years.
So we think that's more sustainable even though we've talked about this next year as being somewhat down from that.
So in truth the market has proven to be a stronger market than we had originally anticipated.
So that's the bullish side.
Looking forward we still don't think this is a even a high single-digit natural growth in the market.
What we said in the past and continue to believe is that the segments will shift so that the buying that comes in these mobility products will be stronger and stronger.
And that the PC-related SOC devices and the buy rates there in the ATE capital there will just redistribute into the other segments.
So there is growth inside some of the segments.
Those are the ones that we're trying to get stronger and stronger position and have made real progress over the last 3 or 4 years.
But we're not counting on a total growth in that market.
We're counting more on segment growth that we can capitalize on.
And just to add to Mike's point.
What that really has done for us over a number of years is it's giving us a much better financial model with operating profit rates over 3 years north of 20%.
And when you have that level of financial strength you can expand the business selectively.
And that's in part how LitePoint fit in.
And we can have these discussions as to what you'd do with the cash excess cash.
If we had not made these more conservative assumptions and put potential discipline in the Company there's a whole set of other discussions you'd be having.
Why can't you get to model comparability? So it's a good set of issues we have now.
What do we do with the growing cash? What's the best use of it? So that's -- we spent much more time on that.
Not the model because the model is in good shape.
Operator we have time for just one more question please.
And your final question comes from the line of Terence Whalen with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question.
You alluded earlier to margin differential between Cellular and Connectivity test in the LitePoint business.
Can you help us understand what that differential is just so we understand how to model that as Cellular picks up here as a portion of overall revenue for LitePoint? I'm not going to get too specific because it's -- nothing's 100% settled right now.
But it will be measurably lower and this is often what's necessary to break into a market where there is entrenched competitors.
We think over time we can do better but the first break in as has been in many of our other businesses you tend to start lower then you work your way back through new instruments new clever engineering.
But I don't want to quantify because nothing's settled at this point.
Okay folks.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to talking to you in the weeks ahead.
This concludes our call.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sally and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andrew Blanchard Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Blanchard please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sally.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
And I'd like to welcome our new President Mark Jagiela.
Mark stepped up from his role as leader of the Semiconductor Test Group on the 1st of January.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 as well as our outlook for the first quarter of this year.
First I'd like to address several administrative issues.
The press release containing our fourth quarter and full year results was sent out via Business Wire last evening.
Copies are available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
Note that during this call we're providing slides on the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
To view them simply access the Investor page of the site and click on the Live Webcast icon.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The replays will be available along with the slides through February 9.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We've posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where available on our website.
To view them go to the Investor Page and click on the GAAP to Non-GAAP link.
Also between now and our next earnings call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by Stifel Nicolaus Goldman Sachs Piper Jaffray and Susquehanna.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the company and the industry for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 and provide our outlook for the first quarter of 2013.
Then our CFO Greg Beecher will provide more details on our quarterly performance along with our guidance for the first quarter.
We'll then answer your questions.
You should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone.
Thanks for being with us today.
I'll start today with a brief recap of 2012 and give you both a view of how we -- how the start to this year is shaping up plus an outline of what we think would make for a successful 2013 when we're talking with you 12 months from now.
As usual Greg will give you the financial perspective not just for the near term but more importantly an overview of how our market and financial strategies will continue to be prosecuted going forward.
As Andy mentioned Mark Jagiela will join in on the Q&amp;A portion of the discussion today.
So let me start with a quick recap of the year just finished.
The overall numbers continue to be very good.
We grew revenues and total profit rate to $1.66 billion and 23% respectively.
I recently noted to our employees that we eclipsed our records from what many considered the golden era of the semi-cap industry.
That was the 1998 to 2000 dot-com boom.
The shorthand is that while our cumulative top line revenues were 26% lower in the last 3 years than they were in that explosive era our profit rate was 8 percentage points higher and our cash generation $500 million higher this time around.
And we accomplished this with an average annual workforce that was 55% lower than that of the 1998 to 2000 period.
Now all of this is to say that the resilience of our business model has been proving itself out now over multiple cycles at the same time that we've latched into some new markets and new growth engines.
Greg will spend some time on how the strategy that produced these results will be employed going forward.
Back now to 2012.
While the total picture was strong the component pieces were mixed with an extraordinary performance by LitePoint a solid showing in our SOC test and defense businesses a very choppy year for storage test and disappointing results in memory test.
We remained in the 40% plus level in SOC test market share despite a smaller-than-normal market in analog and lower-end digital applications as the microcontroller and automotive markets were subdued all year.
As you know our SOC test products for mobility applications hit new records in the year as we've previously reported.
But memory and storage test lagged for 6 months in the case of Hard Disk Drive test and really for the full year in memory test.
So the very good annual results came from some standouts combined with some slow movers.
It's pretty clear that the trough in our business is in the rearview mirror but the market's rebound off the bottom is short of what we saw last year.
You recall that December of 2011 was a sharp turning point led by smartphone- and tablet-driven SOC test bookings so this means a more gradual recovery in the first quarter and far less than the capacity scramble we were into last year at this time.
Now this doesn't change our view of the total SOC test market which we've projected at $2.3 billion or our view of what needs to happen for us this year with regard to new markets and new products.
As I mentioned last quarter we have 2 important product launches in SOC test in a J750 and Eagle Test sectors.
These are both on plan to contribute this year in markets where we have very strong market share.
We're progressing rapidly with the new offering in the hard disk drive space for 3.5 inch drives a new market for us.
And we secured customer commitments already even though revenues will be lower into the second half of this year.
And our efforts to expand LitePoint into cellular testing remain very promising but we will of course hold our cards close for competitive reasons.
We do believe we'll make headway on the cellular front this year opening up a whole new sector for LitePoint.
I should note that we're not expecting much of a rebound in memory so that's more of a wait-and-see arena but our defense and commercial board test units should make their usual contributions.
So despite a slower start to the year than we saw last year we've got more irons in the fire and are optimistic about how the full year should play out.
Now let me turn it back to Greg.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'd like to first offer some perspective on the year just ended and our multi-year performance before I update you on 2013.
I'll then cover the fourth quarter highlights and first quarter guidance and close with some summary comments.
So first looking at 2012.
We recorded our third consecutive year of very solid financial performance with sales of $1 657 000 000 a 23% operating profit rate and free cash flow of $285 million.
Clearly LitePoint was a standout performer having more than doubled its annual sales to $286 million far exceeding our original $160 million target.
I'll come back to LitePoint shortly but first let me give you a quick multi-year picture.
Over the last 3 years we've averaged an operating profit rate of 24% and annual non-GAAP EPS of $1.76.
We've also generated $963 million of free cash flow.
This strong multi-year performance is attributable to our optimized business model and several selected growth investments.
On the business model front we consistently maintained financial discipline throughout the company.
We require each business unit to be sized to earn model profits or better over a cycle and we require that our core businesses steadily grow their market share by targeting attractive segments in which we can deliver a clear product differentiation.
We also have some hard-sought advantages over our peers that contribute to our strong performance.
For example we're able to be much more efficient in SemiTest applications engineering as our software is much easier to program.
So while our customers get their silicon to market much faster we spend far less in application support engineering.
We're also able to be much more efficient in SemiTest engineering as we don't have major overlapping platforms covering the same requirements so we get more engineering leverage.
And we take full advantage of our scale and the value of low-cost regions whether in back-office functions such as accounting and IT applications engineering or sourcing.
Our strong core business and steady financial discipline provide a solid platform to grow the adjacent markets.
This platform provides the dry powder and allows for the necessary management bandwidth to allow us to expand into new higher growth markets.
This platform also is attracted to smaller faster-growing test companies that are potential acquisition opportunities.
As I said in our last call over 40% of our 2012 bottom line resulted from entering new markets since 2008.
So for us a strong core and selected new growth opportunities go together and is what distinguishes Teradyne.
I'd like to now spend a few moments providing some insight into how we execute new growth.
Remember first there is no predicting the timing of any new growth opportunity but nonetheless I think it's useful if we give you a sense of how we look at this area.
First for opportunities that meet our growth and profitability targets which we can address organically we have a straight-forward process.
We work closely with a lead customer to confirm and tease out the new product requirements and differentiation.
We then secure the lead customer's engagement with a firm order and then we execute against a set of milestones.
An example of this type of development is in storage test where we've built a solid business over the last 4 years.
Now for growth through acquisitions we first look at growing markets with meaningful profit pools in closely related businesses.
Teradyne's strengths revolve around developing complex test systems requiring tight integration of hardware and software so naturally our M&amp;A efforts tend to focus on companies and end markets that demand similar skills.
We have strict criteria around sustainable competitive differentiation.
We look for opportunities to build on that differentiation by leveraging our existing IP our global distribution network our financial strength or some combination of all 3.
Eagle Nextest and LitePoint are good examples of this approach.
On the financial front for organic or M&amp;A opportunities of course we need to at least earn our cost of capital and our hurdle rate we set at 15%.
As we pursue growth opportunities we'll continue to maintain financial discipline so we can generate cash and self fund new growth opportunities or return capital through our stock buyback program if that is more beneficial for long-term shareholders.
We have about $169 million remaining on our buyback authorization.
I go through this to remind investors that while we operate in a very dynamic environment the foundation of our strategy remains steady: a tight business model generating strong free cash flow coupled with a very disciplined growth strategy.
I'd like to now turn to LitePoint which is at the epicenter of the ever faster and steeper ramps of smart devices.
LitePoint grew its sales from about $130 million in 2011 to $286 million in 2012.
As you recall LitePoint testers are at the module and assembled product end and they do both calibration and testing of the wireless capabilities.
LitePoint set records and new product launches and ramped manufacturing four-fold from the prior year peak.
And being inside of Teradyne certainly helped LitePoint customers place even more business with them as well as expand their Asia footprint.
LitePoint was also first to market with an 802.11ac production test solution which is clearly winning in the market.
These wins bode well for the future as 802.11ac-based products ramp.
In 2012 LitePoint benefited from a growing connectivity market due to smart device growth some large program buying and the addition of the 5-gigahertz WiFi band driving up test time.
We also gained market share with our production optimized solutions and followed the chipset strategy which helps customers get their products to market faster.
Longer term the wireless trends remain very positive with ongoing smart device growth with faster and steeper ramps the growth of the Internet of things that is connecting appliances security medical devices climate control and lighting to your handheld device; and finally increasing cellular data requirements from the growth in media sharing across multiple devices anywhere anytime.
Now coming back to this year.
As we've said last quarter we expect 2013 LitePoint revenues to be in the $260 million to $360 million range or $550 million to $650 million in its first 2 years as part of Teradyne.
Similar to 2012 the first quarter and fourth quarters should be the low points.
As you know we have our sights set on breaking into cellular in 2013 in a more substantial way so stay tuned for further updates.
Our expectation is that connectivity buying will be less than last year given the very large 2012 program buying.
Companywide 2013 is expected to start off more slowly than last year.
And as a reminder in any one year either our second or third quarter can be the peak.
Mobility will remain the main driver and some of our other segments that we're very strong in such as performance analog microcontroller automotive should pick up as we get further into 2013.
Our new growth investments that we talked about last quarter will continue to ramp in the first quarter and we expect to be on the model we shared with you last quarter.
Some of our investments will bring new offerings to market later this year so stay tuned.
Now moving to the key highlights of the fourth quarter.
We had total company bookings of $273 million.
SemiTest bookings were up to $183 million.
SOC test orders were $171 million.
And Memory Test orders were $12 million in the fourth quarter.
SemiTest service orders were $51 million.
Systems Test Group orders increased to $64 million with $35 million of service orders.
Wireless Test orders were $26 million.
In the fourth quarter Semiconductor Test sales were 74% of the total.
Systems Test grew 16% and Wireless Test 10%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the fourth quarter was 1.1 for the overall company 1.0 for Semiconductor Test 1.6 for the Systems Test Group and 1.1 for Wireless Test.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $354 million of which 68% is scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $248 million was down $215 million or 46% sequentially from the third quarter.
SemiTest was $184 million down $127 million or 41% and Systems Test group was $40 million up $6 million or 18%.
Wireless Test was $24 million down 79%.
We had one 10% customer in the quarter and our top 5 customers accounted for 28% of our fourth quarter sales.
For the full year we had one 10% customer.
SemiTest product shipments decreased 49% from a quarter ago.
Within the $248 million service revenue was $69 million a $1 million decrease compared to the third quarter.
SemiTest service revenue was $52 million.
Total company product turns business was 40% versus 31% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 40% versus 30% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $10 million.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Non-GAAP gross margins decreased to 54% from 56% in the third quarter due to lower volume.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $122 million compared to $131 million in the third quarter as our variable compensation flexes down on lower sales.
At the operating line we posted a 5% profit marking the third consecutive year that we stayed in black in the trough fourth quarter.
Our non-GAAP net interest and other expense was $2 million.
Taxes were a benefit of $3 million in the quarter as we adjusted the full year tax rate down to 10%.
Looking to 2013 we expect a cash tax rate of about 11%.
Cash from operations generated $14 million after capital additions.
We ended the quarter with gross cash of $1 billion.
DSO was 56 days up from 40 in the third quarter.
We expect cash and marketable securities to decrease by about $40 million in the first quarter as we pay out annual variable compensation and make tax payments.
As a reminder we have about $300 million of cash offshore and subject to U.S.
tax if repatriated.
This will likely grow by about $100 million a year.
As noted in the press release sales for the first quarter are expected to be between $260 million and $280 million and then non-GAAP EPS range is a loss of $0.01 to income of $0.05 on $195 million diluted shares.
Diluted shares are lower than normal because at this profit level including interest and excluding the convertible shares is more dilutive.
I should add that the guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles the noncash imputed interest on the convertible debt and includes taxes on a cash basis.
Our GAAP EPS range is a loss of $0.06 to $0.01.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our first quarter guidance is about 2%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages.
In the first quarter we expect non-GAAP gross margins to be 52%.
R&amp;D should be 24% to 26% and SG&amp;A should also be 24% to 26%.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $2 million.
So in summary 2012 was our third consecutive year with 20% plus operating profitability.
We will continue to stay focused on maintaining financial discipline while selectively investing to drive further earnings growth.
Now I'll turn the call back to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Sally we'd now like to take some questions.
And as a reminder please limit yourselves to one question and a follow-up.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Vernon Essi with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering Mike if you could look into sort of the first half of this year and give us an understanding of where you're seeing activity most on the device front.
I've heard over the last couple of weeks some of your sub assembly type folks in the industry were seeing some activity and of course your guidance doesn't necessarily indicate that there's a lot of activity in the ATE front.
I'm just wondering if things changed after the turn of the year with some of the customers and where there might be some activity.
Yes Vernon the -- as we come back off the bottom here the drivers for us are power management.
I'm talking here on the SOC space.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
Power management and the mobility ICs so that continues to be the strongest segment for us.
And I think that that's what we'll see as the leading segments going forward over the next couple of quarters.
We saw a little bit of growth in the fourth quarter here in automotive for us which has been quiet.
But I think if this moves back up the thing that'll click back in much more strongly here will be the mobility products.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just to sort of follow on that was there any -- I guess since the turn of the year have you seen any increasing activity on the order front? Or has it been pretty consistent from where it was at the end of 2012? Well we've only got a few days into it here so in the last 15 minutes it's picked up.
No.
There's nothing that is dramatic at this point.
I think the thing that we would refer you to is that when we come off -- when the industry comes off the bottom it usually doesn't go back down.
So we're expecting it to continue to go northward.
It's really the slope of it that is hard to call at this point.
But clearly there's more activity now than there was a month ago so we're expecting things to continue to turn up.
But the exact call here on which month it's going to start to move you remember last year the move was earlier and it was very very strong so we'd expect when it moves it tends to move in a herd so it'll move stronger.
But at this point we're on a trajectory of recovery off the bottom but it's very hard to call a slope right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Covello with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's Mark Delaney calling on behalf of Jim Covello.
Mike I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about your views on the slope of the recovery into the first half of 2013.
I know the absolute level of where your SemiTest orders are is different in 4Q this year as opposed to 4Q last year.
But if I just look at your numbers last year your SemiTest orders were up 19% sequentially and it was the same growth rate of your SemiTest orders this year.
So can you help maybe compare and contrast what it was that enabled the SemiTest revenues in each of the first 2 quarters to be up over 30% sequentially and contrast that with kind of what you're seeing today for the first half? Yes.
Mark do you want to talk a little bit about that? Yes.
This is Mark Jagiela.
In the business in the last few years it's all mobility that drives the volatility and buying for mobility.
So if you compare last year to this year essentially we're seeing very similar trends where the mobility buys the dropoff in late third early fourth quarter and start to pick up in first and we're seeing some signs of that.
The difference is that I think the tooling last year for mobility capacity was tooled for a peak ramp forecast of the new devices that probably came in slightly under that so there's a little bit of utilization to soak up here in the first quarter.
And as we look at the new products that will be introduced in second and third from our customers the first step is to absorb a little bit of that capacity and then they'll -- that rocket will take off again.
And that's around all the parts you would normally expect in these devices.
There's WiFi and we're seeing a little bit of sign there of that pickup applications processors those kind of devices.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
As a follow-up question I was hoping to talk on the wireless device test business and Greg I appreciate the color you gave on the full year target and what drove that for 2012.
Could you give us your view on what inning the 5G WiFi refresh is in? What inning? Mark was that the question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I know you guys have strong share on the WiFi side of that and I understand that drove some of the strength in 2012.
As you look into 2013 or 2014 what your view is of how far along the -- a refresh or installed base is? Okay.
The biggest area for refresh is with 802.11ac and we're in the very very early innings of that.
That was a small amount of our sales this year and we captured very very high market share.
So I think 802.11ac is a significant WiFi standard change that will affect our sense is probably 2014 a lot more than '13 but it's going to continue to grow over time.
The thing that's happened with WiFi this past year and is still occurring is the 5G band has been added and that drives up test time.
And I believe in China the Chinese government is authorizing or releasing that 5G band so that's good news as well for LitePoint.
Your next question comes from the line of Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to understand in the cellular test business revenues from your LitePoint business last year.
What percentage of revenues came from that segment? And you said -- and the hard disk drive segment you expect some of the customer commitments to show up in revenues in the second half.
I mean could you maybe talk about what kind of traction you're seeing there in that segment? Sure.
This is Greg again.
Cellular revenues last year were less than 5% of our total sales so very small.
There was important design and so this year we have plans to break into cellular in a much more meaningful way.
And when you look at our guidance the $260 million to $360 million that's really cellular.
If we have a good year in cellular we're up at $360 million.
If we don't we're down at $260 million.
So we see some good opportunities.
But I did say last quarter was that the margins will be lower in cellular.
It's very competitive and the new guy has to be very aggressive to get in.
We've got some key product advantages but some of these advantages can't be fully unleashed based upon how we have to fit into the test environment.
So we feel good about our prospects.
It is a long designing cycle and we're not going to know probably until -- earliest would be Q1.
And if we break in which we have our sight set on doing that we'll probably ship Q2 Q3.
And Vishal on the hard disk drive side last year was first half story.
I think we had probably 85% to 90% of our revenues in the first half of the year.
It won't be fully inverted but it'll be very heavily weighted to the second half and that's a capacity utilization story on the 2.5 side.
But we'll complement the product line with the 3.5-inch product in the second half.
So that'll give us another engine and nearly double the market the TAM that we're going after.
So it'll be a quarter or 2 here.
We think it'll still be pretty quiet on the hard disk drive side and then in the second half should pick up substantially because we've got a second product going.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Chin with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Mahavir for Stephen Chin.
Two questions on LitePoint.
First question about -- you're guiding flat for the year.
Just trying to get a sense in terms of -- you talked about internal things.
Is that an upside opportunity? Or is that a 2014 opportunity in terms of a buildout for internal things? That's the first question.
And the second one is can you give some color about your exposure to top 2 players in -- on the wireless -- mobility side? Are you exposed to 1 of the 2? Or the exposure is kind of even? I'll take the second one which is we can't comment on the exposure.
Sorry but that's a very sensitive arena.
Greg on the first one? On the first one I'm very sorry Steve.
I didn't get the full question.
Internal things.
Where is that? Is that '13 or '14 arena? It's very early.
You see some applications now but we're in the early innings.
That's going to run for the next at least 5 7 years.
It's going to help the SemiTest business too as well as LitePoint.
I think the more you look around you see applications showing up but it certainly is nowhere -- I'd say it's inning 1 or 2 right now.
And we know it's not Stephen Mahavir.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
And then just a quick follow-up.
Have you -- I mean you had a gray year for LitePoint in 2012.
Have you seen any big changes in the competitive landscape of new competition or new product introductions or accelerated product introductions from your competitors? Anything you can talk about that? It's obviously an attractive market and I think we're bit of a target.
So yes it is very competitive but we believe we can continue to execute and stay ahead.
And I think in this business LitePoint it's also going to be quite volatile like our other businesses.
So 2012 was many new records and we gave wide ranges.
But if you look at the range inside the company could be even wider.
So it's a business that's very difficult to forecast but strategically we feel very good about our product portfolio and our position with customers and we've gained market share last year.
But it's very hard to call exactly where we might end up at any point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini with Susquehanna International.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I had a couple of follow-ups.
Can you maybe elaborate on the LTE opportunity by kind of walking us where are you in the qualification stage? Or are you already qualified and just simply waiting for the customer ramp? And then Greg I want to go back to the issue -- to a topic of cash.
You have effectively doubled net cash per share.
Any update there? I know you don't want to -- you used to buy back or give dividend but anything you can share with us in terms of where you are in M&amp;A will be really greatly appreciated because you keep building out the cash and it's going to continue to grow.
And we don't know how you guys are going to employ this cash.
Okay if I may both good questions.
Okay on the first question so we're in a good position.
We are qualified but I cannot tell you that doesn't mean yes I win.
There's a whole bunch of other things that have to get sorted out but we are qualified and our tester can test the devices quite competitively.
So we're in a good spot but stay tuned.
A lot can happen between getting qualified and getting the order okay? Second one on cash we do try to in each call update you on cash and our strategy but in truth it really is a steady course.
If you think about what we've done over the last 3 years we've built a strong core that generates strong cash.
We've used that cash to buy LitePoint Eagle and invest in some other businesses.
And that's given us 40% of our earnings growth.
So we like that.
We very much like that strategy.
Now what I've also said is at some point the cash grows and it gets perhaps much larger than where it is now and then there's more pressure on us to think about the subject harder.
What do we do? We're stepping back from that each quarter where we do the topic with our board stock buyback dividend.
But we continue to stay the same course to be very patient on stock buyback for our long-term shareholders wait until the stock is severely undervalued and hold the hard-earned capital because we believe there are some attractive test companies not exactly another LitePoint but there might be other businesses that have some similarities to LitePoint that we could get a much greater return inside of Teradyne in our platform than buying back stock.
And if we can't find those enterprises then fair enough the pressure is back on us to look harder at returning capital.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I may just squeeze one follow-up given the recovery in -- well actually the cyclical nature of the SemiTest and where you are with bookings if you look at historical trend it suggests that yes bookings are going to continue to improve into Q1.
And is that a fair assessment? And are you going to continue to improve -- booking is going to help improve backlog? Yes I think the issue is just the slope is hard to call.
If you look back maybe on the website we've got -- goes back a few years and you can see it's a very rare occurrence that after the bottom is hit that you go up and then quickly come back down.
So we do expect things to firm up.
But what Mark said about where our capacity is and the introductions of our customers' new products really have suggested to us a quarter ago that 2013 in total we had shaved our estimates for the total market in SOC down by about 10%.
And I think about half of that 10% is likely to be absorbed in the first quarter of this year.
So we do expect things to continue to strengthen very tough to call though given the steepness of the ramps that our customers are going through and the lead time compression that we've got.
Very tough to call exactly when that kicks into overdrive but it's definitely on the up slope.
Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I had a few of them.
Greg or Mike if I look at your Q1 guidance I see an SOC revenue in Q1 at the same run rate as in Q4.
Hang on Krish.
Is that a question? Yes he said is the SOC revenue the same in Q1 and Q4.
No.
Research Division</strong> Is it higher or lower? It's higher.
Research Division</strong> It's higher than Q1.
Okay.
All right.
Fair enough.
But in calendar '13 when I look at your HDD sales do you think it would be higher or lower than calendar '12 baking in your new 3.5-inch product? I think it'll be higher Krish.
Just as a quick reminder this past year HDD was about $100 million all front end.
The year before it was $155 million $160 million so over 2 years it averaged $125 million.
But we all know that that area is kind of weakening because of the tablet but we do believe getting into 3.5 can help us with the cloud computing to get back up to $125 million which is an amount of revenue we need to hit our 15% model profit.
So we think we can get to about $125 million.
Having said that Krish the place we're standing on hard disk drive now is very different from last year at this time.
We just had -- we had our first half year backlog in hand as we entered the year last year and this year it's just the opposite.
So we're really making a forecast here based upon what we think the overall market will do.
And we'll buttress this year a bit because we do have a new product and if that -- if we're able to get that latched that'll help us.
And that's why we think we can on a kind of an annual average basis get to our $125 million level but it'll be a second half story.
The rest have gone up on this and this is what we talked about earlier in the prepared remarks that we secured 2 lead customers to work with us on the design of this product.
And one thing you want to do when you're designing new complex test equipment is to have the buyers working with you so you get all the subtleties right.
And we have market share agreements so they're bought into it.
So it's up to us to execute.
A lot of risks in execution but the good news is we've got some customers pulling us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then finally you guys said that it looks like your SOC market share is actually like roughly static in the lower 40s.
What is your mobile SOC market share you think it was in calendar '12 -- exiting calendar '12? Yes.
This is Mark again.
In mobility devices we're probably right around the 50% point if you look at tablet or cellphone and break it down.
So that pulls up our average.
And so if you look at the whole market the place that pulls the average down would be in PCs where we really have low exposure but roughly 50% mobility.
Your next question comes from the line of Satya Kumar with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes [indiscernible] just to continue on that market share question do you expect your mobility share to be similar this year? Or are there any major shifts happening in the supply chain that might play to your benefit or against you? How should we think about share this year? Yes Mark again.
So our whole product strategy for a couple years now and go-to-market strategy has been focused on mobility.
So when we talk about gaining a point or 2 of share per year most of that is targeted at mobility devices.
So we would expect that share to go up in 2013.
That's our plan.
And the product that we have for that area it really focuses on 2 features to enable that.
One is just the breadth of instrumentation.
If you look at a phone compared to any other consumer or industrial product the breadth of sensors digital processing analog processing RF capability is vast and you need a product that can do all that.
That's what we've got.
The second characteristic is the ramp and the time to market for new silicon.
It's unbelievable.
Three years ago it might have been 6 months between a validated piece of silicon and a ramp and that's compressed last year to down to 3 months.
And I bet you this year it'll be down to less than 2.
And so the ability of the test system to debug silicon and get the yields more quickly is the other feature that we've leveraged into this.
So we expect our share to go up.
That's where we're focused and will continue to focus.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And Mark again perhaps you can address this.
You mentioned that there was some amount of excess capacity that was created in last year by your shipments.
Was that specifically for SOC or LitePoint or both? And is there a way you can quantify the amount by which you overshipped the market demand last year for these segments? Yes I'm just speaking of SOC in that case.
And what typically happens is when a new mobile device comes to market it has a vertical ramp.
And I'm not -- there's a bit of a prebuild of inventory that goes on but frankly not as much as you would think.
So a lot of capacity needs to be put in to keep up with that ramp and the ramp is a forecast.
And there's a range of how fast is this new thing going to ramp and our customers don't want to be cut -- caught short on the upside.
So they tend to buy toward the high side of the forecast for the ramp.
What happened I think in 2012 is that the ramps for the new devices were very strong better than average but not at the peak forecast that people bought to.
So how much of an overhang was there? It's hard to calibrate.
I don't think there's a lot.
The utilization right now is quite high.
So I think as we get into the next product announcements you'll start to see the ramps kick in.
But I think as people think about capacity they don't want to be caught short.
And if the world comes in a little bit below the top end of the forecast there'll be a little bit of overhang and that's what we saw.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on LitePoint 802.11ac is that going to be a meaningful -- I mean it sounds like it is contributing to something but is there a way for us to think about the magnitude of that contribution to LitePoint this year? How far away from 50% for example will you be for 802.11ac this year for you guys? I think 802.11ac will be well under 50% of the connectivity sales.
This year maybe it's 20% that neighborhood maybe 25%.
Your next question comes from the line of C.J.
Muse with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question I was hoping to dig a little bit deeper into the SOC side so can you share with us what you think the size of the market was in 2012 and what your view is for 2013 and if you could talk about your expectations for share not only on the mobility side but also including the 2 new products you alluded to from Eagle and the J750? I'll give you the market C.J.
and then Mark will talk about the segments.
Dropping back a little bit for 3 years it's been -- the market's been around 2.5 to 2.6.
The last 2 years just under 2.5 in '11 and just over 2.5 in '12.
And what we've projected -- and again it's all connected to this issue of utilization the ramp the buying levels and the various segments of what's strong and what's not strong.
We said for ballpark estimate we're around 2.3.
And if you look at the recovery in the overall market we think the first quarter soaks up a fair amount of that drop of $300 million maybe about half of it.
And then on the product front the new Eagle and J750 products that we'll be introducing this year are really going after segments in linear power automotive and microcontroller low-cost consumer where we're currently very strong in share and we see the ability to extend that with these product introductions.
But the markets themselves that those 2 products are in are essentially slow-growth markets.
So while we can pick up additional share in those markets and we're very strong there a lot of the share gain we're looking at in 2013 is back in mobility which is the UltraFLEX product that we introduced a major refresh on last year.
And so as we look at our share position in 2012 like I mentioned before in aggregate it was in the low 40s and in 2013 our target is to move that north into the mid-40s.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just follow up on that theme in terms of the share gain is that entirely mix related or actually winning sockets? It always comes about from both and socket wins probably are about half of that.
And then the mix shift that we're forecasting is the rest of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if I could ask a follow-up question regarding LitePoint I guess 2 questions to that.
First in terms of what you're seeing today in AC demand is that more access point related or handset? And then on the cellular side it sounds like carriers want LTE-ready handsets regardless of whether the technology will actually be available so curious what that means for your expected ramp for that business over the next 2 quarters.
Okay.
C.J.
this is Greg.
On the connectivity side the growth is handsets.
It's not the access point.
I mean it is some of that but handsets is going to drive it at least for the next year or 2 and tablets would be next in terms of the drivers.
On the cellular side LTE generally needs more test time.
It has many more bands and it's complex different modulations so test times go up.
And it's a good opportunity because LitePoint has a production-optimized tester so it plays well to their strengths.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess first on the SOC test side of things when you mentioned the 28-nanometer device buildout that you saw last year that spurred some of the activity you saw in 2012 as we move down to 20 nanometers are you expecting another similar surge or the possibility that they'll try and reuse some of the equipment that they bought last year for that node as well? Yes.
I think Patrick equipment is always reused.
Usually the lifetime of a piece of equipment in this space is at least sort of 7 to 10 years.
That's always been true.
I don't see that changing.
I think the change is when you go from 28 to 20 or -- and so on is that the yield learning curve on the parts is one issue.
So typically the 20-nanometer node will come in at a lower yield than the 28-nanometer node and that is another thing that early on spurs more capacity early in the life cycle of a node.
So when we move to 20 there will definitely be a surge of buying early in that node that will ameliorate until we get into the next node step over time.
And those kind of come in 2- to 3-year increments so you'll see a very strong year.
And then you'll see a mature process technology maybe in the second year and then by the third year you're back into it again.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Great.
That's really helpful.
And maybe just moving to LitePoint for a second in terms of your activities or entering the cellular market on a more active basis is there a different I guess qualification design stage we'll see different seasonality versus what you're seeing in connectivity where it's primarily concentrated in 2Q and 3Q? Is there anything different with that? Or are you expecting that to also be kind of in the middle of the year? No difference.
It should be following the same pattern.
And I think with this connectivity subset we're going to see Q2 and Q3 generally speaking as the peak shipment quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Jagadish Iyer with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Mike a quick question on -- 2 questions on the -- you had talked about it a while ago about NAND testing being more customized.
As we see more and more SOC adoption in both utlrabooks and tablets and other hybrid devices I was just wondering what is your plan right now to target that market given that it could be a huge market going forward.
So I was just wondering if you have any updates for me on that one.
Well I'll comment on overall on memory and Mark can talk about the NAND space.
I think the memory space both DRAM and NAND has been a compressed market here for the last 3 years and we're projecting that it's going to stay that way.
There is heavy reuse in that space and the productivity effects in memory test have been much more significant than they have been in SOC despite the fact that SOC has had a big increase in parallelism.
But there are technology advances that are underway in both DRAM and the NAND that we think we can intersect here with our product offering.
Do you want to comment on that? Yes.
So I agree with what Mike was saying.
The market's going to be pretty anemic as a total market maybe $400 million to $500 million of equipment and our share right now is in the mid-teens.
So -- what we do see happening technologically on the DRAM side as we go to known good die as bare die DRAM get popped onto application processors and mobile electronics the test requirements at probe are getting increasingly important to get good yields at these integrated packages.
And our high-speed memory tester in that regard has some advantages that we hope to exploit here in the next year or 2.
On FLASH the thing -- the only real technological driver in FLASH related to test that could cause a breakout there is as we move into SSD-type applications or even tablets the need for FLASH to run at much higher speeds bandwidth is resulting in the interface speeds of NAND FLASH going up through toggle technologies.
That obsoletes a lot of the installed base and test equipment which has been sub kind of 100-megabit-per-second rates.
And that's the other area we hope to exploit.
As that shifts to 800 megabits and above our Magnum product line is sort of sitting right in that sweet spot.
But in an aggregate the dynamic of buying I think will be as an aggregate market pretty flat for the next few years but as the shares shift those are the 2 things we're looking at to move north of the mid-teens up into the 20s.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up on the OSAT utilization.
Mike can you give us some thoughts in terms of how we're just tracking from fourth quarter into first quarter? And what do you see going forward for the remainder of the year? The -- I don't have it right in front of me but we're between 70% and 80% utilizations with the mix of products with the UltraFLEX at the high end being -- certainly at the high end or above the top number where the 750 would be at the lower end of the utilization levels.
I think OSAT has typically been -- the OSAT buying this past quarter was 47% of our total down from 51% in the prior quarter.
So obviously that correlates to the utilization being a little bit lower on the OSAT side.
But if you looked at it on a product basis you'll find UltraFLEX at the high end of the utilization spectrum in all of the customer environments.
Research Division</strong> And do you see that continuing to improve the utilization offer to soak up in the first quarter? Yes.
I mean it's -- the industry numbers on this say that the utilization levels that we have right now are actually a little bit higher than the last trough.
And it feels close to us but it may in fact be just a hair.
It's not lower.
So it's around the same level.
So I think it's more type of what Mark was talking about and that is the product launches that really drive the spike in buying or that's the difference in the scenario this year versus last year.
Whereas I think utilization is kind of mirror image of -- in the 2 years.
Your next question comes from the line of Terence Whalen with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question.
I'm not sure if you addressed this.
What's the anticipation of competitively on pricing from Japanese yen devaluation? This is Greg.
We're not expecting a significant impact.
The yen has moved around over a period of time.
And we just haven't seen that affect our major competitor.
I think they price based upon the competitive dynamics and what's necessary in that situation as opposed to have their pricing impacted by the yen but stay tuned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Terrific.
And then the follow-up question that I had is just a very broad regional question.
As you look into the first half do you expect better demand acceleration from some of your Taiwanese customers or Korean customers? Mark do we have -- I don't know if we've got a breakdown.
Our visibility and forecast doesn't go out very far.
What do you think the breakdown is between Taiwan and Korea? Yes.
It's -- that is a tough one to call.
I wouldn't -- actually I don't think we should even try to speculate there because it might divulge some of our major customers' buying plans.
Terence well it's -- the countries don't really kind of mask the company so that's why we're holding back.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
I thought it was worth a try.
Great.
Well thanks everyone for joining us today.
This concludes our call.
Thanks for your interest and we look forward to talking with you in the coming weeks.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn today's conference over to Mr.
Andrew Blanchard the Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; President Mark Jagiela; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the first quarter as well as our outlook for the second quarter of this year.
First I'd like to address several administrative issues.
The press release containing our first quarter results was issued last evening.
Copies are available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
We're providing slides on the Investor page of the website that may be helpful to you on following the discussion.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The replays will be a available along with the slides through May 11.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where available on our website.
To view them go to the Investor page and click on the GAAP to non-GAAP Reconciliation link.
Also between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by Bank of America Cowen &amp; Company and Crdit Suisse First Boston.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the company and the industry for the first quarter and provide our outlook for the second quarter of 2013.
Then our CFO Greg Beecher will provide more details on our quarterly performance along with our guidance for the second quarter.
We'll then answer your questions.
You should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone.
Thanks for being with us again today.
The overall message today has 2 parts.
First we're moving upward in the semiconductor test cycle in line with what we expected coming into the year.
And second we're very much on track with the new market and new product initiatives that we outlined to you at this time last quarter.
You can see that our total bookings have taken a sharp step up increasing nearly 50% over the prior quarter.
This is the net change of very strong Wireless Test demand solid improvement in SemiTest order rate and the usual lumpiness in our Systems Test bookings.
Most notable is that we've had a better start to the year at LitePoint than we did last year at this time with orders about 2.5x the level of Q1 last year and over 4x what we saw just 1 quarter ago.
SemiTest is rebounding nicely with over 40% sequential growth in orders as improved mobility demand has been coupled with strengthening patterns in microcontroller and automotive applications.
SOC test is up 35% while Memory Test saw a 130%-plus increase over the relatively low order rate we had in Q4.
I'd also add that in SemiTest our OSAT demand doubled in Q1 while IDMs and Fabless moved up only 10% sequentially.
Systems Test is on a normal albeit choppy pattern with much lower defense spending in the quarter compared to the very high bookings picture we reported 3 months ago.
So while the trend is positive on many fronts it doesn't have the record trajectory that we saw a year ago where SOC test bookings were so front-end-loaded in the year.
All of which led to a full year that had 2/3 of its demands in the first half and where customer new product cycles drove our shipment peaks in the Q2 Q3 period.
What is noteworthy about our start to this year is a very good hit rate on the strategic new markets we're entering and new products that we're bringing forth this year.
On that front we've made very good headway at the quarter poll.
First of all as I mentioned on our last call we set a course for 2 new market offensive this year; one in Cellular Test at LitePoint and one in the 3.5-inch hard disk drive space in our Storage Test unit.
I'm pleased to report that we've received production orders in both new markets as of the end of March and are targeting volume ramps for each during the next 2 quarters.
Now I can't go into specifics on these orders for obvious reasons but I am pleased to say that our investments in these 2 important areas are beginning to bear fruit.
In our core SOC test business we're also launching 2 new platforms successors to our J750 and Eagle Test mainframes.
These products are mainstays in the consumer digital and performance analog test markets.
And combined represent an installed base of nearly 7 000 units on our customers' test floors 2 of the highest volume products in the industry.
We now have orders in place for both of these systems and we'll ramp their production levels throughout this year.
I'll note that the new J750 and ETS family members are fully compatible with their predecessors and incorporate important features that deliver higher performance instrumentation extremely productive parallel test economics plus test program and time-to-market efficiencies.
Mark can elaborate on these if you have questions on these new platforms.
As I said at the opening full year projections are hard to make given the nature of our markets combined with our short lead time capabilities.
But I will say that the year in SemiTest is unfolding as expected.
The SOC market revenue ran at about a $2 billion annualized rate in Q1 and we expect it to move up to a $2.4 billion run rate in Q2.
Now that's consistent with our projections for $2.2 billion to $2.4 billion year in 2013 so no changes to our views on that front.
The same goes for Memory Test that looks to be $400 million to $500 million in market size for the year.
We're putting slightly more capacity in place for turns business in SemiTest this quarter as we're seeing some demand materialize with very little notice.
And of course we'll be able to ratchet that in either direction as we enter the second half of the year.
Greg will talk a bit about how we're handling the capacity plan in LitePoint which of course has even shorter lead times.
So the full story as we enter the second quarter is: SemiTest demand is growing as expected new products are on schedule and most importantly our new market entries in Cellular and Hard Disk Drive Test are seeing some early positive momentum.
Let me turn it over now to Greg for some further comments.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'd like to first offer some additional perspective on the start to the year and our key annual goals before I cover the first quarter highlights and second quarter guidance.
While first quarter orders of $400 million are up 47% as Mike noted the overall mobility demand in SemiTest is starting more slowly than in recent years.
This slower start is due to the later timing of some key smart device product launches along with a natural eking out of greater tester productivity.
In contrast to the SemiTest start Wireless Test is off to a stronger start.
This is due to the expansion into Cellular Test a new market and 802.11ac demand.
So while the short-term demand picture is mixed we've nonetheless been quite busy on as I said are very important annual goals that should strengthen our longer-term position.
Moving away from the short-term biorhythms of demand recall that we're closely aligned to the Mobility and Wireless Test markets.
Healthy growth in these end markets is expected over the coming years fueled by ongoing smart device growth the growth of The Internet of Things and new end applications along with new more complex wireless standards.
Now let me move to our key 2013 goals.
Starting on the financial side.
We of course plan to meet the financial model targets that we shared with you in October.
These are shown in the earnings calls slide deck on our website.
In line with the October plan for 2013 we'll continue to hold spending tight across the company while we very selectively up our R&amp;D to fuel the next leg of growth.
Some of these growth initiatives will begin to contribute to our results later this year.
As a quick reminder we published a model that saw us with the normalized quarterly sales needed to hit a 15% operating profit.
You can see that this quarterly revenue of $375 million is below our 2012 average quarterly revenue of $414 million and of course this historical revenue does not reflect the increased revenue we expect from our expansion into new markets this year.
So as in the last 3 years we're set up to deliver greater than 15% model profitability.
Moving from the financial goals to market expansion plans.
First and foremost is breaking into wireless cellular product test in a meaningful way.
We estimate the cellular test production market to be between $700 million and $900 million a year with solid growth from smart devices the Internet of Things and other new applications so it's a very important expansion.
I should quickly remind you that the Cellular Test margins are expected to operate closer to the company average.
Cellular Test is a system-level test similar in many respects to our connectivity system level Wireless Test business.
Cellular Test plans are about double those in connectivity and new standards such as LTE are driving these test times up.
Our cellular test strategy has been to break in initially as a second source earn our stripes as a reliable supplier and then work more closely with leading customers in delivering innovative test solutions much like what we've done in connectivity testing.
As we noted in the release LitePoint recorded very significant solid test orders in the first quarter.
While customer confidentiality of course limits what we can say this is a very important break in for us in a competitive market that bodes well for LitePoint's future.
As to what this means to our early 2013 LitePoint sales range it's simply too early to provide you with any finer detail.
Another new market goal is to enter the 3.5-inch hard disk drive test market in the second half of this year.
The test market for 3.5-inch drives is expected to benefit from the ongoing cloud buildout.
Our new product test market is on schedule and similar to how we entered the 2.5-inch testing market several years back we have customer orders in hand.
We expect to see first revenues in the second half of this year.
Recall that at about $125 million in annual sales we should hit our hard disk drive 15% model profit target.
So stay tuned for further progress in HDD.
And finally our other key market goals are centered on getting 2 new SOC test products launched and on to customer test floors this year.
These products will strengthen our position in analog and consumer digital market segments.
Stay tuned for updates on this front as well.
So collectively we have a pretty full plate of activity that will expand our served market by about $1 billion this year while staying within our existing operating model.
This gives us a capacity to continue a steady rhythm of profitable growth in the future.
By design we remain tightly connected to mobility and wireless end markets.
Today mobility product launches from silicon tape-out to products in the hands of consumers are considerably shorter than in the past while the defect standards are becoming much tighter.
These trends make tests more important than ever.
In SemiTest we're the leader in key mobility building blocks such as RF power management application processors analog and microcontrollers.
In Storage Test we're the leader in mobile hard disk drive test for 2.5-inch and will enter the 3.5-inch cloud storage test market this year.
At LitePoint we're the leader in connectivity testing and have just now broken into cellular test in a meaningful way.
Fortunately we can help our customers to determine how to best deploy their test powers whether at the semiconductors systems or wireless device level.
Across that spectrum we have hardware and software solutions geared around getting mobility products to market faster at higher quality levels with of course the lowest cost of test.
So in short we are well-positioned to ride the ongoing mobility and wireless test growth.
Now moving to the key highlights of the first quarter.
We had total company bookings of $400 million; SemiTest bookings were $259 million; SOC test orders were $231 million and Memory Test orders were $28 million in the first quarter.
SemiTest service orders were $48 million; Systems Test group orders were $32 million with $13 million of service orders.
Wireless Test orders were $109 million.
In the first quarter Semiconductor Test sales were 75% of the total Systems Test Group 13% and Wireless Test 12%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the first quarter was 1.4 for the overall company; 1.2 for Semiconductor Test; 0.9 for Systems Test Group; and 3.3 for Wireless Test.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $474 million of which 80% has scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $280 million was up $32 million or 13% sequentially from the fourth quarter.
SemiTest was $211 million up $27 million or 15% consistent test group was $35 million down $5 million or 11%.
Wireless Test was $34 million up 37%.
We had 1 SemiTest customer that was more than 10% of company revenue in the quarter and our top 5 customers accounted for 29% of our first quarter sales.
SemiTest product shipments increased 23% from a quarter ago.
Inventory at $80 million; service revenue was $66 million a $3 million decrease compared to the fourth quarter.
SemiTest service revenue was $50 million; total company product turns business was 59% versus 40% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 60% versus 40% a quarter ago.
And Memory revenue was $24 million up $14 million from the quarter.
Now moving on to P&amp;L quickly.
Non-GAAP gross margins increased to 55% from 54% in the fourth quarter due to higher volume.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $131 million compared to $122 million in the fourth quarter as our variable compensation flexes up on higher sales and we had some increased R&amp;D spending consistent with our model.
At the operating line we posted an 8% profit.
Our non-GAAP net interest and other expense was $2 million.
Tax expense for the quarter was $3 million and our full year tax rate is expected to be 12%.
Cash from operations consumed $50 million after capital additions mostly due to employee variable compensation payments tied to 2012 performance and normal working capital changes.
We ended the quarter with gross cash of $956 million.
DSO is 53 days down slightly from 56 days in the fourth quarter.
We expect cash and marketable securities to increase by about $60 million in the second quarter.
As a quick reminder we have $300 million offshore and subject to U.S.
tax if repatriated.
This will likely grow by about $100 million a year.
We also have convertible debt with a face value of $190 million which matures in March 2014.
Hence our available U.S.
cash is closer to $450 million.
As noted in the press release sales for the second quarter is expected to be between $380 million and $420 million and our non-GAAP EPS range is $0.26 to $0.36 on 212 million diluted shares.
I should add that the non-GAAP EPS accounts for the dilution from the convertible debt net of the call overlay.
Q2 guidance excludes the amortization of the acquired intangibles the non-cash imputed interest on the convertible debt and includes taxes on a cash basis.
Our GAAP EPS range is $0.12 to $0.20.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our second quarter guidance is about 19%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages in the second quarter.
We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be 54% R&amp;.
D should be 17% to 19% and SG&amp;A should be 17% to 19% as well.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $2 million.
So we're up to a very solid start in 2013 with a 47% increase in company orders major design wins in wireless and storage tests and improving environment in SemiTest in an operating model that is delivering on plan.
While we cannot control the size of the market we serve or the trajectory of growth within them quarter-over-quarter we're focused on implementing our goals to profitably  grow the core business while very carefully evaluating new growth opportunities.
Now I'll turn the call back to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Christie we'll now take some questions.
And as a reminder please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wondering if I could go to one of my favorite topics Greg and that's the gross margin.
You guided a little bit lower than where you came in and then on a go-forward basis obviously sort of keeping it in line with were you just came in.
Are we to assume most of that is due to just the new ramps on the HDD side or are you leaving a little bit of gross margin upside on the table here? The gross margin in the first quarter and the guidance is simply mix.
The mix is more favorable than what our model would suggest on a normalized basis.
We have very little HDD purchasing -- 0 HDD business in the first half under $5 million.
So that helps the percentage purchase on the dollars but helps the percentage.
So with our gross margin invariably it can move around several points as simply based upon mix.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned briefly and not to be that guy that brings up the memory question but you talked about some activity in memory but it seems like you're keeping -- you're market sizing the same for the year.
Can you just discuss sort of what you're seeing out there? We're obviously seeing press in Samsung's looking to other vendors to boost their DRAM needs.
Any interesting new developments going on in that market from your perspective? This is Mark I'll take that one.
So the memory market certainly has picked up in the first quarter compared to the dismal levels of that in the fourth of quarter last year.
But as we look out across the year we still see probably a $400 million to $500 million tester market for memory.
And the key driver for capacity as will be higher-speed NAND devices.
It really obsoletes the installed base.
So if there's any upside it might be the rate which high-speed NAND devices come online that could propel a higher obsolescence.
But in general we're looking $400 million to $500 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this is all on the flash side not DRAM-driven from your perspective of course.
Yes.
I think DRAM our view will be about flat with last year.
Research Division</strong> First of all I was wondering if you could comment a bit about the composition of LitePoint orders in Q1 between cellular and connectivity? And give some thoughts on any additional cellular customer events that you may have later this year? Yes this is Mark again.
The good news in Q1 with LitePoint was that both on a connectivity side we saw orders that were strong in fact stronger than they were a quarter -- the same quarter of last year.
And then on top of that the break in for Cellular was significant and it was significant to the tune of multiple thousands of units of production capacity.
And we absolutely having just tapped into this $700 million to $900 million market have other designings in flight for the rest of the year.
I'm not going to be specific around any customers but this is a great validation on the product and we're going to keep pushing forward as we move forward...
Research Division</strong> And then a follow-up on LitePoint as well.
You guys have done a terrific job in terms of capturing the market share on the connectivity side and it comes through that on the cellular as well.
But your competitors are also trying to respond with their one box testers and what have you on the connectivity side.
Can you give a high level overview of the competitive environment on the connectivity side? What do you see out there what do you think that does to market size the connectivity market share and your margins? Satya this is Greg.
As you may know we've had a 1 box solution for some number of years.
We tend to be the innovator in connectivity and we hope to do the same in wireless test for cellular.
So I do think there are some new products from our competitors that were I'd say generations ahead having implemented 1 box solution years ago and are continuing to optimize and improve our solutions.
So there are certainly folks chasing after our space.
We think we'll maintain very good market shares we talked about in the past.
So we feel good about our conductivity position.
Research Division</strong> This is Mahavir Sanghavi for Stephen Chin.
Greg 1 question about the capacity expansion that you talked about could you give us some color on what kind of annual or quarterly sales run rate you can now achieve if you added capacity? And then maybe you can talk -- can you talk about the percentage of capacity that's being added for SemiTest versus LitePoint? Maybe Mark will take the SemiTest and maybe I'll try to take the LitePoint.
But you said the percentage of capacity...
Research Division</strong> New capacity.
What percent of the new capacities for the LitePoint versus SemiTest.
Let me do LitePoint first.
The demand in the first quarter for LitePoint for us the growth over a year ago is 2 pieces.
One is cellular which is a market expansion for us.
That's all new expansion.
The other growth is 802.11ac.
That's why we're up conservatively from a year ago same quarter.
If those 2 things weren't there we'll probably be about flat with the demand on the first quarter.
So again it's technological obsolescence with 802.11ac drives new tester buys and cellular test is a new market.
And I think we're early in some of the technology trends in the Wireless Test business whether it's LTE 802.11ac I think we're going to see more and more testers moving to 802.11ac this year for sure.
Let me pause there and see if Mark wants to add.
So just on SemiTest the start to this year the market for SemiTest in the first quarter is roughly $500 million which is a $2 billion market run rate.
But we still believe at the end of the year the market will be somewhere between $2.2 billion to $2.4 billion.
And we've layered into our capacity plan the ability to surge 30% to 40% of our nominal plan to account for an unforeseen spike in demand.
And we expect that to comp we can't time it.
That's why we model that into our capacity side.
And that capacity is usually positioned 4 to 12 weeks over a 4 to 12-week span in our future.
So we don't try to call the term but whenever it comes we can search about 30% to 40% north from where we are running at any given point in time.
Research Division</strong> Great and just to follow up quickly Greg.
So would that be the same kind of number that you would shoot for on the LitePoint side as well? Yes.
That would be similar.
It can in fact even be a little bit higher sometimes because LitePoint has more turns business but it's still in that neighborhood.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then one quick question on LitePoint if you could talk about without exposing of course any confidential information about the breadth of customers how many customers did you -- in terms of design wins how many new customers did you have in the Cellular side and did you have any design wins on the connectivity side? This is Mike.
Let me maybe put this in a context of going forward.
Obviously this business has some large customers and then a large number of smaller customers.
It's not possible for us to get into customer by customer progress.
So with regards to what happens in this past quarter what we wanted to make sure that our investors knew was that we had a production break-in on the cellular side.
Going forward we will likely talk about this as a total market because there is now a foothold for us in both of the markets and we'll tend to describe what our position is and where our share is moving in that total market rather than breaking it down between connectivity and cellular test.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First this is going to be a tough one but if you could project out to say 2014 sometime firm (ph) in the future so it's not really official guidance what do you think a likely split in LTE test is going to be between connectivity and device test? Or what do you think a reasonable or target goal would be for the split between the 2? Well Jim this is Mark.
I'm not exactly sure what you're asking but on the LitePoint business we see connectivity in the $200 million to $300 million range annually.
And at the same time we see cellular $700 million to $900 million.
So that is unlikely to shift dramatically.
Research Division</strong> And I guess I was asking your piece of the respective pies.
We've always had a strong north of 50% share in connectivity and I think we see that continuing in the future.
And then on cellular we just cracked that market so it's a little premature there to say what we think next year would look like but we've got to play out this year to see how far we can move forward and then we'll probably be in a better position to talk about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then if I could just ask as a follow up in terms of what DPS could potentially look like in a scenario where at some point you get back to the quarterly revenue levels that you saw at the best parts of last year is the only difference in the EPS at those revenue level's going to be mixed? Or are there other things that would effect what you would be earning at a $575 million revenue level or something like that.
Is it mix or are there other factors? Jim this is Greg.
I think you have to look at last year we had a model different than this year's model.
This year's model we need $370 million in the quarter to hit our 15%.
Last year is $350 million.
So we're spending about $12 million more in OpEx.
Some of that goes to LitePoint some of it goes to the core businesses.
One change year-to-year we published that model back in October it's on our website as well.
Apart from that I think it's probably mix.
And I think the mix changes will be similar to what you've seen in the past.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to dive a little more into LitePoint.
I know that you don't want to discuss what the exact order split was between cellular and connectivity.
But you said that the connectivity orders were up year-over-year.
So if that's the case then you probably did like 45% or 50% and in connectivity because you did 42% last year.
Which if I take the remainder and assume that that's cellular and then you said that that represents multiple thousand units and I divide that I get like an ASP sort of in the $30 000 a system range which is quite a bit lower.
I always thought these systems will sell for like $50 000.
So Is that math not the right way to think about it? This is Greg.
Yes that math is not accurate.
I think the change from last year in bookings is 802.11ac there's buying for that.
802.11ac was inconsequential last year on the connectivity side.
We're seeing much more demand for that now and then there was cellular test.
Those were the 2 pieces above last year's demand.
But we don't want to get into the price of the product at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well can you give then Greg can you just provide the split then between cellular and connectivity in that bookings number? We don't want to do that at this time.
We're fearful it could be competitive information.
All we can say is it was a very meaningful break-in.
We wouldn't be talking about it if it was not significant.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess second question relative to your commentary about the SemiTest market size the markets are moving up in Q2 about to where you see the overall market for the year which would imply not a lot of growth in SemiTest during the back half of the year.
I guess that's a little surprising particularly for you given that there is some capacity buildout that I would have thought that has to be done in Taiwan -- there's a big consumer electronics company moving some production to Taiwan and I thought that your testers would benefit from that.
So I guess is that the market size but then your shares are going to go up during the back of the year? Is it the right way to think about it? And I think it's just a little more rough than that.
We're not folding in predictions.
At this point we're in the 40s in market share we hope to keep growing that.
The market's lagging last year at this time so we notched it down.
I think we talked a little bit about this last quarter.
But I think there's a bit more roughness in our calculations than there is precision around what orders go down when.
The only thing I'd add this is Greg speaking.
We'll be very careful if anything it's directly tie-able to a customer we just can't comment on it.
It's very sensitive information.
So I think what you're referring to could be directly tied to a customer so we just can't comment.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I'm not going to bother you with the math on the call but I want to go back to commentary from January when you guys guided to LitePoint revenue of $260 million to $360 million for this year.
And I doubt you've made -- can you please update us on this? And then I have a follow up.
Mehdi this is Greg.
We did say in the prepared remarks that it's too early in the year to put any finer detail on that wide and rough range $260 million to $360 million.
So we have no update to that.
As you'll see we're starting off quite stronger in the first quarter due to breaking of the desired test in 802.11ac.
So it's a good start but there's so many questions as to what the second half of the year how that will unfold.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So qualitatively and assuming that you've got the cellular would it be fair to assume that you're at least on a run rate hitting the high end of previous guidance? I wouldn't make that direct conclusion.
$260 million to $360 million is the range.
It's hard to say where it ends up.
I think we're going to know a lot more at the end of the second quarter because a lot of buying that's going to take place is pretty much known by 3 months from now.
But we're strategically the big news is we've broken to cellular in a meaningful way.
What the numbers end up this year to us frankly is less important.
The key is we're in a much bigger market broke in.
And if you go back not long ago we acquired LitePoint.
We had $160 million and $190 million as our targets.
So the $160 million we did $286 million.
Against the $190 million target we have a range now of $260 million to $360 million.
So by any measure it's been a great great start.
Where it ends up this year we truly don't know.
There's a lot of uncertainty with the ecosystem at the moment even though it's a very strong start.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just 1 follow-up on the SemiTest.
If I were to look at the historical pattern it seems like this year has started on a slower slope but it seems like it is more sustainable.
Is it a fair way of assessing the current situation? And I'm focusing on bookings not revenues.
So think that it's absolutely true that it's a slower start to the year.
But I think the one factor in this particular year that's a bit unique is we believe a lot of the new mobility products end products that drives capacity demand for testers tend to be more second half of the year than they were in the prior 2 years.
And so we do think that as we get further into the year we will see a bump of demand related to that fact.
Research Division</strong> Greg or Mike looks like you guys are doing a great job getting into cellular.
And on the connectivity side you're gaining traction with 802.11ac.
Exiting this year do you think LitePoint revenues would still be weighted towards connectivity? Or do you think there will be even split between connectivity and cellular? This is Greg.
I mean that's a good question.
All we can say is our goal is to continue to break into cellular over time and we've gotten in as a second source.
And the challenge for us is to show the customers that we have innovative solutions.
So that requires them to change how they do their tests somewhat to fully get the benefit of what we can deliver.
So for successful in doing that then I do believe we can get good growth in Cellular Test going forward.
It also helps to have a meaningful break-in in Cellular Test because once this has occurred there's many accounts around the world that now we have much more credibility.
It's a major reference break-in.
So that also helps us in cellular.
So I would expect over time our position in cellular should certainly grow more than connectivity.
Because connectivity we're already north of 50% market share.
So our eyes are set on obviously maintaining connectivity.
And we did gain some share last year by the way.
But maintaining that strong engine we know people are chasing us aggressively and you're going to hear a lot about that I'm sure.
But we're on offense in cellular tests.
So over time we think cellular test should have higher growth certainly than connectivity where they intercept hard to tell.
Research Division</strong> And then one other question is where do you think your SOC mobile market share is today? And where do you think it ends up being exiting 2013? So just roughly when we talk about mobile market share we think about all the variety of silicon in a mobile device so that's applications processors it's power management it's image sensors it's memory it's all of that.
And roughly our share now is about 45% of those devices.
And exiting the year we plan to increase that somewhere in the 2 to 4 points.
Research Division</strong> And this is the SOC -- do you guys have an SOC application across the market share? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Where is that today and where do you think it will be exiting this year? In terms of market share on those types of device? Research Division</strong> Yes on the APU.
On the applications processors specifically that's -- it's a swag but it's probably 45% to 50% in that range.
It's probably closer to 50% on applications processors.
Research Division</strong> I have a question here on LitePoint.
Initially you've got a pretty nice margin increase from that business.
It sounds like now you're saying that margins are in line with the corporate average.
I'm curious is it mix or competition? What's changed on the margin front? This is Greg.
The comment I made in the prepared remarks is consistent with what we said in the past is that the new market for us Cellular Test the margins are consistent with the company average.
And we've also said in the past that connectivity the margins are a little bit better than the company average.
We don't see any change to those 2 statements.
Both should continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
You said the combined LitePoint would be at average.
It sounds like the blended dollar (ph) is slightly above corporate average now? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question looking at the hard disk drive market maybe a little bit more about how big the 3.5-inch market is compared to the 2.5-inch market that you currently play in? Tom they've shifted.
They've been moving up and down.
But the way we're modeling it as the total market for 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch looks to us to be $200 million to $300 million in total.
And that's shifted.
$100 million $200 million to $200 million $100 million.
Right now we view that the 3.5-inch with the cloud build out is going to be the stronger of those 2.
So as you look at the mix -- and maybe it would be 60-40 or 70-30 in the current year.
And that's what's motivated us to move more aggressively on to the 3.5-inch side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So more than doubles your market it sounds like.
Yes.
For very rough math we've said if you incorporate the last couple of years with the next couple of years we said it about doubles the served market.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to clarify the comments you had made last quarter you said the connectivity market could potentially be down this year.
Are you guys still seeing that trend? I mean given the first quarter performance? Do you think there's some upside to that scenario? This is Greg.
I think I said that.
The reason I said that was there was such a large tooling last year that what happens with any large tooling is customers optimize that tooling over a period of time particularly (ph) when things slowdown and some might even take out tests.
So they have techniques to make the testing more productive and that's why I made that comment.
So I think there'll be lower capacity buys.
I think the thing that is going to help connectivity which we saw some of it this quarter is 802.11ac that demand and that's technological obsolescence.
They need a different tester to test 802.11ac.
So again I think it's still too early.
I still believe well that the statements are correct that the existing testers will be -- greater productivity will be gained from them.
But more of the buying is going to be 802.11ac so it depends how fast people want that new tester for 802.11ac.
Research Division</strong> On the cellular test share gains you mentioned that you already received orders for multiple thousand units of testers.
My understanding was that the first year your opportunity in share gains was in that 3 000 to 5 000 range.
So are you seeing greater traction at that 1 particular customer that you were previously expecting? And then as you think about some of the other customers you've engaged with them for a couple of quarters now what's the typical design cycle and when do you start seeing some more results from those other customers? This is Greg.
It's a very long designing time and the reason is this.
We're breaking into a market that has some good cellular test providers already.
And the reason that we're getting a shot at it is because we've done quite long connectivity with innovative test solutions.
So that's helping us get a crack at this market.
But it takes a long time to get the correlation done and to get the customers willing to take some level of risk.
And typically when you start and you get the yes they're going to start with a low-running product.
So it's a process that takes a long time and often at the outset you have to do the test just the way the other guy does it.
You can't fully use your productivity.
So I think it's going to take us 1 year to 2 before we really are able to let the horses run that we have.
But the key news is we needed a couple of meaningful break-ins.
We have those.
And now there's much more activity at a whole set of other accounts.
Real quickly could you talk about the different segments of the SOC product line and where you're seeing strength on the order rates that were up 42% in the current quarter? Sure.
So we talked a little bit earlier about mobility.
That's certainly a big part of the order increase in Q1.
However not as strong an increase as we saw a year ago in Q1.
But the one area in addition to that that's running quite strong right now and in fact stronger than it's run for more than 1 year is microcontrollers.
The microcontroller market is on the rebound and our J750 product line where we've just introduced our next-generation product there serves that market.
We have a very strong share and that's going to be -- it looks like throughout the year a strong market.
That's being driven by a couple of things.
The traditional microcontrollers segments like automotive are also hot.
But there's a lot more wireless going into microcontrollers whether that's Wi-Fi embedded Zigbee or NFC Near Field Communications.
And that's also these mobility applications as they move from high-end smartphones to more pedestrian consumer products is helping us on the microcontroller side.
And I noticed you're going to introduce a couple of new products and it seemed like when you talked about the increase of your TAM of your new products that the SOC products weren't going to increase the TAM.
So these are more a protect-the-flag kind of introductions or maybe you can talk a little bit about that? Yes.
The J750 HD and the ETS-800 both of those products serve markets where we have a pretty high market share somewhere in the 60% to 70% range.
So certainly they're designed to give our current customer base the next level of performance time-to-market advantage.
But we've been moving market share in that space as well over the years and we do see that the combination of some competitive inroads and customers that traditionally have used in-house equipment to test some of these parts are more and more moving to commercial equipment.
And that's actually a place where we're picking up a lot of incremental business.
And so these 2 products play both -- play very well into those spaces.
And do you have -- with these new products do you have some sort of cost -- lowering of the cost metrics that you can share with us obviously you're introducing a new product so that typically means the cost of ownership is going down.
Can you give a gas of metrics about from one product to another what the cost savings are? Yes.
Typically the way the customer benefits from cost reductions in the new products is increased parallel tests.
So from generation to generation we typically enable doubling the parallelism from the prior generation product.
That's true for both J750 HD and for the ETS-800.
So now that whole 2x benefit doesn't necessarily mean it sells at the same ASP.
So the productivity gains for the customer kind of 1/2 of the gains go to the customer and 1/2 of it for the results and a higher price tester -- higher cost of tester.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to the subject of foundries and OSATs and wanted to get your perspective that as the market develops and changes I wanted to get your perspective on how that will affect your business.
Yes.
I think the OSAT trend that we've seen emerge over the past decade really is going to continue to be relentless.
And the good news for us in that space is we have a suite of products to offer those customers.
The J750 that I just mentioned is a very strong pervasive product over 4 000 of them deployed worldwide.
And the OSATs utilize those not just for microcontrollers but in the MDM OSAT world a lot of it is just logic wafer test.
It's very well-suited for that.
And then as more of these complex -- a lot of the fabless companies that utilize OSATs are actually making some of the leading-edge silicone products in the world.
And they're not only very complex devices they're moving into these 2.5-D to 3D-IC implementations as well.
So the OSATs need a test platform that's very versatile in its implementation can concurrently  test our device it has embedded in it a PMIC Power Management IC an apps processor an RF transceiver.
All of these things are how we've been architecting our UltraFLEX product line for years now.
So we're very encouraged by the trend.
Because we think the flexibility and the time-to-market advantages in the UltraFLEX are very attractive feature for the OSATs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my follow-up question is actually related to that.
Specifically I wanted to understand that as potentially traditional front-end foundries begin to internalize back-end I want to understand how dealing with these customers would be different than OSATs and how you see that developing and how that might affect perhaps pricing or margins given that the front-end guys are more concentrated.
So I think that's a trend that's been happening for some time.
The difference is that the front-end and the foundries are much more technology-driven in terms of utilizing testers not just for capacity but also as process control.
And so they value performance they value -- and maybe even more so sometimes in the OSATs.
And foundries have a stronger preference when it comes to selecting this capital in that it has to both serve a capacity need and a technology need.
And so I think if anything the trend toward foundries is a benefit in that the value proposition of validating process ensuring known good die for these multi-die assemblies is a much more valuable thing for a foundry that's trying to encourage more customers to technologically outsource.
So I think it's potentially a net positive compared to the concentration argument that says "Boy that's going to be a tough road to haul." Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the SemiTest side of things for a second I think you've mentioned in the past that the customers given the big ramp that they experienced last year may have a little bit of excess capacity especially heading into this year.
How do you see I guess that situation? And whether I guess the pickup in demand that we're starting to see right now.
Whether that gets absorbed and that will drive I guess the additional buys as the year progresses? Patrick it's Mike the numbers on it are that the utilization 3 months -- over the last 3 months has moved up on a mix of products from the mid-70s into the low 80s.
So that absorption from last year all of that installed base that's been put in place is moving up.
I think if you segmented that and looked at our systems you'd see that the UltraFLEX was the product with the highest utilization in that range.
So it's moving in the direction we expect it to.
But as Mark said earlier it doesn't have the kind of surge that we had as the tooling took place in the first half of last year.
And of course the obvious question is well will it have a back end surge and no one knows that at this point.
But I think the short-term numbers are on capacity utilization it indicate that it's steadily moving up.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And maybe and this is I guess a longer term and maybe looking out into 2014 as we start seeing the next generation of leading-edge devices particularly at the 20-nanometer node do you expect to quote new test advice for that? Or are the customers able to I guess reuse or utilize or upgrade their current capacity for that next generation node what are your expectations there? Yes.
A lot of the existing capacity at least the capacity that's been put in place in the past couple of years will be directly applicable to 20-nanometer.
Most of the buying will be incremental capacity driven not obsolescence.
Operator we have time to perhaps squeeze in just one more question please? Research Division</strong> So 2 questions first on the Mike you talked about about $1 billion in some expansion just likely from the roll out of these new products in these new markets that you're targeting.
So how should we be thinking about revenue grab that you might be able to have 12 months from now as you roll out all these new products and seek these 2 markets? Jagadish the $1 billion is a combination of the growth in the hard disk drive which is a smaller piece and the cellular test for LitePoint.
And I think the guidance we can give you here has really been discussed already and that's been around our LitePoint expectations which are up from originally $350 million over the first 2 years $350 million in revenues up into the $550 million to $650 million in total.
So that's the best we can do at this point in terms of guidance as we move out of this year I think we'll have a better picture of what the trajectory we expect and that will be tied to how much penetration we can get into the cellular space.
That will be the biggest piece of the equation.
But at this point it's hard to know that.
Research Division</strong> Greg this is a question for you.
When can we see some tangible actions from the use of cash now that you remain profitable through the cycle? Can you give us your latest thinking on that? Has anything changed from your prior view? Good question.
Nothing has changed from what we talked about over numerous quarters.
I did outline in my prepared remarks that of our cash there's $300 million-plus offshore that we can't get back without paying taxes rather high taxes.
And there's convertible debt of $190 million due early 2014.
So our real available cash is $450 million.
So it's not as much as you might otherwise think just looking at our balance sheet.
But if you look at over a period of time we bought back a lot of stock that we bought back between 2006 and 2008 $0.5 billion worth of stock at just over $13.
More recently we bought back a smaller amount being much more patient.
So what with the stock buyback program in place obviously we're being very very opportunistic.
If you look at how we deploy capital whether it's LitePoint Eagle Nextest put those 3 deals together I think you would give us -- most would give us good grades on how we deploy capital.
So we're looking at other growth that could have an unfair advantage and carry then that we can grow a company faster.
And if we cannot find a company that meets the very strict criteria that we have then we're back at what do we do with capital allocation.
But we don't feel that's a decision we need to make immediately but it is on discussion with our board.
Every quarter we're talking about the topic.
But I would for now let's just say expect us to stay the course.
Okay.
Everyone thank you so much for joining us this quarter and we look forward to talking to you in the weeks and months ahead.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Endrica and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Andrew Blanchard.
Sir you may go ahead.
Thank you Endrica.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; Mark Jagiela our President; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the second quarter as well as our outlook for the third quarter of this year.
First I'd like to address several administrative issues.
Press release containing our second quarter results was issued last evening.
Copies are also available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
We're providing slides on the Investor page of this website that may be helpful to you on following the discussion.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends and the replays will be available along with the slides through August 10.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we'll make references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial missions including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure were available in our website.
To view them go to the Investor page and click on the GAAP to non-GAAP Reconciliation link.
Also between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be participating investor conferences hosted by Piper Jaffray Pacific Crest Citibank and Deutsche Bank.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the company and the industry of the second quarter and provide our outlook for the third quarter of 2013.
Then our CFO Greg Beecher will provide more details on our quarterly performance along with our guidance for the third quarter.
We'll then answer your questions.
You should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone and thanks for being with us again today.
As you can see from our release last night we posted solid results in the second quarter and we're guiding revenues and profits up slightly in the third quarter.
The seasonal pattern in the Semiconductor Test cycle gets some of the credit for the uplift so far this year.
But we've also had good market share momentum in SemiTest both SOC and memory as well as a strong first half showing from LitePoint.
We're well above our operating profit model on the quarter and have also now exceeded that model for the first 6 months of the year offsetting the naturally slower start to the year that we saw.
On the longer arc this is the 16th straight quarter within the black results for us and that's despite the roller coaster of demand that characterizes most of our markets.
I should also note that as outlined coming into the year we're increasing our R&amp;D investments for long-term growth so these first half results show the continued resiliency of our model.
I'd remind you that we're operating in a CapEx environment that is lower than last year due to less robust spending for mobility applications which affects both our SemiTest and LitePoint business units.
The SOC test market is running about $400 million below the first half numbers of last year so we continue to expect a lower overall SOC test market for the full year closer to the low end of the $2.2 billion to $2.4 billion we've outlined in our last 2 calls.
Our momentum in SOC test is very good as we've registered back-to-back increases of nearly 40% in bookings through the first 2 quarters of the year.
Wireless and power management continue as bright spots coupled with a very strong surge in microcontroller and digital probe applications.
You'll recall that we've introduced the new model of our J750 test system with higher frequency and pin count this year.
That new model is up and running and helped us post our best J750 order rate in 3 years and our second highest quarterly total in over 8 years.
Memory test has been another bright spot with our 6-month order total exceeding the 2012 yearly total.
As performance requirements in NAND and DRAM increase we're well positioned with the Magnum and the UltraFLEX M systems.
Note that we're expecting the total memory test market to again be in the $400 million to $500 million ballpark the bottom line being that we should outgrow the market by a good bit this year.
At this point I'd add that in SemiTest our customer report card hit a notable milestone as we were awarded first place in the VLSI Research Supplier survey.
While we've been a top performer in the test sector in the past this year we topped the ranks of all semicap suppliers so a good acknowledgment of our SemiTest organization from field to factory on this achievement.
Turning to LitePoint.
Orders for the first half were just under $200 million which is down from the $230 million we saw last year.
Greg will go into some detail on our LitePoint business but the lower book level makes sense to us given the aggressive tooling last year the digestion of those capital additions and the more muted product ramps in the consumer mobility space.
We're very pleased to have broken into the larger cellular test segment already this year as that gives us an expanded addressable market going forward.
Now our defense business remained steady through the first half despite the downward pressure of the sequester.
There we expect single-digit percentage grow in that business this year with a solid business model underlying it.
The only soft spot in the portfolio is in storage test where tooling for both 2.5 inch and 3.5 inch drives is very slow.
While we've achieved production bias this year in the 3.5-inch space with the new platform the capacity at horizon is pretty cloudy.
So we've gotten more pessimistic about revenue levels in that sector as the year has progressed.
In summary the trajectory of our top line is good albeit against some headwinds in market size and the performance in the bottom line continues to stand out.
The new product rollouts are tracking to plan our R&amp;D pipeline has been strengthened and our market share position should stand up well through the year end.
On balance a good set of results at the halfway pole.
Now let me turn it back to Greg.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by providing some additional perspective on 2013 at the midway point before I cover the second quarter highlights and third quarter guidance.
First 2013 is shaping up to be another solid year for us.
While it's running under some of the earlier year full year analyst forecast we're solidly on track to exceed our 15% industry target profit rate for the fourth year in a row.
Since the start of 2010 we've averaged a 23% operating profit rate and generated $981 million of cumulative free cash flow.
Our combination of an optimized business model designed for the industry realities and highly selective new growth investments where we can use technology to differentiate continues to work very well for us.
In the short term we expect the normal seasonal patterns to occur as much of our demand is tied to annual consumer cycles.
As a quick reminder in the last 3 years after strong first halves our third quarter SOC test bookings have declined from the second quarter levels between about 20% to 60%.
That's why we're modeling the SOC test market this year to be about $2.2 billion.
We provided a slide that illustrates the seasonal pattern in the earnings call presentation available at the Investors section of our website.
Stepping back Mobility remains our largest driver albeit with demand down from the torrid pace a year ago.
In the second quarter we registered very solid demand in microcontroller and digital wafer sort testing bringing our first half J750 bookings to over $110 million our highest first half demand since 2010.
Wireless Test also had another solid quarter bringing its first half bookings to just under $200 million.
And memory test is showing greater demand after a very low 2012 with first half bookings over $70 million.
On the other side of the ledger hard disk drive demand remains essentially dormant and isn't expected to bounce back this year.
Our focus in this business is getting our new tester for 3.5-inch cloud-based storage completed and accepted.
Recall in SemiTest most of our demand is tied to IC unit growth which is forecast to increase at a compounded rate of about 8% per year over the next 3 years.
New semiconductor device technology such as FinFETs 3D NAND and EUV by themselves do not obsolete our installed base or drive increased engineering investments on our part.
However we do expect to see some benefit from these technologies as advanced processes are naturally less stable and test is critical to wean out new defects.
Test seconds also tend to rise with these denser more complex devices.
Offsetting these factors of course are tester efficiencies such as parallel tests which to date has kept the annual SOC tester market at an average of about 2.5 billion over the last 3 years.
Looking ahead some analysts models have growing SOC test capital intensity and hence SOC test market size in the coming years after being flat for the last 3 years.
So we're not sizing the company's fixed cost assuming a larger market size we're very well positioned to take advantage of this growth should it happen.
Elsewhere in SemiTest there are some technology driven buys in RF test due to new standards that require a more complex modulation and increased computer -- computing horsepower.
In memory test we're seeing similar technology buys due to increasing frequencies in both FLASH and mobile and graphics DRAM.
These buys often open up market share opportunities and we're capitalizing on them.
In microcontroller and imager test we refreshed the industry standard J750 with 4 400 sold to date.
We've taken the system pin count up to over 2 000 doubled the operating frequency and added more features to shorten the time it takes customers to bring new chips to volume production.
These new instruments and software features can be plugged into existing J750s so customers get the maximum leverage from their installed base.
As Mike noted the J750 had its best bookings quarter in 3 years and we have broad adoption of the new J750 in the market.
While we have the majority share in the microcontroller market today we expect to grow that further going forward.
Now shifting to LitePoint.
I know there continues to be keen interest after a spectacular 2012.
So let me get to the key points.
First with our short lead times it is very difficult to estimate full year results even at the midway point of the year.
That said quite a very strong start we expect LitePoint to come in at the low end of our full year range of $260 million to $360 million in sales.
Keeping 2013 in perspective recall that LitePoint sales were $130 million in 2011 and more than twice that level in 2012 at $286 million driven by record connectivity buying.
When LitePoint joined Teradyne in late 2011 we set targets of 160 million for 2012 and 190 million for 2013.
So we remain well ahead of those plans.
The lower end of the range for LitePoint's 2013 revenue is primarily the result of a smaller connectivity market than last year.
It's not too surprising that we're seeing less demand in connectivity after the record year in 2012 as the market naturally digests those large capacity adds.
Shifting to cellular test our first half designing momentum provides a very important beachhead to grow upon.
This market entry should help open up doors elsewhere as we're now a proven supplier in high-volume production test.
We do recognize the designing cycle can be long and the -- often the initial break-in is as a second source.
But we expect cellular test to be a multi-year growth story for us.
Stepping back just a bit.
Let me describe how we think about the Wireless Test market.
In the market we see very familiar forces at work: increasing product complexity driving test times up new standards obsoleting the installed base and unit growth driving tester demand.
Balancing those balloons so to speak are the increasing productivity of new testers and more efficient test operations at our customers acting as anchors to tester demand.
In any given year one set of forces can have more or less influence on the market size.
In 2012 the head of the investments for dual-band WiFi drove the market higher.
This year digestion of last year's spending and improving efficiencies have reduced the market size.
When we look ahead to next year and beyond we expect the market to grow as 802.11ac MIMO LTE and future standards are more widely deployed and wireless unit growth continues.
So overall we feel very confident that LitePoint with its production-optimized test solutions will be a long-term winner in the growing Wireless Test market.
LitePoint has been the long-standing innovator focusing on production test solutions rather than shoehorning a general-purpose tester into focused wireless production test applications.
LitePoint was the first to offer a one-box conductivity tester the first with non-signaling and the first with 4-device testing.
LitePoint's DNA is to lead by working very closely with the leading chipset companies and brands offering a solution set level approach for high-volume production tests.
We'll continue driving that innovation very hard going forward.
Now before I get into the financial details of the quarter I'd like to note that we will not be commenting on the various reports from Asia and elsewhere about specific strategic competitions in SemiTest.
As you know we can't speak about any particular customer or what any order may signal.
We can however simply say that we are well positioned in mobility with our high-end smartphones low-end smartphones tablets or the Internet of things.
Now moving to the key highlights of the second quarter.
We had total company bookings of $474 million.
SemiTest bookings were up over $100 million to $362 million.
SOC test orders were $319 million and memory test orders were $43 million in the second quarter.
SemiTest service orders were $76 million.
Wireless Test orders were $87 million.
SemiTest orders -- Systems Test orders excuse me decreased to $25 million with $8 million of service orders.
In the second quarter Semiconductor Test sales were 68% of the total Wireless Test 23% and Systems Test 9%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the second quarter was 1.1 for the overall company 1.2 for Semiconductor Test 0.9 for Wireless Test and 0.7 for Systems Test.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $519 million of which about 80% is scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $429 million was up over 50% sequentially from the first quarter.
SemiTest was $293 million up $81 million or 38%.
Wireless Test was $99 million up $66 million or almost threefold and Systems Test was $37 million.
We had one customer that was more than 10% of company revenues in the quarter and our top 5 customers accounted for 43% of our second quarter sales.
SemiTest product shipments increased 50% from a quarter ago.
Within the $429 million service revenue was $66 million or flat compared to Q1.
SemiTest service revenue was $50 million.
Total company products turns business was 38% versus 59% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 48% versus 60% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $27 million.
Now moving down to P&amp;L.
Non-GAAP gross margins increased to 56% from 55% in the first quarter due to higher volume.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $138 million compared to $131 million in the first quarter as our variable compensation flexes up on higher sales and we had increased R&amp;D spending as planned.
At the operating line we posted a 24% profit.
Our non-GAAP net interest and other expense was $2 million.
Cash tax expense for the quarter was $12 million and our full year cash tax rate is expected to be 12%.
Cash from operations generated $77 million after capital additions.
We ended the quarter with gross cash balance just over $1 billion.
DSO was 48 days down from 53 days in the first quarter.
We expect cash and marketable securities to increase by about $100 million in the third quarter.
As a reminder we have about $330 million offshore and subject to U.S.
tax if repatriated.
This will likely grow to about $400 million by year end.
We also have convertible debt with a face value of $190 million which matures in March 2014.
Hence our available U.S.
cash is closer to $500 million.
We will continue to evaluate nonorganic opportunities that offer entry into a closely related business which has a growing market and sustainable product differentiation.
This is why we keep more dry powder than needed to run our existing businesses.
And as you might imagine cash is by far the preferred currency in any M&amp;A transaction.
Having said this we also recognize that we might not find a new business that meets our strict criteria so we'll continue to evaluate all of our capital allocation alternatives with a bias to benefiting long-term shareholders.
As noted in the press release sales for the third quarter are expected to be between $425 million and $465 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.39 to $0.49 on 213 million diluted shares.
I should quickly add that the non-GAAP EPS accounts for the dilution from the convertible debt net of the call overlay.
Q3 guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles the non-cash imputed interest on the convertible debt and includes tax on a cash basis.
Our GAAP EPS range is $0.23 to $0.31.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our third quarter guidance is about 24%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages in the third quarter.
We expect gross margins to be 56% to 57%.
R&amp;D should be 16% to 17% and SG&amp;A should be 16% to 17% as well.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $2 million.
So 2013 looks to be another year of above-model profitability despite more modest demands in some of our key segments.
As you know we started the year with a major design win in cellular test which should help pave the way for a multiyear expansion plan.
In SOC test we've refreshed the highly successful J750 product and have multiple installations already.
And in memory test our products are gaining greater traction.
So we remain keenly focused on implementing selective growth through technology differentiation while maintaining financial discipline.
Now I'll turn the call back to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Endrica we'd now like to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Timothy Arcuri.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
I guess relative to your commentary about LitePoint being at the low end now.
If I sort of back into the math that suggests that the orders during the back half have to be like $50 million to $60 million at most for that business which is just a bit odd given that your biggest customer or your new customer in that space is -- now finally has some clarity on when they're going to launch these phones.
So I guess that's the first question.
Then I'm wondering if you can give Greg a split of connectivity and cellular of the $87 million in LitePoint orders.
I'll start with the second and first Tim.
We're not going to break out connectivity and cellular.
We much prefer going forward to talk about it as a total but the cellular break-in was quite significant and we've commented on that before that it was quite meaningful.
I'll let Mark take the first part -- first question.
Yes I think on the order issue the announcement of the end product is preceded by orders or CapEx.
And typically in the back half of the year we do see a fall-off that's the seasonal pattern.
So whatever products are being introduced in the fall typically we've already seen orders for that volume.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well just to kind of follow up on that.
I always thought the lead times -- this time around when you first broke into the business lead times were a bit longer because they had to build a new test line.
And I thought that this time around lead times would be much shorter because they wouldn't have to build a new line.
And so since you saw a big bookings quarter in Q1 I would have expected there would be sort of a follow-on business in advance of this ramp.
Maybe that order wasn't related to the ramp and the ramp just got pushed out.
So I guess maybe the question is around lead times have they changed at all.
Tim I'll take that.
If it's follow-on business to an exiting line lead times tend to be quite short.
But if it's a new line the lead times are much longer.
So it all depends.
And it all gets tied to new line existing line and how much capacity.
So it varies quite a bit.
The last thing I'd stress it's very hard for us to forecast LitePoint wireless test.
As I said in my prepared remarks even at the midway point.
We can get surprise on the positive or even on the negative.
So stay tuned.
The key thing for us is we focus on cellular test and we've got very good traction there.
Your next question comes from Krish Sankar.
Research Division</strong> It terms of LitePoint being at the low end of the guidance last year at $286 million it was all pretty much connectivity.
This year let's see over the low end at $260 million how would the split look between connectivity and cellular? As we said we don't want to give any information to competitors so we're not going to break that split up.
We had said that cellular order was meaningful significant it wasn't small.
So it was an important order but we don't want to quantify it.
And we have said some time ago that we would not be surprised if the connectivity market was smaller which it is this year.
So everything is somewhat consistent from what we've thought.
But yes the connectivity market is a bit smaller than we -- what we might have thought 6 months ago.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just to follow up on the lead time question.
If into the new product intro on cellular let's say in September when do the testers have to be installed by the OEM? Typically they have to be -- there's lots of qualification runs done leading up to mass production.
But typically the units get installed 4 weeks to 6 weeks before the big ramp.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then the final question it looks like you're turning down your outlook on HDD.
Is there any way to quantify how the HDD revenues would look this year relative to last and how much dollars it's going to be? It will be down considerably.
If you go back the last 2 years '12 and '11 we've averaged just over $125 million a year.
And that's the number we also need to hit our 50% model profit rate.
This year the demand will be down -- or shipments will be down quite considerably under $50 million.
And the key thing for us as we've talked about is getting into the cloud-based 3.5-inch testers and we expect to have some shipments of those in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And the under $50 million includes the 3.5 inch drive? It does.
Your next question comes from Mehdi Hosseini.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Going back to the prepared remarks that Q3's SOC test booking could follow seasonal pattern of down 20% to 60%.
If I take the midpoint of that and then take in to consideration your commentary on LitePoint and System Test and your backlog it does suggest to me that Q4 revenues could come in flat.
Is that a reasonable assumption? And I'm not asking for guidance.
I'm just taking your commentary looking at the backlog and making some projection on Q4.
And I want to make sure that I'm not missing anything.
Mehdi I'll take that.
In putting a range of what's possible if you look at the seasonal patterns obviously Q4 is the low revenue period.
But the seasonal patterns what happens in the second half is also affected by how much buying happened in the first half.
I think you tend to find the falloffs are sharper if the first half was stronger.
But there's so many factors that get into these projections.
It's we've learned a long time ago that we can't really forecast so what we do is we forecast our supply line how long it takes to get certain material and make sure we have capacity to ramp.
I think we're really knitting together all of the projections that we started the year with which was we expected a down SOC market we expected a roughly flat maybe at this point now very slightly but not significantly of memory market.
I think the -- so in the whole SOC and memory space we're really confirming that our annual projections there of a lower than $2.5 million year in SOC makes sense to us and a $400 million to $500 million market in memory also makes sense.
And that all requires the kind of seasonal configuration that we've seen in prior years.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Sure.
So let me rephrase my question.
Would the midpoint of your SOC test booking commentary for Q3 which is down 40% get us to the low-end of the overall SOC market or in other words $2.2 billion with the midpoint of SOC test booking? I'll take that.
I think the answer to that question.
If in fact we saw a 40% drop quarter-on-quarter in bookings the market would probably trend below the Q2.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that reinforces my point and maybe as we come out of the seasonally weak Q3 Q4 revenue could flatten out.
Yes I think anything is possible like that.
We're not -- that's why we're not being explicit in trying to call Q4.
So the hypothesis you have isn't unreasonable.
It would be slightly different than patterns in prior years.
That's all we're saying.
Your next question comes from Jim Covello.
Research Division</strong> This is Mark Delaney on behalf of Jim Covello.
I have another LitePoint question.
One of the big opportunities in connectivity test when you guys entered that business was the need to refresh the entire installed base for the 802.11ac WiFi refresh where LitePoint had very strong share.
With the strength in your shipments in connectivity test last year is there still a large proportion of the installed base that is going to need to be refreshed or is future growth in connectivity test going to be more driven by actual device unit growth? Yes let me take that one.
So yes there's a large installed base of connectivity test equipment that is not AC capable.
At the same time the new devices that are introduced this year actually a very small percentage of the devices that need to be tested are AC capable.
So the only point about obsolescence would be in future years that installed base will need to be refreshed.
But the interesting trend this year is customers are installing equipment that is AC capable even though the devices they're testing may not have AC in them.
So the incremental capacity that's being installed in 2013 will not go obsolete but all the prior-year stuff will.
Research Division</strong> Understood that's helpful.
Transitioning from my follow-up to the SemiTest business I was hoping you could give us an update on the competitive dynamics in SOC test in terms of pricing in market share.
Because as you know the yen has been weaker and then also one of your smaller competitors has been introducing some new products.
So how are pricing dynamics and market share trend in? I think at pricing nothing significant has changed there.
We haven't seen any major impact from the yen in the sort of competitive environment or on pricing.
The share picture for the year has been trending favorable to us.
We're on the SOC test side up in the first half of the year 5 or 6 points of share.
And in memory we're up about 10 points of share.
A lot of that is because in the memory side it's mainly due to real customers shifting to Teradyne products for high-speed DRAM and high-speed FLASH testing.
So it's a good good story in memory albeit a smaller market than SOC.
In SOC about half of that share gain is due to segments that Teradyne doesn't participate in coming down dramatically like microprocessors.
And the other half is due to real share gains that we've had real customers shifting business.
Your next question comes from Satya Kumar.
This is Farhan Ahmad asking a question on behalf of Satya.
I wanted to ask you about your LitePoint business.
You had indicated at your last call that there were several deals in the works and you're expecting to see some outcome in July.
And I was just hoping if you could provide some commentary on what kind of deals are still out there and if decisions have already been made.
Well there's -- there are competitive situations and decisions being made every month.
And following up on the large cellular design in that we had in the first quarter we've certainly been continuing to try to build that momentum into other markets and customers.
We've had some additional success there with cellular.
But nothing out of the ordinary the competitive situations play out constantly.
Farhan do you have a follow-up? Your next question comes from Stephen Chin.
Research Division</strong> It's Mahavir.
The first question going back to LitePoint I was wondering if you could help us with just sizing the market for 2013 and if we assume your market share was about 25% last year how we should think about your market share this year? And going forward how we should think about the order market size? Okay I'll take a shot at that.
The market this year in Wireless Test is probably down on the order of 15% to 20% would be our estimate although it's a very difficult market to be precise in around share but that's our estimate.
Our overall share within that downmarket we think is up into -- from what was the low 20s to maybe the mid- to high-20s for the year.
So that's the '13 tale of the tape.
And as we think about '14 we did see in '13 a lot of digestion around the equipment that was put in place over the past sort of 12-month period but the dynamics of what's happening in whether it's handsets tablets the Internet of things testing is that the complexity of the test environment in Wireless Systems Test is increasing dramatically.
So we expect the market to just go back to a growth scenario next year.
Inclusion of AC will be more dominant next year.
That will involve more extensive testing.
MIMO technologies will find its way into more products that's also more extensive testing.
Not only the traditional sort of electrical testing that's done but more and more over-the-air testing will be needed to optimize these end products for interference multiple antennas trying to communicate simultaneously.
So they see a lot of technological growth in the end products looking into '14 that will return this market to a growth picture.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as a follow-up one of your big customers cut CapEx as they noted in their 10-Q file last night.
I'm wondering if that's impacting you guys at all.
And I mean not talking to the other customer but just in general on the LitePoint side if that has been hurt by CapEx cuts? And does the -- I mean is it fair to think about 2013 as more of replacement buys and then capacity buys more happening in the 2014 timeframe? No I think we're not going to comment on any specific customer.
But in general buying is driven by the need to test units.
And so the macro budgeting of CapEx something like a semiconductor fab might be something that could be delayed in time as an investment.
But if a certain number of units need to be shipped then a certain amount of test capacity is needed to ship those units.
And the bulk of what's been installed this year has truly been for incremental capacity not so much for obsolescence.
Your next question comes from Vishal Shah.
Research Division</strong> This is Chad Dillard on the line for Vishal.
Just one quick question on just the revenue linearity for 2013.
How do you see first half versus second half trending? This is Greg.
We've given you obviously the first 2 quarters and you see our guidance for the third quarter and we tried to provide a slide that showed the bookings trend on our website for our largest business SOC test which generally shows that the third quarter bookings because it's tied to the annual consumer patterns those bookings are down between 20% or 60%.
It can range quite a bit.
And then therefore that means lower fourth quarter revenue.
That's also difficult to be too precise at this point because there's other things that could have some impact on otherwise a normal seasonal pattern.
But best we can say right now is we think that normal seasonal patterns will hold.
And if there's greater demand we'll be ready for it.
We have stage inventory and parts to respond to any better news than something other than normal seasonal demand.
Research Division</strong> And then within Wireless Test can you talk about margin dynamics and what you see in terms of where you need to be for pricing to gain a little bit of share? I'll take that one.
This is Greg.
We have gained share this year so we feel very good about the products that we have how they're designed and the efficiencies and their throughput they're production-optimized testers.
We're probably unique in that having more of a solutions production-optimized tester with an emphasis added.
And we expect LitePoint margins to stay above the company's average.
So we think that's going to be intact for many years to come.
So we feel good about margins and the product.
Your next question comes from Patrick Ho.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first on the SemiTest side of things.
Given the as you mentioned slower pace of buying last year as the industry transitions to 20- and eventually 14- and 16-nanometer devices particularly for the mobile side of things do you see a potential step up in terms of new capacity buys? Or is there enough excess capacity or inventory out there from the tester side that those will be utilized first before any new capacity buys occur? Yes.
So the existing capacity that's out there certainly will be applicable to the 20-nanometer node and below.
So it will be transitioned over.
On the other hand unit volume growth and complexity growth will drive incremental capacity.
And there's a couple of trends that aren't directly related to the new nodes that affect test that Greg highlighted a few of them.
But one of them is devices start to be stacked more and more the dyes are stacked whether that's 2.5-D or 3D stacking testing at probe becomes a more critical need to get good yield for the stack and not have to throw away a lot of value add.
And so that's going to drive a new dynamic in test where probe testing will become a much higher performance test node and require a much more sophisticated system level- type testing strategy to weed out defects.
That's kind of where we've been focusing our product development is making that capability built into our UltraFLEX line of testers.
So it's less the nodes themselves.
The nodes for example 28 nanometers generated some yield issues that required a bit more test capacity that then gets optimized in follow-on periods as that yield gets improved.
Similar things could happen little bubbles like that for 20 and below but the sustainable driver of demand will be unit growth and then complexity growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
Maybe second question for me in terms of the memory test market.
We see strength in both DRAM and an emerging NAND at least CapEx build out.
Where are you seeing the buys for the memory size both DRAM and NAND? Or is biased towards one of the 2? Okay.
It's both sides for us.
I think on the DRAM side it's the Mobility healthy DDR buying.
And on the NAND side it's the high-performance or higher-speed NAND testing.
So we're seen an uplift on both sides.
That's what's given us a bit more in business in the first half of year than we had all of last year.
So we're intersecting that pretty well.
Your next question comes from Jagadish Iyer.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
First on the LitePoint side of the business I just wanted to understand like while this year you're having a digestion period for connectivity and cellular test starts to improve.
Longer term how mutually exclusive are they? Will they be firing on the same time in say in the next 2 years.
So we just wanted to understand the kind of the secular growth in the LitePoint part of the business and then I have a follow-up.
Like I was saying earlier we think that in the next few years the increasing number of antennas and the complexity of the wireless standards that will be embedded in mobile devices will drive growth -- unit growth and market growth in Wireless Test.
And LitePoint is now positioned well in both -- all aspects of those RF standards.
So it's really if you looked at the phone technology in 2013 and tablets there's been very slow migration to new standards in those products compared to the prior year.
But if we look into '14 and '15 NFC will be pervasive LTE and LTE Advance with carrier aggregation will come into play.
We'll see MIMO technology in tablets and eventually some high-end phones.
All of that's going to drive test quality and test coverage issues to ensure end-user experience is as expected.
Research Division</strong> And then Greg this is a question for you.
Given that the LitePoint you have kind of taken down your kind of estimates for the LitePoint at the lower end.
I just wanted to find out how your gross margins are likely to trend for the second half of this year.
Sure.
Our gross margins at LitePoint will be consistent with our model for LitePoint and above the company average.
So LitePoint will do well and we don't want to get any more specific than that in terms of those percentages.
But you can see some of the information in our footnote was segment in our 10-Q or 10-K I think you'll see that LitePoint for the year will operate above the company model.
Your next question comes from David Duley.
Yes just a couple of housekeeping questions for me.
What's -- you've talked about the size of the SOC and the memory market this year.
Could you give us a guess of what you think it's going to be in 2014? Yes so this year it came down -- will be down we believe from last year's $2.5 billion $2.6 billion level.
And next year we think it's going to bounce back probably into that $2.4 billion $2.5 billion level.
The only persistent dynamic change in consumption for SOC is we believe that the microprocessor testing segment in SOC will be very nominal for several years to come.
So that piece of the market has systemically gone away we believe.
It's not a segment that affects us per se but it does affect the market to the tune of maybe a couple of hundred million dollars a year.
And the size of memory market? Memory well our view is even though memory has picked up a bit here the trend line -- the first half is very weak in shipments and that the market will probably be in that $450 million to $500 million range next year as well.
Okay.
And Wireless came in I think at $474 million but your guidance on -- for revenue this quarter I guess is below that.
Is there a specific reason? Do you have longer lead time orders or why is that? We had a chunk of service business come in this quarter on an annual contract that gets renegotiated in the second quarter.
And that's recognized over a 12-month period.
Okay.
And when you talk about semiconductor orders being down whatever the midpoint in your range was that you talked about seasonally and I guess that's what you're expecting how should we look at the segments inside your business? Is it all mobility driven which is kind of why your orders were up I would imagine? But could just talk about the segments? And what would you expect the LitePoint orders to do in the third quarter? On SemiTest the thing that -- if you compare this year to last year mobility is certainly strong again.
RF testing for semiconductors is very strong here in the first half.
The other thing that's new this year is the J750 for microcontrollers.
Microcontrollers have turned on dramatically and we've had almost a record level first half unit demand for the J750 product.
Now as we look toward the back half of the year what we've typically seen certainly in Mobility is the cyclical decline in third and fourth quarter.
And we're not trying to prognosticate anything different than what we've seen historically.
The J750's a bit of a wildcard.
What happens there in the second half of the year that one doesn't have the same sort of seasonal pattern that the other Mobility market does.
So that one's a little bit more difficult for us to call.
And then what we said earlier on LitePoint is LitePoint does have a seasonal pattern that's pretty clear over the year.
The second half of the year typically is a slower period for new orders and we don't expect it to be any different.
But as Greg mentioned the dynamics of that market are beyond a few months very difficult for us to forecast.
And we are prepared to respond either way if demand picks up.
Okay.
Final one for me is have you seen any incremental improvement in some of the other SOC test segments perhaps tied to PCs or the other markets beside Mobility like analog or anything like that? Yes.
As I said before microcontrollers are strong.
Analogue is a bit weak relative to last year.
So that is an area that's been a little bit weaker.
And those are the major sort of segments: Analogue microcontrollers and mobility.
So mobility strong.
If anything the absence in mobility this year that's more been on the digital applications processor capacity adds have been down from last year.
But the RF test had -- have been about on par with last year.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Great.
Well thank you operator and thank you all for joining us today.
This concludes the call and we look forward to talking to you in the weeks ahead.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q3 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Mr.
Andrew Blanchard.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Angel.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; President Mark Jagiela; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the third quarter as well as our outlook for the fourth quarter of this year.
First I'd like to address several administrative issues.
The press release containing our third quarter results was issued last evening.
Copies are available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
We're providing slides on the Investor page of the website that may be helpful to you on following the discussion.
Those slides can also be downloaded or you can follow along live.
If you don't see the download icon just simply refresh your page.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We have posted additional information concerning those non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where available on the Investor page of the website.
Also between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be participating in an investor conference hosted by UBS and Crdit Suisse.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First our CEO Mike Bradley will review the state of the company and the industry for the third quarter and provide our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Then Greg Beecher will provide more details on our quarterly performance along with our guidance for the fourth quarter.
Mark Jagiela will then provide a short overview of some of the technology trends impacting the business.
We'll then answer your questions and you should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone.
Thanks for being with us again today.
Let me start with what's been challenging about this year then I'll give you the rundown on how we're navigating in this climate and how we expect we'll do to the full 12 months of the year.
By challenging I mean that the SOC test market will be down about 25% this year.
The memory market will be roughly flat and the wireless device test market that LitePoint serves will be off 25% to 30%.
Add to that a dramatic CapEx reduction in the hard disk drive market for the last 6 quarters and you get as tight a capital spending environment as we've seen in quite some time.
The Semiconductor Test markets which are tracked closely prove this point.
The SOC test market will bottom at under $400 million in revenues in Q4 and close the year at just under $2 billion in total.
And the memory test market will drop slightly in Q4 at an annualized run rate of just under $500 million.
While our prior projections for the full year in these markets have called for reduced capital spend rates the actuals will come in around the low end of our projections.
So that's been the challenge.
But despite this environment we'll post some very good results in 3 respects.
First we expect to again deliver above-model performance for the full year despite the annual revenues that will be down about 15%.
The hallmark of our performance over numerous cycles is our ability to deliver good results over the cycle independent of the ongoing market volatility.
Second we'll post sales at the trough that are slightly better than last year even though the market trough is deeper this time.
And third we'll have improved our market share position in our 3 major serve markets over last year.
Obviously this third element is a key to having very good results in what's been a tight capital spending environment.
Our product portfolio in SemiTest is rolling out as planned with new products this year and our J750 and Eagle test lines for SOC and with a new Magnum product in memory test.
Coupled with our UltraFLEX refresh last year we are offering new product extensions across our core SemiTest business where our install base now tops over 12 000 active systems.
As you know we have cracked into the cellular test space in LitePoint as well this year.
So the new product momentum for everything that touches mobile consumer products and the Internet of things is doing well.
Now admittedly our storage test lines have been impacted by the continued softening in PCs and as a result we scaled back in that area to navigate in the smaller demand environment.
But the total package of company performance will again be quite solid.
At this time each year as the market troughs and as full year market numbers become solidified the discussion turns to our outlook for next year.
Now we'll have a better estimate on the level of recovery we expect when we talk next quarter.
While we do expect to rebound as that has been the pattern over the last 10 to 15 years after an individual year of tighter CapEx.
Mark will go into some of the key technology trends in each area SOC memory and Wireless Test in a minute so you have some added perspective on the drivers in each of these markets and how we are positioned.
I will end with a reminder that we continue to scan the market for sensible acquisition candidates.
Greg will update you on how we want to remain financially capable of investing in assets that will strengthen our core businesses going forward.
So let me turn it over to Greg and then to Mark for their comments today.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Before diving into the details of the third quarter and our outlook for the fourth quarter I will take a few moments to recap the broader picture behind our strategy and finances.
Our overall strategy has 2 main elements.
First continue to grow share profitably in our core test markets by developing great products while still maintaining strict financial discipline; and second to use these hard-earned profits for the best possible return for our shareholders.
Let me begin with the first component.
We decided about 5 years ago that we needed to have financially healthy test businesses based upon the industry realities.
It became clear that the secular growth rates and the ability to move market share had both moderated with the maturing and consolidation of the ATE industry.
These industry realities required a very different model with each business unit and function knowing their part of the larger financial picture.
For example each unit knows they must self-fund annual raises with productivity gains.
It also requires very careful selection of the test segments that we focus on only those segments where we can use clever design to differentiate from our competitors and where the end market trends are favorable.
Thus our focus on mobility in both IC and consumer device end products and our deselection of some of the PC-centric markets.
That's why this year despite lower customer buying in our major markets we're on track to deliver our fourth consecutive year of greater-than-the industry-model operating profit rate of 15%.
Looking over a longer time period since 2010 we have averaged a 24% operating profit rate and generated $1.1 billion in free cash flow.
Even with the 2010 recovery excluded since 2011 our average operating profit rate is 22% and we have had free cash flow of $618 million.
An obvious concern with pressing hard on a financial model is a potential adverse impact on new products or customer support.
Well by that scorecard we're doing just fine.
In 2013 based upon strong share gains and SOC and memory test we are on track to deliver our highest semiconductor ATE market share position in our history.
And to top this off we received first place in VLSI technology's customer satisfaction survey based on survey responses from SemiTest customers around the world.
So customers are voting in favor of both our products and service support with their wallets and also at the ballot box.
And as Mike mentioned our R&amp;D pipeline has delivered a new round of products in semiconductor and Wireless Test that have strengthened our position at existing customers and earned us new ones in 2013.
And despite a projected 25% decline in the SOC test market this year our SOC test revenue is tracking to be down only about 15% far less than the industry decline.
And again we should exceed the industry target profit rate.
A significant portion of this industry decline is in segments where we don't have a presence such as in PC microprocessor testing.
But some of the decline in 2013 was also in the application processors segment where we do have a strong presence.
However we expect this segment to recover in 2014.
Moreover we are well positioned in the segments that offer higher long-term growth potential such as mobility automotive and microcontroller to name a few.
I've talked about LitePoint extensively in the last few calls.
So I will quickly summarize 2013 and our outlook for 2014.
First we met our key goal of breaking into cellular test and have expanded our customer base.
We are encouraged by the long-term trends and our prospects to gain additional share next year.
We don't plan to guide 2014 LitePoint revenue as it now has been part of Teradyne for 2 years but you should expect it to perform strongly inside of Teradyne.
After a digesting year in 2013 the long-term market drivers of unit growth new standards and increasing device complexity remain in place.
Now coming back to the model.
I should point out that it isn't static.
When opportunities exist to grow we up our investment.
A good example is at LitePoint where we significantly expanded our Asian distribution and cellular test engineering capabilities in line with our plans described to you in October of last year.
But equally important when markets change unfavorably such as an HDD test we resized our fixed cost structure to reflect those changes.
We completed that resizing a few months back.
Turning now to the second component of our strategy: using the hard-earned profits for the best possible shareholder return.
As you know we actively look for closely related businesses that offer a rate of return in excess of our cost to capital.
Let me reference LitePoint as the most recent example.
Recall LitePoint more than doubled its sales inside of Teradyne in its first year.
If you take 2012 and 2013 together we are on track to deliver about $550 million of additional revenue versus our original 2-year target of $350 million.
And to acquire LitePoint we needed sizable U.S.
cash reserves otherwise we faced unnecessary shareholder dilution as sellers significantly discount any buyer stock.
Going forward we believe having sizable drive power in the U.S.
ultimately avoids diluting shareholders.
And while we've grown cash and marketable securities quite significantly since the acquisition of LitePoint and in the quarter with a total gross balance of slightly under $1.2 billion our actual total U.S.
cash is about $600 million.
This is net of $360 million in offshore cash and the $190 million convertible debt principal due in March of 2014.
So we're actually operating with a considerably lower level of fully flexible U.S.
cash than we've had since before the LitePoint acquisition.
We also accept that we may be too opportunistic with our stock buyback program.
But for now we'd rather be opportunistic and cautious in share buybacks so we have the latitude to invest in growth opportunities without trading off dilution.
Of course there is no predicting if we can find another attractive nonorganic additional size that requires U.S.
cash so we'll continue to evaluate and consider all other options too.
So to recap our play book is to operate an optimized business model designed for the industry realities and then to use these hard-earned profits for the best possible shareholder benefit.
In our third quarter call with you each year we like to update our model for the following year.
You'll recall that we need about $375 million in quarterly sales to achieve a 15% operating profit assuming normal product mix.
We aren't planning any changes to that model this year however given our rising profit outlook our cash tax rate will increase from about 13% in 2013 to upwards of 18% in 2014.
Post 2014 we expect this rate to be in the mid-20s.
We have included our model in the accompanying slide deck for your reference.
Now moving to the key highlights of the third quarter.
We have total company bookings of $271 million down from the second quarter consistent with seasonal patterns.
The top line of the $433 million was essentially flat with the second quarter.
We had one customer that was more than 10% of company revenues in the quarter and our top 5 customers accounted for 43% of our total third quarter sales.
Total company product turns business was 37% versus 38% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 42% versus 48% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $39 million.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
Non-GAAP gross margins increased to 59% from 56% in the second quarter due to a very favorable product mix.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $142 million compared to $138 million in the second quarter.
The delta was driven by LitePoint sales expense and onetime corporate items.
At the operating line we posted a 26% profit.
Our non-GAAP net interest expense and other expense was $2 million.
Cash tax expense for the quarter was $16 million and our full year cash tax rate is expected to be 13%.
Cash from operations generated $122 million after capital additions.
We ended the quarter with a gross cash balance of $1.159 billion DSO was 44 days down from 48 days in the second quarter.
We expect cash and marketable securities to be flat in the fourth quarter as we are staging long lead-time inventory for 2014 surge demand.
As noted in the press release sales for the fourth quarter are expected to be between $260 million and $285 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0 to $0.07 on 194 million diluted shares.
The diluted shares are lower than normal because at this profit level including interest and excluding the convert shares is more dilutive.
Q4 guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles the noncash imputed interest on the convertible debt and includes taxes on a cash basis.
It also excludes an expected pretax gain of $33 million from the sale of an equity position in a private company.
Our GAAP EPS range is $0.04 to $0.08.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance is about 4%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages in the fourth quarter.
We expect non-GAAP gross margins to be about 55%.
R&amp;D and SG&amp;A should be 25% to 27%.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $2 million.
So as 2013 gets closer to entering the record books it's shaping up to be a good year for us by a down test equipment market.
We have a fresh product line-up and expect to post solid market share gains in SOC memory and Wireless Test.
Across the company we have a rich engineering pipeline to drive future growth.
We are well positioned competitively in entering 2014 and expect higher capital equipment spending for test than in 2013.
And our operating model is generating the necessary cash to offer us a broad range of options to grow shareholder value.
Now I'll turn the call to Mark for a few comments on some of the technology trends impacting our business.
Thanks Greg.
I would like to spend a few minutes outlining our strategy and mobility as it represents about 2/3 of our revenue since the start of 2012.
It's no secret that the growth of semiconductors for mobile devices has been a bright spot.
From a Semiconductor Test perspective it drives about 50% of the market today up from about 40% 4 years ago.
Low power DRAMs NAND FLASH image sensors applications processors cellular modems WiFi GPS and battery management are just a few examples.
Right around the corner are enhanced security devices more sensors and an increasingly diverse set of wireless protocols.
In both Semiconductor Test and LitePoint the majority of our R&amp;D investments have been aligned to these trends.
It's not just the unit growth that's attractive but also the leading-edge complexity and technical innovation in this space that gives us the opportunity to develop unique test solutions that provide high differentiation for both us and our customers.
One example of this is in Wireless standards where complex modulation schemes like 802.11ac and LTE Advanced are emerging.
Combining this technology would shortened time to market almost a vertical production ramps and a near 0 defect quality target puts extreme demands on a tester.
Our UltraFLEX provides the total package and leads the market in these applications.
It's combination of low-noise signaling hardware acceleration and an intuitive almost addictive environment that tames this complexity is what has earned us over 50% share of this growing market.
That philosophy is the same at LitePoint and is behind both our leading position in WiFi test and our breakthrough this year in cellular testing.
Open up a LitePoint product and you'll see the same innovation applied to making complexity simple in the hands of our customers.
By working far upstream with chipset providers LitePoint harnesses this insight into an architecture of optimized signal generation and measurement modules coupled with performance-tuned software algorithms.
Whether it's enabling MIMO AC or LTE LitePoint leads.
While the LTE and 802.11ac wave is just starting right behind it are 2 more mobility trends where we are focusing our R&amp;D.
One is the emerging market for FLASH with high-speed interfaces driven by multimedia applications and smart devices and SSDs.
Our Magnum test system is winning share because it's architected to meet the needs of FLASH interface speeds reaching up to 800 megabits and beyond without sacrificing any economics.
The second trend is advanced packaging for mobile devices where multiple chips are combined in a single package.
In memory we're seeing growth in low-power DRAMs which require rigorous at-speed testing at probe before being assembled into these advanced packages.
That plays right into the design target of our UltraFLEX tester which has the speed accuracy and signal delivery to yield these devices in production environments.
All of this is adding up to share gains that will pay dividends in future years.
Over the last few years our SOC share is up about 5 points memory share is up about 10 points and LitePoint share is up as well.
So as Greg noted we look very carefully at which markets to invest our R&amp;D dollars.
The focus on mobility in SemiTest and LitePoint has been very beneficial as we're well aligned to this growing market.
We'll continue to use the same rigor that drove that alignment as we look at future investments to attack new market opportunities.
Now back to Andy.
Thanks Mark.
Angel we would now like to take a few questions.
And as a reminder please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of John Pitzer.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is given how difficult a year this has been for the overall market just a little history lesson is most of the difficulty this year just a function of coming into the year there was expectations for high-end handsets to show a lot more growth than they actually did.
And I guess the basis of my questions I'm trying to get a better understanding of how mix in mobility impacts the overall test market for you guys? First half of that John is yes it's -- we ended the year at a run rate that was lower than the prior year coming in.
And we had a very strong tooling year in mobility in 2012.
So if you remember back 3 quarters from now we were projecting a down market.
It actually came in at the low end a slightly lower than the low end of our range at that point.
Research Division</strong> And then just relative to how I think about the test TAM if all the growth in mobility is going to start to come at the lower end of the market? How does that impact the size of the market in your guys opinion? I don't think the growth of low-end smartphones really has a big positive or negative impact on the test TAM.
This was a year to digest a tremendous amount of capacity that was put in place in 2011 so as that has all worked its way out and the cellphone market and mobility keeps growing we think that next year we'll get back to a bit of a more normal market environment.
Research Division</strong> Helpful.
And then guys as my follow-up can you just talk a little bit about sizing the AC opportunity on the connectivity side? How big do you think that test opportunity is and as we think about the quarterly patterns for next year around AC when do you actually start to see some more significant ramps there for you? That's all tied -- a lot of it is tied to product introductions that incorporate AC high-volume product introduction.
So it's hard to prognosticate which particular quarter that might affect but one of the things to keep in mind is in 2013 this year although few mobile devices have an AC embedded in them about half of the testers that we ship will have -- will be AC capable.
So there's already some amount of tooling going on for future proofing testers to enable them to test AC in the out years.
There's is still an install base that will need to be upgraded but it's not 100% turnover when the world moves to AC.
And your next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question can you give Greg of the $207 million in SemiTest orders can you break them up by SOC and memory? Yes.
The SOC $172 million; the memory $34 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Then can you talk also about what happened in Q4 to the SOC market.
It seems like it's about half of what you thought it would be when you guided 3-or-so months ago.
Can you maybe talk a little bit about what specifically happened in Q4 that caused it to be so low and why that's going to change going into Q1 because typically Q1 as you know is -- it's up like 40% in the last 4 years average from a booking's perspective and I'm wondering could what happen in Q4 change that dynamic headed into Q1? Tim I don't think it was just a Q4 phenomenon but you are correct that the market is at a lower run rate in the fourth quarter -- I'm talking about SOC now -- run rate than it's been since the fourth quarter of '08.
So a chunk of it was fourth quarter decline but certainly at least half of it was a lower rate as we came into the year.
And I think it's just the digestion period here just continued on through the year.
Now -- so yes the market is lower than we would have had if we had come in the full year at about $2.2 billion rate.
I think the other side of that coin is our trough position is higher than it was a year ago.
And our second half incoming order rate is higher than -- will be higher than it was a year ago.
So lower market better performance and as we come out of the trough we are in a better position than we're last year at this time.
I'll add one thing quickly the part of the market that impacted us the most was the application processor segment where there was a very large buying in 2012 and that was the digestion that took place in 2013.
We believe in 2014 that market will come back and we'll have a good amount of business in application processor segment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
I just -- on the question I asked so do you think it's reasonable to expect that bookings would come back in March to the same degree that they have seasonally in the last 4 years up 40% or up 50% something like that I mean it's hard to say but I'm just wondering the range? We have no reason to think seasonal patterns won't hold.
We have no greater insight other than just looking at past seasonal patterns and they seem to play out year after year.
But the one thing I will add to that though is it kind of correlates seasonally but the real driver are new product introductions of our customers.
So if there were early-year announcements of new products that tends to drive Q1 bookings sharper versus later-in-the-year announcements would push that out a bit that's the key thing.
And your next question comes from the line of Jim Covello.
Research Division</strong> First on LitePoint understanding Greg you don't want to guide specifically to that segment revenue anymore.
How much of -- but just qualitatively of the growth you're going to expect into next year -- how much growth do you think is going to come in connectivity versus handset does? Jim most of our growth would come from cellular test.
We have very high share in connectivity test.
Of course we can get some more but we have a very strong position there in connectivity.
So the opportunities for us will remain cellular test for the next several years.
Research Division</strong> And you don't see the connectivity market growing so much that that would be the bigger opportunity it's more of the share gain on the handset does? Well we focus much more on we could control.
We know the market maybe -- who knows where it's going to be next year.
We really don't know.
We know AC at some point will drive some buying but we don't know when as Mark mentioned.
So there -- and MIMO is going to drive some buying so there's some favorable trends but what we set our sights on are cellular tests because that greenfield for us where we have some big break-ins but there's some other opportunities that are very significant and we have a very strong offering.
So that's what we're doing and we'll see what the connectivity market does next year but again we have very strong share and a good position in that market.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up if I could just ask on memory.
I have asked this before but just maybe get an update relative to some of the new capacities that's now being added on the front end within memory.
Do you think your orders in memory are going to be driven by the testing some of the new capacity or is it going to be more technology transition based in 2014? Well I think that we expect to be able to continue to increase our share based on the technology trends I talked about which are high-speed interfaces and known good die for DRAMs but overall I don't expect the market for memory test to grow very much even though there's a lot of fab capacity being added.
So it's kind of a flat $500 million market.
We picked up 10 points a share.
We think we can pick up additional share next year based on the technology trends.
And your next question comes from the line of Jagadish Iyer.
Research Division</strong> Two questions Greg.
First if I look at your SemiTest revenues and if I look at the last 2 years we have seen that -- we have seen the third quarter was starting to be weaker after peak in second quarter but this year this seems to be a little bit different.
Is there anything that we can glean into this one please? And then I have a follow-up.
I'm going to pass that one off to Mark.
Do you want to take that one Mark? Yes.
I think the only thing -- well Greg alluded to this earlier but what's unique about 2013 compared to last year for example or the year before was the applications processor tooling that occurred in the second and third quarter of the prior 2 years was really absent this year and that's what sort of skewed the numbers this year compared to the last 2.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And secondly when you bought LitePoint we were all under the impression that there is going to be some kind of a secular growth.
Can you remind us now having seen how the connectivity has shaped up in terms of your long-term growth rates for this particular segment? I know you don't want to go specifics in to -- in terms of guiding for LitePoint but how should we be thinking about it given the dynamics between your share gains in cellular test as well as how the connectivity market is shaping up in terms of longer-term growth rates that one should be thinking about? Okay.
I'll take that one.
The overall cellular and connectivity test business that LitePoint participates in has been dramatically growing for the past several years.
This year was sort of the first year that in recent years has been kind of an optimization and digestion year of all of that capacity.
Long-term for both unit growth point of view and technology evolution point of view it's a growing business it's a growing TAM but any given year it's so tumultuous around how customers may be focused on optimization versus technology buys that it's hard to call any given year but long term we see the trends all positive.
And your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the LitePoint it seems to me that maybe some of the challenges that has prohibited you from providing any forecast is maybe lack of diversification in customers especially on the cellular side.
Can you help me -- or can you elaborate on it? And I have a follow-up.
We don't have that many cellular customers but we have multiple.
But that's not what is causing us not to give guidance.
We just think it's a mistake to give guidance for LitePoint after it's been in our fold for a couple of years.
It's had spectacular growth.
It's way ahead of any plan and any 1 year depending upon what wins the day whether it's productivity digestion or the positive trends that can move the market in any 1 year quite a bit.
What we are confident on is that we can continue to grow market share for the next some number of years.
We don't see anything in our way that would stop us.
So we are much more focused on market share and we don't truly spend time trying to figure out what the market size is going to be next because it does not really change what we do.
We have focused on what accounts we're going after with what products and what teams are supporting those accounts.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I was surprised to hear that memory spend or memory market could be flat next year.
Because I was under the impression that the DDR4 and low-power DDR3 would require an upgrade or refresh cycle what is it that I'm missing? It's the -- for years and years the memory market has seen both unit and bit growth but not test or TAM growth.
And the 2 trends you talk about this year for example we've seen reasonable tooling for DDR4 already occurring.
And despite that the market's going to come in at about $500 million.
And for the low-power DRAMs the real shift that's occurring isn't the fact that low-power DRAMs are going into mobility but they're moving more and more from package-on-package type applications to bare die.
That's the technology by the shifts final test -- testers to wait for probe.
And so it's again a shift of the sort of emphasis of where the testing occurs and not so much of growth on the total tester market.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And if I could just ask one quick question for Greg.
Of the Semiconductor Test equipment booking what was the services portion? Okay.
Of the semi services bookings almost -- give me one second.
I'll get back to you in a minute.
I can't -- I don't have it right now.
And your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar.
Research Division</strong> Number one either Greg or Mark can you talk about the competition in the wireless LitePoint space especially with like [indiscernible] National Instruments seems to be making some inroads? Yes I don't want to get into any one specific competitor but it's certainly a very robust competitive space.
And with the market going through both technological change and digestion of capacity it provides opportunities and challenges for everybody to find the growing spaces.
Now LitePoint has had a unique approach to the market compared to just about any other competitor by having these purpose-built production-focused products for the market.
They don't come from a heritage of building lab equipment and then trying to optimize them for production they go right at the heart of production test.
So that's been the unique position we've had in the market but the competition is tremendous and will not because it's a growing market and because it's attractive it's not going to change.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
All right.
And then in 2014 if cellular test is going to grow for you guys is it coming from the fact that you're going to get more customers for cellular test or is it going to come from the fact that is going to be increasing test times in the cellular test or is it going to be a function of both? We will be more focused on getting -- increase customers that's where our sights are targeted.
Almost every other factor is a variable that can go in our favor or go against our favor.
So if you were sitting in our shoes I think you'd be focused on the incremental customers that you are well aligned to with your solution set going after them.
And that's exactly what we're doing.
And your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just as a follow-up to the last question about the cellular side and the Wireless Test business and I know you mentioned that a lot of it is dependent on your customers' timing.
But how do you see 2014 in terms of increasing share and gaining new customers as a contribution to revenues versus the AC adoption in the industry? Yes I think as Greg said most of our growth will come from capturing new cellular business.
There's certainly a underlying balloon in the connectivity space around AC and by the way AC when you talk about a standard like AC there's an initial introduction of AC that tends to be fairly straightforward in its implementation and that's what you are finding today in some cell phones but the standard is immensely complex and has an evolution that drives additional test requirements over its adoption over 10 years.
So the AC chips you see today will be very different than the ones you see in 2 to 3 years and require much more sophisticated testing.
So that balloon is there but I would say the emphasis in terms of the growth comes more from picking up share in the cellular space.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
Maybe going to SOC side of things for the December quarter what are you looking for in terms of your outlook for revenues on just the SOC side of the test business? Patrick we don't get that specific in terms of forecast for semi but you have our total range for the fourth quarter.
And your next question comes from the line of Vishal Shah.
Research Division</strong> This is Chad Dillard on the line for Vishal.
Just wanted to get a little bit more insight into your outlook for HDD test should we think about the $125 million run rate as being the same or should it be lower given some of the difficulties in the overall end market? Yes.
It should be lower and it is lower.
A couple of months ago we resized that business and now it's about $90 million we would need a year to hit a 15% profit target rate so we did take some meaningful fixed cost actions to get the business in a position that it should be to be able to hit its 15% target.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I know you don't provide full on -- in market guidance but for the next quarter how should we think about the puts and takes and where do you see the greatest downside? If you talk about the next -- this quarter fourth quarter there's not a lot of disruption that can occur or we see occurring on the downside.
So I don't think we see much of anything on that and it's reasonably contained at this point.
Chad the contour we think will mirror what we saw last year with Q3 as the low point and new orders coming in at a slightly higher rate and -- but we can't -- we don't know at this point exactly how much difference there is but the turning point looks similar #1 and #2 for us it's off a higher base.
And your next question comes from the line of David Duley.
Just a couple of clarifications.
Could you mention -- you mentioned how much your market share was up could you give us what your market share is in each market SOC memory and in LitePoint.
I will give you some rough numbers because market share isn't super precise but roughly speaking in SOC test our share is about 45% of that market in total; in memory test it's about 25% in total; and LitePoint is the most difficult one because there really isn't a clear picture of the total market there's no developed infrastructure around that but our internal view of that is we're somewhere between 25% and 28% of the Wireless Test market.
Back on SOC which is the biggest SemiTest market.
The market share position at any point in time is a function of segment shifting and from gains or losses in new accounts.
And so at any point where we say our market share is X there's a plus or minus in there because a piece of that is segment related.
Overall the segment shifts towards mobility are helping us #1.
But #2 this is gradual account-by-account socket-by-socket work that we've been doing over the last few years and that's the other piece.
Roughly that's half to half but if you went from 1 year to the next and you just -- you could see some movement up or down in our market share.
The point here is the biggest part of the market which is mobility we've gained ground in that and mobility has become a bigger piece of it.
So overall we are getting 2 things that go into the market share gain.
Okay.
And as far as the SOC test market goes next year it sounds like you guys are kind of qualitatively talking about all your major markets being up next year and that you could plan on gaining share.
So maybe give us -- do you think the SOC test market reverts back to the mean which would indicate probably 15% growth on an annual basis or can you give us some sort of idea what you think the size of the market is going to be next year? I think 15% is definitely a possibility because what 15% represents is at a slightly below $2 billion market that gets you to $2.3 billion so that's very much a possibility.
Just a recap of the numbers for the last 6 or 7 years ago $2.6 billion $2.4 billion 2009 is $1.3 billion a big correction year but then it's back to $2.7 billion $2.5 billion $2.6 billion and this year just under $2 billion.
So 15% is definitely in the cards higher than that if it goes back to the sort of the 2.6 highpoint that we've had in the last 3 or 4 years.
Just a final clarification question for me.
You mentioned you had a 10% customer was that on the LitePoint side or was it in the SOC test side? We're not going to specify that but in our annual 10-K you can see who that customer is if it holds up being 10% for the full year.
So same customer as it was last year then? I'm not going to get into that.
And your next question comes from the line of Stephen Chin.
Research Division</strong> This is Mahavir Sanghavi.
Just a clarification question about the bookings -- SOC bookings in the third quarter.
What was the split between IDMs and OSAT? Hang on we got that.
63 37 [ph].
We call it specifiers.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So it's 63 IDMs.
And then just a follow-on question to that.
I'm wondering if you could talk about 2014 -- you talked about application processor driven bookings I mean booking and sales to come back.
Wondering if you could give us some color on how we should think about in terms of some new process RAMs 120-nanometer or 20- 16-nanometer going on in 2014 time frame -- the time frame in terms of how 1 or 2 quarters before we should see production of 20-nanometer or so.
And just a question on the LitePoint on the cellular test business is it easier for us to model that business out as a function of the LTE unit growth? Well first of all on applications processors certainly in 2014 it's likely that there'll be migration to 20-nanometer that doesn't in and of itself drive much of a change in the test capacity demand.
The only issue there is if there are yield issues like there was with 28-nanometer a year ago.
It can drive a little bit of overcapacity bind to accommodate the lower yield but then that corrects itself in the following year.
On average it doesn't really change so its kind of a blip if anything.
So the return to applications processor yes it will be 20-nanometer but it's more driven by unit growth and complexity.
On the LitePoint side LTE is the opportunity that opens up customers to reevaluate their suppliers for cellular test.
So as LTE becomes a larger and larger portion of the cell phone market those are the entry points for LitePoint to get in and demonstrate the superior capability of their product.
It's not so much there's something unique about LTE but it really is the technology change that gives us the entre.
Your next question is from Jairam Nathan.
LLC</strong> Just to follow up on the Systems Test business so you have talked about the Systems Test being $125 million on the industrial side and $125 million on HDD.
Do you have a split for how well it will go in the current year and how should we think about that in '14? Okay I'll take the beginning of that.
The Systems Test business includes 3 businesses of which one is the hard disk drive.
This is also a [indiscernible] Business and a Commercial Board Test business.
So earlier and I think in response to a question we mentioned that the Hard Disk Drive business of $125 million a year is what you needed for 15% profit rate.
We resized that down to $90 million.
Lowered that fixed cost structure.
I think your other question was really about what we think 2014 looks like for Hard Disk Drive or System Test in total? The non-HDD businesses have been running.
If you put them together they have been running $130 million $140 million in top line for the last couple of years that wouldn't be a bad number.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And my other question was on 2 or 3 competitors have a handler business now and what with LTX kind of going in there.
How you think about that -- is it -- do you see like competitive advantage with that? Yes we've looked at the handler business as you might expect for quite some time and the fact of the matter is in handling there is a very wide diversity of handler types that customers need to accommodate the wide diversity of package types and so no 1 or 2 or 3 handlers serves a very large part of the market.
And we've taken a philosophy that we need to adapt our product to a wide variety of handlers and be best-in-class at that as opposed to trying to narrow it down to a sub subset of the market and focus there.
The other thing about handling is it's a pretty low barrier-to-entry business.
When you look at it as a business you see emerging players in far regions of the world like Korea.
The profit pools are low and it's very hard to make a profit in that business.
And the experiment that's been run for a couple of decades now at Advantest where they've had handlers as part of their portfolio really hasn't changed anything strategically in the market.
So again I don't see that as something in the short term never say never but it's not something that we see an attractive place to differentiate.
And your next question comes from the line of Tom Diffely.
Research Division</strong> Earlier you talked about the rising use of wafer level testing so I was curious if you have seen that on both the memory and the SOC side and from a tester point of view how the tester for the more advanced wafer level testing now compares to the final testers? Yes it is a trend for both SOCs and memory.
From a tester point of view potentially you're right.
A lot of the capability that existed at final test -- wafer test traditionally was a somewhat cursory straightforward screen and then all of the performance characteristics were tested at final and there was a diversity there for the test equipment at each node.
A lot of that capability's being pulled back now into probe test.
And it's not just -- you can't just take a final test tester and now redeploy the probe you need to have the signal-delivery capability to get the same stability down to a device through a probe interface that you are able to do at a package level.
So it is migrating back to an earlier node is a fundamental shift.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But in general are you seeing the times for final test go down because it is more extensive wafer level testing? Well it's a complex equation so what happens is let's take -- when people do known good die testing it's because they are going to assemble those die into a - some kind of a multichip package.
So at wafer test the test time and the test criteria goes up.
At final test that assembled package that might have 2 3 or 4 bare die in it also gets tested for performance and that test time and that complexity is quite large as well.
So it's really close to a 0-sum game possibly a little bit of an adder because you need to do performance test now in both package and probe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally where do you think we are in the migration to wafer level testing and where we're going in the next couple of years? It's quite early.
A lot of WiFi chips are tested right now -- wafer level package for added known good die level.
Memory is just just starting and SOC as well.
The real thing that will unleash that is either the substrate or the TSV stack die economics comes superior to sort of traditional packaging we have today.
Once that economic equation can be solved it will take off rapidly.
And there are no further questions at this time sir.
Great.
Everyone thank you for joining us today.
This concludes the call and we look forward to talking to you in the days ahead.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Toni and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q4 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Blanchard you may begin your conference.
Thank you Toni.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our soon to retire Chief Executive Officer Mike Bradley; President and incoming CEO Mark Jagiela; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the fourth quarter as well as our outlook for the first quarter of this year.
The press release containing our fourth quarter results was issued last evening and copies are available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
We're providing slides on the Investor page in the website that may be helpful to you on following the discussion.
Those slides could be downloaded now or you can follow along live.
If you don't see the download icon simply refresh the page.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We've posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
They are available on the Investor page of our website.
Also between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be participating in an Investor Conference that's hosted by Stifel Nicolaus Goldman Sachs Susquehanna and Bank of America.
Now as you know the rest of the agenda.
First Mike Bradley will comment on 2013 and Teradyne's position as we enter the new year.
Mark will then provide a deeper look at our performance in 2013 and an early view of 2014.
Greg will then offer more details on our annual and quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the first quarter.
We'll then answer your questions and you should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mike? Good morning everyone.
I'm going to limit my remarks today to a short wrap up of 2013 plus a quick retrospective on how we've positioned the company for the future.
As Mark will officially be taking over the reigns in about a week I will leave the 2014 part of the story to him and to Greg who will give you the financial perspective.
2013 is a good example of what we've done to make Teradyne more resilient in the volatile markets we serve.
In a year of significantly reduced CapEx in our major markets we've delivered a solid bottom line improved our market share launched a series of new products and improved our customer satisfaction levels.
We exit the year at a higher trough than in last year's cycle and end at 2014 with expectations of a healthier climate but still some uncertainty of how sharp a recovery we'll see.
Our position across the mobility sector in SemiTest and LitePoint has been strengthened in the last year buttressed by a very solid foundation in analog and consumer digital applications.
As you know this will be our fourth straight year of above model performance as we continue to outpace what last quarter I called the golden era of tests in the late '90s.
This 4-year run has generated a 50% higher operating profit rate of that earlier period and over 3 times the cash flow.
All with an average annual headcount at about 50% of the level of the late '90s.
Of course the more important comparisons are the current ones relative to our industry peers.
And I'm very pleased that we've made steady progress in market share we've moved into the first tier of the broader semi cap equipment companies and we've integrated some solid acquisitions in the portfolio.
As important is the strategic reliance that our customers now place on us in a back end market that has sharply consolidated in the last 6 years or so.
I hope that you see our leadership transition as a smooth handoff to a very capable industry veteran and a seasoned management team.
Mark has been instrumental in getting us to the point we're at today and I'm confident that we won't miss a beat in the next chapter.
As this is my last earnings call I do want to thank all of you who followed our progress.
And I trust that you appreciate the continued power of our business model.
We value the critical eyes you bring to our space and expect more of that in the future.
I will say that we will continue to try and give you as straight a picture as we can at times with a slight bias to caution but I think that works and that you have us calibrated pretty well.
So let me turn it over to Mark for his perspective on our recent results and how things will shape up as we enter 2014.
And thanks to you all.
Thanks Mike.
I'm going to briefly review our key results from 2013 and paint a picture of how we are looking at 2014.
Greg will then provide details on our Q4 results as well as guidance and perspectives on our current quarter.
In 2013 we had a significant market share gain in SOC Memory and Wireless Test which help offset tougher than expected market conditions.
In SOC test the 2013 market fell to $1.9 billion lower than the general market forecast of $2.3 billion at the beginning of the year.
This was primarily due to a significant drop in CapEx for digital processor test.
While 2013 illustrates the difficulty of predicting the market size this early in the year we do believe that there will be a rebound in the digital segment and the market will likely be in the $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion range.
In Teradyne's case our 7-point SOC market share gain to about 47% helped offset much of the 2013 market decline.
It also positions us well for the expected market uptick in 2014.
Key design wins in microcontroller automotive and processor test combined with the strong demand for linear RF testing contributed to our gains in 2013.
As an example orders for our J750 microcontroller test were more than doubled over 2012 level.
Furthermore a new high-density version of the product introduced last summer ups the frequency and pin count to reach into new applications in the expanding digital test market in China.
Our UltraFLEX tester continues to pick up new RF and digital baseband customers.
In RF the platform distinguishes itself with leading low noise performance to improve yields for our customers.
In all applications our unique IG-XL software provides program generation anti-bug tools that speed the task of bringing increasingly complex multifunction devices to market.
These architectural advantages come from years of close collaboration with early customers which provides the insight to focus on areas with the biggest impact.
In memory test we had a breakout year in 2013 gaining 10 points of share to about 26% in a market that was down slightly to about $450 million.
Sales growth was split almost evenly between our Magnum FLASH tester and UltraFLEX high-speed DRAM tester as we added new customers in both segments.
Both testers were architected to push the envelope of high-frequency signaling which is aligned very well with the increasing bandwidth of DRAMs and FLASH for SSD application.
Looking forward we see the memory test market in 2014 to be about flat.
However continued momentum in FLASH test combined with emerging applications in DRAM known good die testing should result in continued share gains in 2014.
Turning to LitePoint and Wireless Test.
As planned we gained about 3 points of share in 2013 mainly from our cellular test design wins.
However while it's difficult to get an accurate fix on the Wireless Test market side our internal estimates are that the overall market compressed from about $1.3 billion to around $1 billion in 2013.
There are multiple reasons for this but the bottom line is that Wireless Test is a relatively new market with volatile dynamic.
In 2013 slower than expected adoption of 802.11ac and tester efficiency improvements led to the overall market decline.
Looking forward we see the continued adoption of 11ac with its MIMO and beamforming technologies as well as emerging markets like wearables that use Bluetooth driving growth.
In cellular LTE and LTE Advanced are another growth engine that drives increasing test modes and calibration.
While increasing test productivity will offset some of this growth we remain bullish on the secular trends and our opportunities in Wireless Test.
In Systems Test the bright spot was an in-circuit board test where orders grew 5%.
A new multi-site inline tests were introduced in the last quarter of 2013 is the 2014 story as we target high-volume automated production line.
Defense and aerospace orders were down year-over-year due to an abnormally high order pull-in in the last quarter of 2012 in advance of the 2013 budget sequester.
In HDD the slowdown in the Q3 sharply reduced the investments in 2.5 inch drive capacity last year.
And Greg will provide more color on the HDD business in his remarks.
Finally I'd like to say a few words on our capital allocation strategy.
As you know we've been working on growing the profitability cash generation and revenue of the company over the past few years.
Acquisitions and organic initiatives combined with a disciplined financial model have been the recipe for transforming Teradyne.
We still see plenty of opportunities to grow the company and see near adjacency acquisitions as a key element of increasing shareholder value.
In the past Greg has outlined the position of our cash portfolio and its utilization.
While we continue to evaluate strategic investment opportunities we do see that the strength of our business model our cash position and optimism for the future allows for some incremental return of free cash flow to shareholders without jeopardizing our strategy.
Hence our initiation of a quarterly dividend as announced in the earnings release.
As always we will continue to assess our cash portfolio and investment process -- prospects to best optimize long-term returns to shareholders.
Before turning things over to Greg I just want to offer a note of thanks to Mike for his 35 years of service to Teradyne and particularly the last 10 years as CEO.
Under his leadership the company has been transformed and is now stronger than ever.
Anyone looking at the change in landscape of the test business knows it was not a 3-inch putt to pull that off.
Working with Mike has been a fantastic experience and he leads Teradyne on a very strong footing both financially and strategically.
Thank you Mike.
Thanks Mark.
And good morning everyone.
I'll start with a deeper dive into 2013 results and our multiyear performance then offer some perspective looking ahead.
I'll then cover the fourth quarter details and first quarter outlook.
Starting with 2013 we had revenue of $1.4 billion non-GAAP EBIT of 80% and EPS of $1.06.
Overall this was solid performance considering CapEx spending for SOC test and wireless test equipment was down quite significantly on the prior year.
Despite these strong headwinds we close our fourth year in a row above the 15% target industry profit rate.
The headline story of 2013 is twofold: strong SemiTest and Wireless Test share gains and a highly resilient operating model.
In SemiTest our sales were $1 023 000 000 down 9% from a year ago against a combined SOC and memory market drop of 24%.
The SOC test market was down about 27% and the memory test market was down 5%.
We gained share in both SOC and memory bringing our total ATE share to record levels at about 43% up 6 points from the prior year.
In SOC test the share gains were about evenly split between competitive socket wins and segment shifts in the market.
In memory test the record 10 points of share gain Mark noted was largely in mobility applications such as FLASH and the low-power DRAM.
Our other key SemiTest goals were to field new products in analog test microcontroller tests and low-speed memory test.
These goals were accomplished and this new suite of products are now on customer test floors helping our customers get devices to market faster at the high quality levels demanded of today's consumer products.
At LitePoint we finished 2013 with revenue of $252 million.
As Mark noted LitePoint also gained market share in a down market.
In the first full 2-year period in the fold LitePoint has averaged about $270 million in yearly sales.
More than double its 2011 run rate.
Over the last 2 years LitePoint sales have totaled $538 million well above our original 2-year target of $350 million.
This time last year we outlined major LitePoint goals to grow our position in cellular 802.11ac and MIMO test and we accomplished those critically important goals as well.
Now point of system test.
It was also not immune to the lower CapEx buying in 2013 and had a down year with sales of $153 million.
This sequential drop of $90 million was due to the very steep decline in storage test as 2.5-inch hard disk drive testing demand was dormant.
Our key system test goal is to field a 3.5-inch tester for data centers and that was accomplished as planned in the second half.
Recall that System Test includes our minerals test and in-circuit test businesses as well as HDD storage test.
Our mineral business continues to operate above model and our in-circuit test business tightened its cost structure and fielded a new higher throughput in-line product.
At a company level if we now look over a 3-year time period which smooth out the annual buying cycles we've averaged annual sales of just over $1.5 billion in a non-GAAP operating profit rate of 21%.
We're pleased that both our 2014 and multiyear performance continues to place us among the best performance semi cap suppliers.
Now looking into 2014 our playbook remains the same.
We'll continue to focus on gaining market share through offering differentiated solutions that provide customers greater throughput and enable them to get their products to market faster.
The latter is key as our customers continue to accelerate their product development plans.
In SOC we'll stay keenly focused on mobility automotive and microcontroller testing as these segments all offer above industry growth.
In memory we expect to continue to gain share as device technology trends especially higher speed and lower power consumption favor our Magnum and UltraFLEX test families.
At LitePoint the focus remains on catching the 802.11ac and MIMO RAMs while continuing to expand our cellular test footprint.
The global role of LTE continues to offer opportunities for our IQ extreme product line.
Also at LitePoint we're well along in the integration of ZTEC the small innovative wireless instrument company we acquired early in the fourth quarter.
A combination of ZTEC Instruments with LitePoint software allows us to offer LitePoint's ease of use earlier in our customers' design verification test process.
This enables an even smoother and faster transition of customers' new mobility products from a lab to high volume manufacturer.
This new offering will give customers the best of both worlds -- a flexible wireless tester in design and a production optimized tester for high-volume manufacturer.
In System Test storage test is now a recovery and get well plan which should provide opportunities for better performance in 2014.
I should note that the dynamics in this market are a bit in flux as on one side of the ledger the demand is lower than we projected a year ago and in the other side of the ledger our sole competitor is in the process of being acquired by a customer.
We'll have a better sense of how all this shakes out later this year.
Across the company we'll maintain the steady financial discipline that has enabled our strong multiyear performance.
We're coming off a 2013 that delivered very strong gross margins at 56% for the full year.
A record.
This was driven by a very favorable product mix.
The mix of our business in 2014 is expected to be more normal which should bring our gross margin percentage closer to those seen in 2012 about 54% for the full year.
I'll quickly add that we have not and do not see or anticipate any significant changes in the overall pricing environment.
We also expect net capital additions to trend up about 25% in 2014 from the 3-year average of $68 million due to expanded sales opportunities.
Now turning to capital allocation.
As Mark noted we announced the initiation of a quarterly dividend of $0.06 per share with the initial dividend payable on June 2 2014 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 9 2014.
As you have all seen our operating model has shown its cash generation strength across industry cycles and this dividend reflects our confidence in the business our operating model our growth strategy.
We will also continue to remain opportunistic with the funding of the stock buybacks and expect to continue to throw our dry powder so that we have sufficient U.S.
cash for attractive M&amp;A that meets our very strict criteria.
Before I get to the fourth quarter highlights I would like to explain that the convertible note is due on March 17 2014.
On that date we'll pay the $190 million balance off with cash.
We'll settle the $7.665 option element for 34.7 million shares over the 65-day trading period beginning on June 17.
The mechanics are all part of the structure that was necessarily at the outset to receive favorable tax treatment.
When included in the third quarter we expect our share count exclusive of any buybacks between now and then to be about 260 million shares assuming an average share price over the period of $20.
We've included a slide in the presentation on our website which describes this further.
Now moving to the key highlights for the fourth quarter.
We had total company bookings of $290 million.
SemiTest bookings were $225 million.
SOC test orders were $193 million and memory test orders were $32 million in the fourth quarter.
SemiTest service orders were $49 million.
Wireless Test orders were $18 million.
System test orders were $47 million with $26 million of service orders.
In the fourth quarter Semiconductor Test sales were 75% of the total Wireless Test 9% and System Test 16%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the fourth quarter was 1.0 for the overall company.
1.0 for Semiconductor Test 0.7 for Wireless Test and 1.0 for System Test.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $362 million of which 75% is scheduled to ship to be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $285 million was down $148 million or 34% sequentially from the third quarter in line with seasonal patterns and up 15% from fourth quarter of a year ago.
SemiTest was $250 million down $89 million.
Wireless Test was $26 million down $67 million and Systems Test group was $44 million up $8 million.
We have 1 customer that was more than 10% of the company revenues in the quarter and one for the full year as well.
Within the $285 million of fourth quarter revenue service was $74 million up $6 million compared to the third quarter.
SemiTest service revenue was $52 million.
Total company product lines business was 41% versus 37% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 45% versus 42% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $23 million.
Moving down the P&amp;L non-GAAP gross margins decreased to 55% from 59% in the third quarter due to lower volume.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $140 million compared to $142 million in the third quarter as variable compensation flexes down on lower sales.
At the operating line we posted a 6% profit.
Our non-GAAP net interest and other expense was $2 million cash tax expense for the quarter was $2 million and our full year cash tax rate was 13% for 2013 and is expected to be 18% for 2014.
Included in our GAAP results is a onetime gain from the sale of an equity investment of $34 million.
Cash from operations generate $20 million after capital additions.
We ended the quarter with gross cash balance of $1.2 billion.
DSO was 50 days up from 44 days in the third quarter.
We expect cash and marketable securities to decrease by $260 million in first quarter as we will be repaying the $190 million face value of the convertible note and we also paid out annual variable compensation and make tax payments.
As noted in the press release sales for the first quarter are expected to be between $300 million and $330 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.02 to $0.09 on a 196 million diluted shares.
The diluted shares are lower than normal because at this profit level including interest and excluding the convert shares is more dilutive.
Q1 guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles a CEO equity charge the non-cash computed interest on the convertible debt and includes taxes on a cash basis.
Our GAAP EPS range is a loss of $0.09 to a loss of $0.03.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our first quarter guidance is about 5%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages from the first quarter.
We expect non-GAAP gross margins to be 49% to 50%.
R&amp;D should be 21% to 23% and G&amp;A should be 22% to 24%.
Non-GAAP net interest expense is expected to be about $2 million.
So 2013 will go down as a good year and a difficult market.
It also positions us very well for 2014 with our strong market share momentum new product offerings a very resilient model and a capital allocation strategy that rewards shareholders and supports our growth strategy.
I'll now turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Toni would now like to take some questions.
And as a reminder please limit yourself to 1 question and a follow-up.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Duley with Steelhead.
Just couple of questions from me.
Why are you confident that the apps process of business is going to growth in 2014? Yes this is Mark.
It's something that frankly is hard to predict with any precision but we do see some advanced tooling being put in place for an anticipated uptick this year.
Our visibility on this tends to be 8 to 12 weeks out but the early indications we see are that the digital processor business in 2014 may have a very similar profile to what we saw back in 2012.
Then I think in the press release you mentioned that you think things are going to accelerate or I think on the order front could you just talk about which segment do you see doing that? Yes the most significant one is the one I just mentioned which is around digital processor whether that digital modems or applications processors.
But we do see continued strength as well in the microcontroller space and automotive.
Those 3 segments.
And last year actually automotive and microcontrollers were strong all year long.
That seems to be persisting here into the early part of 2014 and the adder has been the return of applications processors and modems.
Okay.
Final thing from me is you talked about a mix shift in the business and that how -- that gross margins are going to shift down.
Could you just talk about -- is that because the apps processor business is returning or the customer concentration there? Just talk about why that is.
It's 100% due to mix.
And our mix looks more like what you might have seen in other periods.
I think we're starting off similar to Q1 2012 with a similar gross margin.
But as we look later in the year we see the mix improving but it's just simply what piece of business in the first quarter versus other quarters.
And I made some comments in my remarks to make sure that investors knew there's nothing going on differently in pricing it's just simply mix.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question in terms of the Wireless Test business.
You mentioned last year that you saw some excess inventory from your customers in terms of the connectivity side.
Can you give a little bit of color on how that situation has worked itself out and kind of just maybe a qualitative outlook on how you see that business or that side of the business entering 2014? Yes.
I think first of all the Wireless Test business as I said is a very volatile dynamic area.
So it's a bit difficult to project trends there.
But on connectivity specifically there's a clear movement in what we see coming in 2014 to increase the complexity of the consumer devices as it relates to connectivity.
So we've talked a lot about for example the transition to 802.11ac but even within that there's multiple technology like MIMO multiple-in multiple-out antennas that allow shaping of the RF signals or beamforming.
That's the complexity level that will be entering consumer products over the next couple of years that will drive incremental test need.
So last year what we saw was early adopters had 802.11ac.
A lot of -- a half of our shipments were ac-capable but there was some amount of digestion of prior year shipments and capacity and optimization that offset some of the growth.
And the new technologies really start to roll in this year and beyond.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great and maybe a follow-up question on the SemiTest side on the SOC front.
Obviously you're right now looking at projected growth in the overall SOC test space driven by the digital application processors.
Are you also anticipating some of your share gains that you talked about I guess hitting a volume ramp in 2014 as well that will allow you to outperform the overall marketplace? ; Yes.
So we picked up significant market share in 2013 7 points of share in SOC test.
And as Greg mentioned half of that we would consider real customer shifting buying to Teradyne and half is a bit due to customers that we don't currently have being abnormally low.
So our goals for this year in SOC test were essentially to consolidate and hold the share we gained last year keep the 7 point share gain at 47% share.
That requires us adding some new customers.
That's in sight but as the market grows we'll grow proportional to the market.
In memory test however we do have some line of sight there that says the design wins we've achieved in 2013 should continue to propel our share north in 2014.
So we are looking to pick up another 2 to 4 points of share in memory in 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Terence Whalen with Citi.
Research Division</strong> This is a pretty simple question the higher level question around capital allocation.
Can you help us or remind us how much of free cash flow is generated domestically versus internationally? And the more important part of the question is as you sort of considered changing your capital allocation plan how do you think about the potential for multiple expansion for the stock as you increase the percentage of free cash flow that's returned to investors? And then how do you think about it between dividend buyback and M&amp;A? Okay.
This is Greg.
Our U.S.
cash is 50% to 60%.
So we have plenty of cash from our ongoing operations to fund the dividend.
In terms of what happens to the multiple over time I think you guys are more expert at that but we would hope with a dividend we would attract some new investors and [indiscernible] nothing else [indiscernible] and a helpful yield to decide.
But we'll see that unfolds but we do think it was the right time to do it and at present jeopardized our growth strategy.
We still believe we can do another quality acquisition like another LitePoint or half a LitePoint but was the right time to do it.
Research Division</strong> And then perhaps just a rough way to think about the allocation between the competing uses of dividend buyback and M&amp;A just in a broad longer term sense.
Well the M&amp;A strategy hasn't changed.
Our strategy has been further straightforward.
We look for close adjacencies businesses that will fit very nicely in Teradyne or we can help them grow faster than what they could do on their own.
They are more likely going to be some type of electronics test measurement business they may more likely be in production high-volume production but yes there could be some situations that are big connections but aren't exactly what I just said.
But we look for businesses that have high differentiation and are in profit pools with good growth.
And that basically describes LitePoint.
And we find 1 or 2 of those companies a year and it's hard quite often to agree upon valuations.
So we'll stay the course and if we find something that meets our strict criteria and it's a good fit that we can help grow faster and are across the capital or better then we'll deploy the cash for M&amp;A.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pitzer with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question I'm always hesitant to talk about normal seasonality because there's so much variance around normal but when you look at the guidance for March it is about half the sequential growth you guys have seen over the last call it 3 or 4 years.
And I'm just kind of curious to what extent is that a function of the industry still suffering through the excess capacity from last year as we were all too optimistic on high-end smartphones and to what extent of that just perhaps timing of projects this year? And I guess specifically what I'm thinking about is the 20-nanometer ramp on the apps processor side and if it's more the latter what's the implication as we think about June? Yes I think it's really timing.
There's nothing significant I think in the March snapping along at the end of March and is that a signal of something significant happening.
But the one thing you've mentioned for example process maturity in fabs can drive tooling sometimes both in excess of normal levels and sometimes earlier.
But not necessarily something we see this year.
That was something that was a little more prevalent back in 2012.
So if we really get back to this year the timing of new product introductions for consumers and the ramp times of silicon can be a little bit closer to the ramp times of end products because the process maturity there is a little bit firmer as I would say this year than it may have been back in 2012.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Then just my follow-up I'm just hoping to get a little bit of update about customer concentration within LitePoint.
I think in 2012 the single largest customer was north of 50%.
How did the diversification go in '13? And I'm just kind of curious has the handset market overall starts to become more diversified do you expect further customer diversification this year and what's the implications for margins if that happens? It only gotten greater diversification and we expect it to continue on that path.
We don't break out concentration within a segment but we do it as a total company.
But yes we do have concentration at LitePoint.
And we've invested significantly in Asia to grow our penetration in Asian accounts and we had a good year this year.
There's much more we think we can do next year.
So we're optimistic as to how we can pan out in Asia.
Your next question comes from the Jim Covello with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Jack Sheng on behalf of Jim Covello.
So my first question is that looking on your order it looks like the 3-year seasonality for 4Q has been a bit call it about up 23% quarter-over-quarter.
It looks like at this time you guys saw a pickup of up 7% in 4Q.
Can you guys talk a little bit more about what's driving that more modest order growth at the back end of last year and then also does this imply in any way that 1Q can come in more modest relative to historical? Yes I think there is a couple of things you got to look at when you look quarter-over-quarter.
One thing is that our third quarter of last year was actually a little bit stronger than some prior third quarter trough.
So coming off of third quarter as a relative reference actually brings us to a higher baseline than perhaps we were at in 2012.
In SemiTest that's an example if you look at actual order dollars year-over-year we're up significantly over 2012 in the fourth quarter and about where we were in 2011 as we were entering 2012.
So I think the SemiTest story is compared to 1 year ago we're in a stronger position coming into '14 and compared to 2 years ago about the same.
One significant difference though is in storage test because the storage test business has been very anemic and the orders there have been lumpy.
And almost absent in fourth quarter of last year on the storage test side tends to make the company numbers look a bit weaker.
But overall I feel like the momentum we have coming into the year is much better than it was in a year ago.
And I think the outlook all signs right now are for a strong uptick.
And what I mentioned earlier the one thing that's hard to predict is that going to be on an order basis something that occurs through the March period or through the April period? Certainly by the time we are sitting here in May of this year we'll have a very good line of sight as to how big the traditional summer peak will be for both the SemiTest business and the LitePoint business.
It's just a bit hard to call the timing right now.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess in terms of follow-up how should we think about your penetration on the cellular side for LitePoint this year? I guess what are the some of the milestones that you guys are targeting? Yes.
I think cellular testing is -- has multiple aspects to it.
Cellular testing occurs in multiple stages as the phone is manufactured.
There is what might be considered verifying that the cellular connectivity is working correctly.
There's calibrating the cellular connectivity.
There's testing at -- in an over-the-air mode to ensure that it's working in an end-user model.
So last year we made significant inroads in 1 out of those 3 types of testing.
So our goals for 2014 are diversified into the other types of cellular testing those from the technology base that I mentioned and then also the customer base.
Greg mentioned a lot of the effort we're putting into Asia.
We expect that to yield dividends here in 2014.
So it will be an incremental share gain in cellular is our plan but the diversity of applications we'll be in -- and customers we'll be in will continue to grow.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Diffely with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> First question for Greg.
On the taxes you talked about how we're going from 13% last year to 18% this year and I think previously you talked about maybe a mid-20s number for the out year.
So first of all I'm wondering what's driving that? Is it the using up of NOLs or mix shift? And second question on that is is the mid-20s the long-term rate or is there more after that? Yes.
Mid-20s as of now is our long-term rate.
We'll obviously look to do some tax planning but right now only that's [indiscernible] is the mid-20s.
And at the rate it's going up because you're right we are using up some of our favorable tax attributes whether they're NOLs or credits acquired from many many many years ago.
And those have been used against U.S.
income.
So our U.S.
income in the tax rate is very low because we're using up credits and NOLs.
And as those credits and NOLs expire we will get limited as to how much we can use in 1 year then we move closer to a U.S.
normal rate.
And our rate offshore is lower about 10% rate for UltraFLEX and J750 as you put some of that IP in Singapore but when you blend it all together it's -- as you said it's using up these favorable tax attributes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then Mark you talked about a little stronger momentum this year versus last year.
Is that supported by utilization rates at a higher level than they were a year ago as well? Well when we look at utilization at the end of last year we did see a significant uptick.
So there is -- that's another indicator we'd look at.
That's probably not the best indicator but it is positive trend there.
So yes I mean into the year the utilization has moved north and that adds to our bullish outlook.
Your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Going back to the gross margin guide and some of the comparison to 2012 it implies to me that the LitePoint mix may go from 18% in '13 to 17% in 2014.
Is that the right assumption? And if so what -- that would suggest a decline in revenue.
So if you could comment on that and also how do you see opportunities for LitePoint and tracking? And I have a follow-up.
This is Greg.
LitePoint continues to perform above the company average of gross margin.
So LitePoint's in fine shape.
They do that because they have highly differentiated products and solutions.
Yes our margins looking more like 54% for the year would be very good performance.
So we're not at all ashamed of that.
That's outstanding.
I think the [indiscernible] you compare it against other years.
We had just record performance and sometimes it's because there was no hard disk drive revenue in that period or year.
It's all a set of mixed issues.
And I think 54% is very consistent with the model that we've put forth.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Let me rephrase the question.
This time last year you were looking at LitePoint with a TAM addressable market of $260 million to $360 million.
Can you update us on that time projection? We've discussed last quarter maybe 2 quarters ago we weren't going to forecast LitePoint any longer because it's been in the company's portfolio for a couple of years now.
But we did try to say in our prepared remarks that there's a number of very positive technology trends in the connectivity and the cellular side that increase test time and also obsolete the existing testers.
So that should be good for LitePoint.
I mean other side of ledger as you know in any test industry there's productivity and competition parallel test and how that shakes out in any 1 year is anybody's guess.
But we feel good over a multiyear period that LitePoint has good opportunities for growth.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it and then my second question it seems to me you have a good handle of revenue opportunities for the whole year.
Is it just very difficult to guide on a quarterly basis given all the moving parts and we have gone through this for the past 2 years and towards -- to some extent this is also impacting the stock.
The stock has also become more like a cyclical.
So to that extent why not stop providing quarterly guide and just focus on opportunities for the whole year which better in my opinion captures your opportunity and it helps us to get out of these quarterly trends? Okay.
Well Mehdi we recently took your advice in the dividend so let us think about that piece of advice okay? LLLP Research Division</strong> All right.
Your next quarter comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri with Cowen Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Couple of things.
First on gross margin and second on just longer-term strategy around the business.
So Greg it seems to me that the margin guidance is more related -- margin guidance for March is more related to Systems Test.
And if you're talking about comparing it back to -- I think you said in Q1 2012 and that quarter System Test is about $100 million which is up a lot from where it is right now.
So I guess the question is a is that really the issue and b is that the type of increase that we can expect to see in Systems Test for March? And then I had a follow on.
Yes you definitely understand the numbers quite well.
The story is a little bit different but the numbers work out the same.
But in the first quarter think of it as very little LitePoint.
LitePoint tends to ramp in Q2 and Q3 and what we see is happening in the first quarter there's some mix in SemiTest.
And this is the digital business which tends to have lower margins but can have good volume and good dollars but starts at a lower percentage.
So it's just the mix of the product portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess just on systems then Greg do you see much change in the System Test revenue? Systems -- I believe systems will have another difficult year not as difficult as last year.
Last year the storage test revenue was under $25 million which is hard to imagine but it was that low after running an average of $125 million a year.
So they will do better this year.
But I don't think this is going to be the year they'd get back to model.
I think we're going to get back to some stable footing this year and then see a path to model maybe late in the year or early next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then just sort of a longer-term question.
The one seemingly sizeable market that you're not in that you could potentially be in is testing for enterprise SSD.
Can you talk a little bit about maybe how large that market could be -- and I know that there's not a lot of standardization in that particular market and that might be what you're waiting for before you really enter that market -- but can you talk a little bit about that and whether that's an opportunity for you? Yes SSD testing is obviously something we've had our sights on here for a while.
It is still a relatively small commercial market something south of $30 million a year in terms of business but it's growing and it's growing rapidly.
And we've been working on a couple pilot programs to adapt our HDD storage tester for that market.
I'd say it's too early to call that in fact we'll get in alignment there and sort of find a volume and a profit pool that makes sense but that's one of the things that we'll sort out here in 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar with the Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
One is can you guys give an update on the competitive situation in Wireless Test and for the 802.11ac opportunities is the same players or are you seeing any new entrants? And then I had a follow-up.
Yes I think in Wireless Test there is really no new entrants or a new competition there.
The dynamics going on in Wireless Test go back to what I said earlier really center around some technological trends with multiple input multiple output beamforming on the one hand and then customers trying to optimize their existing capacity and reuse it on the other.
So there's this tug-of-war between technological growth and trying to reuse capacity as much as possible.
That's the thing that was difficult to call last year.
That will persist a bit this year but nothing new.
No new dynamics from a competitive front.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
All right.
And then as a follow-up on the SemiTest side if I look at the SOC test buy rates in the -- over last several years it's kind of ranged between like 0.9% to 1.5% but last year in this it looks like it is more around the 1% range.
I'm just trying to a sense of is the buy rate structurally changed that the range is tightened and is now more in the 0.9% to 1.2% range? And do you think this will potentially to go back to 1.4% 1.5%? Yes.
I think those are some tea leaves that are pretty hard to read.
But last year I would say it's certainly abnormally low and off the trend line.
And something north -- in that 1.2% area.
1.1% 1.2% is probably more reasonable but there will be lots of factors that cause that to remain volatile.
So in a year where new lithography nodes come in heavily into semiconductor production will tend to drive it north the buy rate higher.
And years that mature technologies tend to dominate will drive it south.
But I think on average of around that 1% to 1.2 % range is how we think about the trend.
Your next question comes from the line of Vernon Essi with Needham &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sort of bottom of the barrel in the Q&amp;A here but my first question I think is an old one and Mark I think you even sort of addressed it last quarter but it's a subject of integrated Test Cell.
Obviously your competitor is making a lot of noise about that.
And I'm just wondering if you are seeing any customer interest on this on the SOC side of things and sort of how you feel this may progress over the next couple of years.
Yes.
I'll say a few words on this and elaborate a little bit but the sure way to think about the Test Cell testers always get married with either a prober at wafer test or handler -- automated handler at package test.
And over the year so if you think about the tester the useful life of a semiconductor tester asset can be 7 to 10 years.
And during that life the customers' evolution of devices and package types require them to be able to modularly change in and out a handler to adapt to evolving mix of package types and to evolve to perhaps higher productivity handlers.
So the integrated Test Cell has never in the history of semiconductors proven to be very interesting.
That doesn't mean that in small niche areas where change may be low over many many years it couldn't find an application.
But for the broad broad market -- the experiment's been played out over a decade and it's just not applicable.
And on the other side of the equation if you look at -- well rather than integrate the handler what if you somehow maintained modularity.
But one company could provide that complete package of a tester and handler.
And again as we looked at it the problem with that is you can't pick a handler technology that is pervasive enough to serve the broad market.
Customers need the flexibility of multiple solutions on the handler size.
So we've always had that philosophy.
We work to put our energy into making it the most adaptable easy-to-dock tester to a wide variety of third-party handlers and have not tried to overly constrain the customer into a one solution.
So I'm pessimistic about that is an answer for the broad market and kind of our strategy will likely continue down that line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just wanted to dive into one comment that you keep making about seeing demand on the MCU front last year -- microcontroller front last year into this year.
Can you give us a profile of sort of where that activity is happening and are there any changes between what was put into place last year versus what you see on the forefront in 2014 from a customer's perspective? Yes.
A little bit of color.
Microcontrollers are pervasive in any consumer product in your home in your automobile.
And one of the things that is emerging as a growth driver -- 2 things.
One is China.
China is growing dramatically in their consumer product portfolio and microcontrollers proportionately to that growth.
So the demand for indigenous capacity in China has been once part of the story.
And then the other one interestingly revolves around secure communication microprocessors and such.
So when you look at smart cards for example smart cards contain a small microprocessor and antenna to transmit secure information in a payment system.
In Europe and other parts of the world they've used chip and PIN cards forever.
That technology is set to grow pretty dramatically it looks like over the next few years as that remote secure payment technology finds its way into many more geographies and many more products.
We saw a sharp uptick of capacity for that kind of device for the back end of the last year and expect that to continue.
And operator we have time for just one more question please.
Okay.
Your final question comes from the line of Weston Twigg with Pacific Crest Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just really quickly.
First on 802.11ac you said about half your shipments last year for the Wireless Test segment were 802.11ac-capable how does that impact your opportunity for shipments this year? Does that dampen then your total market outlook in any way? Well I think it's not a significantly large factor.
But this year probably 80% to 90% of our shipments will be ac-capable.
So some of what has shipped historically will be able to roll forward into the ac world.
There's still a significant amount of other capacity however that will be upgraded and replaced with ac machine.
So it's kind of baked into the overall guidance we've given you.
It's not significant but this is probably going forward you can think about the world's test capacity as all shipping as ac-compliant.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the shipped ac-capable tools are still a pretty small competent of the total market? In terms of what's installed in the world it may be at this point in capacity terms 1/3 to half? In terms of what will ship going forward it will all be ac pretty much.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just another question on the Xyratex acquisition by Seagate.
I know you have a new 3.5-inch tester just -- can you give us a feel for how you believe this impacts the market? Does it reduce your opportunity by eliminating or potentially taking away one customer? Does it help strengthen the adoption rate perhaps with other players given that Seagate is tied up with the Xyratex and maybe speed up the adoption for your product? This is Greg.
We'll let you know maybe by the next call.
If this is just happening we need to speak to the customers and figure out what their plans and strategies are.
But it's certainly a meaningful development that we need to figure out how to best play in this smaller market.
Great.
Thank everyone and we look forward to talking to you in the days and weeks ahead.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Natalia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q1 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andrew Blanchard.
You may begin sir.
Thank you Natalia.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our CEO Mark Jagiela; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the first quarter as well as our outlook for the second quarter of this year.
The press release containing our first quarter results was issued last evening and copies are available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
We're providing slides on the Investor page of the website that you may find helpful in following the discussion.
Those slides can be downloaded now or you can follow along live.
If you don't see the download icon simply refresh the page.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We've posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
They are available on the Investor page as well.
Also between now and our next conference call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by Bank of America Hallum Crdit Suisse Davidson and Needham &amp; Company.
Now let's go down to the rest of the agenda.
First Mark will comment on the first quarter and general market environment as we enter the second quarter.
Greg will then offer more details on our quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the second quarter.
We'll then answer your questions and you should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mark? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
Our overall bookings in the first quarter were up 55% over the fourth quarter of last year and 12% higher than the first quarter of 2013.
This was due to a very strong opening quarter in our Semiconductor Test business where bookings were at their highest level since the rebound quarters of early 2010.
Strong demand for application processor microcontroller and power management IC testing led the way with orders for our UltraFLEX and J750 testers roughly doubling from the fourth quarter of 2013.
As noted last quarter our plan for 2014 is to lock in the 7 points of SOC share gain from 2013 and grow with the market expansion in 2014.
With our strong Q1 result that plan is on track for the year.
The UltraFLEX continues to deliver on a strong position and mobility.
In Apps Processor Test the power of the platform's parallel test capability and fast time to ramp IG-XL software continues to win share.
In RF where chip scale packaging increasingly dominates the UltraFLEX's unmatched accuracy of signal delivery at wafer test delivers higher yields for customers.
And while more cores and components to manage in mobile electronics the precision and complexity of power management ICs are advancing rapidly.
Here the UltraFLEX's DC architecture excels at the precise current sourcing and measuring required by these devices.
So all in all our long-term UltraFLEX R&amp;D strategy of creating the world's best platform for mobility device test is paying off.
Microcontroller Test was another strong part of the Q1 story.
Our J750 bookings more than doubled from the first quarter of 2013.
Microcontroller is used as sensor management hubs in mobile devices embedded with RF and consumer products and general growth in industrial and automotive applications led the surge.
To date over 4 500 J750 platforms have been purchased worldwide with new customers being added particularly in Greater China every quarter.
I will also note that the strength in mobility and microcontroller did not extend to analog in Q1 and that segment has been relatively quiet for over a year.
However in the current quarter we are seeing signs of improvement in this part of the market as well.
In Memory Test although orders were relatively slow in Q1 we are seeing momentum build in 2Q.
Our new Magnum 5 FLASH tester is now in volume production and we added a third customer in the quarter.
We also received follow-on UltraFLEX high-speed memory orders for GDDR5 testing and plan to ramp our new High Pin Count version for DDR4 testing in 2Q.
Again increasing device interface speeds on both FLASH and DRAMs play into our product line strength.
So overall we still see the 2014 SOC test market size in the $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion range up from $1.9 billion last year and the Memory Test market flat at about $450 million.
As is typical with the annual cycle in mobility we expect the SemiTest bookings momentum to continue in the second quarter followed by a traditionally softer second half of the year.
Our manufacturing capability is designed to respond to these surges and we are in good position with upside as we ramp capacity in 2Q.
In Wireless Test first quarter bookings were $57 million more than triple the orders of the seasonally slow fourth quarter but down from a year ago.
As we have said before short lead times and relatively opaque visibility into the ramp plans of customers makes the short-term market and order timing difficult to forecast.
However we do see increased tester efficiency and reuse of installed test capacity particularly in cellular further compressing the overall market in 2014.
Longer term the growth prospects for the market remain strong following this period of optimization.
As LTE begins its next phase of growth in China and trends like MIMO and Carrier Aggregation gain momentum the need for new test capabilities should grow.
In System Test we added 2 new customers for our recently introduced Multi-Site Inline TestStation for the commercial production board test market.
And in our defense electronic test unit despite ongoing pressure on government spending we expect to continue to operate at or above model.
On the other hand our Storage Test business remains slow.
The mainstream Hard Disk Drive test market still has excess capacity to work through and while there's growing interest in SSD testing it has relatively small potential volume in the near term.
In summary calling the full year is as difficult as ever but we are off to a very solid start in 2014.
Our product position in key growth segments remain strong and our share gains from 2013 are not only holding but trending upward.
Let me now turn it over to Greg to provide details on Q1 results as well as guidance and perspectives on the second quarter.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll start with some brief comments on the start to the year what we see looking ahead and then cover the first quarter details and second quarter outlook.
As Mark noted first quarter bookings got off to a very strong start at $450 million.
As we remarked last quarter we expected an SOC snapback after a down year in 2013.
That's why we moved into our inventory position late last year to keep first half 2014 lead times in check.
This planning has worked well as evidenced by our second quarter guidance with sales expected to grow sequentially between 43% and 53%.
Two of the SOC segments driving the strong start are principally digital centric: Apps processors used in mobile devices and microcontrollers used in ubiquitous applications including mobile automotive industrial and consumer products.
Do recall that the apps processor demand was essentially 0 last year after a record buying in 2012.
As expected it came back with a vengeance in the first quarter bringing our UltraFLEX bookings to the highest point since the first quarter of 2012.
The combination of high throughput and award-winning software tools has helped fuel our multiyear share gains in the SOC mobility segment.
Customers increasingly rely on the UltraFLEX to achieve ever tighter quality standards cost requirements and compressed time-to-market constraints.
As Mark described another long-term trend we see is more chip scale packaging.
With wafer level devices mounted directly on circuit boards or combined with other die in a single package for space cost and power savings.
This requires more robust testing at the wafer level so customers confirm they have known good die before the next level of assembly.
Outside of memory these techniques are most often used for RF chips.
When testing these high-performance devices at the wafer level the ability to source and receive complex high-frequency signals to and from the chip is essential.
The UltraFLEX with ultra wave RF excels at this task for 2 reasons: first the system is architected to have the lowest phase noise and tightest power accuracy in the industry equal to or better than some benchtop instruments.
This capability provides headroom which directly translates to higher wafer yield in production test.
Second we created an integration facility at Teradyne that replicates the production environment for wafer tests.
Specifically to work with probe interface suppliers and customers to ensure the extraordinary performance of the tester is actually realized in day-to-day production.
This facility has allowed us to extend our lead in RF test and probe tests in general by helping customers solve some of the most challenging mechanical electrical and thermal issues facing semiconductor production testing today.
Turning now to the microcontroller strength.
The J750 continues to sell very well with over 100 systems ordered in the quarter.
In fact it was the best consecutive fourth quarter run since 2010.
The J750 is the clear industry standard for microcontrollers mostly digital and image sensor testing.
With the recent introduction of low-cost LitePoint wireless capability any of the thousands of systems sold to date can be easily upgraded to test [ph] controllers with RF connectivity as well as a new silicon used in the emerging class of devices for the Internet of Things and wearables.
And recall that last year we notched up the J750 operating speed channel density and cost performance earning it a 2014 Best In Test award from Electronic Design News.
So the future looks very bright here as well both in end market trends and our product leadership.
Shifting to Wireless Test the first quarter demand of $57 million was down from last year's first quarter record start.
Our Q1 demand this year was principally driven by new technology buys such as 11ac and connectivity.
While it is difficult to forecast wireless demand we are expecting a slower first half start with customers squeezing more out of their installed base of testers.
I will come back to LitePoint a little later to comment on the positive longer-term picture.
Moving to the first quarter P&amp;L.
Our sales were $321 million the non-GAAP operating profit rate was 9% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.11.
The gross margin percentage was 52% 2 points above expectations due to more favorable product mix.
Our gross margin is most affected by mix and volume and over the last 3 years it's ranged from 49% to 59% in any quarterly period.
We have not seen any meaningful changes to the overall pricing environment that would alter our traditional margin ranges.
Stepping back you can see that we operate in seasonal annual cycles with the first and fourth quarters as the low points.
Our shipments have been peaking in the second and third quarters and we expect this cycle to continue.
Of course there are also other trends that impact us that are beyond the seasonal biorhythms.
Currently we remain in a severely depressed storage test market as PC demand is soft and the cloud build-out hasn't absorbed the test capacity in place.
So in addition to the cost reduction actions taken last year we are evaluating various options to minimize the financial impact to our P&amp;L during this period of limited demand.
We will update you mid year on our plans in this area.
Shifting back to Wireless Test.
LitePoint serves a market that is very difficult to predict and will have periods of strong buying with the ongoing growth in smart devices the proliferation of new standards and a host of new wireless applications.
Volume buying will also be followed by the normal productivity squeezing and digestion periods.
We're in the squeezing out and digestion phase now after the last 2 years of sales of $538 million well above our original 2-year plan of $350 million.
Strategically at LitePoint we are doing very well with new technology buying with our [indiscernible] chipset strategy and connectivity.
This proven formula gets off production optimizes testers to market with full test solutions well ahead of others with the right economics for production.
Namely we don't develop general purpose or R&amp;D testers and then try to morph them into high-volume production systems.
We design for the exact problem at hand the need for low-cost simple to use testers with solutions in place right out-of-the-box.
In cellular as you know we broke into the market last year in a very major way and look to further gain share albeit in smaller increments over a multiyear period.
So while the 2014 market size is tough to call and may very well be down from -- for the year we remain very positive about the long-term prospects of Wireless Test.
Now back at the company level.
Looking over the last 3 years we've averaged annual sales of just over $1.5 billion and a non-GAAP operating profit rate of 21%.
Our first quarter 2014 start with sales of $321 million and an operating profit rate of 9% fits with these prior year starts.
You will see that our multiyear performance continues to place us among the best-performing semi-cap suppliers.
Now looking ahead we'll continue to focus on selectively gaining market share through offering differentiated solutions to the right customers greater throughput and enable them to get their products to market faster with the best programming tools.
We accomplish this by carefully targeting R&amp;D to where the hockey puck is going and ensuring that our solutions are as far as possible from a need to solution.
A quick example of this is in Memory Test where we are greatly outspent by our largest competitor yet our solutions matched with the customer needs now higher frequency and throughput.
This is how we gained about 10 points of share in Memory Test last year alone and we expect to gain more share in 2014.
When profitability is hard earned as it is in ATE we long ago learned that we need to be very judicious in how we invest both in R&amp;D and in nonorganic growth.
This mindset will continue to guide us as we evaluate growth opportunities.
Moving to capital allocation.
Our operating model has shown us cash generation strength across multiple industry cycles.
Since 2011 we've generated free cash flow of about $210 million a year.
This led to our announcement of an initial dividend last quarter.
We will also remain opportunistic with the timing of stock buybacks and of course maintain sufficient dry powder for highly selective M&amp;A.
While we may not find another LitePoint-type asset we will continue to revisit capital allocation.
As planned we settled the convertible note with a face value of $190 million on March 17.
The option component will settle over the 65-day trading period beginning June 17 and ending September 17.
At $20 per share this would amount to about 21 million shares which we've included in our non-GAAP EPS guidance for the second quarter.
We've once again included a slide in the presentation on our website which describes this further.
Now moving to the key details of the first quarter.
We had total company bookings of $450 million SemiTest bookings were $366 million.
SOC test orders were $349 million and Memory Test orders were $17 million in the first quarter.
SemiTest service orders were $53 million.
Wireless Test orders were $57 million.
System Test orders were $27 million with $12 million of service orders.
In the first quarter semiconductor test sales were 81% of the total Wireless Test 7% and System Test 12%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the first quarter was 1.4 for the overall company 1.4 for Semiconductor Test 2.7 for Wireless Test and 0.7 for System Test.
At the end of the quarter our backlog stood at $490 million of which 84% is scheduled to ship and be recognized as revenue within the next 6 months.
The top line of $321 million is up $36 million or 13% sequentially from the fourth quarter in line with seasonal patterns.
SemiTest was $262 million up $47 million.
Wireless Test was $21 million down $5 million.
And System Test group was $38 million down $6 million.
We had no customer that was more than 10% of company revenues in the quarter.
Within the $321 million of the first quarter revenue service was $66 million down $8 million from Q4's record level SemiTest service revenue was $49 million.
Total company product turns business was 55% versus 41% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 57% versus 45% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $28 million.
Moving down the P&amp;L non-GAAP gross margins decreased to 52% from 55% in the fourth quarter due to product mix.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $138 million compared to $140 million in the fourth quarter.
At the operating line we posted a 9% profit.
Our non-GAAP net interest and other expense was $11 million -- was $1 million.
Non-GAAP tax expense for the quarter was $5 million and our full year non-GAAP tax rate is expected to be 18% for 2014.
Cash from operations consumed $57 million after capital additions in the first quarter.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance and marketable securities of $967 million.
In the second quarter we expect to generate about $75 million of cash after deploying about $55 million into fixed assets and paying about $12 million in dividends.
For the full year we expect to deploy about $75 million of capital into UltraFLEX testers for leases bringing our gross total capital additions for the year to $145 million.
This is above our January estimate by about $20 million.
The higher projected fixed asset additions are attributed to greater than forecast demand for UltraFLEX system leases.
Our strong operating model and balance sheet gives us the flexibility to lease testers when it makes commercial sense.
Our first quarter DSO was 60 days up from 50 days in the fourth quarter due to shipment patterns.
As noted in the press release sales for the second quarter are expected to be between $460 million and $490 million and non-GAAP EPS range is $0.36 to $0.43 on 217 million diluted shares.
Q2 guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and the related tax impact.
Our GAAP EPS range is $0.29 to $0.36.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our second quarter guidance is about 22%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages in the second quarter.
We expect non-GAAP gross margins to be about 53% to 54% R&amp;D should be 15% to 16% and G&amp;A should be about 16%.
Non-GAAP net interest income is expected to be about $1 million.
As we have seen for the first quarter we are well-positioned in 2014 with our strong market share momentum new product offerings and extremely resilient model and an capital allocation strategy that rewards shareholders and supports our growth strategy.
I'll now turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Natalia we'd now like to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Jim Covello with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You guys have talked a lot about the seasonality in your business and pretty well documented.
If I look at the third quarter over the last couple of years in Q3 of '12 it was down quarter-over-quarter and Q3 of '13 it was up quarter-over-quarter.
Can you talk about the pushes or pulls that would make this year look either more like '12 or more like '13? Sure Jim.
A lot of it gets tied to the product introductions of our customers and where they fall in the calendar year.
So in 2013 we saw a little bit more back-end loaded surge.
This year might be a little bit similar to that.
But the lead times we have tend to be 4 to 8 weeks depending on the product line.
So we just try to position ourselves to run with the demand and we don't try to get overly fixated on the quarterly boundary too much.
But that is about as much color as I could give on it.
The only thing I'd quickly add Jim is many customers are trying to release their products earlier and faster.
So that tends to cause us to move our shipments in a little earlier in the year.
So I think you may see that occurring at times.
So it all depends what the exact date is for these launches and they tend to launch very vertical very aggressively fast so they need a lot of testers to stock the shelves.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
For my follow-up on the gross margin obviously mix especially mix with wireless which has traditionally had a little bit higher gross margin is a part of the equation.
But what other puts and takes drive those margin in Q2 to be a little bit lower than what it might have been at this revenue level historically? Jim this is very consistent with 2012.
2012 you recall we had very high amount of digital-centric buying for application processors.
The same thing is happening this year.
That buying is happening early in the year and that part of our business carries a different margin profile.
The volumes tend to be very high.
The percentage is a little bit lower.
And I think we said last call that we expect this year the gross margin to be -- for the year to be about 54% starting off lower as the application processors work their way through the earlier part of the year.
Research Division</strong> And so you still feel good about that 54% for the year? I do.
Your next question is from the line of Vernon Essi with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> You had discussed the Memory Test market a little more there it sounds like you're getting some share gains on some of these newer developments.
Could you remind us what your expectations are for share as we exit 2014? Sure so Memory Test for us has been a success story mostly tied to increasing interface speeds on both FLASH devices and DRAMs.
So our products have been set up and architected to intercept that trend and it keeps coming our way.
So as we exited last year we exited with about a 25% share of the Memory Test market.
It was about a $450 million market.
This year we think it will be roughly flat at $450 million and our goal is to pick up 3 4 points of additional share this year.
It looks like we are on track for that at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to switch gears you rarely talk about your other systems business outside of storage but you did mention a new circuit and the only reason I ask is I'm hearing that the demand in that area and sort of the whole SMT side of life has actually picked up.
Are you seeing strong order patterns in that side of your business? And is there anything that you think could materially has actually picked up? Are you seeing the numbers? Yes it's small numbers.
I wouldn't say we've seen a material movement yet.
But the new products we've introduced are targeted at these automated SMT lines they are high-volume applications.
It's a inline multi-site tester.
We have had some design wins.
We expect them to start to ramp for the rest of the year and we are targeting some even higher volume applications.
Those design wins are not concluded yet so we don't know how they will turn out.
But we see the same trend that you allude to and we positioned ourselves with this new product.
But after that these are -- shootouts are very long shootouts they go on for 9 months.
So we are at the early stages of some of these and we do believe we have a very good product with much greater throughput that the customer can buy far less fixtures and get meaningful savings.
So we are optimistic but I think it's going to take a number of quarters before the numbers perhaps show some different trajectory.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just to clarify I guess the answer that -- you're saying the activity picked up in the last couple of months in that space versus perhaps last year or even 6 months ago in terms of the order engagement? I think it's more of the evaluations [indiscernible].
And so the actual orders the decisions and the orders would flow as Greg said probably in the second half of the year.
But certainly the evaluations have picked up.
Your next question is from the line of Krish Sankar with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that you expect market share to stay flat for SOC but you expect to grow in line with the market.
Kind of curious how much do you think the APU market grew given the fact that some of the spending this year in SOC comes from MPUs and GPUs where you guys don't have any footprint? I'm not sure exactly can you ask it again? I'm not sure what you're asking.
Research Division</strong> What you think is the growth rate for the APU test market this year given that some of the other growth in the SOC market is coming from micro power and GPU.
Okay.
So last year GPUs MPUs and APUs all were very low buying in the market.
This year APUs are going to -- are rebounding most dramatically of those 3 but there will be some return of buying for MPUs and GPUs as well but probably the growth rate on APUs will be 2x to 3x higher than MPUs and GPUs.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's really helpful.
And then another question on the Wireless Test side you commented how the growth is going to be muted or probably even down this year I'm just kind of curious is that the main reason for that is that -- is it because of reuse? Or is it more because there were more testers from last year that can do AC testing for this year? Or is it more pricing/productivity improvement in the whole tester supply chain? Yes it's a mix of things.
Actually in connectivity testing the market comparison over last year to this year is probably about flat as best we can tell.
So there isn't a big compression going on in connectivity.
On the other hand in cellular there is an effect where the testers that have been deployed starting last year tend to be more productive.
They tend to be able to do 4 devices in parallel versus prior to 2013 there were single devices in parallel.
So there is an efficiency of the new equipment that is higher.
The other thing that's happened is that the rollout of LTE is in a little bit of a lull now.
There was a big rollout of LTE in the U.S.
and Korea that occurred a year ago but it's getting somewhat saturated.
The next wave that's coming in China hasn't quite kicked in yet.
So we're in this in-between zone on the cellular side.
So that's another effect that we think will dampen that side of the market in 2014.
Your next question is from the line of CJ Muse with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> To the high end of your SOC test? CJ I'm sorry we missed the first part of your question could you...
Research Division</strong> Oh sorry about that.
Curious what it would take to reach the high end of your SOC market outlook? Well I think based on where we see the trends in Q1 and Q2 it would probably take just a modest second half to reach that high end.
The analog business coming on here in second quarter that I referred to earlier is another positive sign that we could be trending towards the higher end of the market size.
So in Q1 as I mentioned we didn't see very strong orders for analog or memory.
But we did see very strong orders for microcontrollers and apps processors.
That -- all of that continues in Q2 except now memory and analog seem to be kicking in.
So I would judge right now it's probably trending a bit towards the high end.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And in terms of memory can you walk through I guess where you are seeing the gains DRAM versus NAND as well as the impact of known good die test full wafer test et cetera? And whether strength there can continue? Yes so for us the gains have come in DRAM typically the higher speed end of the spectrum.
So graphics DRAMs have been very strong with the new games that came out last year that helped.
New DDR4 high-speed interfaces for server DRAMs have also been something that has pulled share our way with our products.
Then on the FLASH side it's a similar story.
As the NAND interface speeds continue to rise to support higher bandwidth FLASH memories for SSD applications that's fit right into our products.
So as that trend continues and it's not -- that's the real direction of the market that's why we're confident we can pick up a little more share this year.
The next question is from the line of Timothy Arcuri with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question is on Wireless Test did you -- you said that the market could be down year-over-year.
Does that imply that your Wireless revenues could actually be down this year? That would be yes depending where the market ends up.
It's very early in the year and difficult to call.
And we had a big win last year in cellular.
And this year we see cellular going through what connectivity has been through last year.
So depending on where the markets end up we could be down.
We think we'll do well in market share and we did lap [ph] very well in market share the last few years.
So I think it's more of a market size.
And then we think beyond this year we think there is some positive items that should bring the market more to a healthier stage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I wanted to ask a follow-up on that.
But first I want to ask on OpEx.
Is that about $10 million according to the guidance? And is it good like $10 million $12 million $13 million more at similar revenue levels in late 2012? Is sort of is this is the new norm going forward? Or is this sort of a onetime bump due to maybe your desire to penetrate some new markets? The OpEx has only about $3 million that's a [indiscernible] finishing some projects that should go away next quarter.
The other portion of the increase is simply variable compensation.
So the model that we reset or communicated back in October we're on that model.
So if you go back further in time you'll see our OpEx is up depending upon when you -- how far back you go.
But what we've done is we've invested more in some of the engineering and distribution some in SemiTest and some in LitePoint.
And it is principally because we've gained good amounts of market share and to get that next couple of points of market share we need to make some more targeted investments.
And as you get more customers often we find there's more requirements.
So as you grow the top line you end up having to put a bit more engineering.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay if I could just sneak in one more just on Wireless Test.
All of the customers are saying that they want an integrated tester that can do both connectivity and cellular.
And this seems a little bit cannibalistic to both gross margin and revenue not just for you but for the entire industry.
How do you respond to sort of some concerns that maybe you could be entering a period where there could be a trade-off between your share and margins in that area? Yes frankly we have not seen a lot of customers ask for a tester that can do both.
There are certainly some but I would characterize it as the minority.
The trade-off of combining cellular and Wi-Fi in a single tester is usually idle capacity in the tester at some point in time.
So it's not as efficient.
So if you're a high-volume manufacturer a focused Wi-Fi tester for example that can evolve with the Wi-Fi standards and be very efficient there combined with a separate box for cellular testing is what we're being asked for.
So I wouldn't call it a trend.
It's something that a few suppliers do desire.
We watch that if it becomes something that the larger suppliers want to pull on we certainly could create that product.
But it doesn't come for free it comes with a added cost into the product that most of our customers aren't willing to pay for.
Your next question is from the line of John Pitzer with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Greg just a follow-up on the gross margin line.
I know that in your prepared comments you mentioned no 10% customers in the March quarter but I'm kind of curious does customer concentration in addition to the mix towards apps processor testing influence the gross margin guide for the June quarter? Or is it just simply broad-based demand in apps processor testing? There is -- apps processor is the single item that probably just given its volume is the item that's moving our margins to where they were in 2012.
And that's the same thing that happened in 2012.
And apps processing volume by its nature tends to be very compressed.
There is only 1 or 2 a very small number of big players who are buying large volumes.
So it is compressed in terms of the end customer whether it's '12 or '14 it's a list of 2 or less.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then Mark the J750 business has been running at very high levels for a couple of quarters now.
I'm kind of curious as to your view on sustainability.
To what extent is that being driven by the move from 8 to 16 to 32-bit on the microcontroller side.
Do test times goes up? And do you think that you're actually benefiting yet from more connectivity functions on a microcontroller which should also drive test times up.
Just help me understand how we should think about sustainability of the J750 business? Well I think it's quite sustainable.
What's driving it is a couple of things.
So embedded FLASH is one driver that I would say started last year and persists into this year.
The more embedded FLASH in a microcontroller the long the test time tends to be.
So that's a test time driver.
Another driver is more A-to-D converters and more precision on the A-to-D converters.
Unlike a digital microprocessor or a digital apps processor microcontrollers have these A-to-Ds and D-to-As and then to communicate with sensors.
And more and more in mobile electronics the sensor management is being offloaded onto these microcontrollers that may have 3 4 6 7 analog ports to communicate to the sensors.
Testing those ports is also a very high-precision and somewhat time-consuming test step.
So the more analog sensors is connected to microcontrollers typically the test time tends to go up.
And then the third thing you mentioned RF is still to come I would say.
There's been certainly some J750 with RF capability business that's been developing here in the past few quarters but most of that is tied to I would say a future world of microcontrollers used in machine-to-machine communication or wearables.
And that's a little further off.
Your next question is from the line of Chad Dillard with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First of all could you quantify how much do you expect Wireless Test market to decline this year? And then also regarding your market share how do you see that unfolding and maybe you could give a little bit of detail on whether you're expecting it to come more from mix improvement or from actual direct capturing from customers? Well again I think the size of the Wireless Test market is really a hard one for us to triangulate on.
We have roughly for historical reference said that we think in 2012 which was a blowout year the market surged for that $1.3 billion in total.
Last year we said that the market compressed to maybe $1 billion.
For the same connectivity and cellular testing production testing.
This year it's really hard for us to say but we're probably looking at a number around $700 million plus or minus $100 million.
Most of that contraction coming as I said earlier in cellular.
Wi-Fi and connectivity seems to be holding up.
Research Division</strong> And then just regarding the LTE ramp in China could you provide us a little bit of detail on what the timing you expect? And then also how much of an incremental opportunity there could be? Okay.
Well right now on the Semiconductor Test side we are seeing some demand for semiconductor testers for the infrastructure chips that go into the base stations and such so it's really a leading indicator as the infrastructure gets built out in China throughout this year.
I think on the handset side it seems that that will follow more -- my estimate would be 2015.
So we're in a infrastructure year it doesn't drive a lot of the Wireless Test demand from LitePoint perhaps next year as handsets start to ramp then we'll see that come back.
Your next question is from the line of Mehdi Hosseini with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehdi Hosseini.
I have a follow-up question on the Wireless.
Even if your revenues were to be down consistent with the market down 30% it would -- it seems to suggest to me that maybe Q3 will be in line with Q4 and then you would see the seasonal downtick in Q4? Is that a fair assessment on how quarterly trend is going to look like? Mehdi I think the quarterly trend will look similar to last year.
The Q4 is certainly the trough.
And Q2 Q3 tend to be the peak shipments.
So -- because lead times are so short it's very difficult to be precise here but I think the patterns of the past will repeat.
And we are really just speculating that it could be down 30%.
We don't have any great insight.
I will add that in cellular we gained market share last year.
Connectivity our market share was very strong.
So I think that we feel that we can hold up pretty well with our strong connectivity market share and this is an opportunity for us to -- if there isn't a whole lot of cellular buying to demonstrate our products and secure more design wins in Asia and that's what we're out doing.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then Greg one question what should we assume for tax rate? The slides say 18% for the year but did you mean that Q2 is going to see an uptick and then moderate in the second half? Well the tax rate we think for '14 I think we said it last quarter was 18%.
There was this discrete thing that shows up in our GAAP numbers that we take off for non-GAAP having to do -- it gets very complicated but we don't put discrete things in our rate because those are kind of one-time things that hit a quarter.
But on the annual rate 18% we believe is a good estimate.
And we said as well that our tax rate is probably going to be mid-20s.
And over time we will get there.
We will obviously look are there other planning things we can do to get a better result.
But at least for this year you should use 18%.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So on a pro forma basis it is 18% for Q2? Yes.
Your next question is from the line of David Duley with Steelhead.
Yes I just had a clarification.
Did you say in your prepared remarks that you thought your SOC test orders will be up in the June quarter? No we didn't.
Okay and then I noticed in your slides the buy rate you are assuming for 2014 in SOC is about 1%.
And at previous peaks we have seen a much higher buy rate like 1.5%.
I imagine if you go back longer it's even higher.
But versus the recent years why do you think it will be 1% versus 1.5%? Well I think in the past couple of years it has been trending down.
It is not something that -- we tend to be modeling it conservatively.
We sized the business and sized our model revenue to assume a somewhat lower buy rate.
In some years it does snap back.
So it's a conservative set of financial sizing assumptions is what I would say.
And we can ride the upside and we always have the manufacturing capacity to ride the upside if it developments.
So you don't think there's a structural change in the amount of money that they're going to spend on test? No I don't think so but I do think that the capital intensity rate varies by segment.
And so as we discussed earlier applications processors as a class of devices tends to have a lower average buy rate than let's say analog or even microcontroller.
So depending on the mix in any given year of what's surging in terms of tooling you can get aberrations in these sort of average buy rates.
Your next question is from the line of Patrick Ho with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Maybe just going back to the application processor side of things for a second.
A couple of years ago you saw really strong demand from that segment driven by the introduction of the 28 nanometer node devices.
This year we're seeing 20 nanometers.
Maybe just looking for longer term as the industry continues to migrate to like 16 and 14 finFET do you see new tester buys at every node change for app processors? Or is there a level of reuse that can be implemented with the testers from I guess 28 as well as 20? Yes I think the main driver for tester capacity is unit growth more than the nodes.
The nodes might create a little bit of an aberration as yields need to get worked out.
So there may be a little bit of extra capacity put in on an immature node but the testers definitely get reused across multiple nodes and I would expect that when finFET 14 16 comes along the main driver of extra capacity will be continued unit growth more so than the immaturity or something to do with the technology node.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Going to the analog side you said that things are picking up and it has been some time since you have seen a pickup in that segment.
Could you characterize what's driving it whether it's the level of efficiency and reuse that's kind of reached its limit with analog testers? Or there is enough of a healthy demand and I guess unit growth that's driving these new capacity buys? Yes I think it's really unit growth.
It's been an anomaly now for about a year.
And I think that finally -- I don't have a good answer for you as to why but it's now moving back into line with how we normally expect analog to perform with the rest of the market.
So I do think it's driven by units and it's now more correlated with what it has been historically prior to 2013.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from the line of Tom Diffely with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I was intrigued by your comments about the leases earlier.
What -- how big of a program is that today? How big do you think it gets? And what is the ultimate impact on your profitability? We think for this year we'll put about $75 million of capital work into leases.
And that's much higher than we have ever done in any particular period.
But this particular range had made commercial sense based upon a whole set of circumstances.
I don't think if you look at next year or the year after you'll see anything close to that.
I think it will be more along the lines of $10 million a year which is sort of the run rate we've had in its kind of lowest level.
Research Division</strong> Is it just the smaller customers that need financial help? No it's not a set of smaller customers.
There is no credit issues whatsoever.
It's a strategic decision by the customer how they want to use their capital dollars.
But I don't want to get into more detail than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and what is the impact on you from the profitability point of view selling a system versus leasing a system over time? Basically we recognize revenue and profits slower.
Instead of shipping a product and getting the sales and profits upfront we're going to recognize it over a longer time period.
So our surge or our revenue growth this year doesn't have the full value of those testers.
It only has maybe 6 months 9 months 3 months.
It only has a partial period of that revenue in our P&amp;L.
So in truth it's actually a much stronger surge when you factor in $75 million this is again our book value $75 million book value we are putting in on testers.
So it is a fairly strong start to the year.
Research Division</strong> So I assume this is on the SemiTest side? Yes.
There are no further questions.
Great.
Operator then we are going to conclude today's call.
And thank you all for joining.
If you have questions please reach out and we'll get back to you.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kevin and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q2 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Andrew Blanchard you may begin your conference.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our CEO Mark Jagiela; and our CFO Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the second quarter as well as our outlook for the third quarter of this year.
The press release containing our second quarter results was issued last evening.
Copies are available at teradyne.com where this call is also being simulcast.
We're providing slides on the Investor page of the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
Those slides can be downloaded or you can follow along live.
If you don't see the download icon simply refresh the page.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We have posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures were available on the Investor page.
Also between now and our next earnings call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by Pacific Crest Citi and Deutsche Bank.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First Mark will comment on the second quarter and the general market environment as we enter the third quarter.
Greg will then offer more details on our quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the third quarter.
We'll then answer your questions and you should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mark? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
The second quarter caps off a very good first half for Teradyne.
Our core SOC market is on track to grow more than 20% for the full year.
Our R&amp;D engine is running very well with 11 product introductions across the company year-to-date.
The operating model has proven its ability to respond to rapid growth.
And with the payment of our first quarterly dividend in June we've begun a regular return of capital to shareholders.
Our second quarter results highlight our strong position in mobility tests and the ability of our manufacturing model to respond to close-in surge of demand.
Semiconductor Test and overall company orders came in at the highest level since the first quarter of 2000.
Both sales and earnings were above the high end of our guidance as customers pulled in deliveries from 3Q into 2Q.
The flexibility we've built into our manufacturing model is designed to respond to this type of in-quarter swing and gives us further competitive advantage in the dynamic world of mobility tests.
In SOC tests orders for testing applications processors RF and power management ICs led the way.
Increases in both unit volume and device complexity are driving tester demand.
On the complexity front the growth of specialty functions inside applications processors are resulting in increasing pin counts and test times.
With LTE Advanced and the deployment of MIMO versions of 802.11ac RF devices are increasing in the diversity of frequency bands and in total bandwidth.
This also increases test intensity due to the need to verify more device ports and operating modes.
Power management IC complexity is evolving most rapidly with increased intelligence built in and more precision ports to better manage and extend battery life even with the increasing silicon content in our phones.
All these trends have contributed to the all-time record quarterly orders and unit shipments of our UltraFLEX tester in the second quarter.
Since the platform's inception we've been targeting our UltraFLEX R&amp;D investments to anticipate and capitalize on these trends.
Just this month we have announced 3 new product enhancements to the UltraFLEX to further our advantages.
One is a suite of software tools called Oasis that helps speed our customers' time to market for new silicon.
This is an increasingly important criterion for mobility customers in selecting new test platforms.
Our customers' short product cycles steepening ramps and zero-defect requirements are placing new demands on their test development.
Test program development is now a 24-hour operation at many mobility customers with teams in multiple geographies working in parallel.
Ensuring efficient integration of these teams by utilizing proven code libraries change control audit tools and automated hazard identification is the value that Oasis brings.
We also introduced our next-generation RF subsystem for the UltraFLEX called the UltraFLEX UltraWave 24.
Targeted at Carrier Aggregation LTE Advanced 802.11ac MIMO and multi-standard devices with higher port counts this upgrade extends our leadership in the RF testing of silicon.
Finally we announced enhancements to our core UltraFLEX digital and power instruments to improve the accuracy and thus yields in today's and tomorrow's low-voltage processes.
As I mentioned last call microcontrollers are also showing strong test demand as total microcontroller device shipments are expected to exceed 21 billion units in 2014.
That's up over 11% according to Gartner.
Part of this growth comes from new applications in consumer mobility devices.
Sensor management hubs and new device capabilities like embedded wireless communication provide new markets for microcontrollers.
The increased complexity of these controllers also drives up the test intensity of the chip.
Our J750 is well positioned for this growth and we saw strong demand in the second quarter with unit orders and shipments both up over 20% from the first quarter.
And in memory test we recently introduced our newest memory tester the Magnum V.
At over 20 000 pins and 1.6 gigabit operating speeds this tester covers all current and emerging forms of Flash memory.
The Magnum family along with our UltraFLEX high-speed memory tester for DRAMs drove memory bookings to a new record high in the quarter.
This was driven by strength in both DRAM and Flash final test.
I should note that Magnum testers are now used by 4 of the top Flash manufacturers and continues to earn design wins with its unique ability to test the high-speed interfaces found in Flash devices for SSD applications.
At the halfway mark in 2014 we see the SOC ATE market towards the high end of our $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion range likely about $2.3 billion and the memory test market in the $450 million to $500 million range.
After major share gains last year of about 7 points in SOC tests to 48% and 10 points in memory test to 26% our goal in 2014 is to hold the SOC gains as the market expands and pick up a few more points of share in memory test.
Turning to Wireless Test at LitePoint.
We made solid progress in the LTE production design wins by adding 5 new customers in the quarter for IQ extreme cellular tester.
As noted last quarter the build-out of LTE handsets for the China market has progressed slowly in the first half of the year.
While that has muted the market for capacity adds it has given us the time to get qualified for cellular tests at several major accounts.
We still expect the build-out of 4G handsets in China to pick up speed in late 2014 into early 2015.
We still see the Wireless Test market in 2014 in the $700 million plus or minus $100 million range and we are still on track to pick up a few points of share in this market as well.
In Systems Test we continue to add new customers for our Multi-Site Inline TestStation board tester as 4 more manufacturers selected the product after initial wins in first quarter.
On the defense and aerospace side business was driven by upgrades for existing DOD programs and new subsystem orders.
In storage test while the hard disk drive market remains quiet we have made progress in the SSD test market with 2 new design wins.
This has resulted in our highest level of storage test bookings in 5 quarters and sets us up for a return to profitability in this segment for the second half of 2014.
As we've noted in past calls acquisitions and organic initiatives combined with a disciplined financial model have been the recipe for transforming Teradyne.
While we've seen very nice earnings and revenue growth on the strength of market and share expansion so far this year we also continue to work the M&amp;A side of the equation.
We have a healthy pipeline of opportunities to grow the company and see near-adjacency acquisitions as an important part of our overall growth strategy.
At the same time we will continue to assess our cash position and investment prospects to best optimize the long-term return to shareholders.
So in summary our product position in key growth segments continues to strengthen and our share gains from 2013 are holding or trending upward.
As is typical with the annual cycle in mobility we expect the SemiTest market to soften in the second half of the year.
On the other hand as we saw in the second quarter our manufacturing capability is positioned to respond to potential upside.
Let me now turn it over to Greg to provide details on 2Q results as well as guidance and perspectives on our current quarter.
Greg? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll start with some brief comments on how the year is shaping up our capital allocation principles and then I'll cover the second quarter details and third quarter outlook.
At the halfway point we've logged about $1.1 billion of bookings one of our best first half starts ever and over 20% greater than last year.
We don't see any speculative buying with today's short lead times and stricter capital buying practices.
On the sales front first half sales of $847 million are up $137 million or 19% from last year's first half start.
SOC test is driving this increase with sales of $604 million up $153 million from last year's first half start.
As Mark noted mobility applications and broad microcontroller demands are driving much of the SOC test strength.
This year we expect the SOC test market to return to a more normalized level of about $2.3 billion.
Regardless though of the market size in any one year we expect to remain on our long-term share gain trend line.
As we've noted in past calls there are numerous factors pulling test intensity up primarily related to device size and complexity.
Balancing that upward pull are tester productivity improvements most significantly parallel test economics.
I note this because for some device types the drive to greater parallelism is abating as customers reach an economic sweet spot in site count versus cost of test per device.
It's not a broad trend yet but we continue to watch this closely and we'll keep you updated.
In SemiTest we're also pleased to have been recognized as the top semiconductor supplier in the recent VLSI customer survey scoring the highest test supplier grades in the survey's history.
Shifting to Wireless Test.
The natural question is why aren't we seeing greater demand given what we're seeing in SOC test and some of the industry forecast for 4G cell phone growth in emerging markets? Let me tell you how we're thinking about this question.
First the ramp of 4G handsets in China is slower than earlier expected.
Second there is also some excess test capacity left over from last year's sizable buying that is being absorbed this year.
And lastly after 2 strong wireless buying years the cost of tests and productivity gains have edged out the unit growth and device complexity drivers this year.
These 2 parallel forces exist and constantly ebb and flow in test markets.
Despite the favorable long-term wireless device trends we expect the immaturity of the Wireless Test market will yield greater to greater year-to-year market size uncertainty for the next few years.
As you've seen our operating model is able to handle this volatility quite well.
For us though the focus is to secure a series of key design wins in cellular tests building off our successful penetration last year and of course to maintain our leadership position in connectivity.
At the halfway mark we're performing well on both fronts.
I'll note that while we're building a strong foundation on cellular design wins they are lengthy.
And as a new player we naturally start with a smaller share position in these new accounts.
Our cellular test strategy remains to first get in the tent as the second supplier with our leading innovation and then over time expand share with our production-optimized focus.
Shifting quickly to storage test.
We're in a rebuilding mode in 2014.
As you know we've taken a series of actions including lowering the breakeven introducing a 3.5-inch tester for cloud-based testing and working on SSD test solutions.
So we've been very busy getting this business on a more solid footing and towards breakeven for the full year.
We'd expect that at the end of the year we'll be better positioned to determine if collectively these actions are sufficient.
In the defense and production board test portions of System Test we continue to see demand for our new high-speed subsystem and growing traction for the recently introduced TestStation Multi-Site system.
Overall System Test orders were up over 50% in the second quarter and we'll continue to look for ways to use clever technology to energize board tests.
If you step back from the product and segment level details you'll see that we continue to execute on a very deliberate product strategy.
Let me clarify.
We see 2 very large and well-noted megatrends taking place across the globe: mobile communications and ubiquitous sensing and computing called by many names perhaps most commonly the Internet of Things.
These 2 trends drive lightweight lower-power devices with always-on and connected operation and are rapidly embedding themselves in the fabric of consumer commercial medical and industrial markets.
These device trends drive the familiar requirements we hear from our customers for low cost of test solutions and very fast programming environments for these complex products.
These products can move from design to production of millions of units per month in just a few quarters with near 0 defects across a globally dispersed supply chain.
Mark provided some details about the new UltraFLEX products but addressing these requirements and many others has also been the theme of our company-wide R&amp;D efforts.
So you've seen a steady flow of new product announcements from us in all of our business segments in total nearly a dozen in the last 6 months alone.
The common thread in these products is this unwavering [ph] focus on the test needs of these high-growth mobile and IoT markets.
Every part of Teradyne is delivering highly differentiated products to address these global trends.
So back to the numbers.
We're on track to have another good year.
As you know we long ago designed our cost structure to operate above the semi cap industry profit rate of 15% so that achieving a 27% operating profit rate this quarter is readily achievable even with less favorable product mix namely some large apps processing buying and some of our businesses operating below their normalized revenue levels.
As you can see from our third quarter guidance we expect the familiar seasonal patterns to hold driven principally by the timing of mobility product releases.
So we've cautiously guided the third quarter sales to run under the second quarter levels despite the very strong second quarter book-to-bill.
We put a slide in the package showing the historical pattern of SemiTest third quarter bookings which have dropped anywhere from 24% to 57% from the second quarter level over the last 3 years.
As noted earlier we also had a substantial pull-in of revenue and related earnings from the third quarter to the second.
Therefore in addition to your normal analysis I'd ask you to quickly look at the combined second and third quarter results and outlook.
As a 6-month period taken together you'll see that the combined results exceed the June consensus estimates.
Moving to the second quarter P&amp;L.
Our sales were $526 million.
The non-GAAP operating profit rate was 27% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.54.
The gross margin percentage was 55% in line with our model.
Moving now to capital allocation.
We ended the quarter with gross cash and marketable securities of $1.1 billion and no debt.
Our offshore cash totals $430 million which will continue to grow.
As a reminder this year we expect to add about $75 million for UltraFLEX leases which is why our cap adds are up considerably from a year ago.
As you know in 2008 we spent over $500 million for Nextest and Eagle Test taken together and in 2011 we also spent over $500 million for LitePoint.
These M&amp;A transactions are providing attractive returns and future acquisitions remain a key part of our strategy.
The timing of when we can close the next attractive transaction that meets our very strict criteria will remain uncertain.
We also recognize that cash is often the preferred currency in M&amp;A in order to avoid excess dilution from using equity.
We believe that in the midterm there will be attractive M&amp;A that we can close which will provide our shareholders a better return than to simply buy back stock aggressively.
However we also recognize that with a growing war chest we need to continuously consider all alternatives including returning more capital while maintaining flexibility for attractive M&amp;A.
Now moving to the key details of the second quarter.
Of the total company bookings of $627 million SemiTest bookings were $535 million Wireless Test bookings were $52 million and System Test were $40 million.
SOC test orders were $488 million and Memory Test orders were $47 million.
SemiTest service orders were $88 million.
In the second quarter semiconductor sales were 80% of the total; Wireless Test 13%; and System Test 7%.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the second quarter was 1.2 for the overall company 1.3 for Semiconductor Test 0.8 for Wireless Test and 1.1 for System Test.
The top line of $526 million was up $205 million or 64% sequentially from the first quarter.
SemiTest was $422 million up $160 million.
Wireless Test was $69 million up $47 million.
And System Test group was $35 million down $3 million.
We had no customer that was more than 10% of company revenue in the quarter.
Within the $526 million of second quarter revenue service was $73 million up $7 million compared to the first quarter.
SemiTest service revenue was $54 million.
Total company product turns business was 46% versus 55% a quarter ago.
SemiTest product turns business was 45% versus 57% a quarter ago.
Memory revenue was $51 million.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Non-GAAP gross margins increased to 55% from 52% in the first quarter due to higher volume.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $151 million compared to $138 million in the first quarter led by higher variable compensation accruals due to higher profits.
At the operating line we posted a 27% profit.
Our net interest and other income was $1 million.
Tax expense for the quarter was $24 million excluding discrete items.
And our full year tax rate excluding discrete items again is expected to be 17% for 2014.
Cash from operations generated $149 million after capital additions.
We ended the quarter with a gross cash balance of $1.1 billion.
DSO was 52 days down from 60 days in the first quarter.
We expect cash and marketable securities to increase by about $90 million in the third quarter.
As noted in the press release sales for the third quarter are expected to be between $440 million and $480 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.34 to $0.43 on 217 million diluted shares.
Q3 guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and the related tax impact.
Our GAAP EPS range is $0.27 to $0.36.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our third quarter guidance is about 22%.
Now moving to the P&amp;L percentages in the third quarter.
We expect non-GAAP gross margins to be about 55%.
R&amp;D should be 16% to 17% as we have several new product-related NREs in the third quarter and G&amp;A should be 16% to 17%.
Net interest income is expected to be about $1 million.
So to summarize we had a very good second quarter.
We continue to execute our product and market share strategies and we remain very focused and disciplined on putting our capital to work for the benefit of long-term owners.
With that I'll turn the call back to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Kevin we'd now like to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jim Covello from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask about the SOC test business.
We've had a couple of the analog companies in the last couple of days namely Linear and NXPI both increase their CapEx citing back-end constraints a little bit.
How much of that do you think is reflected in your June quarter results versus there's still some of that that's going to have to work its way through the system in a positive way for you going forward? And when I think about your September quarter guidance is -- are you assuming that what we saw from people like Linear and NXP and others -- and I know you don't want to comment on specific companies.
But do you assume that that's going to continue? Or do you assume in your guidance that that drops off a little bit because that can be volatile? Jim thanks.
Yes I think the analog business is one of those pieces that is strengthening and it tends to be less volatile overall than some of the digital businesses.
So in the second quarter I wouldn't say that it's peaked.
We're still seeing strong demand for our Eagle and FLEX testers which primarily serve that segment.
I think for the rest of the year it will continue to strengthen a bit.
Some of the companies you mentioned some are pure analog versus a mix of different types of parts.
But overall what we see is that analog will remain strong and probably strengthen a little bit in the second half.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful perspective.
And then when I think about the short-term disruptions in the Wireless Test space versus the long-term opportunity how do you guys frame that up in your mind? Obviously you talked about the issues that are driving the market this year and in the back half of the year.
What are you -- what in your mind has to be the long-term reward to live with the short-term volatility in that market? Well I think Wireless Test is going to be propelled by unit growth and complexity.
And the period we're in in the past I would say 2 years last year and this year is that the unit growth has slowed a bit for complex devices because of the sort of pushout of China LTE deployment.
And people in the meantime in the traditional markets have been working on a lot of optimization and reuse of equipment.
So what we do see is that the deployment of LTE in China will occur.
It's hard to predict when the ramp starts to go vertical but it will come.
And with that will come a lot of complexity in those phones from an RF point of view and -- on the RF and from an applications processor and power management point of view.
So for both the SemiTest business and the LitePoint business we think that the China wave will be the next wave of benefit we see from the wireless space.
And then what comes after that will be further enhancements with LTE Advanced and such that will continue to drive increased bandwidth and test complexity.
Your next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Greg can you help us with what the mix is going to look like for September from a revenue perspective? And the reason why I ask that is because it's pretty hard to fit the guidance given where the bookings were.
So I'm wondering maybe if you can help us with what the revenue mix is going to look like.
And then I had a follow-up.
Okay.
We don't typically do that Tim.
But I'll say the SemiTest we expect to -- obviously we have a larger segment.
And basically Semi and LitePoint are going to be down a bit from the prior quarter but they'll both be down about the same amount [indiscernible] percent.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Down you said what 50% you said? As a percent they'll look similar in their performance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Got it got it.
And then can you also talk -- wireless revenue was greater than the bookings.
And that's not the typical pattern given what you booked in Q1 and what you booked in Q2.
Revenue was about $20 million higher than what you booked in Q2.
Are there some deferrals in there some lease-related arrangements similarly that's in the SemiTest side maybe that's inflating LitePoint revenue relative to what you're booking? We don't have leases in -- at LitePoint.
So no that's not going on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just last thing for me.
Can you break out the backlog break out the $592 million worth of backlog? I don't have it at my fingertips.
But you could imagine SemiTest is the biggest piece by far.
Your next question comes from the line of Chad Dillard from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about how you're tracking on your memory share gain targets? I know before you were talking about 3% to 4%.
Where are you right now in the year? And where do you expect to be at the end of the year? Sure.
Memory is a little bit of a bright spot in that the share gains we're on track for the first half of the year with what we said 3 to 4 points of share gain.
We're seeing increasing demand in memory actually.
The -- both DRAM and the Flash speeds are going up dramatically.
That is causing I think unplanned obsolescence at some of our customers.
Whereas they had hoped they could reuse some legacy equipment the mix shift toward higher-speed DRAMs and higher-speed Flash is driving a little bit more demand.
And that's playing into our products' strength and driving our share north.
So last year we finished around 25% 26% share of the memory market.
Our goal this year is if we can stretch it to 30% plus or minus a few it would be great.
Research Division</strong> And then on the SSD side and SSD test now that's a new market opportunity for you.
Can you help us get a sense of how big that market size is what the penetration rate is and what sort of share should we expect you to achieve? Yes.
That market is very nascent and early so I would not at this point be able to put a market size on it.
We've gotten some initial design wins that are first applications of our product to that space.
So we've really got to go through that initial deployment and see where it sorts out before we could start to think about this as a market and a sizing and such.
So some good early indicators enough to make a big difference in the bottom line of that relatively small business but it's too early to call the market.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pitzer from Crdit Suisse.
This is Farhan Ahmad asking a question on behalf of John.
My first question is regarding your Wireless Test.
If I think about the Wireless Test you have very high exposure to 1 customer and that particular customer is having very strong supply chain data points.
So I was just wondering like what's led to like somewhat of weaker orders this quarter and if there is some share loss at the biggest customer in the Wireless Test.
I'll take that one.
In my remarks I believe I mentioned one of the factors affecting us was there was test capacity left over from the prior year that's being absorbed.
So I think that's affecting us this year.
And just to step back in the last 2 years there have been very high buying from LitePoint and Wireless Test.
I think those last 2 years were above the trend line.
I think we're below our trend line now and this is not uncommon in tests where there's some buying it gets optimized it gets better used with experience and know-how and then that pushes out future capital purchases.
So that's what we believe is going on this year.
And at some point that capacity is absorbed and we're back delivering new testers.
In terms of market share we feel confident that -- overall that we will gain market share yet again this year.
It might be a couple of points.
Now we accept market share is -- unlike SemiTest where there's third-party reporting it's more difficult.
But the way we count noses we think we have a good understanding of our position.
Got it.
And in terms of your first half orders they were $230 million higher than your revenues.
So in regard -- just taking that into account your September quarter guidance looks a bit light.
And particularly when I think about like the higher utilization rates at the foundries currently I just want to understand like how much of conservatism is built into your guidance for third quarter.
And could there be a significant upside to it? Yes.
I'll take that one too.
If you look at our history over time and I think I also mentioned this our bookings in the third quarter drop anywhere from 24% to 57%.
So that's a very wide range that we have to model with.
It can be a steep or a small drop.
So could there be upside? Yes there could be.
But we tend to try to play it conservatively so that we earn your credibility.
We weren't super cautious but we were sort of normal cautious the way we normally set our guidance.
So we feel good where we set it.
And another key thing for us is if you look at Q2 and Q3 together taken together it's similar to what the sell-side consensus was before this call.
So I think you guys got it right.
It's just some business came in a little bit earlier.
Your next question comes from the line of C.J.
Muse from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question on LitePoint.
You reiterated the $700 million market size.
I'm curious there.
If cellular's really not buying because of excess existing capacity but your share in connectivity is holding and you're doing roughly $140 million give or take in the first 3 quarters it looks like the implied number for you guys is closer to $200 million for the year.
And so I guess the question this does that mean that we should see sustainable spending on tests within LitePoint into Q4? Or am I missing something there? C.J.
that's correct.
We would expect a stronger Q4 than we traditionally had.
So clearly our plan is back-end loaded and it's tied to we think the China 4G buying will starting to pick up and we've gotten design wins.
The trick for us though is as we've gotten these very important design wins it's also not quite clear how much we're going to get until the very very end.
We know we won but are they going to give us 10% 20%? What percent of the buy are we going to get? So even that's still in play now.
So what we feel good about is we get those design wins and over time similar to what we did in connectivity many years ago you start as the low share guy you work your way up over time.
So we like where we are strategically but we accept it's hard to call the short term.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
That's helpful.
And then I guess as my follow-up this is a great year for SOC test particularly when you think about Intel bringing in-house.
Curious how you think about the moving parts for 2015.
And I guess within that would love to hear your thoughts around mobility whether there's a pause as we shrink down to 16 14 or whether you see re-up there.
And then on the analog side it sounds like that can continue.
Would love to hear your thoughts there on sensors/microcontrollers et cetera.
Well I think -- so to start with analog sensors and microcontrollers I think there's a long-term systemic growth coming there that's both new applications driving an increase in unit volume growth for the devices.
On top of that there'll be increased test intensity because of some of the trends I cited in my remarks.
So those 2 pieces I'm very optimistic about going into next year and beyond.
Mobility is always volatile and lots of things happen.
Node -- you mentioned one for example.
Next year there's likely to be a significant node shift.
Now that in and of itself doesn't drive a lot of incremental test capacity unless there's a yield issue which did happen at the 28-nanometer node in 2012.
So there's always this possibility that a node issue can create a temporary capacity surge.
But it all averages out over time because once the yield issues are fixed that capacity gets absorbed.
That's what we saw in 2013.
So as I look at where we are now and next year I think looking at the balloons and anchors it feels it's going to be about a similar kind of pattern with a systemic increase in test intensity perhaps buoying the market a little bit.
So that's the color I can give you at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Diffely from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> So I guess first question is on the turns business.
So were you surprised at the magnitude of turns in the quarter? And could you have even done more? Yes.
Surprised is a term of art because we always in our manufacturing model put in enough upside capacity to deal with some amount of surprise or pull-ins.
And in this case the customers were pulling hard to get a little bit ahead of some of the ramp of silicon for some product launches coming soon.
And on the Semiconductor Test side we actually exhausted not all but quite a significant portion of our upside.
So it would have been hard for us to do much more in SemiTest than we did.
On some of the other segments we did still have some dry powder.
We could have done more.
We didn't need to.
But that's a position we're in pretty much every quarter.
When we're in a peak quarter like we are in the second quarter and third quarter months we can have depending -- if the mix hits right anywhere from $50 million to $100 million of upside.
And in a trough month or trough quarter we might have $150 million of upside.
But that's how we've been running the business now for 4 years and it helped us really be responsive.
And it's part of why I believe we've been able to move market share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just to follow up here on the buy rate on some of your slides.
You're saying the buy rate this year for SOC is only about 1% which is significantly below where it was in '10 '11 and '12.
Did something happen industry-wide? Or is it just dynamics of a single year? Well I think there's one factor that needs to be put in there.
So yes it's up this year from last year.
It will be up 1%-plus.
But the buy rate in the past had effect of some large microprocessor companies were buying significant commercial capacity.
They tend at this point to move in-house.
And so that was in the commercial market numbers in '10 '11 '12 and it's out of the commercial market numbers that you look at in '13 '14 and beyond.
So if you -- and that could be on the order of several hundred million dollars of buying.
So if you neutralize that effect of shifting from commercial to in-house I think you would find it's back not quite to that 1.3% level but it's getting back there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So would you consider the 1% buy rate kind of a normal rate going forward then? I think -- well I think it will -- my belief is it will slowly trend back up because of these test intensity issues we're seeing.
And so if we're looking out -- in our planning if we're looking a couple of years down the road it's somewhere in the let's say 1% to 1.3% range is probably a planning number.
Your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini from SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the LitePoint.
I'm a little bit confused.
If the end customer is building finished handset inventory today and into Q3 with the intention of selling those units in Q4 what gives you confidence that there's going to be a pickup in test equipment procurement late in the year? Mehdi we believe is as the year goes on these design wins we're getting in Asia for example we think there is going to be the 4G handset build-out now that the towers are getting put in place and the infrastructure.
So therefore we'll get business from that end.
In terms of existing customers that have excess capacity there may be very little extra business we get from them.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now so if the design wins help with better-than-seasonal trend in Q4 would it be fair to say -- to assume that there's also a probability that Q1 could turn out to be better than seasonal because of the design win? Yes that's possible.
But I would still say there is strong seasonal patterns like there is in SemiTest.
So the design wins can help.
But our design win we believe we are going to start as the second source guys so we're going to start at a lower share.
So to us they're very strategic.
We can't say the names of these accounts but they're very -- the accounts we'd want to be in.
So we think long term we're in a very good path.
It's just that the dollars probably will be smaller than the importance of these strategic wins long term.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then on R&amp;D can you please explain again why the R&amp;D mix is spiking in Q3? In the third quarter we have a set of NREs fees paid to third parties that coalesce in the third quarter 3 -- about 3 NREs in different parts of the company principally in SemiTest.
So that's a bit of a bubble that we don't expect in the fourth quarter.
And that's just timing.
It happens now and then.
Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar from Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of them.
Number one Greg or Mark if you look at the last 3 years -- I know you guys don't give forecast beyond 1 quarter.
But the last 3 years your Q4 revenue was under $300 million.
Now assuming it follows normal seasonal patterns but Q4 seems to be weighted for LitePoint.
So should we assume Q4 this year to be much better than $300 million versus the last 3 years? As you said at the outset we don't talk about fourth quarter guidance so that's key.
But all I could tell you is history should be a strong indicator for you.
And yes we think LitePoint could have some better news in the fourth quarter.
But again I also said that these are key wins that we start with small second source positions but important for the long term.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then the second question is on the Wireless Test.
If we look at the last few years the market size has been compressing.
Obviously competition has been increasing and there are probably 5 guys including you guys in the picture.
So I'm just kind of curious what's got to give for the market to improve.
Do you think there are like 2 or 3 competitors too many that need to get out of the business? Or do you think it is more about innovation innovating to get the prices back up? I think it's about innovation for the foreseeable future.
That's what LitePoint was incredibly successful in the connectivity side.
LitePoint's brought innovation to cellular test but they were late to the market so it's a different hand they had to play.
I do think with our production-focused optimized approach that over time we'll win.
And that includes everything from we tend to have a lower-cost product the COGS of it.
The throughput's better.
It's easier to program.
So it's exactly what is needed in a low-cost Asian fast-ramp manufacturing environment.
Our competitors are all very capable.
But they tend to come from an R&amp;D or a general-purpose instrument and they try to bring that into the battlefield.
That's not as strong an offering as we have because we optimize on the exact problem at hand.
So I do think you're going to see that over time we'll continue to be very strong with production-optimized testing.
Some of our competitors are better at general purpose or in the R&amp;D lab.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> First question on Wireless Test.
Given some of the reuse and upgradability that you've talked about in the past how do you capitalize on the potential opportunity there in terms of like upgrades or providing additional services for those customers that are large for you right now that aren't doing a lot of that reuse and upgradability? We generally have upgrade paths for our customers where needed.
If it makes sense we'll do what's necessary to give the customer the roadmap that they need.
So we do get business from upgrades but we also -- there's also in this industry new products every year.
I mean the product life cycle the new products -- every 9 months to 12 months is a new product.
So there is an element of upgrade.
But I think that the greatest drive is the next product and the next product.
And there's so much change happening.
Unlike SemiTest where you have 2- 3-year product design cycles this is 9 months so it's constantly changing.
And I would also say that it's an ebb and flow where in any given year some technologies don't offer an opportunity for a lot of equipment upgrades but then there's new technologies coming into the phone.
So what you'll see over time is that the portfolio of product offerings expands to cover more and more technologies.
And sometimes those waves get in sync and sometimes they're out of sync.
But that's how we work with the established customers to increase our share of wallet.
The last maybe 12 months thereabouts customers are buying future-proof out of the box or buying testers with example 802.11ac even though they're not testing for that now.
So customers have a choice.
You can buy a future-proof tester or you can buy something lower cost for the problem at hand.
So they have the choice.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great great.
That's really helpful.
And in your commentary regarding the 4G China rollout in terms of being slower than expected.
Just from your historical perspective to date how long has it taken in terms of generation devices before you become a lead supplier to any new customer? Does it take 1 or 2 generations before you become the lead supplier? Or could it take more time than that? Well I think if you're referring to the cellular design wins we've talked about in the LitePoint case in the WiFi side of Lite we very quickly moved to a dominant position.
But we were moving in at a time when the market was also nascent and exploding like LitePoint was.
So we rode a wave and had a strong position.
Here we're coming into an established market.
And because of the rapid product life cycles that Greg mentioned it's actually possible to move into a high share position within 1- or 2-generation design cycle which is a 1- or 2-year period.
If the product life cycles were quite long like SemiTest's 3 years there's a much slower share-move strategy.
But here it can move more quickly.
Our next question comes from the line of Jairam Nathan from Sidoti.
LLC</strong> With regard to Wireless Test have you mentioned what your breakeven level is on that business? And if -- and how has it changed over the last 2 years or so? We haven't -- we're probably not -- we're not going to do that in this call and don't plan to.
But LitePoint would expect to operate with good profits this year as well as the prior 2 years.
Obviously also though we've invested much were in the distribution and in the R&amp;D in cellular tests.
This -- we see this LTE as an opportunity.
It's a discontinuity.
Customers are looking for different solutions.
They can't buy what they bought in the past.
So there is this opportunity whether it's a 1 2-year window.
So this is when we need our best engineers best products engineers and best sales guys out in the field.
And we've done that in the past year in the major Asian countries.
So we've absolutely ramped up the LitePoint OpEx.
And it is delivering with the early design wins which whether it's 2 years 3 years it will be some time period where we believe we can move from small share to a much more meaningful share.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Just as a follow-up like what have you seen as a competitive response to -- with respect to you winning new business on LitePoint side? What they tend to do is try to copy our product.
We had 4 up testing now everyone else has 4 up testing.
But we have other things up our sleeve that they don't know about.
So we're always we believe a turn ahead of them with some innovation.
But they generally are fast followers.
And the customers tell them "Do what LitePoint did.
Do what LitePoint did." But they're not starting with the best architecture to do that so they have to make trade-offs.
And often they have higher COGS in their product.
The other thing they're doing in the short term is they do what others do they lower price.
But we have much better throughput so we tend -- that's usually not the best way for them to respond but that's the only thing they can do in the short term.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back over to the presenters.
Great.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
This concludes the call and we look forward to talking to you in the days and weeks ahead.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Natalia and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q3 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andrew Blanchard.
You may begin sir.
Thank you Natalia.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our CEO Mark Jagiela; and our CFO Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the third quarter as well as our outlook for the fourth quarter of this year.
The press release containing our third quarter results was issued last evening.
We're providing slides on the Investor page of the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
This expanded slide presentation contains some of the numerical data that in the past was included in the speaker remarks.
Those slides can be downloaded now or you can follow along live.
If you don't see the download icon simply refresh the page.
In addition the replay of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after this call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings for a complete description.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We've posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures were available on the Investor page of our website.
Also between now and our next earnings call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by UBS and Crdit Suisse.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First Mark will comment on our recent results and the general market environment as we enter the fourth quarter.
Greg will then offer more details on our quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the fourth quarter.
We'll then answer your questions.
And you should note that we intend to end is call after 1 hour.
Mark? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
Today I'd like to cover 2 topics with you: first our performance in 2014; and second our outlook for the test market over the next several years.
Greg will then review the quarterly numbers in detail as well as update you on our capital plans.
First our third quarter results keeps the momentum going for a very good growth year in 2014.
At the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance we will deliver 15% growth in sales and 23% growth in non-GAAP operating income for the company compared to 2013.
Most of this gain comes from our strengthening Semiconductor Test business where sales and profits are likely to grow just over 25% and 50% respectively.
Seasonal swings in our SemiTest business have increased over the past few years with this year's second quarter product shipments more than double 2013's fourth quarter levels before settling back down again this Q4.
This is tied to the semiconductor capacity ramp that occurs a few months in advance of launching new consumer handsets tablets and other mobile products.
While additional test capacity shipments will reach a low point in Q4 all the capacity we've installed in 2Q and 3Q is running at maximum utilization churning out chips.
The good news is that our manufacturing model is designed to handle these sharp quarter-to-quarter swings with minimal impact to our gross margin and operating model.
The SemiTest story is built on steady financially disciplined market share gains.
These gains come from a combination of targeting growth segments such as mobility and automotive where we grow faster than the overall market.
And also by competitive design wins where our products outperform the competition.
This rifle shot approach has led us to about 50% share of the SOC test market and we look to continue to grow share at about 1 point per year in this segment.
Our memory test story is equally compelling where due to the more concentrated nature of this segment we target annual share gains in the order of the 3 to 5 points per year.
Last year we picked up 10 points to move our share to about 26%.
And this year we will add another 3 to 5 points of share as our products design focus on testing the higher bus speeds of new NAND Flash and DRAMs is paying off.
This year our Wireless Test business has gained market share and scored significant design wins in cellular and NFC testing.
Despite this revenue will be down year-over-year as market compression continues and the ramp of LTE handsets in China is slower than expected.
However we are optimistic that 2015 will return to growth and we're well-positioned to benefit as we've continued to earn cellular design wins through the year.
We now count 8 of the top 10 smartphone manufacturers in cellular test as customers.
And we've just -- and we are just at the beginning of the NFC test growth curve as well.
While the cellular wins are important they are all multisource situations where volume is likely to be split amongst several suppliers.
On the other hand our NFC radiated tester is a groundbreaking product with a leading position in this developing segment.
Our System Test business will see about a 6% growth this year in revenue and solid profitability.
This is due to strong customer pull for our newly introduced Multi-Site In-line board tester and an increase in our storage test business.
Storage test is an encouraging story as we have swung from 8 quarters of losses to a forecasted profit in the second half of 2014.
Adapting our product for 3.5-inch drive Cloud Storage applications and SSD testing has driven the turnaround.
As we enter 2015 we are optimistic that these 2 growth segments in storage test will drive further sequential revenue and profit growth.
I'd now like to shift to the topic of our growth over the next few years at Teradyne.
The 2 components of this are core markets earnings growth and accretive M&amp;A in adjacent markets.
In our core SOC business we see favorable trends in capital intensity that should reverse the gradual market decline we've seen for the past decade.
As you know over the past 10 years the SOC test market has compressed from about a $3 billion annual run rate to about $2.2 billion today.
This negative 3% compound annual growth rate market shrink has been offset in Teradyne's case by market share gains and improvements in our financial model.
The encouraging news is that we now see signs of this market compression trend reversing in SemiTest.
Let me break this down and explain this in terms of the market dynamics.
Over a 10-year period the average annual increase in SOC device unit volume of about 8% combined with increasing design complexity and test time would normally drive test market sizes higher each year.
However offsetting this trend has been increased tester efficiency.
Although there are many factors at play this efficiency increase comes from 2 primary sources.
First roughly every 3 to 4 years new instrumentation is introduced into the market using the latest semiconductor technology.
This Moore's law effect alone produces about a 30% reduction in tester capital cost per device test insertion.
It doesn't happen all at once as it takes many years for new instruments to filter into the market and they typically are used for new devices while legacy devices stay tooled on legacy testers but the efficiency improvement is there.
In addition on roughly the same 3 to 4-year cadence parallelism of the Test Cell has also doubled.
Thus over the past 10 years the combination of new instrument cost reduction and increased parallelism has more than offset the 8% unit growth CAGR and the increasing test complexity.
The net effect has been a 3% annual reduction in the SOC tester TAM cited earlier.
However while the new instrument cost efficiency should continue apace for the rest of the decade the efficiency impact of increased parallelism for many devices is reaching the point of diminishing returns.
Each successive doubling of parallelism yields a smaller cost improvement and a diminishing impact on the tester market.
In our view the net impact of this diminishing return assuming device unit growth remains in the 8% range turns the 3% historic annual SOC market shrink into about a 3% to 5% annual market growth.
What will this mean for Teradyne a 5% growth in a nominal $2.2 billion market today will add about $55 million of annual revenue and $0.10 of EPS per year.
Combine that with our target of 1% annual share gains adding another $0.02 to $0.03 and we have an attractive earnings engine in semi-SOC test.
And although we do not project the memory test market to grow moving from our 30% share to 40% share over the next 3 to 4 years could add another $0.07 of EPS.
Of course quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year growth will continue to vary based on short-term market dynamics.
Still we consider the long-term market trends to be favorable towards growth in the SOC test segment.
Now let me turn to Wireless Test.
In this market we've seen the rapid market expansion of 2011 and 2012 mirrored by a rapid market compression over the past 2 years.
Post the growth years of 2011 and 2012 test equipment makers shifted focus to efficiency and optimization by introducing lower cost testers with higher throughput.
With tester product design cycles in this segment running under 1 year these improvements have been rapidly engineered and brought to market to help customers offset the growth in unit cost unit volume and text complexity.
At the same time customers have optimized test flows based on yield learnings from the initial ramp in 2011 and 2012 resulting in additional efficiency.
Although the upswings and downswings have been dramatic we see the market has stabilized as these improvements have been widely adopted at this point.
This segment has proven difficult to model but we believe that compression has run its course and we expect modest market growth in 2015.
In addition to these core markets we are committed to grow into adjacent markets through M&amp;A.
Clear EPS accretion is required for any acquisition and we remain patient for the right value proposition to materialize.
As we continue to generate cash there will be ample opportunity in the coming years for both M&amp;A and returning capital to our shareholders.
Let me now turn it over to Greg to give you more details on the numbers.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll start with the key highlights of 2014 today and then cover the third quarter details and fourth quarter outlook.
I'll then describe how we're thinking about next year and close with a few comments on capital allocation.
This year is on track to be over $1.6 billion in revenue with a 19% operating profit rate and about $235 million of free cash flow which is after putting in place about $75 million of UltraFLEX leases and contributing $30 million to fully fund our U.S.
pension plan.
2014 is solidly on track to be the fifth consecutive year of operating above the industry target profit rate of 15%.
This consistent string of good financial performance stems not only from our optimized operating model which we've outlined in prior calls but also from seeing where the hockey puck is going.
This is both in targeting the segments that offer the greatest growth such as mobility and IoT markets and carefully teasing out the future product features that our customers value the most.
This critical product planning capability comes from having our lights well out in front with the leading device players.
Moving to the details of our third quarter.
Our sales were $478 million the non-GAAP operating profit rate was 24% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.44.
We had no 10% customer in the quarter.
Non-GAAP gross margins were 55%.
You'll see our non-GAAP operating expenses were down $6 million to $145 million compared to the second quarter due to lower variable compensation accruals and certain onetime G&amp;A credits.
Moving to the segment level detail.
SemiTest orders were $203 million.
The sequential decline was in line with familiar consumer seasonal patterns and the strong first half pull in.
Our SOC test product orders were $141 million and memory test product orders were $25 million.
SemiTest service orders were $37 million.
SemiTest revenue was $380 million which included $290 million of SOC product $58 million of service and $32 million of memory product.
We expect to gain share in SOC test again this year led by very strong apps processor demand.
This will be a record year for UltraFLEX shipments.
Our operations team has already delivered more UltraFLEXes onto customer factory floors year-to-date than during any other full-year period and this has all been done with compressed lead times.
This type of deliberate performance is just one example of why in 2014 we received the highest score ever awarded to an equipment provider in VLSIresearch Customer Survey.
As Mark noted the growth -- the story of memory test is similar as we're growing in a flat market led by our strength in low-powered DRAM and Flash test.
Before leaving SemiTest I'd like to say a few words about UltraFLEX leases as this has been an area of investor interest over the past few months.
First to put in some perspective in a normal year we invest about $10 million of our equipment into lease-type arrangements with customers.
In 2014 however we are on course to invest about $75 million of which 1 customer accounts for 95% of this.
All of these leased systems have been delivered.
After 1 year at this large customer these leases can be canceled with 2 months' notice.
We can't currently predict whether some or all of these leases will be continued post the initial period bought out at fair value or canceled and returned.
It's important to note that these UltraFLEX configurations have a long life with broad market acceptance so we can redeploy these testers if needed.
If returned we'd get a very good lift in cash flows when we redeploy the testers as we've already invested cash in this product.
Going forward we don't expect our leasing investments to grow as financing terms from leasing companies are typically more favorable to customers as they have a lower cost of capital.
The leasing program with this large customer inflated our total capital additions in 2014 to $146 million to-date.
In 2015 we expect our gross CapEx to fall back to be between $90 million and $100 million.
Shifting to Wireless Test.
We've booked $42 million and shipped $55 million in the third quarter.
Our market share momentum continues as we add share in cellular and NFC to our solid connectivity base.
We continue to be the wireless innovator whether the first one with one-box testing non-signal testing multi-DUT testing and now the first radiated NFC tester for manufacturing.
This innovative wireless DNA continues to gain us favor with leading customers both in initial design wins and market share.
Moving to System Test.
Orders were $28 million in the quarter and shipments were $43 million.
In defense and aerospace we're on the winning team for the recently announced next generation U.S.
Army test system.
And in production board test we've secured multiple new wins with our in-line test station which is well suited for automotive industrial and mobile product applications.
Shifting now to the fourth quarter.
Sales are expected to be between $305 million and $330 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.08 to $0.14 on 218 million diluted shares.
Q4 guidance excludes the pension mark-to-market charge amortization of acquired intangibles and the related tax impact.
Our GAAP EPS range is a loss of $0.11 to $0.16 which includes a fourth quarter pension charge of about $50 million due to the adoption of new actuarial tables that contain revised mortality assumptions.
Of this $50 million we will contribute $30 million to our U.S.
qualified plan in the fourth quarter which is off our balance sheet.
The remaining $20 million is for nonqualified and foreign plans and increases our long-term retirement liabilities on our balance sheet from about $90 million to about $110 million.
These payments will be funded with our long-term marketable securities.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance is about 9% and we expect cash and marketable securities to increase by $50 million in the fourth quarter leaving us with a year-end balance of $1.230 billion.
We've provided some other details to assist you in your modeling in the slides which I won't cover in my remarks.
Now regarding our 2015 market outlook.
VLSIresearch currently forecasts next year's semiconductor unit growth at a healthy 8%.
Balanced on that we expect lower spending in applications processor test after a very strong 2014.
So since it's too early to call the market size for next year we'll keep our operations model primed to respond to whatever the market throws our way.
As Mark mentioned we also expect to see a gradual slowing of parallel test as physical and economic constraints are reached on multiple fronts.
This will play out over a few years or more but should lessen some of the productivity forces that have dampened the test market size.
Our operating model for 2015 is largely unchanged from 2014 other than a higher expected tax rate of about 25%.
This assumes the reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit.
If it is not reenacted our tax rate will be a couple of points higher.
Moving to capital allocation.
We expect to end the year with gross cash and marketable securities of $1 230 million.
This is up $30 million for the year after paying off the $190 million convert adding $75 million of product leases contributing $30 million to fully fund our U.S.
pension plan as noted earlier and distributing $38 million or 3 quarters of expected dividend payments.
Of this total balance about $500 million of our cash is offshore an increase of $160 million from last year with a $130 million decrease in the U.S.
cash.
Given our sales mix this year about 70% of our free cash flow was offshore which is also why our tax rate is running at 18% for 2014.
Of our total expected U.S.
cash flow this year our annualized dividend is tracking to about 40% of this amount.
This U.S.
cash flow includes our U.S.
free cash flow and cash received from our employee stock purchase plan.
So by this very short-term measure we have upped our capital return significantly in 2014.
As we look increasingly at 2015 we'll continue to evaluate the best use for our cash and marketable securities whether for highly selective M&amp;A or returning more capital to shareholders.
2014 is shaping up as another year of solid financial performance good market share momentum and also the year that we started our first-ever dividend.
We look forward to next year and continuing to outperform the industry.
With that I'll turn the call back to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Natalia we'd now like to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] You have a question from the line of John Pitzer with Crdit Suisse.
This is Farhan asking a question on behalf of John.
My first question is in regards to the secular market trend that you've highlighted where you expect the test market to reverse from a decline to growth going forward.
My key question on that is that in regards to the test complexity that you mentioned that there's a 8% increase per year and you said in your expectations that in order for the annual growth to -- for the test market to grow at 3% to 5% one of the key assumptions you had was the test complexity continues to grow at the same rate.
However we are seeing that the transistor cost are not declining any more at the same rate and companies are being much more reluctant to add transistors and goes straight [ph] into the silicon in order to manage the cost.
So don't you think there is a structural headwind in the increase of test complexity going forward as well? Yes.
Thanks for the question.
I think test complexity transistor count isn't the only proxy for test complexity.
In a lot of devices test complexity grows through functional complexity that doesn't scale directly with transistor.
So different modes for example in a RF SOC device for lots of LTE Advanced would be 1 example of an increasing complexity could be a tripling or a quadrupling of complexity in that device but it doesn't necessarily mean a quadrupling or a tripling of complexity of transistors.
So for a lot of mixed signal and analog devices I don't think there's a correlation.
On the digital front there is more of a correlation but in fact if you look at the proliferation of transistors in apps processors it's been on a tremendous curve that's exceeded the rate of proliferation even in conventional MPUs in the past 5 years.
And I think that trend in terms of marketplace proliferation will continue for the rest of the decade.
What happens beyond the end of the decade with limitations and scaling down below 10 nanometers or 7 nanometers I think is a reasonable question.
But in all likelihood in that case what will happen is stack dies or multi die packages will become the proxy for increasing transistor complexity and still drive test intensity.
And if you could just provide some color on what you expect in terms of shipments by segment for the fourth quarter? We don't typically guide shipments for the fourth quarter.
SemiTest will clearly be the strongest segment.
So I'll leave it at that.
Your next question is from the line of Timothy Arcuri with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Couple of things.
I guess sort of a follow-up on that last question.
So of the 2 factors that have been weighing on the size of the -- or the way that which the SOC test market could grow and actually shrank over time.
Is the factor that that is lifting the -- is that related to Moore's law and is the parallelism factors still in effect? Yes actually Tim the Moore's law effect I think will continue through the rest of the decade.
And that as I mentioned gives us about a 30% reduction in let's say CapEx per test site every 3 to 4 years and I don't think that will change for the rest of this decade.
The parallelism on the other hand is the area where there is diminishing returns.
And a combination of the next step in parallelism having a smaller impact on our market and a bit of a slowing down of that effect is the thing that's ameliorating.
And when you put the 2 together by far the biggest impact of the 2 has been the Moore's law effect but the mere reduction in the parallelism effect takes that 3% negative CAGR to something on the order of a 3% to 5% growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay awesome.
2 more quick things.
First of all certainly the size of the SOC market this year was boosted by those leases that you've been talking about but can you give -- sort of give us some idea of what you think that your SOC test sales will do next year.
It sort of seems like they are going to be flat plus or minus but I just wanted your view there.
And then lastly I wanted your view on the competitive environment in Wireless Test because given the size that the market is now it's shrunk down to $600 million pretty -- it's a pretty small market to have 5 big companies rodeo [ph] and Keysight and you and everyone else chasing after.
So I guess what's going to change the highly competitive pricing environment in Wireless Test to sort of get that market to again start to growth.
I'll take the first part and I'll give the wireless to you Mark.
Tim the leases themselves didn't really escalate the market size of our business because those are rentals it gets monthly rentals.
They are operative leases.
So that didn't have a significant impact on our results.
But we certainly benefit from total applications processor demand which -- there were are many testers that were sold for that.
So I hope that clarifies what you're getting at.
And then on the wireless question you're right.
I think certainly with the market in the $600 million $700 million range having 5 large suppliers is too much supply into that market.
So there will be a period of shakeout and digestion here.
So what we look for in that is are we securing higher rates of adoption than our competitors so that when it does sort out we emerge as the dominant supplier of whatever is left standing.
And that's the progress we've been making.
A year ago in 2013 we ended the year with essentially our first major designing for LTE cellular testing.
And we sit here today going into the fourth quarter with 8 of the top 10 smartphone manufacturers having adopted the LitePoint cellular platform.
So we're making progress.
It will be a couple of years to sort out there's is no doubt in my mind.
But if we have the most innovative products and demonstration of that is increasing market share then we believe we'll emerge at the end of that as one of the major players.
Your next question is from the line of C.J.
Muse with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question intrigued on your comments regarding the SOC test by rate.
And here I would to love to hear your thoughts on where you expect that inflection to happen first what we should be looking at for evidence to point that that will happen? And if you think about the implications over the next 2 3 4 years what could that mean for what the size of the SOC test market could look like? Sure.
It's a good point that various segments inside SOC test will reach this diminishing returns point and parallel test at different rate.
So certainly in the what I would call complex analog SOC device case those might be things like RF transceivers and power management.
Those kinds of devices I think are at that point.
Applications processors very high content digital are also reaching that point.
On the other hand if you look at things such as automotive power electronics I don't believe they've reached that point yet.
They are still probably several years to go before there is that diminishing return curve.
But if you jump it way up roughly I would say half to 2/3 of the market is in a phase of diminishing returns.
And what I said in the remarks is that if you then work that out for the rest of the decade we see a 3% to 5% growth.
So a negative 3% shrink moving to a 3% to 5% growth.
On a $2.2 billion market that's roughly an extra $100 million a year of market growth on average.
And if Teradyne is at 50% market share that's about $50 million $55 million of incremental revenue to us.
And given the drop through on that business it translates to about $0.10 per share of earnings on an annual basis.
Now of course any given year if you've been around the industry you know the swings in the market size are quite dramatic.
So both on the compression side and from here on out the growth side these are trend lines that I think are averages.
And what happens in 1 year versus the next I bet will still be noisy.
Research Division</strong> It's very helpful.
I guess as my follow-up as you stay here today and look at 2015 curious across your adjacent businesses the LitePoint HDD SSD other system test where do you see the best opportunity for growth? Well for 2015 it's tough sitting here today to get a good read on that but I'll give a little bit of color.
Certainly we think that the storage test area will be an opportunity for a turnaround in growth.
The repositioning we've done for solid-state drive testing and cloud based testing has both resulted in order volume in the second half of the year to get us back to profit.
We do see that momentum picking up in terms of orders as we get towards the end of the year and into next year.
So that's one area that'll be incrementally positive.
I think production board test will be positive.
I think the LitePoint business will also be positive.
So the real thing that's hard to read right now is SemiTest because what we said earlier is we had abnormally large tooling year in 2014 around applications processors.
We don't expect -- it's possible but we don't expect that that in and of itself will repeat next year.
On the other hand there are certain segments this year that were uncharacteristically weak that are strengthening.
An example of that might be the area of image sensor testing.
Image sensors show up of course in handsets but they also show up in automotive and other applications.
We see that picking up dramatically next year.
We see automotive which was strong all year continuing to build strength.
So it could very well be that the emergence of those relatively quiet markets will offset what we expect to be a decline in apps processors.
And the one thing that could turn on apps processors for us that could make it a much larger year next year would be if the market penetration of the premium smartphones in China is high.
If the places where our SemiTest business is strong around apps processors finds high penetration in China that could be an upside.
Your next question is from the line of Jim Covello with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the strategic commentary around the business very much.
It was very helpful this quarter.
In terms of the comment from Mark about there was a record level of testers shipped in the middle of the year but the good news being that those testers are all running at full utilization rates.
So I wonder if we can get a little bit more color on that comment in particular around given the seasonal element to the business what would those full utilization rates of those testers translate into in terms of orders timing wise as we go to 2015.
Is that something we could expect reorders on in the early part of 2015? Or just given the seasonality of the business would that be a little later? Yes I think one of the things that's a bit unique actually just to extend that is yes they're highly utilized right now and uncharacteristically we will see some additional capacity bought here in our fourth quarter for that kind of segment which traditionally in the fourth quarter we would not see.
So there is actually some momentum carrying forward here into fourth.
But I really have to believe that like prior years the production ramp will slow down a bit in Q1.
There won't be additional capacity in Q1 as there hasn't been in past years and that the next phase when it emerges would be more toward the May June timeframe.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful there.
And then in terms of capital allocation commentary that was very helpful as well.
And I guess if I could paraphrase I just want to make sure I was understanding the message as clearly as possible it sounded like part of the message was listen there is a lot of cash there but there was kind of a lot of one-off uses for that cash in 2014.
There may not be as many one-off uses of that cash in 2015 therefore we could see more capital allocation going back to shareholders.
Is that a fair characterization of what you guys were trying to communicate? I think that's close Jim.
But the capital return discussions continue each quarter and it's directly tied to what's in our M&amp;A pipeline.
And we've a very good and active pipeline.
So it's looking at that how executable do we think that is relative to we see some good opportunities to return capital.
So we want to change it to we can do both versus it's an either or.
So that's where we're going to try to focus on in 2015.
Your next question is from the line of Tom Diffely with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Maybe another question on your mid to longer-term view.
I'm kind of curious what the IoT Internet of Things impact is.
We assume a lot of the growth comes from very low cost chips.
What does that do to your competitive advantage and maybe the margin structure over the next couple of years? This is Greg.
On the IoT this would help both Semi and LitePoint.
We've got products that are designed for some of the sweet spots.
We have very good strength in microcontroller which is the sort of a hub for some of these applications.
We're very strong in any of the wireless standards.
So we're approaching it both on the SemiTest and the Wireless side.
At the Wireless side we have some unique advantages that our products are easier to use.
And in this segment there'll be many more competitors who don't have a deep engineering capabilities.
So they need a very simple easy-to-use solution.
So I think LitePoint has some opportunities there as well.
It is hard having said all that what does it mean in numbers couple of years down the road but we do believe we're well positioned to benefit quite nicely from kind of whoever there we're going to be the solution behind the scenes that helps that takeoff.
Research Division</strong> So you think from a competitive point of view your products are -- the competition is not closer to where you are on low-cost chips.
Correct.
We're very strong with microcontroller and wireless.
So I think we have a huge advantage in the semi side there.
I'd say on the semi side for example one of the lowest cost communications standards out there is Bluetooth.
And Bluetooth has been a sweet spot of our whole Wireless Test side of SemiTest.
It's certainly a less complex standard than something like an RF LTE or a WiFi Combo chip.
So the test intensity for what will emerge in the Internet of Things around Bluetooth will be lower.
On the other hand when you look at things like machine-to-machine communication in industrial environments which will more likely be over WiFi or more smart utility applications that will be over LTE Advanced that will fuel the same level of complexity and technology that you see in smartphones in those applications and that will be a benefit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now that's good to hear.
And then I guess moving over to the Wireless side you said you had 8 of the top 10 as customers.
Do these customers typically dual source or tri-source these sets? Or once you're in do you expect a big slug of business? They dual source invariably.
They usually have 3 vendors and they'll pick 2.
And as we're the new guy and we tend to be the innovator they choose us because they see we can deliver much more than they would otherwise get.
But they start us off with the small amount of the purchase whether that's 10% or some number like that.
So we get the low running product.
The incumbent gets the bigger running product but we would expect over a number of couple of years we could move up our share.
So the key thing strategically for us this year at LitePoint was to get into these LTE Asian accounts and we've secured 8 of them this year.
So it was a very good year for us.
But the business starts slow but I think in a couple of years or a year we should be in much better shape.
Your next question is from the line of Krish Sankar with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify Mark did you say that the SOC market would grow 3% to 5% next year? And then I had a follow up.
Yes I didn't try to project next year.
What did I say is if I believe that you go off of a nominal market size of about $2.2 billion that between now and the end of the decade when we're done if you run a compound annual growth rate through that it will be in that 3% to 5% range.
So we are going to over time see that sort of trend line.
Just like on the downside it hasn't been a year-over-year some years are up and down dramatically 20% 25% year-over-year but the trend line has been unfortunately negative.
I expect to see that reverse for the next 5 or 6 years.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So just to follow up on that.
Do you have a view for the SOC market for NexGen? Then I had a follow-up on LitePoint.
I think we said in the prepared remarks that we weren't ready quite to do that.
We certainly will comment next quarter a little bit more about that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up on the LitePoint side.
I think people understand the competition and the productivity and pricing challenges.
I'm just kind of curious if given the fundamental issues with market share shrink over the last 2 to 3 years the fact is that LitePoint as a product is really not differentiated anymore? Or is there unique IP to it that competition can catch up to it? Or do you think that you still have some secret sauce out there that can help you drive growth in that market? We're very confident that we have secret sauce and that's a new application NFC we do the radiated testing.
Because we work with a key customer with their engineers and develop a solution that works for their needs.
We have other -- I think I said in last call we've other tricks up our sleeve but we don't announce them publicly.
But there is other things we can do that are on our roadmap that we see will help our customers.
What happens unfortunately though as we do that the customers says to the competitors do what LitePoint does.
So they're constantly chasing us but we tend to be 6 months 9 months ahead.
These are very fast product cycles but we expect we'll continue to be ahead.
We are clearly the production optimized easy-to-use out-of-the-box leader.
So I do think on the production side -- not the R&amp;D side.
So a lot of our competitors are much stronger on the R&amp;D preproduction side.
They're going to win over there.
We're not really chasing that.
But on the production side I do believe that's where our DNA is and our innovation and we've got more we can unleash.
Your next question is from the line of Chad Dillard with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig a little bit further into the NFC product that you're talking about.
Is it a standalone application or is it integrated within the cellular test product? And how big of a market opportunity is it? And where do you see your share there? So it's not integrated into a cellar product.
It's a standalone product which in terms of again optimizing efficiency for that new test insertion is the best economic way to go about testing NFC.
Right now it's somewhat of an emerging communication connectivity standard in handsets.
As it becomes more mission critical we expect that the market for that will grow.
And today this year being I would say a -- we launched the product in January this year at Mobile World Congress.
And when we look at the tail of the tape at the end of the year we'll probably end up in the 40% to 50% share of NFC test this year.
Research Division</strong> And moving to SOC test what is your order visibility right now? I mean how much of 4Q is booked so far and how is it compared to this time last year? The fourth quarter looks very solid.
We have some as Mark mentioned earlier we've some business in the fourth quarter that we don't typically get this late in a consumer cycle.
So it's a good quarter.
Some customers are still pulling quite hard.
So we have good visibility and we expect it to be one of our better fourth quarters.
But just in general when we go into a quarter as I mentioned fourth quarter to second quarter can be a 2 to 1 swing in product shipments.
So it's quite volatile but in any given quarter we go in we're probably roughly speaking 1/2 to 2/3 booked and the rest is turns even at those peak quarters.
And that going into fourth quarter is not that different.
Your next question is from the line of David Duley with Steelhead.
Just a quick clarification.
Do you expect your SOC test business to show the normal seasonality that it has over the last few years with I think orders being up in December and then revenue being up in March? It's hard to say that right now but that's the normal seasonal pattern.
The only thing that may be a little bit different is fourth quarter is stronger for SemiTest now.
So does that has some impact on Q1 we don't know.
But some of the business we're seeing in the fourth quarter is above what you normally expect.
And we've seen this year some business pulled in and that can affect the subsequent quarters.
But it's hard to give you a definitive response on that.
We tend to find the seasonal history has a way of repeating itself at different levels but it tends to repeat itself.
Okay.
And you mentioned somewhere in your prepared comments that you might be seeing a delay in the ramp up of Chinese handsets.
Could you talk about what you are seeing there little bit more color around that commentary? I guess I would have expect LitePoint business to show less seasonality in Q4 or maybe even grow given just rapid shipments of handsets from your biggest customer and then a bunch of the other Asian guys ramping up.
Yes.
Well I think at the beginning of the year there was a lot of optimism and some actual forecast that perhaps China LTE shipments could be in excess of 100 million units for the year.
As the year has played out it certainly is beginning to pick up now there is no doubt.
Maybe getting up to a run rate of in excess of 10 million units a month.
But as Greg mentioned the design-ins that we've secured have given us some participation in that ramp that's starting now.
But we are still the new comer and getting the smaller portion of that ramp.
So as the tooling cycles go on we believe what happens is we prove out the efficiency claims we've made for the ramps here in Q4 as a minority player and then build share and penetration throughout next year.
Okay.
And just one final clarification.
You've essentially talked about the buy rate in SOC going up.
What was the most -- what do you think the buy rate is in 2014? And over this 10-year period what do you think the buy rate goes to? I think let's say I haven't done the math on the buy rate over the 10 year period.
Looking forward in 2014 it's certainly up.
It may be up 1/10 of a point or so.
But I would expect that to slowly move up over time.
The more thing -- the thing we look at more carefully buy rate is the correlation to unit volume growth.
So the unit volume growth is what really drives our business.
The buy rate as a function of semiconductor revenue is less correlated it turns out to our business.
Your next question is from the line of Patrick Ho with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> As it relates to given Wireless Test business given the competitive nature that you've seen probably over the last 2 years have you seen any changes to your operating model for that business segment? And what I guess the potential impacts going forward particularly as we head into 2015? We haven't seen a meaningful change to our operating model.
We're still doing quite well percentage wise but the dollars are far less.
So we have a competitive cost structure very competitive COGS and our products because they're designed for the product at hand.
They are not general-purpose tester or some tester that was started in R&amp;D and then moved to manufacturing.
So at one level the model looks good but compared to what it could look like if we got some greater growth then it would be outstanding.
So it's a healthy business now with good percentages and we've expanded the footprint to get into Asia.
So that's all built out.
We're not hiring there anymore.
And now it's about expanding out these accounts that we've broken out which is a couple year process.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe my follow-up question again on the Wireless Test side of things.
The China LTE ramp that you mentioned has been slow to ramp.
One how do you see that shaping up in 2015? And secondly what other type of market drivers do you see overall as you head into next year? Well I think it's hard for us to predict which supplier will benefit most from the ramp in China which is why we've had a pretty broad initiative to get installed as broadly as possible.
So 8 out of 10 is really trying to get that footprint to be agnostic to who wins.
But we're not indifferent certain suppliers if they ramp faster than others would benefit us.
So -- but again that's something out of our control.
The other thing that's happening is the LTE standards in China are something that will roll into a couple hundred million unit annual volume next year is our belief.
That's a benefit to the industry and to us.
Outside of China the move to advanced Carrier Aggregation and LTE Advanced standards is another follow [ph] in terms of test complexity coming into the equation.
So earlier when I commented that we think a lot of the optimization which has been severe and very rapid has run its course it's sort of looking at those 2 trends a big jump in China LTE and complex Carrier Aggregation LTE Advanced standards proliferating in the U.S.
and elsewhere.
There are no further questions.
Great.
Well let's wrap this up.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you in the days ahead.
Thank you.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kevin and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q4 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Andy Blanchard Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Kevin.
Well good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our CEO Mark Jagiela; and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2014 as well as our outlook for the first quarter of this year.
The press release containing our fourth quarter results was issued last night.
We are providing slides on the Investor page of the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion and those slides can be downloaded now or you can follow it online.
If you don't see the download icon simply refresh the page.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings including with respect to our dividend and share repurchase programs which may be discontinued depending on general economic and market conditions and other considerations.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We've posted additional information concerning those non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where [ph] available on the Investor page of the website.
Also between now and our next earnings call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by Stifel Nicolaus Goldman Sachs Susquehanna and Bank of America.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First Mark will comment on our recent results and the general market environment as we enter the first quarter.
Greg will then offer more details on our quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the first quarter.
We'll then answer your questions and you should note that we intend to end this call after 1 hour.
Mark? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
Today I'd like to cover 3 topics with you.
First our performance in 2014; second the outlook for our markets in 2015; and third our capital allocation plans for 2015.
Greg will then review the numbers and our capital plans in detail.
2014 was a very good year for Teradyne with sales up about 15% and non-GAAP operating profit up over 25%.
Most of this gain came from our Semiconductor Test business where sales and profits grew 27% and 50% respectively.
A strong SOC test market in 2014 of about $2.35 billion combined with our 2-point share gain to 50% in this segment led to most of our year-over-year increase.
Mobility devices such as applications processors wireless transceivers and power management ICs all posted above-average demand in the year as the combination of new nodes higher-than-average complexity advances and a wider proliferation of new product introductions drove demand.
Our strong share position in these device segments was responsible for much of our year-over-year revenue increase.
During the year our R&amp;D pipeline introduced new RF digital and collaborative software products in this segment.
The software called Oasis is particularly appealing as it allows widely disperse teams of 10s of development engineers to collaborate on increasingly complex test program development.
This yields time-to-market advantages that are key in the fast-moving mobility space where complexity grows dramatically every year and volume ramps get even steeper.
The memory market was about flat year-over-year at around $500 million and here we picked up about 1 point of share to 27%.
2014 marked our highest level of memory test revenue since the year 2000.
Our new Magnum V memory tester won numerous design-ins and began to ramp in 2014.
The product is now well positioned at 4 of the top 5 flash manufacturers.
Additionally at the end of 2014 we secured 2 design wins for our new high-speed DRAM tester for known good die.
Known good die is a developing trend as more bare die get tested at speed to allow for more die-on-die mounting in future mobile devices.
Looking forward we see the 2015 SOC test market in the $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion range.
Coming off an above-average year for mobile device test tooling in 2014 we expect to see the same pattern we've seen over the past 5 years where as this year's capacity as will fall below the average as mobile device's test additions from 2014 are digested and optimized.
We then expect another surge in 2016 as more aggressive technology of node migration and more complex functional content combine to drive test intensity.
Other SOC segments like Linear Mixed Signal Automotive and MCU should be flat to up 3% year-over-year.
Stepping back to a broader perspective as I mentioned on the last call we still see a nominal $2.2 billion SOC market growing 3% to 5% over the midterm assuming an 8% unit growth rate in semiconductors.
At the same time we expect this pattern of year-to-year and seasonal swings to remain a part of the SOC test market over the next few years.
In memory test we see the market in 2015 as essentially flat at $500 million.
Higher speed interfaces in both Flash and DRAM continue to grow and swing more of a market to the sweet spot of our product offerings and our plan is to pick up 2 to 3 points of share in 2015.
Turning to Wireless Test.
Last year our LitePoint business gained market share and scored significant design wins in cellular and NFC testing.
We are now qualified and positioned in 8 of the top 10 handset manufacturers.
Despite this revenue was down year-over-year as the market compressed even more than our earlier forecast due to the continued tester productivity and pricing pressures.
We estimate the Wireless Test production market was in the $500 million range in 2014.
Looking forward we expect modest market growth in this segment over the next few years as handset growth rates while still high continue to slow.
We expect this market to be in the $450 million to $600 million range in 2015 with LitePoint gaining a few points of share building off our design wins in 2014.
LTE LTE Advanced and 802.11ac adoption will continue at a fast pace; and this combined with new standards like NFC testing are the opportunity for LitePoint.
Further a proliferation of reliable high-bandwidth connections in vehicles over the next 5 years will be another driver of test intensity as quality and reliability of these connections will be paramount.
Our System Test business saw about a 6% year-on-year increase in revenue and solid profitability.
This was due to strong customer pull for our newly introduced Multi-Site Inline board tester and an increase in our Storage Test business.
Storage Test continues its recovery as revenue more than doubled year-on-year and the group returned to profitability in the fourth quarter.
Steady progress in SSD testing has led much of the recovery and the traditional hard disk drive test business is also showing signs of recovery.
As we look to 2015 we see a return to buying in the enterprise and cloud-based storage drive market as well as continued demand in the SSD space.
We expect double-digit revenue growth and the group to be back at model profit for the year.
Our production board test business grew over 15% in 2014 due to the success of our new inline test product.
It's also notable that bookings in Asia grew 47% year-over-year.
After many years of decline 2014 was a turning point to growth in this business which we expect to continue in 2015.
Our defense and aerospace business saw a revenue decline in 2014 due to the anticipated wind down of some legacy programs in the DoD.
Despite this the group still delivered above-model profits and enhanced its product portfolio with the acquisition of AIT in the fourth quarter.
AIT brings advanced test instrumentation to the testing of high-speed communications interfaces increasingly found in all forms of military hardware from aircraft to drones to ground vehicles to smart munitions.
As legacy weapons systems get retrofitted and new systems come online this product will play an increasingly important role in our defense and aerospace test business.
We expect the combination of new DoD programs ramping and AIT to put us back on a growth trajectory in 2015 and beyond.
Finally let me turn to capital allocation.
2014 was a strong year for cash generation at Teradyne with over $300 million of free cash flow.
During the year we paid off our convertible debt and initiated our first quarterly dividend.
We've also been very active on the business development front working on select attractive M&amp;A candidates to enhance our strategic position for the long term.
Technology businesses evolve quickly and capitalizing on turning points both in organic R&amp;D and M&amp;A is vital for long-term success.
A balanced approach of capital return and investing in the business is our recipe for long-term success of the company and the shareholders.
As we enter 2015 and look at the total portfolio of opportunities ahead of us we've decided to increase our stock buyback authorization to $500 million while maintaining our quarterly dividend at its current level.
We plan to execute $300 million of this total authorization in 2015.
As we move through the year we will continue to assess our M&amp;A pipeline and core business cash generation to determine if a buyback above the $300 million level in 2015 is warranted.
Let me now turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Mark.
And good morning everyone.
I'll start with the key highlights of 2014 and then I'll detail our 2015 capital allocation plans and how those plans reconciled to our cash requirements our M&amp;A prospects and longer-term plans.
I'll then cover the fourth quarter results and first quarter outlook and close with some perspective on 2015.
On the financial highlight front 2014 goes into the annals of Teradyne as our fifth consecutive year of exceeding the ATE industry model profit rate.
In 2014 we achieved a non-GAAP operating profit rate of 19% 4 points above the model rate of 15%.
Over the last 5-year period our non-GAAP operating profit rate has ranged from 18% to 28% and averaged out at a 22% annual rate.
This solid 2014 and multiyear performance places us right alongside the best-run semi-equipment suppliers.
In 2014 we achieved sales of $1 648 000 000 up 15% from the prior year and inked non-GAAP operating income of $321 million up 26% from the prior year.
We also generated $323 million in free cash flow after investing about $75 million in leased testers and contributing $30 million to fully fund our U.S.
pension plan.
Over the last 5 years our annual free cash flow has averaged about $290 million or 19% of sales.
The Teradyne of today is a far less volatile performer than in the past with our lean OpEx and variable manufacturing model.
This optimized model has allowed us to stay in the black even in the seasonal fourth quarter troughs where sales are often down about 40% from the peak quarter.
SOC test buying cycles have ebbed and flowed year-to-year between on and off mobility test buying rather than sizable over buying followed by prolonged corrections.
Mobility buying was very strong in 2012 and '14 and we averaged a 21% non-GAAP operating profit rate in these on years.
In the off-buying years of 2011 and '13 despite sales being down about $200 million company-wide we nonetheless earned above the 15% industry model profit rate.
While I've previously described the market and product strategy behind our strong financial performance I'll quickly summarize it again now as it's how we plan on growing earnings looking ahead.
First we're highly selective and target the most attractive markets and we likewise avoid the hard-to-differentiate segments.
After selecting the most attractive segments to target we work closely with the leading and most demanding players to tease out their future test challenges.
We then design new products with lower cost of tests through higher device throughput while also reducing their time to volume production with faster programming and debugging tools.
We often also deliver greater accuracy and therefore better device yield as there is less guard banding needed.
This combination of a very efficient and optimized model with lean OpEx and variable manufacturing coupled with identifying submarkets and customers that are attractive both in growth rate and the ability to differentiate continues to set us apart.
By executing this strategy we set another SemiTest share record in 2014 reaching 46% share in the combined SOC and memory market up 2 points from last year's record.
You may recall from prior calls that about half of our market share gains come from being in healthier markets which capture a growing share of the total test wallet and the other half are net share wins from head-to-head battles.
In 2014 we also benefited from higher-than-normal application processing buying so we'd expect 2015 segment shifts to be less favorable for us and expect to hold share above flat for the year.
Our largest SemiTest competitor has about 41% share so the 2 largest players have a combined 87% share of the market.
However this market remains as competitive as ever.
This has had a direct impact on our operating expenses.
After aggressive reductions in 2008 and '09 our SemiTest OpEx has trended back up due to that competitive environment.
These investments have been fundamental to our 10 points of share gain over the last 4 years and our product and support lineup is stronger than ever.
Still we continue to look for opportunities to scale this OpEx investment back and expect our 2015 spend in both SemiTest and at the company level to be equal to or lower than 2014.
Turning now to a quick summary of the strategic highlights of 2014.
We fielded over 10 new innovative products and enhancements across the company.
Mark noted a few key products in SemiTest that have driven our share forward.
At LitePoint we introduced and shipped in volume a new product for NFC radiated test and extended our connectivity share position with a leading 802.11ac MIMO and beamforming test solution.
In System Test we have successfully entered the 3.5" and SSD storage markets expanded our reach in defense and aerospace with the AIT purchase and established a profitable growth path for the production for our test business.
Now looking to our 2015 capital allocation plans.
The $500 million buyback approved by our broad is based upon our strong business model and confidence in Teradyne's future.
We plan on buying back $300 million in 2015 either through an ASR open market purchases or a combination of the 2.
I should point out that we also have a healthy pipeline of attractive M&amp;A opportunities which require that we preserve some balance sheet flexibility.
Of course we'll continually review the returns we can achieve from our M&amp;A pipeline and gets an even greater capital return.
We've also included a schedule that shows our total cash and marketable security balances along with our minimum cash needs.
You'll note that similar to some other peer companies we need about a year's worth of OpEx or roughly $500 million as our minimum cash of which $400 million is needed in the U.S.
Hence the plan 2015 buyback of $300 million is quite significant against our beginning U.S.
balance of $683 million.
The $300 million is of course in addition to about $50 million that we expect to spend on dividends in 2015.
You can also see that we have $616 million offshore well above our $100 million minimum foreign balance.
This is a result of the lower offshore tax rate that we have enjoyed over many years for a portion of our foreign sales.
We may find a foreign acquisition that meets our strict acquisition criteria where this excess cash can be efficiently deployed.
Barring this we look to bring this foreign cash back when and if there is a repatriation holiday.
Longer term absent a cataclysmic environment we plan to generate additional U.S.
and foreign cash each year.
We plan to update you each January on our current year capital return plans rather than setting a rigid long-term formula now.
Okay so move to the details of the fourth quarter.
Our sales were $323 million; the non-GAAP operating profit rate was 11% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.14.
We had 2 10% customers in the quarter.
Non-GAAP gross margins were 53%.
You'll see our non-GAAP operating expenses were down $9 million to $136 million compared to the third quarter due to lower variable compensation accruals.
Moving to our segment-level details.
SemiTest bookings were $226 million in line with the familiar consumer seasonal patterns and the strong first half pull-in [ph].
SOC test orders were $201 million and memory test orders were $25 million.
SemiTest service orders were $61 million of the total.
Before leaving SemiTest I'd like to quickly update you on the UltraFLEX leases which have a 1-year initial term.
In 2014 we invested approximately $75 million in lease testers.
Currently we expect about 20% of these testers to be bought out in the first quarter.
In 2015 we expect our gross CapEx to fallback to about $90 million to $100 million.
Shifting now to Wireless Test.
We booked $39 million and shipped $40 million in fourth quarter the highest fourth quarter revenue in history.
I'd like to now quickly cover the LitePoint goodwill charge.
As you can see from our release we recorded a noncash goodwill impairment charge of $99 million.
This was triggered primarily by the reduction in the wireless market size in 2014 which in turn tempers our longer-term view of the Wireless Test market size.
There was a large step function change in the market size due to aggressive pricing parallel test efficiencies and customers optimizing their existing equipment.
As Mark noted the Wireless Test market which came in at about $500 million in 2014 still offers growth opportunities looking ahead with LTE proliferation test time expansion and unit growth.
However this lower starting point of the Wireless Test market drives the goodwill impairment charge.
Now moving to System Test.
Orders were $67 million in the quarter and shipments were $46 million.
Defense and aerospace orders more than doubled from Q3 on the strength of DoD system orders and annual service renewals.
And in production board tests while Q4 orders softened after a strong Q3 we finished 2014 with the highest full-year bookings in 3 years.
Sales for the first quarter are expected to be between $320 million and $345 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.09 to $0.14 and 220 million diluted shares.
Q1 guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles a gain on the sale of an equity investment and related tax impact.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our first quarter guidance is about 11%.
Our 2015 tax rate is expected to be about 27%.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is reinstated for 2015 that rate will drop to about 25%.
Post 2015 we expect our long-term tax rate to be in the high 20s assuming no R&amp;D tax credit.
Before we completely close the book on 2014 it's worth highlighting one last time some of the key milestones achieved in 2014.
We notched our fifth consecutive year of operating above the industry model profit rate.
We achieved our highest-ever ATE market share position.
We scored the highest-ever VLSI score for customer satisfaction for any semi-equipment provider and we initiated our first-ever quarterly dividend.
We now enter 2015 demonstrating our long-term confidence in our business and future earnings growth with our planned $300 million buyback in 2015 against the announced $500 million authorized repurchase program.
With that I'll turn the call back to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Now Kevin we'd now like to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri from Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the first question Greg is just on the buyback.
This has been discussed for some time.
Obviously you've been getting a lot of pressure on that and you're certainly buying back more than your cash flow this year.
But -- and you've sort of always said that you wanted to keep cash on hand for deals.
But sort of what changed and why now? I mean this sort of could've been done last quarter or the quarter before.
Is it that the asset prices of the stuff you want to buy are not coming down the way you thought? What -- so I guess the question is why now? I think last quarter on the call I did indicate that it's not an either/or.
We do intend to pursue highly strategic very good fits into Teradyne in M&amp;A where we can grow companies faster and return capital.
So if we can do both.
We also want to get a good look at the midterm plan which we hold together about this time of the year.
And we want to spend enough time with our board to go through all the alternatives trade-offs or M&amp;A pipeline.
But we tried to signal to you guys last time that we can do both.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I guess a question on Wireless Test.
It seems like a really terrible market.
We're hearing pricing is down 70% 80% [ph] the last 12 to 18 months.
It just sounds really bad.
And I guess what's going to change the competitive issues there? There's still 5 large companies trying to compete in a market that is really not big anymore at all.
So what's going to catapult you back into the technology lead? Do you have to make another M&amp;A deal there? And sort of what's your assessment broadly of what the competitive issues are? And importantly what's going to make it better? All right I'll take that one Tim.
You're right in terms of the fact that the market has contracted dramatically.
I wouldn't say pricing's down as much as you suggested but it has been down.
Now the thing that's going to play out as I mentioned in my remarks over the next few years I think it will be a continued tough market.
There's some technical innovations in how handsets and such get tested that we believe will break out over the next 2 to 3 years and allow Teradyne -- we plan -- to sort of emerge from that.
So as long as the market stays in its current algorithm around how it's testing the handsets it'll be a tough slow-growth market.
But we do see some things coming with the proliferation of more bands in phones and the premium on how does that phone switch bands hand off voice to WiFi gets voice over LTE going.
All of that complexity probably requires a rethink in how phones get tested and we've got some work going on in that direction.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then maybe last thing.
Greg can you give us just a sense of what you think gross margin is going to be for March? Gross margins for the year -- I think gross margins for the year will be about flat with last year.
Did you ask just for the first quarter? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
First quarter I think will be 52% to 53%.
LLC Research Division</strong> So 52% to 53%.
The next question comes from the line of Jim Covello from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question for Greg.
Greg the chart on your U.S.
cash versus your foreign cash is really helpful.
Could you give us some sense of what dictates where -- the difference in where the cash is generated year-to-year? There's some pretty dramatic changes as you laid out the fiscal '12 '13 and '14 in terms of where the cash flow is generated and therefore domiciled.
If you could give us some sense on that that'd be great.
Sure Jim.
What drives the foreign cash high as a percent in some years is UltraFLEX and J750.
Those are both very successful high-runner products huge installed bases.
Those profits for foreign customers end up in Singapore.
So that's the foreign cash that got trapped.
Our other businesses whether it's LitePoint Eagle Nextest MilAero production board test that would be U.S.
cash flow.
And it's a mix of how those businesses perform year-to-year affects the cash flows in one location versus the other.
Research Division</strong> That's incredibly helpful.
And if I could just for my follow up -- it looks like you kind of matching the current year buyback with the previous year's cash flow.
Is that an intentional issue? Or is that just more kind of coincidence? Because I remember you did something relatively similar with the dividend that you announced last year matched -- the outlay was consistent with the previous year's cash flow.
Is that how we should think about maybe the capital allocation incrementally going forward? I wouldn't think of this that way per se Jim.
After this $350 million the buyback and the dividend if you model Teradyne -- and it's hard to model U.S.
versus foreign cash flow.
But no matter how you do it you're going to see that there isn't really any excess cash in the U.S.
at the end of this buyback.
So that's how we thought about it.
And we have a foreign cash trap problem which is a result of a lower tax rate.
So it's more about bringing our U.S.
cash flow closer to the minimum balance.
Your next question comes from the line of C.J.
Muse with Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question your system test orders reached a roughly what 3-year peak year.
In your prepared remarks you talked about HDD and SSD.
I'm curious if you could expand on that? And is that what's driving the strength in the order book? And how should we think about the businesses in '15 and beyond on the hard drive and solid state drive side? Yes.
So most of the growth in the System Test business did come from storage test.
And in 2014 we endeavored to get a good position in SSD testing that worked in our favor.
We ended up with over $20 million of test business in SSD test in the year.
So that was a significant part of the growth.
And the other part was the production board test side.
Now if you think about this year the good news in storage test is it looks like on top of the SSD business we will see a return to buying at some level for hard disk drives for enterprise and cloud.
So there's a trend there that looks good.
MilAero should also grow this year.
So I think after many years of that section of the business being weak to down we are back and going to see sequential years of growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess as my follow-up on the SSD test side I guess -- can you walk me through what gives you the confidence that we'll see a nice recovery in 2016? And I'm assuming there you're talking about the 2-year cadence on AP.
And I guess as part of that can you weave in your thoughts again on the buy rate bottoming and potentially moving higher as you discussed last call? As well as what you're seeing in terms of the weakening yen versus the dollar and how that might be impacting or not impacting the competitive landscape? Okay.
A lot of topics there.
Let me start with the yen and dollar issue.
So our competitor being yen- and euro-dominated currency in terms of their OpEx certainly we'll see a benefit from the exchange rates over time since the tester market worldwide is predominantly a dollar-based transaction.
We haven't seen any pricing changes as a result of that.
And as they've indicated hopefully they'll take all of that to profit and will have a health ecosystem.
But -- so on that front nothing new and -- so we just watch and see what will happen.
In terms of the year-to-year swings in the SOC market and around mobility it's really more than just applications processors.
It's a whole series of parts that includes the base band the RF and the PMICs and a variety of other things that have coincidentally been on this even year-odd year cadence.
And for example in 2014 what drove it above average I would say was a series of things happened in that year.
The diversity of new product introductions in the year was quite larger than normal.
We had more flavors of new handset products coming to market than with the typical.
And inside those handsets there was more innovative capabilities and silicon than in a typical year say the prior year of 2013.
So those 2 things combined to drive test demand.
The other thing that happened in '14 is there was I would say pent-up demand to refresh handsets in the consumer base.
And so the level of ramp around those new product introductions to meet the surge of demand for the handsets was quite high.
And if you look through the year the level of shipments doesn't -- isn't flat for handsets.
It kind of peaks perhaps in the fourth quarter.
And so -- and people have to tool for that peak.
And a year where the introductions may not be as let's say a lot of change in technology or diversity a lot of that capacity can be smoothed out and reabsorbed.
So I would say the fourth quarter peak last year in handsets is probably higher than normal.
So that explains why last year was high.
This year we think we'll be more like a 2013 market where there certainly will be change but not at that level.
So when we look forward to '16 why are we confident that '16 will be another surge year? And it really gets into what we see are the underlying new designs that -- and the technologies and complexity of the new designs that are currently in sort of a test chip mode that won't show up for another year and half.
And when we look at that and just from that extrapolate we say boy '16 should be another big year of a more complex introduction of more diverse products and that should drive our market.
So a long-winded answer but that's how we look at it.
Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I feel that Mark if I look at the LitePoint business I think you ought to know the challenges that you're seeing in the competition -- and looks like you guys had a layoff in that division.
So my question is was it profitable in an operating level in Q4 the Wireless business? And then I'll follow up.
Well first of all in the Wireless -- yes good questions.
In the Wireless business last year we didn't really have any significant layoff.
We made so few adjustments less than a couple of percent of the total workforce.
And...
And -- the proper rate was profitable in the fourth quarter.
And for the year it was profitable above the ATE industry model they target at 15%.
It was above that.
So while the market has been compressed LitePoint as I think we've said in the past has manufacturing production optimized testers which generally means lower cost of goods sold and better throughput and easier to use in production because they dont use a general-purpose tester or an R&amp;D tester and try to convert it.
So the gross margins and the operating profits are still good.
But they're down from the record levels.
Prior to this year we were averaging a much higher operating profit rates.
But again we're still north of the 15%.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
They're pretty helpful Greg.
And then as a follow-up.
With all the focus on IOD and things like that I was wondering if you look at the analog mixed-signal test market are you actually seeing any of the traditional rack-and-stack guys or some of the software coming into that market and trying to for lack of a better term pull the LitePoint competitive situations in that segment? Yes.
Rack-and-stack equipment has always played a role at the simple device end of test for semiconductors.
And so to things like power amplifiers or discrete semiconductors that's always been a situation that they've persisted in.
I think there is a trend for them trying to move further up the food chain so that's happening.
But the complexity of these devices in other words in order to get really innovative products at a low cost that a consumer would crave requires some functionality that typically can't be produced in a simple device.
So producing an advanced let's say Bluetooth or WiFi-embedded microcontroller with a bunch of sensors and convertors to do something significant for a consumer is a complex chip.
It's not an expensive chip per se but it's complex.
And the ability for the rack-and-stack guys to move in and test those I think is limited.
Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Farhan from Crdit Suisse.
My first question is regarding the capital allocation.
Can you just talk about the choice of buyback over dividend.
Wouldn't it be better if you had like raised the dividend and you added buyback in addition to that? So just want to hear your thoughts on like why not do some dividend plus buyback rather than just allocating everything to buyback? Yes.
Well we look at the total capital return first in total and then we see it's -- you could increase the dividend and/or buyback the stock.
But we thought a very meaningful stock buyback really depleting our U.S.
cash to the minimum level would be the strongest signal we can send to our long-term investors to really show the confidence that we have sitting here.
So we thought that was a stronger move.
And we also said each January we will update you on our next year's capital allocation plan.
So stay tuned next January.
We'll update you what the plan is then.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my second question is for Mark.
The test market have consolidated from what used to be like 5 to 7 players down to primarily 2 large companies.
And Mark you mentioned that the competitive dynamics continue to remain strong in the industry.
And I guess like -- my question to you is like if it's a 2-player market how much of the competitive dynamics in the market is affected by your own actions? And would it be -- would the market be less competitive if you were a little less aggressive on OpEx and maybe try to optimize the company for margins rather than market share? Well we have optimized the company for margins so it's a question of how much.
And as Greg mentioned in his remarks we scaled back significantly in 2009 and '10 on OpEx.
And what we found is that our competitor didn't.
And in that situation over the long course of time we've been increasing our R&amp;D and in a few other places in the company as a result.
Now that's all proven successful.
We've been able to have a large profit headroom over the competitor even with that increasing OpEx.
But since this is a long-term battle we have to make sure that our product portfolio and our customer-facing support is competitive.
The next question comes from the line of David Duley with Steelhead.
A question on the SOC test market projections that you just made I think.
It looks like that you're calling for the overall market to be down about $250 million next year.
Is the vast major of that the application processor piece? I know there's some ancillary parts that go along with those that could also in years can be down.
But just trying to kind of figure out is the big piece that's down the application processor piece.
And outside of that what would you expect the rest of the markets to do? Well I would say the vast majority of it -- or the majority of it is the application processors.
But I would say the associated mobile chips that go with that are also we're thinking going to be down.
So those would be the Wireless whether it's WiFi or whether it's the LTRF transceivers and baseband chips to also will be down compared to last year.
So in the end markets the devices themselves will grow.
They just won't grow as much as last year.
And therefore the tests needs will be down a little bit.
So outside of Wireless and mobility areas like analog and automotive and even image sensor which is actually a mobile product will grow this year.
So those are all going to grow.
And it's just that the relative magnitude of the swing in the mobile devices is quite large.
And that underlying growth of these other device segments really cushion a little bit but not the whole swing.
So I guess I'm trying to interpret what you're SOC revenue will be next year based on your market commentary.
It sounds this segment's going to be $250 million or so like you have a vast majority of market share there.
Does the rest of the market make up for this and you end up somewhat let's say flat to down 5% kind of in SOC? I think that's hard to predict that mix.
But I think a way -- one way to think about it is our overall market share is about 50% and if the market's going to come down $200 million $300 million it could reasonably assume that we're not overly highly concentrated in those mobility segments.
I would say that if our 50% share on average is spread around -- we have higher share in analog and microcontroller and such and in mobility it's probably a little bit below 50.
So -- but rough math you might say if the market comes down $200 million maybe a $100 million of that comes out of us.
And does the rest of the market make up for it do you think? Some of it.
Some of it will be made up but not all of it.
And then as my follow-on could you help us understand who your 10% customers were what segments they were what the ultimate percentages were? Any other information that you can give us will be helpful.
Other than the customers who are in the mobility space there's really nothing else we can say.
Both SOC test customers or...
There is a LitePoint and in SOC.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Mark maybe just going onto Wireless Test market for a second.
You've provided a pretty wide variability of the overall market outlook.
I guess one of the key drivers for the -- both the low end and the high end of the range is it driven more by I guess the cellular test market and seeing growth there that can either get you to the high end? Or if you experience more pressures there that get you to the low end? Yes good question.
In Wireless Test the volatility in the market is much higher on the cellular side of test than it is on the WiFi side of the test.
So 1 of the factors there will be in Asia and primarily in China how will the year play out with incremental volume and who and which supplier of handsets in China will capture that incremental volume.
There's a wide variation in terms of test intensity among the different suppliers of handsets.
So that's something that's hard to call.
That is part of the reason the ranges is a bit wide.
And we're -- as I mentioned we're positioned pretty well across a large number of those.
But what each might invest in terms of test and quality assurance is different.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And maybe going to the SOC test market.
I know you gave very -- a broad outlook of 2016 with the hopes that the next generation devices will I guess create the demand once again for an uptick in the SOC test market.
Big picture how much can your customers reuse I guess the capacity that they bought in 2014 for the next generation devices? I guess what you gives you confidence that you'll see another buying wave for I guess the 40-nanometer finFET devices that are likely to come out later this year and into 2016? Well first on the reuse thing.
In SemiTest the platforms that we sell tend to be utilized for 10 years or so.
There is some obsolescence that occurs along the way and the systems gets refreshed with new instruments.
And as the devices increase in complexity they -- that typically means there's more power supplies and more digital pins needed in the tester to test the parts that are upgraded.
That's not new.
That's been going on forever.
And we expect that to be the case in '16.
So the products that we've installed in '14 and will in '15 will certainly be utilized and upgraded for use in '16 and in addition to new systems.
So if the world's adding lets say 250 million new smartphones a year that gets serviced by predominantly new testers and then the additional -- the current testers get upgraded.
The other thing that happens with each new complex device is the test time goes up.
So that tends to require additional capacity as well.
So it's not just the incremental 250 million that needs to be serviced but the other 1 billion units or devices that are being produced need more capacity as well.
So that's sort of the flywheel effect that keeps going.
And the real wildcard I'd say under all of that is well what's the level of incremental jump in complexity coming in '16 versus '15 versus '14? And we triangulate on that by just looking at the standards the chips that are running in a sort of test chip environment that are maybe 9 months to a year from production and try to extrapolate off of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Diffely of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a quick follow-up on Patrick's question there.
So when you look at 2016 on the SOC side does your demand required the move to finFET? Or would you see that demand if you stay at say the 20-nanometer node and just had increases in the number of design activity? Yes.
I think there's an assumption in that but it will be finFET in '16 I would say.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then -- I mean just looking over at the memory side if we saw actual DRAM wafer starts increasing this year not just upgrades for the existing wafer starts would that change your view for the size of the test market for memory? Yes a bit.
But memory test has been under pretty tight control band for a while now.
There are -- there -- I'd say there's more upside in memory than in prior years.
Because with the move to LPDDR4 for mobile devices that's a frequency jump again.
That's a challenge and it limits the reuse of existing testers.
So to the extent the shift toward LPDDR4 DDR4 tends to be harder that will move the market up.
And then the SSD side on Flash that's another potential upside balloon that if the shift occurs a little bit faster it can drive upside there.
So I think on the -- it's a good point.
The memory side this year probably has a bit more upside than normal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it's less that upside on the wafer test side or the final test side? Probably on the DRAM question it's -- I'd say it's kind of evenly split.
Although known good die is starting to get some traction I think it'll be on both wafer and package.
And then on the Flash test side packaged test probably is a little more upside because of the -- that's the spot where the frequency validation and certification occurs.
Your next question comes from the line of Sidney Ho with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I -- understanding the SOC market was down roughly 10% at $250 million this year are you still expecting your overall revenue to grow this year? And can you remind us your aspiration of share gains by each segment? Okay.
Well just to go back and refresh the SOC test market in '14 was $2.35 billion.
And this year what we said in the remarks here is that we expect it to be somewhere between $2.2 billion down to $1.95 billion.
So we expect it to come down based -- for the reasons I mentioned earlier.
And then inside that we every year have a goal of trying to gain 1 to 2 points of share in SOC.
We've been on that trend line now for quite some time and being successful although it's lumpy year to year.
So 1 to 2 points of share in SOC.
And then in memory this year we're looking around 3 points of share to pick up.
So those are our goals.
Those are the goals we've had for several years running now.
Research Division</strong> But how should we think about the other businesses the memory as well as the system business? Would that be able to make up the difference for the decline in the SemiTest column? Well if you think about memory memory is a $500 million market.
And we pick up 3 points of share that means $15 million of additional revenue out of the memory business.
If memory has a very strong year of $600 million it would actually be quite a bit more.
But it's not going to make up for the falloff in the overall SOC business where we have 50% share of a $2.2 billion market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe switching to wireless for a second.
I know you guys talk about the taking a charge on that.
But in terms of profitability I think this -- mark of this business the gross margins actually has above-average gross margin.
How should we think about operating margins for this business on a go-forward basis? And at what level will it get to kind of the corporate average with the run rate? It -- this year in it's down year it operated above the 15% ATE industry model profit rate.
So it's above that.
The priority [ph] business [ph] was considerably above that.
I think the model for LitePoint probably is about -- long term it's probably 20% heated [ph] business.
So that's where I expect them to operate plus or minus a few points and it will be lumpy.
Your next question comes from the line of from C.J.
Muse with Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> I guess to follow up 2 quick questions.
The one is how should we think about share count given the $300 million buyback plan for the next 12 months? And I guess within that how should we think about share grant and dilution from there also by that? And then secondly on the tax side if you look at TI they have a 28% tax rate and they have access to almost 100% of their cash.
You guys are at 25% including the R&amp;D tax credit.
Curious if there are tax strategies that you are pursuing to enable you to repatriate more cash and sustain the similar tax rate where you are today.
C.J.
I'll start with the second question first.
You're right our tax rate's gone up in 2015 but we're going to have more U.S.
cash flows.
It goes hand-in-hand.
But if you go back prior few years our tax rate was 18%.
It was also lower than that it was 13%.
So it's fluctuated in the teens and that's when a lot of cash got offshore which is a good problem to have.
But if you look at the snapshot of '15 yes it's looking more like a TI-type rate.
But this -- at this rate of 27% that's a high rate for us given our mix of businesses.
We are constantly looking at tax planning.
The only kind of gotcha with tax planning is the more profits you put offshore the less cash that's available to increase a dividend or to buy back stock.
So we have to navigate how much we want offshore for a lower tax rate versus how much we want to return to our shareholders.
And the former question was -- I lost track...
Research Division</strong> Share count.
Well the authorization is about 7% of our share count.
So I would expect by the end of the year we'll take those shares out and whether it's 16 million shares there about.
And then the normal dilution should occur that's happened in the last couple of years.
Okay.
Well this concludes the call for today.
Thank you all for your interest in Teradyne and we look forward to speaking with you in the days and weeks ahead.
Take care.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ginger and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q1 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Andrew Blanchard Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ginger.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our CEO Mark Jagiela and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we will provide details of our performance for the first quarter of 2015 as well as our outlook for the second quarter.
The press release containing our first-quarter results was issued last evening.
We're providing slides on the investor page of the website that may be helpful to you in following today's discussion.
Those slides can be downloaded now or you can follow along live.
If you don't see the download icon simply refresh the page.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC files including with respect to dividend and share repurchase programs which may be discontinued depending on general economic and market conditions and other considerations.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We've posted additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where available on the Investor page of our website.
Also between now and our next earnings call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by Davidson Cowen and company and Bank of America.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First Mark will comment on our recent results and the market conditions as we enter the second quarter.
Greg will then offer more details on our quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the second quarter.
We will then answer your questions and you should note that we intend to end this call after one hour.
Mark? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
In today's call I'd like to focus on three topics; our first-quarter highlights our outlook for the remainder of 2015 and our longer-term view on growth at Teradyne.
We're off to an excellent start in 2015.
Sales and profits were at the highest level for first quarter since 2012 and bookings were at the highest first-quarter levels in five years all driven primarily by mobile end markets.
Greg will take you through the details that drove the financial performance but I will provide a few highlights.
Semiconductor Test was our outstanding performer in first quarter.
On the order front record demand for our Magnum V memory tester and our UltraFLEX high-speed memory tester drove memory bookings to an all-time high.
As I've highlighted in past calls we continue to see the memory device mix skewing towards higher bus speeds and right into the sweet spot of our product line architecture.
In SOC test stronger than expected demand for applications processor test combined with the rapid adoption of our new J750-based system for image sensor test led to a surge in orders.
Analog test applications related to automotive and industrial electronics also showed strong growth where Eagle product bookings more than doubled compared to the first quarter 2014.
In our System Test business storage test continues to strengthen.
After two plus years of excess test capacity limiting business in this market the continued growth in cloud and enterprise drive storage has absorbed this idle capacity resulting in a return to incremental capacity adds.
This return of hard disk drive buying on top of the inroads we made last year in solid-state drive testing sets up a strong year for storage test.
At LitePoint we had our strongest first-quarter revenue in history.
However the outlook remains cloudy.
Orders in the quarter were below expectation as customers remain focused on optimizing their production operations.
Demand from a large customer was down and China was particularly slow as manufacturers saw a drop in smartphone shipments in Q1.
We expect orders to pick up as production plans solidify but our visibility into the full year remains quite limited.
And finally in Q1 we began execution of our previously announced $500 million share buyback and paid our fourth consecutive quarterly dividend.
Turning to our full-year outlook for 2015 our strong start to the year in Semiconductor Test raises our outlook on the SOC market size for the year from our previously forecasted $1.9 billion to $2 billion range to a $2.0 billion to 2.5 billion range.
The market drove is driven both by incremental demand and the purchase of previously leased equipment.
In SOC we still expect the typical fall off in the second half of the year.
In memory test we still expect a flat market at around $500 million but a continued increase in market share as growing high-speed memory unit volumes drive capacity onto our products.
System Test should show a strong year-over-year growth driven by the strength in storage test and steady demand in defense and production board test.
At LitePoint we see the market in the $450 million to $600 million range although at this point it is trending towards the lower end of that range.
Finally I would like to turn to the subject of growth at Teradyne.
We believe that the best returns for our long term investors come from a balanced approach to capital allocation.
This consists of first investing in our core business to grow market share and incremental EPS; second executing attractive M&amp;A to expand portfolio for greater competitive advantage and earnings power; and third a solid program of returning capital to shareholders.
This balanced approach is in full motion at Teradyne.
In our core business we've been investing in new product and targeting select growth segments to gain share over time.
Some of these investments like our fifth-generation RF test instrument and semi test or our next-generation ETS-800 Eagle tester enhance our position in markets we already serve.
Other investments like our J750 LCD driver test option or the LitePoint NFC tester expand the TAM closer to our core.
These organic investments are fully funded within our operating model where we deliver at or above model profits.
Over the past three years we've grown 9 points of SOC test share 12 points of memory test and about 14 points in Wireless Test share.
With that has come a solid earnings model that has generated just over 20% company PBIT during the period.
As I have noted in previous calls the SOC test market is showing signs of inflecting from what has been a sustained 3% average annual decline to about a 3% average annual growth.
That growth will be driven by slowing parallel test impact increased device complexity and steady unit volume expansion.
We've discussed parallel test in the past so I would like to touch on the complexity component for a moment.
The unrelenting drive for higher performance whether you measure performance by processing power battery life transistor count or some similar metric drives differentiation for our customers.
That drive for performance has been very evident in the mobile space with some applications processors now moving beyond desktop MPUs and transistor counts.
Power management chips have emerged as a major new class of integrated circuit and have evolved in complexity at a faster rate than even applications processors.
We also see growing complexity in microcontrollers sensors motor controllers and the thousands of other devices that are used to power industrial automotive and consumer applications.
This all translates into more complex test programs and longer test times.
When combined with the diminishing impact of parallel tests this in turn should drive long term growth for test equipment.
With this expected market growth and continued disciplined market share gains we're poised to reap increased EPS benefit from the added drop-through.
At LitePoint we're launching twice the number of new products this year than last to drive future growth.
Over the next few years these new products will increase the size of our addressable market.
While we expect the market conditions in Wireless Test to remain challenging during this period continued market share growth in connectivity and cellular test combined with new products to expand our TAM beyond these traditional segments forms the basis for our growth plan at LitePoint.
Again all these initiatives in our core are funded while making at or above model profits.
This in turn generates the free cash flow to pursue other initiatives and capital return and M&amp;A.
Our confidence in our core operating model has allowed us to ramp up our capital return program while still pursuing M&amp;A.
And as always we will continue to assess our cash portfolio and investment prospects to best optimize long term returns to shareholders which brings us to the other driver of growth; M&amp;A.
Technology businesses evolve rapidly and that high rate of change disrupts markets and creates new opportunities.
Many of these opportunities are addressed through our internal R&amp;D investments noted above.
Others require M&amp;A to fully capitalize on a trend or exploit a new turn in the market.
We envision several areas where M&amp;A can augment our portfolio to capitalize on technology trends we see developing over the next several years.
As we've discussed before we have a very strict set of financial hurdles to meet with any acquisition.
We look at where we can deliver the highest long term value to owners and are very disciplined in our analysis of potential additions to Teradyne.
We're confident that this thorough but patient M&amp;A strategy combined with capital returns and sustained organic R&amp;D will provide positive long term results to our shareholders.
Let me now turn it over to Greg.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I will start with some brief comments on the start to the year our key 2015 goals and then I will cover the first-quarter results in more detail and the second-quarter outlook.
On the demand front despite our expectation for a smaller sequential semi test market this year we began 2015 with a stronger start than last year.
company sales were $342 million at the high end of our guidance and non-GAAP EPS came in at $0.17 $0.03 above our high-end guidance.
Semi test demand and favorable mix drove this strong start.
Orders in the first quarter totaled $490 million up 48% from the fourth quarter and 9% above the first quarter of 2014.
Structurally we're seeing some early benefits from the slowing of parallel test that Mark talked about in October.
Specifically chip to tester interface challenges have been rising for complex SOC parts.
Interface layers may cost twice as much or more than their predecessors which when combined with thorny signal integrity issues can negate the payback of higher site counts.
We also received orders in the first quarter to buy out about a third of the fleet of leased testers that we put in place last year.
We expect more of the remaining balance to be bought this year by third-party financing companies as they have a lower cost of capital than we do and they can offer more attractive lease terms.
In memory test we had our highest quarterly bookings ever at 64 million.
The recently introduced Magnum V with its high-frequency range and high pin count is very well positioned for testing flash devices.
Mobile NAND is moving from 533 megabits per second today to over a gigabit per second later this year and the Magnum's architecture provides frequency and pin count advantages for these high-speed devices.
Those advantages are also helping Magnum make steady inroads into some test insertions in the DRAM mark.
Final test for DRAM is seeing similar speed boosts as we move to LP DDR4 and DDR4 both operating above 2 gigabits per second.
The UltraFLEX-M offers headroom up to 8 gigabits per second which was key driver of our Q1 memory orders.
This is another example of seeing where the hockey puck is going in our product planning process which is a key part of our long term sustainable advantage.
This proven roadmap insight allows us on average to invest our R&amp;D dollars more efficiently than our test competitors.
In storage test we saw strong resurgence in cloud-based testing demand for both near line and enterprise applications fueled by strong storage capacity growth.
Our new 3.5-inch tester serves high-capacity cloud applications with as many as 13 000 test slots in a single tester further lowering the per-site cost with greater density.
Now shifting to the 2015 vital goals.
The first goal is to hold and consolidate the strong SOC test share gains over the last several years.
In memory test the goal is to continue the share gains of a few points a year and put us above 30% for 2015.
Recall that we've expanded from 16% share in 2012 to 28% share last year.
Semi test share gains have come from our focus on and success in segments that are growing faster such as mobility microcontroller and analog and of course from head-to-head shootouts where we differentiate with our product architecture.
We do not try to gain share with aggressive price moves or at the expense of gross margins given that capital equipment demand is highly inelastic.
In System Test we're focused on meeting the increasing customer pull for our new 3.5-inch cloud tester.
This involves completing the engineering and ramping our supply chain for this new product.
System Test is also driving to expand the board test customer base for the new automated in-line TestStation products introduced last year and to build on the addition of AIT into the events and aerospace group.
At LitePoint the laser focus is on expanding in Asia.
Last year we broke into several new major Asian cellular manufacturers with initial orders.
This year we want to win a larger share of their wallet and continue to fan out in Asian accounts.
As Mark noted we're also fielding new LitePoint products for closely adjacent segments that should contribute to next year's financial results.
I will talk more about our progress against these key goals later in the year.
Now at the corporate level we will continue to both return capital consistent with the buyback plans outlined last quarter while also pursuing highly attractive and complementary M&amp;A.
We of course can't comment on the active M&amp;A candidates in our pipeline.
We will however constantly compare the small number of attractive M&amp;A opportunities in our funnel against returning even more capital to ensure we secure the maximum shareholder returns.
On the buyback front we've repurchased 3.9 million shares totaling $75 million at an average price of $19.15 through yesterday.
These buybacks are against our $500 million authorization approved early this year leaving a remaining balance of $425 million.
As a quick reminder we plan on buying back at least $300 million in 2015 which when combined with our quarterly dividend will lower our U.S.
cash and marketable securities to a level much closer to our minimum U.S.
operating balance.
We closed the first quarter with total cash and marketable securities of $1.271 billion of which $621 million is on shore and $650 million is off shore.
First-quarter free cash flow was $16 million as strong profits and better than expected collections helped offset the settlement of annual compensation plans and tax payments.
In April we secured a $350 million bank revolver credit facility which will serve as dry powder for attractive M&amp;A or other corporate purposes.
The key terms are contained in an 8-K filing this morning.
Let me now quickly comment on the weakening yen and euro which is a frequent investor question.
First we haven't seen a noticeable difference in the semi test pricing environment which of course remains competitive.
You can see that our company gross margins continued to hold up well.
The steady introduction of new products and instruments and ongoing material cost down efforts by our supply line group offset the natural price erosion.
The area where price competition has been the sharpest companywide is in Wireless Test which is from oversupply rather than the currency issue.
I should add that we have considerably less currency volatility than many industrial companies.
Our test systems are predominantly quoted and sold in U.S.
dollars worldwide.
On occasion we will quote and transact sales in local currencies most frequently in Japan which was 4% of company sales last year.
In those situations where we do have foreign currency exposure such as our foreign denominated monetary assets and liabilities we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our short term exposure.
Now moving to the details of the first quarter our sales were at $342 million gross margin was 56% the non-GAAP operating profit rate was 14% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.17.
We had two 10% customers in the quarter.
You will see our non-GAAP operating expenses were up $7 million to $143 million compared to the fourth quarter due to higher variable compensation accruals.
Moving to our segment level detail semi test bookings were $397 million driven by the seasonal patterns and strong first-half pull-ins.
SOC test orders were $333 million and memory test orders were $64 million.
Semi test service orders were $54 million of the total.
Shifting to Wireless Test we booked $27 million and shipped $34 million in the first quarter.
Moving to System Test orders were $66 million in the quarter and shipments were $37 million.
Storage test orders were up 40% from the fourth quarter on strong demand for our new high-density 3.5-inch test system.
Shifting to our outlook for the second quarter sales are expected to be between $470 million and $500 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.42 to $0.48 on 217 million diluted shares.
Q2 guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and related tax impact.
The second-quarter gross margin range is 58% to 59% and the operating profit rate at the midpoint of our second-quarter guidance is about 27%.
Our 2015 tax rate outlook is unchanged at 27%.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is reinstated for 2015 that rate will drop to 25%.
The 2015 demand is starting stronger than last year.
We're returning significant capital to our shareholders and we're seeing some promising long term trends in semi test SOC test market size.
So in summary we're very excited about our future prospects and we will continue to sharpen our focus on how we best allocate our hard-earned capital to ensure the highest possible returns.
With that I will turn the call back to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Ginger we would now like to take some questions.
As a reminder please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
[Operator Instructions].
You do have a question from Krish Sankar from Bank of America.
I had two quick questions.
Congratulations on the share gain.
First one on the memory test side are you actually seeing LP DDR4 adoption driving some of the increase in your memory test revenues or is it purely share gain? Certainly LP DDR4 is accelerating and because of the interface speeds that's driving more testing of that type of product onto our tester.
So it is share gains but it's related to that interface speed.
As a follow-up on the Wireless Test side it seems like it's been structurally challenged for over a year now.
The question I have is is the way to grow this business really by getting into the R&amp;D side of Wireless Test? Because you guys are right on the production side which obviously has better margins but looks like the bigger dollar run rates are actually in the R&amp;D side.
So I'm curious would you ever consider getting into the R&amp;D side for Wireless Test? Krish first LitePoint over the last three years has operated above the company targets.
So it's done well financially albeit the sales have declined but it's a good profit contributor.
But in terms of how to grow the business going forward there's a whole set of adjacencies around LitePoint that are more connected to some number of production whether it's smartphones and tablets there's other test insertions that we can go after.
So we're going to target that but that won't start showing up until next year.
We do have a small footprint in pre-production test but it is small.
So there are opportunities there but we certainly don't cover the entire pre-production portfolio that some of the larger competitors do.
Next question comes from Mehdi Hosseini from SIG.
Wanted to go back to these leased systems that are now purchased.
Can you help us understand the order of magnitude of these systems that are still in the market and are categorized as these could turn into an outright purchase? And I have a follow-up.
Last year we talked about putting in about $35 million of leased testers which was more of an aberration not business as normal.
In this call we mentioned about one-third we got orders for.
That means there's 2/3rds left.
We would not be surprised if over the next some number of quarters a significant portion of those testers could also be purchased.
You said $35 million correct? I'm sorry? You said $35 million correct? $75 million was the book value.
When we put leased testers in we do it at our cost $75 million.
We obviously sell them for a different amount than the book value.
If we just stick with book value for a moment $75 million of book value put in place orders for one-third to date with some comments that I provided that we would not be surprised if more of those testers were bought out during this year.
Got you.
Just to make sure I understand what you recognize for revenue for the leased systems this is above and beyond the SOC TAM.
You just raised the SOC TAM slightly and this is something completely different correct? Well this would be a factor as to why the SOC TAM came up among other factors.
At the beginning of the year we weren't expecting to have this volume of testers being converted from lease to purchases.
So that drives more revenue into this year.
So that's one factor again among several others that cause to us adjust our estimate of the market size.
Sure.
And I also want to get -- my second question has to do with dynamics in Asia.
It's still almost three-quarters of your semi test.
Do you see any change in more business in Korea versus Taiwan and there is some -- there's a dynamic going on which could have an impact on your SOC test especially where in Korea it's more of an idea of a purchase wherein Taiwan.
more of a sub concept purchase SOC test.
So if you could help us understand how do you see that dynamic playing out in 2015 and is there any pluses and minus these we could think of? In SOC I would say that Taiwan continues to be by far the strongest place for demand for capacity.
It can episodically move back and forth but I would say this year there's nothing that's going to clearly shift that Taiwan dominance of demand.
Your next question comes from C.J.
Muse from Evercore ISI.
First question gross margin guidance is pretty phenomenal.
I was just looking back at your model and I don't go back far enough I guess but I don't think you've ever hit a number like that.
Couple questions around that.
First one is can you talk about whether that's 100% mix related or there are other factors? And presumably around mix I'm assuming that there's an uplift of Eagle test and analog in there.
And curious to hear your thoughts around spend there considering from the analog guys this last earnings cycle we've heard about guys lowering utilization to temper their inventories.
I'm curious how that has impacted your vision of analog spend for this year.
I will take the first part then Mark will take the second.
The most significant impact is mix and our mix can vary quite considerably.
Now we're obviously doing a lot of work to continue to introduce new instruments and lowering the material costs behind the scenes but this was a very good quarter for mix in our guidance.
When you look at the second quarter we have no charges in our guidance for ops or retro fits.
When you go back to some other quarters you might find attractive gross margins that have been diluted a little bit by special charges.
So we're not expecting any charges next quarter so that's in part why it might look higher than other periods.
But there's no doubt this is very strong gross margins and it's consistent with what we've been trying to do is target what we go after with differentiation not try to get market share quickly or too aggressively.
Mark do you want to take the second part? On the analog business it's still very strong.
So it's not in our view being tempered by anything related to some of the recent announcements.
And automotive in particular is an area that continues to draw heavy demand from the Eagle product line so that's a particularly strong area.
But I would say there's other power applications that are more industrial as well as automotive.
Inverters and IGBT type devices are also pulling demand.
So we see that compared to years past analog is never quite as volatile as the digital side of test but that is a steady growing good business for us.
I guess as a follow-up one quick one on the gross margin.
How does the lease impact gross margins? And then as my true follow-up -- maybe that's sneaking in three -- in terms of the upside to SOC you've got the lease conversion but also curious where else you're seeing the strength.
Is it really the image sensors plus Samsung going in-house with captive base band and AP and that's driving upside for you guys or is there another high level area of strength that we should be thinking about? The lease is just normal product sales.
It doesn't move the margins materially one way or the other compared to other semi test like range of product.
So that's not a big factor.
It's hard to pin down mix.
It depends what you look at in terms of our portfolio.
But this is a very good quarter for mix the second quarter and again we have no inventory charges planned or retrofits in the second quarter.
So you're looking at the numbers against other quarters where there may have been some of these charges and the charges are found later in the quarter.
They're not found at the time you're given the guidance.
And then on the image sensor business image sensor testing has been a very strong piece of our portfolio for years.
It is volatile.
It is more volatile than let's say the analog market.
And this year looks like we could see business levels for image sensor testing twice the size we saw last year.
So that's really taking off.
A lot of it is mobility but there's also cameras more and more moving into automotive applications part of the story there.
There's a higher test intensity around that image kind of sensor.
There is a wider proliferation of styles of image sensors.
There's infrared for example compared to just visible light and some other innovations going on.
So that looks like a solid solid piece of the portfolio.
On the comment around Korea and such I don't think that's abnormally distorting any part of the market size estimate that we've given.
The increase I would say is by and large the lease conversions the image sensor business and the analog business those three pieces being somewhat stronger than we expected.
Your next question comes from Timothy Arcuri from Cowen and Company.
Guys I had a couple of questions.
I guess the first thing is just to dive a little deeper on this TAM improvement in SOC and try and figure out how much is structural versus how much is cyclical.
If I go back to this lease number we had $75 million worth of leases but at your cost that was going to support roughly $150 million if they had been ordered up-front.
So it seems like the swing factor -- that the TAM factor from the lease element is like $150 million.
And you raised the TAM $100 million at the low end and $50 million at the high end.
So it seems like the lease factor more than accounts for the raise in the TAM.
I'm just trying to figure out how much is structural versus how much is cyclical.
You've got rough math right but remember we're not necessarily baking in full conversion.
As we've updated our market size forecast we haven't assumed full conversion of those leases.
As Greg mentioned we got about a third converted in the first quarter.
If more convert it's likely that would raise the estimate for the market size for the year.
So that's a piece of what we've looked at.
And then the other two as I mentioned would be image sensor and analog beam is stronger.
So you might think at this point in the year half of the increase comes from the lease conversions and half come from strength in those other two segments.
As we go through the year there's a little bit of a bias here that it could go up.
And then I just had two quick follow-ups.
One is the guidance seems to imply that the orders in June and I know that you guys don't guide orders and orders are a tough thing to even talk about.
But it seems to imply that the orders in June will be down a bit and that's counter-seasonal.
I'm wondering maybe is my math on that wrong? Lastly the real question is Wireless Test is still obviously bad and I'm wondering just what's going to make it better? Does it actually require one or two of your competitors to actually leave the market? What is going to have to structurally happen to make that market better? Thanks.
Maybe on the last point first so the market for Wireless Test and Teradyne's history has been dominated historically looking backwards by some very large customers.
And the benefit of serving those large customers was evident in some of the returns we've had in LitePoint in the past.
But as those large customers begin to change their test strategy and come back to a much lower level of buying it's not yet -- that decline has not yet been offset by growth in other regions like China and Korea.
We're very close to the inflection point on that is what we believe.
So offsetting that large customer will be growth in other suppliers in other regions of the world.
So it will be a slow pull-out from that.
There is certainly -- compounding the issue will be oversupply.
There are four major suppliers in a $450 million to $600 million market at this point.
So that will have pretty intense competition as the market turns around to some modest growth.
And so that's why we see in that core connectivity cellular test business modest return to growth for us and the market over the next few years.
And that's also why we've launched these other products to go after other test insertions that aren't related to those two areas.
We've got to expand the TAM in order to get our target growth rates back in Wireless Test.
So that's how we think about it.
That's what we see going on.
And then I think the first part of your question was the bookings trend.
I should just add that a chunk of the bookings in the first quarter were connected with our new 3.5-inch hard disk drive tester which the lead times are quite long on that that we provided customers.
So that's going to ship in the second half of the year that product.
So therefore bookings come in a bit earlier than they might otherwise.
Next question comes from Jim Covello from Goldman Sachs.
This is Kelsey German [ph] on behalf of Jim.
Congratulations on the strong results and thanks for letting me ask a question.
You mentioned that you're expecting a fall-off in SOC test demand into each.
Can you just talk about if that's based on normal seasonality or if there are other specific factors that are leading you to be more conservative? No we're just seeing the normal seasonality expectations for the second half.
At the beginning of the year we outlined how there is a pattern tied to the complexity of new consumer products that are introduced in any given year.
And if you look backwards coincidentally even years tend to have been larger test markets than odd years.
Completely tied to complexity increase in products our customers' product.
That still is a theme this year.
So that's what makes the overall market in our estimation down from last year.
Albeit we're revising it up a bit it's still down.
And what we see in the second half as a pattern is really not that different from what prior years have shown in the second half.
And then can you talk a little bit about your visibility into the pipeline for other segments in the second half such as memory or Wireless Test or even the image sensor business? The image sensor business will I think be strong throughout the year.
The memory test business will be similar.
I don't think there's a seasonal pattern around those two necessarily.
And Wireless Test typically has a very front end loaded pattern as well similar to SOC test.
So there we will probably see most of the demand be put in place through mid-third quarter.
Your next question comes from Jairam Nathan from Sidoti.
With regard to Wireless Test is there a point where you think you would need more restructuring on the cost side in that segment? I know you said it is profitable but this year you're aligned to lower revenue? That's not in the plans now.
I can't say that would never come to pass but just last year we were above the company model for operating profits.
So even in a down market I know you hear about our competitors bemoaning the space.
We still have very good gross margins and good operating profit but for us it's less about percentages.
It's more the dollars aren't as high as we need them to be or like them to be particularly given the prior two years when the volumes were substantially higher.
But there is always a chance that we will have to fine-tune any of our businesses and LitePoint is not an exception to that.
But we have made some adjustments and we need to see how this year plays out and we have a number of new close adjacencies and other test insertions so we need to see how they latch.
We will look at that through the year.
We obviously have a history of adjusting where we need to.
If that's necessary we will take the action.
I don't know if you have already answered this question but on the aps processor segment itself is the outlook similar to what we had last quarter about the declines? Yes I would say that substantially nothing has changed.
The lease conversions which is part of the drive for a larger market really are not new capacity going in.
It's just a financial transaction.
So in terms of new capacity adds for aps processors through the year it's tracking about what we expected.
Your next question comes from Farhan Ahmad from Credit Suisse.
My first question is on the smartphone side.
The unit growth has been decelerating.
I just want to understand like how much of your semi test business is tied to smartphones ? And I believe like wireless is mostly smartphones at this stage maybe some testing on PCs as well.
So if you could just remind us like what the exposure is and how should we think about it as the unit growth decelerates in the smartphones going forward? We will take smartphones and tablets together.
I would say this is a rough average but mobility devices probably drive about half of our tester demand in general.
So that's a rough way of thinking about it.
So it is absolutely right that there's a -- the rate of growth of units is declining.
It's less -- what's most important to us is the absolute unit growth in terms of the number of new units per year multiplied by the complexity of the devices that are in those phones.
And the complexity of the devices is really what's changing.
As I mentioned in my remarks on the up -- take applications processors.
Application processors are now typically more complex than the processors you find in your laptop or desktop computer.
Those transistors and that complexity to get low-power high-performance move power cores up and down seamlessly without injecting any problems talk across high-speed buses to LP DDR4 interfaces all of those things actually compound the complexity compared to a conventional laptop processor.
That drives up -- the first thing that drives up is test seconds.
So the test seconds we see on these devices is increasing to get better fault coverage and better yields for the parts.
That's actually accelerating a bit.
The other theme around the die sizes are shrinking but the transistor counts are increasing.
For us it's really a game of units.
As long as units are going up which they are and complexity is going up the test consequence goes up.
The other part of it is that each generation of processor to enable higher bandwidth communications with memory to enable lower power typically have had more device pin counts.
And packaging like wafer scale packaging and other kinds of technology allow that increased pin count without a lot of added cost for the device.
But testing those additional pins is another multiplier effect on the test intensity.
So what we've seen and I've talked about in the past is parallel test is something that is flat lined and in some cases inverting backwards.
So you might have seen for example a year or two ago a complex application processor being tested eight in parallel on a tester.
Because of the complexity increase some of that is inverting back to maybe six in parallel or four in parallel.
So that is also a good trend line for the business.
And all of that is what gives us the confidence to see a market that has been declining moving to a market that will be growing looking forward.
I could go into similar issues with power management ICs which are even -- in terms of the rate of growth of complexity are even higher.
But that's the general trend.
And then my second question just a quick follow-up to some of the questions that's already been asked in terms of the gross margin your guidance and the reported gross margins are extremely impressive particularly given the currency weakness.
I just wanted to understand a little better in terms of the lease systems that you have I would imagine because those were lease systems you would be depreciating them over time.
So the book value on those systems should have come down.
And when you are converting them to sales the gross margins on them should be significantly higher.
I just want to make sure the way I'm thinking about it is correct and also is the gross margin on the leased system higher or not? You're correct that we were depreciating the systems under GAAP and we've sold them.
Keep in mind we got orders for one-third.
Orders.
We didn't ship everything.
So the leased system and you have to figure out what was the original economics of the transaction which we're not going to disclose but they were tied to a large purchase.
But certainly depreciating them and then selling them those two factors would give you a better margin than otherwise.
But it's not moving the margin in a material way given the size of this business in this quarter.
Your next question is from David Duley from Steelhead Securities.
You have talked about how the SOC CAGR is moving from a negative 3% to a positive 3%.
I think you've outlined it's increased complexity and less parallelism as the key reason why you're seeing a change in the growth rate.
Is that an accurate assumption? Yes it's those two factors primarily.
And could you talk -- so I guess that would imply since 50% of your test business is mobility that in the mobility sector specifically in the application processor sector you're seeing this unfold as you've described.
So we might expect that sector to show more consistent growth rather than this every other year growth? No I think it's still going to show every other year growth.
The swing in year-over-year differences has not been -- it's the rate of change of complexity.
So in any given year new devices get introduced they may have a step function increase in their complexity or a more modest increase.
And we still expect that cadence to continue.
But the test depending on whether it's a modest or complex increase the test impact will still proportionally go up compared to the past we believe.
And that's not just true of applications processors.
That's also true of power management and RF transceivers.
Okay.
As my follow on could you just -- maybe you said it could you remind us what memory revenue and memory orders were during the quarter? And then talk about what are some of the key reasons you think that you're picking up market share here on a pretty rapid pace.
Thank you.
I will do the numbers.
The memory bookings in the first quarter were $64 million.
And the memory sales in the first quarter were $44 million.
Just going back to why are we picking up share if we look at both NAND flash and DRAM two things have happened over the past four years that continue to happen that are very favorable for us.
When we reentered the memory test market we made a -- we had to make a decision how were we going to be different than the large incumbent.
We made a bet on building testers that had a lot of high-frequency capability to test emerging bus standards.
So take NAND flash for a minute.
NAND flash when it was dominated in audio applications was a pretty low-speed device.
As it moves into smartphones and as it moves into SSDs the interface speeds on NAND flash have grown dramatically and continue to grow and new standards are coming out faster than had been forecast even two years ago.
That means the test system has to be able to both stimulate and read data from that high-speed interface.
If it can't do it it's obsolete.
It can't be used.
Our testers having been architected with that head room sit there as the only alternative to a customer who is moving up rapidly in bus speed.
And that's worked in our favor both on the DRAM side which has a similar story and on the flash side.
That's the real single factor.
The next question comes from Weston Twigg from Pacific Crest Securities.
Two questions.
First just following up on the memory commentary I'm wondering given that orders have typically peaked in Q2 but you're seeing this longer term trend for higher speeds driving demand for test does that imply that memory demand could hold up nicely through the year or do you still think it might follow traditional seasonal patterns? It's hard to tell but if we just listen to what our customers are telling us it looks like the demand will be relatively steady through the year.
Just on the other side SOC test was wondering if you could help us walk us through the impact on SOC test demand from -- whether it's positive or negative just from large customers moving between foundries particularly as they migrate down below 20 nanometer? How does that impact your business? I think over the long haul it doesn't have an impact.
In any given period if one customer has excess capacity that could be absorbed it might have a period impact to us.
But in general test capacity finds utilization over time and it doesn't impact the long term trend lines we're talking about but it could absolutely impact a couple of quarters.
Your next question is from Tom Diffely from D.A.
Davidson.
One more question on the parallelism comments that you made.
Do those comments also correspond to wafer level testing and perhaps probe card limitations or is it all just final test that you are referring to? So yes it refers to both although I would say final test is reaching the limits and inflecting earlier than probe.
I think probe still has some head room here in terms of the technology can allow parallelism to be maintained at the level it is for a while.
But I think on the package test side the complexity of building these interface boards for these new devices is such that the payback is really not worth it.
That's what it's really coming down to.
Okay.
And then when you look at this wafer level testing today what percentage of your business does that include and where do you see that going over the next year or two? I guess you're asking wafer test versus package test? Correct yes.
To transition towards wafer.
Yes well some devices classes have moved to wafer level packaging already.
A lot of the RF Wi-Fi and combo parts are already wafer level packages wafer scale packages.
So essential they're only tested at wafer.
For other parts like an applications processor as an example or power management IC I see those as package devices for some time.
The trend that's emerging is are the people have been trying to enable are these interposers that allow the mounting of multiple die economically into -- on an interposer then putting them in a single package.
The impact to Teradyne in that world is actually not bad.
It's pretty good because you now have to test the wafer a little more rigorously than before to ensure that the die that you're mounting on the interposer is good.
And once that you have package that now has three or four die in it it has to be tested and it's a much more complex test challenge than a singulated package would be.
So the complexity issues that arise from 2.5D and 3D packaging are quite good for us we think.
So does that factor into your more bullish growth or is it too small to be a major factor? That inflection of growth that's absolutely a factor.
It's a complexity.
It's part of that complexity element of the future.
Your next question comes from Patrick Ho from Stifel Nicolaus.
Mark maybe can you comment a little bit about the new product introductions notably on the memory side and how some of that has impacted positively for gross margin? Because I think in the past you've mentioned you've obviously tried to improve a lot of your operations internally and new product introduction gross margins.
How is that positively impacting the overall business model? Well in memory test on the flash or low-speed memory test side we have a product we introduced last year called the Magnum V.
And the Magnum V is obviously a legacy of a long line of Magnum products that has come out of the next test group that we acquired several years ago.
And typically what happens when you introduce a new tester every new tester we introduce has an aggressive target around cost down.
It gets introduced into the market and as it ramps it tends to improve the margin mix early in its life.
And as it ages it somewhat diminishes in its positive mix contribution and then the next tester gets introduced.
And so there is a bit of a sawtooth effect on margins with new products.
That's not atypical.
That goes on has gone on forever but we're early in the life of the Magnum V at this point and it is helping.
Maybe as a follow-up to that you mentioned the mix of both DRAM as well as flash.
Do you see it I guess healthy for both of those markets or is there going to be a bias towards one or the other in terms of the outlook you presented for memory as a whole? I think that what I would say is that flash and DRAM probe which are all I would say not low speed but lower speed insertions is the more interesting growth area that we see.
Your final question comes from Atif Malik from Citigroup.
Mark a question on the reuse of equipment.
Your OSAP customers have talked about very high reuse rate going from 20 nanometer to 60 nanometer and that's reflected in their CapEx coming down this year.
So my question is how do you see your reuse rate on apps processor going from 16 to maybe 10 nanometer? And could the reuse rate really change that up one year down one year scenario to more like flat to down for the next few years? First of all for semiconductor test equipment and the specific example you cite testers rarely go obsolete.
They tend to have a 10-plus-year useful life.
And this is different than what we saw in LitePoint's business a few years back.
These testers that are installed today for applications processor test will be utilized for the next generation of applications processor.
There's no doubt about that.
But on top of that because of the other factors that we mentioned there will need to be incremental capacity added.
Just like the surge we saw last year came on top of previously installed capacity that was also reused.
So there's going to always be a relatively high level of reuse of Semiconductor Test equipment generation to generation.
There's also upgrades that are provided too to keep the testers going a longer time period which generates good contribution.
Greg just a follow-up.
You guys are getting more and more vocal about attractive M&amp;A but you haven't really seen anything for quite some time.
I'm just trying to understand is it the pricing that's an issue or you haven't found anything? And what is the criteria for attractive M&amp;A? It's like good wine.
You can't pop the bottle before its time.
There are a couple of good candidates but we can't rush anything.
We have to make sure that we're thoroughly comfortable it's a good fit we can help them grow faster.
When we describe it to our investors or our board they're very comfortable with it.
It makes sense.
But it's about making sure the valuation makes sense relative to the synergies and the advantages we can give the business.
We've been work on a small number for a long period of time but it hasn't stopped us from returning capital either.
So I think we try to say a couple quarters ago it's not an either/or.
We're going to do both.
When we look at these targets we're constantly looking at at this price with this plan with these synergies are we better off buying back stock.
We do that every single opportunity.
And sometimes we don't do a deal because we're better off buying stock.
Okay.
Folks thanks so much.
This concludes today's call and thank you for your interest in Teradyne and we look forward to working with you down the road.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
At this time you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brandi and I will be your conference operator for today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q2 2015 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Andy Blanchard VP of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Brandi.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our CEO Mark Jagiela and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we will provide details of our performance for the second quarter of 2015 our outlook for the third quarter and provide some general market comments.
The press release containing our second-quarter was issued last evening.
We are providing slides on the investor page of the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
Those slides can be downloaded now or you can follow along live.
If you don't see the download icon simply refresh the page.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from Management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We've posted additional information concerning those non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where applicable on the investor page of our website.
Also between now and our next earnings call Teradyne will be participating investor conferences hosted by Pacific Crest Needham &amp; Company Citibank and Deutsche Bank.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First Mark will comment on our recent results and the market conditions as we enter the third quarter.
Greg will then offer more details on our quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the third quarter.
We will then answer your questions.
This call is scheduled for one hour.
Mark? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
In today's call I'd like to focus on three topics our first-half highlights our outlook for the remainder of 2015 and our recent acquisition of Universal Robots.
The first half of 2015 has been very solid for Teradyne with sales and operating profit running higher than expected following a cyclically strong 2014.
Overall first-half sales were about flat with 2014 while non-GAAP EPS was up 8% due mainly to better mix.
When compared with the first half of 2013 the last down-cycle year the results are even more striking with revenue up 21% and non-GAAP EPS up over 30%.
I'd also like to note that we are $156 million through our $500 million authorized stock buyback and we returned $26 million in dividends year to date.
Typically over the past five years we've seen annual cycles in our semiconductor test business where even years have had more capital intensity than odd years.
This is correlated with larger advancements in mobile device complexity in those even years and thus longer test times and larger instrument configurations in our testers.
Odd years have been a period of optimization and more incremental complexity advancement.
While we expect this even/odd year trend to continue we do see some moderation in 2015's swing as device complexity is increasing at more than typical levels for a down-cycle odd year.
In 2015 we still expect the overall SoC semi test market to be moderately down from 2014's $2.35 billion level to the $2 billion to $2.25 billion range.
However we expect Teradyne's segments and customers to perform better than the overall market.
Part of our uplift in 2015 is due to lead systems installed in 2014 converting to sales in 2015.
Greg will provide more details on this in a few minutes.
However we are also seeing other encouraging signs as having less exposure to PC related semiconductors and more exposure to apps processors image sensors and analog has also lifted our performance.
Despite the ongoing slowing of Smartphone unit growth rates we continue to see the positive impact on test demand stemming from unit volume growth.
In addition test intensity is being driven by the increasing complexity of applications processors baseband processors power management ICs and image sensors.
Image sensor test demand has been a particularly bright spot this year.
This uptick comes from the increasing pixel resolution of imagers as well as growing unit volume from mobile and applications.
On top of that there's the broadening adoption of image sensors in automotive security and industrial applications.
Analog test is another bright spot.
Eagle Test had the best two-quarter stretch of orders since 2010.
Automotive semiconductors which have higher test intensity than other markets was a major factor in this performance.
The automotive market also supported microcontroller test demand another strong segment in the quarter.
While the test demand for analog and microcontroller products can vary widely quarter to quarter we expect automotive demand will be a very solid long-term balloon for the test market.
Memory test orders of $90 million in the first half were the highest level in our history.
These results were powered primarily by the success of our Magnum V product which was designed to deliver superior economics for both flash and wafer test of DRAM.
This combination provides customers with the required cost performance benefits along with added flexibility for their test operations.
In wireless test our LitePoint business is up slightly from 2014 for the first six months of the year.
In second quarter LitePoint recorded it strongest quarterly order level in two years making up for light ordering in Q1.
Strong connectivity and improving cellular test demand were responsible for the uptick.
Short-term market conditions remain difficult to forecast but our outlook for the full year market is unchanged at the low end of the $450 million to $600 million range.
In system test orders were up 67% in the first half compared to last year on strength in storage test.
We continue to see strong storage test demand for 3.5 inch drive testing for enterprise applications.
Also our SSD test product is generating follow-on orders to last year's design wins.
At the same time the continued slowdown in the PC space has reduced 2.5 inch drive demand and we recorded an inventory charge to reflect the weak outlook in this segment of the business.
So with a shallower than expected down year in SoC and stronger storage and memory test sales we're slightly ahead of 2014's financial performance at the midpoint of the year.
As we look forward to the second half of 2015 we expect the normal seasonal slowdown in orders as we've seen in prior years.
Finally we've added a significant growth driver to Teradyne with the purchase of Universal Robots in June.
As I noted when we announced our plan collaborative robots are an entirely new class of automation.
They are small low-cost easy to set up and program and can safely work side-by-side with people in a production setting.
Universal Robots provides Teradyne three clear benefits.
First it's serving an emerging market undergoing rapid expansion that should show growth for decades to come.
Second universal robots is the market leader and innovator in this space.
Third there's a clear application of Universal Robots products to automate manufacturing steps at our system test and LitePoint customers.
The cobot market is new and developing rapidly and has been growing at over a 50% annual rate to an estimated $100 million market size this year.
Estimates for the market size in 2020 range from $1 billion to over $3 billion a very wide range but at either size a rapidly growing market in the next few years.
Universal Robots has led the way in developing collaborative robots and is the premier company in the field.
They are the clear leader having sold more cobots than any other supplier and have been profitable for several years while funding revenue growth of 4X from 2011 through 2014.
Their products are right in the sweet spot of what manufacturing customers need to get a quick return on investment.
Using a growing network of over 100 distributors worldwide they've developed a broad set of applications in industries including automotive food processing machining plastics and metallurgy pharmaceuticals and countless more.
Tasks ranging from machine tending assembly operations packaging polishing quality inspection and others are enabled by UR's smart simple cobots.
So what's the fit with Teradyne? Greg will elaborate on this more in a few minutes but let me give you the key points.
The overwhelming use of collaborative robots today is in a wide range of industries outside of electronics.
Those industries have been driving UR's cobot market expansion to date given the compelling economics that UR's products offer.
We also expect those industries will continue to be the largest user of cobots in the future.
However we see an under-exploited opportunity in the electronics manufacturing segment.
The flexibility and adaptability of Universal Robots cobots allow for cost-effective automation in an environment that has traditionally been hampered by the need to handle nonstandard form factors and frequent product changeovers.
Initially this will be assisting in the automation of testing at our system test and LitePoint customers where unlike the semiconductor world material handling for test is still a repetitive manual process.
Expanding beyond tests there are many adjacent manufacturing operations at these customers that will also benefit from Universal Robots cobot advantage.
We'll use Teradyne's customer relationships scale and global footprint to accelerate UR's growth in these attractive markets.
We are delighted to have the UR team and their bright future now a part of Teradyne.
I will now turn things over to Greg for a review of the financial details.
Greg? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll start with some brief comments on the year update you on Universal Robots and its impact on our model and then cover the second-quarter results in more detail and the third-quarter outlook.
On the demand front 2015 is shaping up as a pretty good year with first-half sales of $855 million.
As Mark noted you can see from our past annual sales that the odd years 2011 2013 have had lower sales and that the even years 2012 and 2014 have had considerably higher sales.
So with this as a backdrop the first half of 2015 is well above the most recent off year of 2013.
The 2015 strength is due to several factors including a significant majority of the lease testers we've discussed in past calls being converted to outright sales the slowing of parallel tests and longer test times due to greater complexity and solid image sensor and analog test means.
First on the lease testers.
In the first quarter we received orders from a third-party lessor for about a third of those leased systems.
In the second quarter most of the remaining systems purchased.
A small portion of the systems were returned.
We've recognized about two-thirds of the purchase system revenue to date and the remainder will be recognized in the third quarter.
These lease transactions had the effect of shifting some revenue into 2015 that otherwise would've been recognized in 2014 as the actual test capacity was put in place last year.
Next the slowing of parallel tests in some complex mobility applications is also giving us a lift.
Let me quickly explain this.
Each time site counts are increased the savings arise from amortizing the fixed costs of a tester over more and more sites.
Hence the greatest savings is from going from 1 to 2 devices and thereafter naturally diminishes as the fixed cost of a tester becomes a smaller and smaller component.
On top of this the interfaces between the tester in the devices under test have become much more costly and complex to engineer for complex mobility parts which can have over 1 000 pins.
These two forces are at work and are helping our TAM this year.
Shifting next to the added complexity apps processors now can have over 2 billion transistors up nearly 100% from two years ago and the number of bands and modes in LTE transceivers are up 50% over the same period.
Power management devices can now have 25 to 35 unique power supplies to manage growing 10% to 20% a year.
This steady advancement of added performance means far more device complexity and associated test data volume which ultimately drives up test times.
The strength Mark noted in image sensor and analog is very beneficial for us as we maintain strong share with our leading IP 750 and ETS product families.
This year we expect image sensor tester demand to increase by a factor of threefold over last year.
As Mark noted analog is also strong this year with automotive applications a key driver.
I'll quickly shift to the recent soft patches cited by others in PC demand OSAT buying and storage test.
And PCs we have very little direct exposure as we tied our wagon to mobility years ago so apart from the excess hard disk drive inventory charge of $8 million in the second quarter related to 2.5 inch tester demand we've not been affected by this decline.
The recent OSAT weakness referenced by many sell site analysts was dialed into our guidance when we outlined 2015 as a down year.
And in storage test we expect revenue in the range of $60 million to $80 million but not above it which we thought might've been possible a quarter ago.
The other weakness widely reported has been in the Asia mobility market.
And that has in fact moderated LitePoint's follow-on business this year after scoring several key design wins at leading Asia smart phone manufacturers last year.
Despite this headwind LitePoint has had a good first half and continues to operate above the Company's 15% operating model with its strong market share production optimized solutions and lean model.
Turning to our seasonal demand patterns recall that our third-quarter Company bookings typically fall 30% to over 60% from the second-quarter levels.
This drop off is due to the timing of annual mobility launches and the overall high consumer consumption connected with back-to-school and end of the year holiday buying.
So with the first half behind us we are pleased with first-half sales of $855 million and a non-GAAP operating profit rate of 23%.
Please note that while we operate a very tight model it's not at the expense of customer satisfaction.
For the third year running we've won the prestigious VLSI Research semi cap equipment customer satisfaction survey.
We also expect next year to be in on year with another step up in mobility performance which we'll comment more later in the year.
Now shifting to Universal Robots let me update you on UR's model and its impact to Teradyne.
In the short-term UR is expected to have sales of about $60 million for its full 2015 calendar year with a 15% operating profit rate.
We expect UR to grow 50% or more a year for the next few years and steadily move up to a 20% operating profit rate.
It's gross margins should run in the low 50%s.
As a Danish company it will have some currency risk but this should largely be offset by a light level of revenue and cost hence currency swings should largely be mitigated on the bottom line.
Given our planned 2015 revenue levels and geographic sales mix we expect no meaningful impact on earnings from currency changes this year.
This foreign exchange sensitivity in the updated model are shown in the slide deck for your reference.
Recall that our company model shows the sales level needed to achieve the industry profit rate of 15% which would now be about $390 million a quarter versus the past $375 a quarter.
We'll continue to target the 20% profit rate which we've averaged over the last four years.
As a quick reminder UR does not have any meaningful customer concentration and serves many diverse industries.
We expect electronics will add 15% or more to UR's total available market.
In 2015 about 45% of their sales are expected to be European-based 35% North America and 20% Asia-based.
We used foreign cash for the purchase and at this point we'll keep UR's earnings offshore.
I'll add a few quick comments on the fit as Mark has covered the market growth UR's sizable lead and differentiation.
As you know we long ago consolidated Semi Test and got the best assets Eagle and Next Test.
We added a new test market with LitePoint and more recently small tuck-in acquisitions such as AIT and ZTEC.
However we haven't identified any attractive candidates of greater size in our core test ponds so a few years back we set our sights slightly further out with two main criteria.
The first being long-term healthy secular growth and the second being strong customer or technology leverage.
This led us to the collaborative robots space.
I like to refer to this is a very close derivative to the A in automated test equipment.
We see many opportunities to cross sell or introduce UR cobots to our wireless tests production board tests and even storage test customers.
We started a number of UR pilot engagements with some of our customers earlier this year to begin to prove out the fit.
Response has been very positive and there are several larger opportunities working their way through the buying funnel.
We expect to accelerate UR's adoption and penetration into electronic assemblers while also providing them a strong platform to continue to grow in their existing markets.
From a reporting perspective UR will be a separate operating segment.
We expect they will add $0.02 to $0.03 of non-GAAP EPS this year and $0.05 to $0.07 next year.
Now moving to the corporate level we will continue with our balanced approach of returning significant capital while also searching for highly attractive and complementary M&amp;A.
We'll constantly compare the very small number of M&amp;A opportunities in our funnel against returning even more capital.
On the buyback front we've repurchased 7.9 million shares totaling $156 million at an average price of $19.62 through yesterday.
Against our $500 million authorization we have a remaining balance of $344 million.
As a quick reminder we plan on buying back at least $300 million in 2015 which when combined with our quarterly dividend totaling about $50 million for the year we'll lower our US cash and marketable securities to a level much closer to our minimum US operating balance of about $400 million.
We closed the second quarter with total cash and marketable securities of $1.029 billion down $242 million from the prior quarter due to UR purchase which was a very good use of our offshore cash.
Second quarter free cash flow was $131 million due to strong profits and the benefit from the sale of leased assets.
As we have done in the past we will update you in January on our 2016 capital return plan.
Now moving to the details of the second quarter our sales were $513 million gross margins were 58.4% the non-GAAP operating profit rate was 28.5% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.53.
We had one 10% customer in the quarter.
We had net inventory provisions of $12 million or two points of margin.
You'll see our non-GAAP operating expenses of $153 million were up about $10 million compared to the first quarter due to higher variable compensation accruals which increase with higher profitability.
Moving to our segment level details semi test bookings were $395 million driven principally by the seasonal patterns SoC test orders were at $369 million and memory test orders were $26 million.
Semi test service orders were $86 million of the total.
Shifting to wireless test we booked $84 million our highest bookings level since Q2 of 2013 and reported $63 million in sales for the second quarter.
Moving to system test orders were $45 million in the quarter and shipments were $46 million.
In industrial automation for the very short partial period UR had bookings of $5 million and sales of $4 million.
Shifting now to the outlook for the third quarter sales are expected to be between $450 million and $480 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.35 to $0.41 on 212 million diluted shares.
Q3 guidance includes a full quarter of UR cost which adds about $6 million our quarterly OpEx run rate and excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and the related tax impact.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our third-quarter guidance is about 22%.
Our 2015 tax rate outlook is now 23% due principally to the sale of the lease testers.
If the R&amp;D tax credit is reinstated for 2015 that rate drops to 21%.
So in summary we are generating very strong returns from our core test businesses.
Next year is expected to be in on or up year with another step change in mobility complexity.
We're returning significant capital to our shareholders and we're seeing some healthy long-term trends emerging in our SoC market size.
On top of all of this we've added UR the clear cobot leader to the Teradyne fold and expect to help them grow their business even faster inside Teradyne.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Brandi we'd now like to take some questions.
As a reminder please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question is from C.J.
Muse from Evercore.
Given the relatively better SoC backdrop here in 2015 and the reduced benefit of parallel testing can you talk about how you think about SoC outlook for 2016 the puts and takes? Yes C.J.
We're certainly seeing some of those trends that we highlighted at the end of last year.
The real key issue for 2016 will be the level of unit growth and complexity increase.
I think on the complexity front to us from what we see now that looks like it will have its normal step function improvement.
We'll have to get to closer to 2016 to really understand what the unit volume is going to look like Okay that's helpful.
And I guess as a follow-up can you share with us what drove the uplift in LitePoint? That was particularly surprising and I think you talked mostly about connectivity.
I'm curious the particular drivers were there.
Thank you.
CJ the LitePoint pickup in business is the seasonal demand we tend to get at this time of year.
We do expect LitePoint to be about the same sales level as last year given the market size is about similar to last year so we're very encouraged with this level of bookings but it doesn't significantly change what we expect for the full year and it's just simply the seasonal buying pattern.
I did comment in my prepared remarks that the Asia beachheads that they got last year that they broke in there isn't a whole lot of buying going on there in the non-premium smart phones so we're hopeful at some point that picks up a bit and we can follow on from those additional design wins.
I'd only add that the visibility and the lead times in that business segment have compared to last year shortened even more so a lot of the surprise in terms of the robust orders came in in June.
And we've adapted our supply chain to be able to respond quickly why we were able to ship off a lot of that.
It's truly almost in a handful of weeks of turns business.
Can we have the next question please? Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar with BOA.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Couple of them  first one on the Universal Robot at what point do you think the operating margin for them could expand more to the 20% range? I would expect over the next two to three years it would expand to the 20% range.
So I would not say next year but I think the year thereafter thereabouts we should be getting closer to 20% than we are 15%.
Got it fair enough.
On the memory test side where is the key driver coming from? Looks like you guys are slowly targeting improving market share too.
Can you just talk about is the coming from DDR4 or is it coming from flash? Any color would be helpful.
Yes.
I'd say it's in terms of device class it's two classes of devices within memory that are driving our business.
One would be the higher speed NAND flash devices.
Across the board at multiple customers that's been very healthy and robust.
And then at DRAM wafer test the LPDDR wafer test has been strong as well.
Got it thanks Mark thanks Greg.
Your next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri with Cowen and Company.
Thanks a lot I had two.
Greg I'm just trying to get the impact of the leases to revenue and it sounds like maybe there was about $50 million in Q1 $50 million in Q2 and there will be kind of another $50 million coming through from a revenue perspective in Q3.
Is that correct? It's a little different than that Tim.
I would use as a rounded number $100 million.
The reason I'd use that is there were a small number of leases that were returned and we also had in the plan rental payments that we will no longer get so when you make those two adjustments you kind of round to about $100 million impact.
Okay.
And then can you talk about those return testers? I was always thinking of this as a $150 million number so it sounds like maybe a third of those got returned and I'm sort of wondering is that a demand commentary? [Multiple Speakers] Sorry go ahead.
I'm rounding to $100 million first of all.
Two there was rental income in our plan that we expected those testers to stay used for the entire year so I have to take that number out of whatever the product sales is so I can give you a real apples-and-apples impact.
So that piece it's going to be hard for you to figure out what that piece was but that was a deduction.
So if you start at $150 000 you have to deduct what you think by rental payments were.
A small number of the testers came back.
A small number and they been redeployed.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Farhan Ahmad with Credit Suisse.
Thanks for taking my questions and congrats on the results.
First I just want to follow up on Tim's question.
Can you clarify whether the leases came in as the revenues or orders in Q1 and Q2? And do you expect some revenue from them in Q3 as well? Yes we got revenue -- the majority of the revenue was in the first half of the year.
There'll be a modest amount in the third quarter.
And again we've rounded the numbers down a bit but the whole impact we think is about $100 million from all of this.
And again you have to take out the service revenue that we're not going to get in Q3 Q4.
That revenue we're not going to get that was otherwise in our plan.
The rental revenue.
Yes.
Got it.
And then just because you have these leases converting this year and you have this odd-year/even-year seasonality in the business does it temper the growth expectations for next year just because you have $100 million incremental revenue this year? I think it has a couple of impacts meaning there was more capacity put in place ultimately in 2014 than what our numbers suggested.
Because this equipment was put in place in 2014 we're just following the accounting recognizing revenue this year because it was an outright sale.
So it shows you 2014 was a very strong year due to the even year that Mark talked about.
So we generally are more optimistic as we go into an even year.
Having said that the more testers that are deployed in prior periods prior quarters that obviously can be a drag on incremental capacity.
But if you look at the past odd/even pattern even years have been better for Teradyne so we don't see anything here today why that would change.
Can I just add that as we entered the year we were forecasting based on inputs from our customers that a reasonably significant portion of the lease testers would actually be returned.
In fact not only were they not returned they were converted to sales and additional capacity was put in place on top of -- beyond just the conversions of the leases.
So in the end the test intensity as I mentioned in my remarks the complexity of the devices this year in the unit volume have run greater than forecast and so that's what's driven the reversal of the plan to return more and incremental capacity on top.
So as you think about next year all that capacity sits there and is reutilized next year.
It will somewhat temper the peaking that we would see next year but it's not overly significant.
Got it thank you.
That's all I have.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini with SIG.
Yes thanks for taking my question.
It seems like you have done a really good job of complementing your core semi test.
The semi test and system test are viewed more like a stable market and the growth coming from wireless test and industrial.
You also did a good job of better utilizing assets and managing margin.
In that context could you share with us the kind of earning power that you are contemplating two three years out? I ask you this because your slide did a good job of highlighting seasonality on a six-month or three-month trend.
And we're trying to understand what's the true earning power for your Company given your execution and how your diversified revenues? And I have a follow-up.
Okay.
Got it Mehdi.
When we look at what we call the midterm which goes out four years that's how we plan.
And we get very detailed in terms of where we can win market share at what margin in what invest we make and we test that against what we've done in the past.
We believe in the midterm we can get to a $2 EPS number in the later years.
That is what we're focused on.
Historically we've been trying to grow EPS 10%-plus a year.
I know it's hard for you to see that because there's different cycles and so forth.
But we have our sights set on getting to $2 in the midterm.
Great thanks for the concise answer.
And then one follow-up question on wireless tests.
You had a very nice pickup in booking.
Can you elaborate on the mix? Is it just the fruit company coming back or are you actually -- or finally seeing some traction in China? As I tried to say in my prepared remarks Mehdi that we had some very good wins last year in Asia but those accounts aren't buying much at this point in time which I think a lot of the sales side folks have reported on that that's been a soft patch.
So where the buying has been has been in other places.
So but that's what we've gotten most of our business and as you know historically we have had two-thirds of our LitePoint business has been one large customer the customer you'd want to have.
So that trend continues and we strategically are trying to get designed into more and more accounts to minimize some of the customer concentration risk.
But with that particular customer having a kind of a muted product refresh this year I'm just kind of worried that if their booking this much in Q2 it could lead to a very dramatic decline in bookings in the subsequent quarters.
Well at it tends to be at LitePoint the second of the year they look more like semi test.
They are tied to the same whether it's electronics products for back-to-school or holiday buying you need the test capacity in place Q2 Q3.
You can't really be adding it in Q4.
So we would expect LitePoint second half to be softer than the first half just like semi test so that would not be something surprising to us.
Got it.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Jagadish Iyer with Redstone Tech Research.
Yes thanks for taking my question two questions.
First Mark how should we think about LitePoint's growth longer term given the competitive landscape and how you view the Smartphone growth say over the next two or three years? And then I have a follow-up.
Okay.
I think that's -- it's a challenge to prognosticate that but for connectivity and cellular test I think that over the next few years the market itself will be essentially flat.
There are numerous competitors in the space.
We are convinced that we have the products in both connectivity and cellular that are winning products but it will be a tough market environment.
So for LitePoint in addition to the expansion in Asia that we've been working on we're also developing new products to expand our served market and these would be test products that are -- so it's test related but it's testing aspects of the mobile devices that may not be RF or may be adjacent to test steps that we see around our current LitePoint products.
So that Tam expansion -- we will start rolling those products out this year into next year and that should expand our Tam by $200 million in the next couple years and that should expand our Tam by $100 million in the next couple years.
So the game plan at LitePoint is essentially twofold.
In this tough market environment continue to exploit our product advantage to pick up share in Asia in a flat market environment and then roll out this new set of products and expand our Tam by one $200 million.
So longer-term you think that maybe mid- to high-single digits or low-double digits will be your target for growth? Yes.
I think that at this point until we get some better proof on the new products that's a reasonable assumption.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Then second just a follow-up you talked about the UR's trying to get into some of your core products.
When can we really see that impact right now because there has been -- they pretty much gone into different segments and I just wanted to get a sense of when their interaction with your products would bear fruit for you guys? Good question.
So as we bring -- in fact right now we're in the midst of multiple evaluations of the Universal Robot products at our test customers for system test and LitePoint.
Those evaluations like anything else with these large multinational companies tend to take a longer period of time than the traditional universal robots customer that might have a sales cycle of less than a month.
These will probably be more in the order of a six-month sales cycle.
So by the end of the year we should be reporting on success in bringing the universal robots products into our electronic space.
And just to add to what Mark is saying it will be a small number of cobots initially introduced but the opportunities thereafter we would expect to be significant and for us it's just getting them in and getting the customers using to them.
It opens up many other opportunities so job one is getting 3 to 5 not getting 30 or 50 in.
Fair enough.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Diffely with D.A.
Davidson.
Yes good morning.
So first question on the semi test side you talked about the slowing of the parallel test over time.
I'm curious though what percentage of the tester market is that impactful on? That's a good question because what I've said in the past is it's not a homogenous market in semi test where everything is sort of peaking in terms of parallelism.
So for complex RF complex processor devices we're at the point where the inflection's occurring.
That roughly let's say $700 million market Tam that's reached that point I believe.
Other markets such as automotive other markets like analog and image sensor testing micro controllers still have a bit of a ways to go.
But the point that Greg made is important to understand which is even though those other markets will continue to step up in parallelism the anchor that it brings to our business diminishes with each step.
So in some markets the $700 million I spoke about perhaps we've reach the point where parallelism may not step at all going forward.
The remaining markets let's call it the other $1.45 billion SoC market may continue to see more parallelism but the drag on our market size will be diminishing.
Okay thanks.
Looking at the Universal Robot model we talked about higher margins gross margins but then higher operating expenses.
Is the higher operating expense side just a function of early in the lifecycle more R&amp;D or does it have something to do with the distribution channels? It's more tied to the distribution.
In this business where they are going through distributors and integrators there's more spending as a percent of sales in that line.
So compared to our traditional businesses you'll see selling marketing a bit higher than what you might otherwise expect for a Teradyne-type business.
When you look at the electronics market does that go more to direct sales? While they don't sell to direct sales.
We do at Teradyne.
So they're going through channel partners and when you go through channel partners there tends to be higher selling and marketing cost for various programs incentives initiatives training.
It's a whole host of things because while they're doing the sale you're also helping them sell it to bringing technical application resources to bear.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Weston Twigg with Pacific Crest Securities.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
First I was wondering if you could maybe discuss the competition in the cobot space and your points of differentiation at Universal Robots.
Particularly as it relates to your expectations around market share as the market expands.
Okay.
In one sense there's a series of products that either in the market or will be introduced over the next several years that are in what the competitors would describe as the collaborative robots space.
So it's going to be a rich market for competition but the unique advantage that universal robots has is a couple of things.
One is their very intuitive and simple programming model.
So a lot of the traditional robot manufacturers that are trying to move lower in the market are still applying a very complex lengthy programming model to these lower cost robots.
That is a big inhibitor to a quick ROI and a quick redeployment in a factory for a robot.
So a UR product can go in and be utilized on a manufacturing line within a matter of days because of the swift programming and then three months later six months later be reprogrammed and redeployed for another task very quickly.
Many of the competitors would require an expert and a very complex programming language environment to re-purpose the robot.
Most small to medium-size enterprises don't have that skill set whatsoever and even for larger enterprises it's an anchor on a quick ROI.
So that's the real key.
If you sit down and watch Universal Robot being programmed it's actually almost being taught by a show.
There's an operator showing the robot physically what to do where to go what to grab and that model is very key.
The other thing about the robot that's interesting is the safety aspect.
It is a very clever mechanism to ensure that if the robot were to bump into a human being in a production environment it would sense that and stop and various competitors have different ways of dealing with that issue to make a robot safe.
But in the case of Universal Robots the mechanism is quite effective low-cost and it doesn't diminish the precision of the robot.
Many of the methods you might use to make the robot safe also have consequences around diminishing accuracy and that's something that doesn't exist here.
So it's a long story.
They have a website that's very rich in showing many of these advantages if people are interested but we're obviously excited about it.
So in a nutshell you think you can even hold a high market share position despite the more crowded marketplace that's developing.
Yes we expect to hold a high market share position.
Now today is a developing industry.
We're somewhere in the 60% to 70% share range most likely.
As this market takes off do we think we can stay there? No probably not but can we stay close to 50% in that kind of neighborhood? We think so over the next few years.
Okay.
Good and one more real quick just the cross-point memory technology that was announced by Micron and Intel.
It seems fairly dense and fast.
It sounds like it should be good for test but I was wondering if you could give us some color on that long-term opportunity for test demand.
Yes I guess I don't want to comment specifically on that one but in general -- I'll make a general point which is that as you've seen Teradyne's memory test business and market share grow over the past few years it's come from applying our expertise in high-speed interface bus testing to the memory market.
This and other technologies that are coming to market are examples of pushing that even further.
So that will benefit our product architecture we believe.
So I think anything that's bringing speed to the memory world is a good thing for us.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho with Stifel Nicholas.
Thank you very much.
Now as we look into second half of the year and its 2016 for UR can you give a little color on the type of seasonality that business has and as you penetrate some of these new electronic manufacturing marketplaces will that change any of the seasonality? Patrick UR has had some seasonality where their fourth quarter is their strongest quarter by quite a bit.
So we expect that to continue.
After a strong fourth quarter Q1 falls back a little bit and they build up momentum through the year so I think a stronger fourth quarter would be welcome in Teradyne's soft fourth quarter.
The seasonality they've had has been going on for a long time period.
Now what the electronics thing does to it I don't -- I think it's not going to impact their seasonality.
The electronics orders are going to happen kind of when they happen when they get to the funnel and it won't be tied to anything in the calendar year and those orders we expect to be small at the outset and then in future periods much broader expansion.
Great.
That's helpful and maybe go into the HDD test or the storage test business.
Given the weakness out there in the PC marketplace are you seeing the I guess the greater interest on the SSD side and that's why you're able to reiterate your $60 million to $80 million revenue target for calendar 2015? We're seeing demand on a 3.5 inch hard disk drive which is used for enterprise or cloud-based storage.
So that's where our business is coming from largely this year and a little bit of SSD.
Where we haven't gotten any business for years is 2.5 so we took a charge this quarter given that looked it even weakened further from what the PC guys were saying.
But we're very well-positioned in 3.5 and SSD so we think we're the leading vendor by far in terms of market share and product differentiation.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Sidney Ho with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking my question.
I want to go back to Q2 and looking at the linearity of the orders I know you have addressed some of the market concerns earlier in your remarks but most of the semiconductor companies have talked about a sudden weakening of demand in the back half of the quarter.
Did you see similar dynamics in your business? And if so has that stabilized or improved in the first month of the quarter -- of this quarter? If anything June was a bit of a frenzy.
I mentioned earlier LitePoint saw some very heavy pull in the month of June and our semi test business was similar.
So no we did not experience a slowdown in June.
In terms of what happened in -- the third quarter for us in semi test is always where we inflect and start to glide back down toward the end of the year.
So will there be a softening in third quarter? Absolutely we expect that.
And if you look at prior years and how that's played out with our bookings it's going to most likely be a very similar third quarter.
So that has nothing I would say to do with the specific nature of this year.
It's just the typical cycle we've been going through for many years now.
Okay.
My follow-up question is -- it's just a housekeeping question here but what percentage of your revenue comes from the subcontractors and what are you expecting those -- that CapEx in the second half versus the first half.
We're going to have to dig that number out here.
Maybe Andy can get that you off-line unless somehow you miraculously get it.
From an order perspective it was about 50/50.
Sub coms were a little -- 50% 51%.
IDMs and fabless were 49%.
And your expectation for second-half orders from OSAT gets us the -- some of the OSAT companies are cutting their CapEx.
They announced the CapEx cuts.
I'm just curious you think -- what you guys are see as well in that area.
We don't forecast at that level but we would expect OSATs to be lower as they have been in the second half traditionally.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Farhan Ahmad with Credit Suisse.
Thanks for squeezing back and just one quick question on your LitePoint trend.
I wanted to know if that's driven -- if that strength in your LitePoint business was driven by more of unit growth or is it primarily driven by changes in testing standards for wireless forms going from one standard to the next standard? Yes I'd say in the LitePoint business it's not going to be a satisfying answer but it's a little bit of both.
Certainly test times have grown and then on top of that there has been from our customers I would say a little more upside on unit volume growth than they might of expected.
So both factors are happening.
Now around that if both are happening -- the market expansion why isn't the market expansion happening overall.
I think what Greg said earlier about Asia specifically being a bit off is one aspect so that's not fueling growth there.
And the efficiency of the testers is still something that's rolling into the market.
New testers that were introduced last year as they come in are more efficient than prior years prior generations of products.
So there's a bit of a offset going on.
You know we talked about semi test getting to the point where parallelism is kind of reaching in many segments diminishing returns.
In LitePoint's business there's still a bit to go there.
Thank you.
That's all I have.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Chin with UBS.
Hi thanks.
Just a follow-up question on UR I know you're thinking the UR market size could be about $100 million this year.
If you are successful in maybe winning 3 to 5 of these electronics manufacturing customers do you have any initial view of how big this market could be in 2016? We generally expect the market to grow 50% or more a year.
And if there's been some third-party part reports by the way that Andy can reference you to that have market sizes further out in time that are actually bigger than some of the estimates we've come up with on our own.
On the electronics connection we have with Teradyne we really believe we can get them into some number of accounts initially but the deployments are going to be three robots five robots.
That's where it's going to start and then after that's proven successful which it will be then we're going to presumably go to other spots in that line and it will be on test.
That's going to take some time to play out so it will be a while before the electronics contribution becomes very meaningful.
It's a couple year journey we're on.
But I would just to put it in some -- again this will play out over time but if we as we think about the future and as Universal Robots continues to grow in excess of 50% a year as we get out two to three years from now maybe electronics is 10% of their overall business.
It's a nice adder and it could be in the 10% to 20% range best case but the bulk of that growth is going to be still in industries outside of electronics.
Okay thanks for sharing that Mark.
Just a follow-up question on UR.
If the market does grow as fast as you're expecting what you estimate the revenue the served revenue that the current facilities can provide before Teradyne might have to spend CapEx to expand this business? Got it.
We've taken an initial look at that and we know the facility can handle three to five years depending on various scenarios so we're going take another look at that when we go over there soon.
But there's nothing in the next two years or three years we need to worry about.
Great.
Thanks Greg.
And operator we have time for just one more question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Covello with Goldman Sachs.
Hi this is Chelsea German on behalf of Jim thanks for taking the question.
Can you talk a little bit more about how you see capital intensity trending going forward? Is that going to be something that decreasing parallelism can drive higher capital intensity? Are there any other factors that you see as big drivers? No I think capital intensity related to longer test times and the diminishing effect of parallelism will absolutely increase.
The wild card really is we still need unit volume growth and we've been modeling unit volume growth in kind of an 8% range over the rest of the decade.
That's another significant factor in incremental test demand.
So those are the sort of two key things.
Historically looking backwards we've always had the unit volume growth but there's been this anchor of the parallel testing pack and as we discussed at the end of last year we've seen signs of that diminishing and in some markets like the $700 million market I referred to earlier actually pausing or stopping.
So I think there's lots of interesting encouraging signs on intensity and so what we really need to make sure is -- and look at it is the unit volume going to be there? Great and as a quick follow-up.
In terms of the first half versus second half seasonality I think you mentioned that there should be about normal seasonal declines for 2H.
Should we be thinking about that from the first half base excluding the $100 million of revenue from lease conversions or including that? I think whether you included or exclude it if you look at the past percentages of bookings declines from Q2 to Q3 or the sales declines over some number of years I think you'll see where we are in our third-quarter guidance.
We're within the range of where we've been in the past so it doesn't really matter.
I say that because there's a fairly wide range of where we could end up in the third quarter but what is clear is bookings are down in the third quarter.
Great.
Thank you.
Great thank you everyone for joining us today and we look forward to talking with you in the days and weeks ahead.
This concludes today's conference call you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kelly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Andrew Blanchard.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kelly.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our CEO Mark Jagiela and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we will provide details of our performance for the third quarter of 2015 and our outlook for the fourth quarter and provide some general market comments.
The press release containing our third quarter results was issued last evening.
We are providing slides on the investor page of the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion and those slides can be downloaded now or you can follow along live.
In addition replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24 hours after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from Management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We've posted additional information concerning those non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure where available on the Investor page of our website.
Also between now and our next earnings call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by UBS and Credit Suisse.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First Mark will comment on our recent results and the market conditions as we enter the fourth quarter.
Greg will then offer more details on our quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the fourth quarter.
We will then answer your questions and this call is scheduled for one hour.
Mark? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
Today I will provide a brief summary of the highlight of our 2015 results to-date and then focus on how we're looking at 2016 and beyond for long term growth at Teradyne.
Greg will then provide the details for the third quarter the full year and our Q4 guidance.
In Teradyne's core semi test business the 2015 market is playing out about as we expected at the beginning of the year as the annual SOC test market size is trending to about $2.1 billion right in the $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion range we forecasted.
The good news is that this is up from the previous down cycle odd year of 2013 where the market size was $1.9 billion.
Validating that increase in device complexity and the reduction in the impact of parallel test is starting to have a positive effect on the market.
We are pleased with our performance in this market as we moved our market share from about 40% to 50% over the past three years.
A combination of tailoring our products for high growth sub-markets and cultivating higher growth customers has been and will continue to be our playbook for success.
The memory test market is also performing as expected at about $500 million annual run rate.
In memory the technology story around test remains the increasing bus interface speeds that create demand for new testers.
Our Magnum V continues to capture share in testing these higher speed non-volatile devices.
This trend will continue into 2016 as even higher speed UFS and PCIE versions of NAND will start to grow in the market.
For Teradyne the good news is that our same Magnum V platform will be testing these higher speed devices as the architecture was setup from the beginning to track these trends.
Our storage test business has seen a nice rebound in 2015 with sales more than doubling over 2014 resulting in a solid return to profitability.
Buying for enterprise hard disk drive test combined with new applications testing solid state drives has led to the doubling.
Also as packaging of semiconductors moves to increasingly dense and complex system modules we are finding applications in system level test or long application specific test suites can be run efficiently in our highly parallel environmentally controlled tester.
In industrial automation Universal Robots had record sales of $16 million.
Our recently introduced UR3 robot arm saw strong demand in North America and China in particular.
Earlier doctors of the new table top robot in the U.S.
market are the automotive electronics assembly and high precision metal fabrication industries.
Common applications are screw driving glue dispensing assembly and product testing.
In China we are experiencing demand from medium to large companies within the electronics industry where the UR3 is typically used for pick and place tasks machine loading and light assembly.
A good example that highlights the benefits of UR's collaborative robots and electronics assembly operations is Wistron.
This Taiwanese manufacturer has quickly deployed over 60 UR robots to improve productivity in a laptop assembly operations.
A video outlining Wistron experience can be found in the case story section of the UR website.
Turning to the current environment over the past few months we've had many investor questions related to our overall business conditions given the worries about slowing emergent market growth.
So far we've seen little impact to our business while we are in no way immune to swings and macroeconomic growth a longer term trends in semiconductors and automation remains solidly positive.
Our third quarter unfolded much like those in the past.
Semi test orders declined 47% sequentially about in the middle of the five year historical range of Q3 bookings decline that normal seasonal order slowdown is reflected in our Q4 guidance.
While it is too early to put a number on the SOC market size next year we do expect historically SOC test buying patterns to continue in 2016 to be an up year for the industry.
The drivers have test demand unit growth and increasing complexity remain intact.
While smartphone unit growth is slowing forecasters still expect over 140 million incremental units in 2016 similar to the 2015 increment.
And those units will have faster more complex processors more communication links sharper displays more storage and every device will be optimized to extend battery life all made possible by the advanced semiconductor devices that we test.
As customers strive for higher performance the smaller sizes with lower power consumption advanced packaging technologies are becoming another area of differentiation for our customers.
From a test perspective we are well aligned both technically and commercially with this trend.
Advanced packaging puts a premium on known good dye testing as repair inside these packages is prohibitively expensive.
More extensive testing at probe requires the precise accuracy and signal delivery technology built into our UltraFLEX.
Longer term we expect to see growth in semiconductor applications beyond just advance smartphones.
Continued unit and complexity growth in automotive industrial and consumer products should keep the market on a solid footing for the foreseeable future.
Two trends worth mentioning are 60 gigahertz applications and the continued proliferation of image sensors.
A variety of applications are opening up around the 60 gigahertz and above frequency space.
802.11ad automotive radar and cellular picocells are all developing new silicon technology to exploit this space.
This in turn drives a new wave of test equipment for semiconductor test and a LitePoint.
At LitePoint we already feel that our first 60 gigahertz tester and early adopters are ready in devices for commercial applications in late 2016.
On the semi test side not only do these RF devices need a much higher carrier frequency and information bandwidth the downstream chips that modulate demodulate and process the information digitally also need much higher complexity speed and processing power to manage the higher bandwidth.
This in turn requires faster memories and bus speeds to keep up with the movement of information.
All of this reinforces the complexity trend that drives the need for more test capability.
Automotive radar is another emerging application in the 75 gigahertz to 80 gigahertz spectrum.
Where enhanced driver safety and assistance packages will increasingly incorporate multiple transmitters and receivers per vehicle to monitor the surrounding environment our UltraFLEX tester is positioned directly in line with these trends.
In the case of image sensors the diversity and unit volume forecast is exciting.
At Teradyne we have about 70% share of the world's image sensor test business on our J750 platform.
The trend to higher resolution sensors means more test seconds.
Improved sensor performance in low light conditions means the low noise environment of the J750 is increasingly valued.
Additionally infrared time of light and other new sensor technologies will show up in phones automobiles and security applications which will continue to fuel unit growth and driver tester demand.
At LitePoint our core connectivity and cellular test markets remain compressed resulting in 2015 revenue coming in about flat with 2014.
Looking forward we see new markets like 802.11ad protocol testing and a few yet to be announced new products opening up about $200 million new set of markets over the next two years.
Four months into our acquisition of Universal Robots things look very promising.
A strong $16 million quarter a strong new product launch of the UR3 and numerous research reports validating the rapid development of this market are all positive.
We expect to continue strong growth at 50% of more per year as the range of applications for UR's collaborative robot continues to expand and the attach rate for those applications increases.
We are committed to maintaining our leadership in this rapidly developing cobot market and we'll continue to invest in enabling the growth of Universal Robots.
Finally capital allocation plan including a balanced mix of dividends buybacks and M&amp;A will continue to be our strategy.
The past two years are evidence of this commitment with the initiation of our first dividend our largest buyback in over 10 years and the promising acquisition of Universal Robots.
In our January call we plan to update you on our capital return plan for 2016.
Now here's Greg to review the financial details.
Greg? Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll start with the key accomplishments of 2015 as we near the finish line then I'll outline how we are positioning ourselves for earnings growth in 2016 and thereafter and wrap with the Q3 details in the fourth quarter outlook.
This year we're tracking to just over $1.6 billion in revenue with a 20% operating profit rate and we'll generate about $300 million of free cash flow.
As Mark noted we are pleased with this performance considering the annual pattern of smaller steps and mobility complexity in odd years continued.
This sets up the expected complexity jump in mobility next year.
Looking at 2015 the year stands out for three key reasons.
First we're on track to have back-to-back years at just over $1.6 billion in sales versus the typically odd year pattern seen in 2011 and 2013 where sales declined about $200 million.
Secondly we have expanded into the fast growing cobot space with the addition of the market leader Universal Robots.
And third we're on track to return $350 million in capital to shareholders.
I'll quickly comment on each of these three important milestones.
First on the strong back-to-back years we described last quarter that the UltraFLEX lease tester buyout added just over $100 million of revenue in 2015.
We've also seen continued strength in image sensor test up about three fold from last year with the high growth in pixel count multiple cameras per phone and the increasing use of connected safety and security driving demand.
Analog has also seen strength led by automotive applications where semi content is growing for safety and entertainment and finally we've commented on the start of the shift in the buy rate line with the slowing of parallel test efficiencies and the increase in device complexities.
These factors have held up semi test in an odd year and when combined with the strength in storage tests and Universal Robots have kept us about $200 million above the recent down-market years of 2011 and 2013.
But if you look more strategically at 2015 or the two year 2014-2015 period it actually reflects a very careful and targeted market segment and account focus.
This is how for many years we've been able to invest far less OpEx than our largest semi test competitor well at the same time gaining share and achieving top VLSI Research customer satisfaction ratings.
In short we're well in line to the higher growth segments and accounts and mobility analog market controllers and image sensor with our fast timely market software tight accuracy specs and high test system throughput.
We have equally avoided some closely adjacent semi test segments and offerings which have declining or razor thin profit pools.
This includes microprocessor testing commodity DRAM testing and a slew of test cell offerings such as probe cards handlers and simple dibs.
Now moving to the second important 2015 milestone.
The acquisition of the Universal Robots UR has expanded the definition of a cobot beyond just a safe force limited robot that is one that doesn't need protective caging as it will stop when it feels any pressure in a handful of milliseconds to also being a robot that is smart and easy to train and redeploy.
UR's unique foregoing model shatters the past model and enables UR cobots to be deployed by the very small sub-manufacturers.
It is the ultimate equalizer for small and medium size enterprises as you don't need skilled engineering resources on staff.
This simple to train capability is one of the key reasons UR is a clear leader with SME's.
These customers are able to get a very fast payback often about six months and they also know they can easily redeploy their UR cobot when the demand invariably changes.
Universal Robots is on track to achieve about $60 million in sales in calendar 2015 and we expect 50% type growth next year.
At this early stage cobots have fairly penetrated the available market and some third parties have pegged the - at over $3 billion by 2020.
UR's product lead has attracted many of the top distributors and integrators and there is a growing army of third parties developing solutions and many different protocols on Universal's platform which should further extend their formidable market lead.
So once solely be about having the best product it will also be about having a developed and robust ecosystem which will be increasingly hard for followers to replicate on their platform.
Now shifting to the third important milestone.
We're on track to return $350 million in capital this year.
This sizeable level of cap return signals the strong confidence we have in our future earnings power.
We also stepped up the pace of buybacks for the third quarter given the financial market weakness.
With our steady performance of solid free cash flow averaging about $215 million a year since 2011 we've had two fundamental strategic choices at the stream to immediately return all of our profits to shareholders or to use these profits to grow the topline through M&amp;A.
Weve elected neither extreme rather we use a very balanced approach where at any one time period we may favor highly selective M&amp;A or higher levels of capital return simply depending on what is the best financial return at the time considering both our stock price and the small number of attractive opportunities in our M&amp;A funnel.
So now shifting to 2016 and beyond as Mark described we see favorable trends.
These include rising complexity the slowing of parallel test and the need for tighter accuracy and higher quality testing.
I'll take a quick moment to comment on the tighter performance specs required for some of the new packaging used for mobile products.
In advanced packaging for mobility markets high performance devices are being placed much closer than in the past and they have very stringent power requirements which require more accurate tester instruments as found in the UltraFLEX.
You may recall the UltraFLEX hit the market with the most efficient parallel test and then it became recognized for superior programming and debug tools critical for the vertical mobility ramps and now it's earning it's stripes yet again with it's performance for testing advanced packages.
We are pipelining some inventory in the fourth quarter for 2016 demand to ensure we maintain attractive lead times we did the same back in 2013 which positioned us well for the 2014 ramp.
Shifting to the third quarter results we closed the quarter with total cash and marketable securities of $1.077 billion up $48 million from the prior quarter after returning $111 million through buybacks and dividends.
Third quarter free cash flow of $159 million was due to strong profits and the sale of previously leased systems.
On the buyback front we've repurchased $13.4 million shares totaling $254 million at an average price of $19.02 through yesterday.
We step that buying up in the third quarter to take advantage of market volatility against our $500 million authorization we have the remaining balance of $246 million.
As a quick reminder we plan on buying back $300 million in 2015 which when combined with our quarterly dividend totaling about $50 million for the year will lower our U.S.
cash and marketable securities to a level much closer to our minimum U.S.
cash operating balance of $400 million.
As we've done in the past we'll update you in January on our 2016 capital return plan.
Now moving to the details of the third quarter semi test bookings were $211 million driven principally by the seasonal patterns and revenue was $326 million.
We called our third quarter Company bookings typically fall 30% to over 60% from the second quarter levels.
This drop off is due to the timing of annual mobility launches and the overall high consumer consumption connected with back-to-school and end of the year holiday buying.
SOC test orders were $191 million and memory test orders were $20 million.
Semi test service orders were $34 million of the total.
Shifting to wireless test we booked $40 million and recorded $55 million sales for the third quarter.
LitePoint is on track to be about flat as last year with solid margins above our 15% industry target and has funded a series of new products that should benefit us in the years ahead.
The wildcard for LitePoint in the foreseeable future remains our large customers buying patterns which have declined considerably from 2012 and 2013.
It's too early to get a picture of 2016 but we expect further share gains with our production optimized solutions.
Now moving to system test orders were $47 million in the quarter and shipments were $69 million.
A substantial portion of those orders are annual service contracts and products with long lead times which will convert to revenue over the next year.
In storage test the 3.5 inch cloud demand should bring our annual sales to about $85 million versus only about $40 billion last year.
As drive capacity continues to grow so does test time and we're well positioned to capitalize on this demand with our new Saturn tester which has up to 13 000 asynchronous slots.
In industrial automation we have bookings and sales of $16 million with strong demand across the topline.
At the Company level our sales were $466 million non-GAAP gross margin was 56% down from last quarter due to mix shift including increased storage test shipments.
The non-GAAP operating profit rate was 23% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.40.
We had one 10% customer in the quarter you'll see our non-GAAP operating expenses over $100 million were down about $1 million compared to the second quarter due to lower variable compensation expense.
Shifting to our outlook for the fourth quarter sales are expected to be between $295 million and $320 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.07 to $0.12 on 208 million diluted shares.
Q4 guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and the related tax impact.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance is about 8%.
Our 2015 tax rate remains at 23% if the R&amp;D test credit is reinstated for 2015 that rate will drop to 21%.
So in summary 2015 will go down as our first back-to-back year for sales just over $1.6 billion versus the typical $200 million fall off we've added Universal Robots the clear cobot market leader to the Teradyne fold and we're returning significant capital a strong signal of our confidence in our future earnings power ahead.
And 2016 is an even year where mobility complexity is our friend once again as it along with device unit growth drives more incremental testers demand.
With that I'll turn the call back to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Kelly we'd now like to take some questions and as a reminder please limit yourself to one question and a follow up.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will comes from the line of Atif Malik with Citigroup.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Congratulations on the good quarter and decent guide.
Question on integrated fan out packaging and you have a packaging for mobile devices next year.
Can you talk about the impact on the test equipment demand next year and maybe you can compare the test times versus the package unpackaged type testing? Sure I think there's general trends and there is specific applications.
But overall these packages require as I mentioned in my remarks much longer test times at probe in order to guarantee high yields coming out of a probe situation before they're mounted on that substrate.
So what we expect to see is the probe test times will increase.
Then for the integrated package itself that will vary depending on what's integrated in to the package.
But in general if you look across probe and final insertion the number of test seconds applied to the total part when it ships to let's say a phone manufacturer will be proportionately up as compared to the prior generation.
So it may be up 10% or so.
That's how we've modeled it at the moment.
As it plays out next year we'll get a better read on it.
Okay.
And then the second question on system test sales I mean system test sales were up 50% in the reported quarter.
How should we think about the long-term revenue run rate and if you can also comment on WDC SanDisk merger.
SanDisk is a big customer of yours on SSB side and WDC on ACB side.
What impact the merger could have on your sales.
Overall system test was strong this year because of storage test.
And as we look forward storage test is positioned reasonably well now with enterprise drive and SSE application.
Wildcard for us is what I described as the system level test applications which are less storage related and more long cycle time burn-in applications.
So on a baseline I'd say we look at next year in that segment roughly flat with this year with the upside that's the system level test could provide a kicker.
The combination it's really too early to tell if the combination between Western Digital and SanDisk will matter in any significant way to us but that's how we're looking at the overall business.
Thanks.
Your next question will come from the line of Mehdi Hosseini with SIG.
Thank you for taking my question.
I'm looking at the market and if I just were to go and look at the market share it seems like the turning the lease into a purchase has actually been instrumental in helping you to maintain the market share especially when I look at the market share trend over the past four years.
As the lease program ends or turning the lease as approaches end how should we think about your ability to maintain and exceed market share? Market share I'm referring to memory and SoC combined and I have a follow-up.
This is Greg.
If you look at market share over a multiyear period you can see that we've been steadily gaining quite considerably and your point that the $100 million or so this year really probably belonged last year so last year's SoC market share is actually higher last year a little bit lower this year.
But if you put this all on a trend line you see the trend line is very clear that we consistently are gaining market share and it's from a couple reasons.
One is we're aligned to faster growing segments the healthier segments that have growth and we've optimized our product solution set around the requirements of those growing segments have and that's what's gotten us this steady market share trajectory growth.
Can you increase the share from here assuming that there won't be any impact from the lease program? Or should we assume the share remains unchanged? I think for a long time now almost seven or eight years we've had a model about a point or so of market share gain per year in SoC.
It never happens linearly and the market noise amplifies and shrinks that in any given year but we see the ability to move about a point of real market share a year up to at least in to that 60% range.
Got it.
And then moving on to the next topic in flow there's a lot of noise and commentary out there but so far and I think in flow or advanced pack aging has been discussed for the past 15 years and I still see a limited application.
Do we have any signs out there that the key fruit company has decided to adopt this technology? Because if they don't adopt it I see its application limited and especially with tests because you're going to be involved at a ratio level.
In that context the question is are you seeing any signs that the system company is actually going to step up and adopt this? And if not how do you see the existing infrastructure that's been added over the past year is going to be utilized over the next one or two years until the system company adopts this technology? Two things.
I can't comment at all on what any particular customer's plans might be.
But in general I'll say two things.
First Teradyne as it relates to tests is reasonably indifferent in terms of impact to our business whether the technology is adopted or not.
It shifts more test seconds to probe as I described earlier but net-net it's not a big swing factor for us.
We think our product the UltraFLEX has some advantages in advanced packaging tests but not a big swing.
And second do I think even though it's been around for 10 years are we at an inflection point or adoption point in general in the industry? I think the answer to that is probably yes.
The economics are improving quite dramatically it seems and the miniaturization of benefits are also compelling.
So I would expect if we look over two to three years that you'll see a much faster adoption of advanced packaging than we've seen in the past three or four.
Got it.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Farhan Ahmad with Credit Suisse.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a quick question on the audio liner cyclicality for the last 10 years there's been a trend where your revenues grow every even and odd they decline.
One thing that's also been going on for last 10 and even much longer has been that we've been on a two-year cadence which seems to be taking a break this year and we are basically on to any nanometer/16 nanometer north.
Instead of two years to three years and 10-nanometer is most likely not going to be introduced next year in to most products.
So I wanted to ask you if you think that could have an impact in any way for next year and if the [indiscernible] in any way had anything to do with the cyclicality of odd or even year that you saw in your business.
I think it's a reasonable point that usually when a new process note is introduced there is a little bit extra bind of capacity for fuel issues surrounding that new node.
So next year the absence of any dramatic step in lithography might dampen somewhat the peaking but what happens when it peaks in the past is the following year it gets amplified in terms of the absorption of that expert capacity as yields improve.
So if it does dampen slightly the peak next year it will serve to raise the following year's buying.
So long-term trend the node issue doesn't inflate the long-term market.
It just amplifies the peaks and valleys.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then one question on your storage business.
Could you just give some clarity in to how much of your business is coming from hard drive versus SSDs and also in terms of the SSD test market house your market share in that particular market and how big is the overall market because weve seen pretty healthy growth in SSD and I wanted to understand if that could be a big driver for you going forward as you introduce new products and can increase market share in that area.
I'll take that one.
Last year a good part or most part of demand was SSD.
This year it's more magnetic or hard drive demand with some SSD demand.
First on the hard drive side as you probably know we're the only freestanding merchant supplier so we have a very strong position with the three buyers that are out there.
The only other competitor is captive now in Cgate.
In terms of SSD we have multiple applications at a strategic account and we're speaking to other customers to see if there are test times and their volumes make sense to use our solution.
It's early in that process.
We do believe that market is going to grow for us.
But it needs some time to play out and as again units and volumes grow and test times get longer I think that moves them toward our solution.
Thank you.
Thats all I had.
Your next question will come from the line of Jagadish Iyer with Redstone.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Two questions Greg Mark.
First on your - looking at how should we think about LitePoint going forward in 2016 and the backdrop of your comments saying that slowing smartphone growth next year.
And what are some things you can do to back the trend for LitePoint? Then I have a follow-up.
Okay.
I'll take the first part of that.
LitePoint I'll start with is very healthy on a bottom line profit rate-wise and has been able to gain market share year after year as a very production optimized solution.
The competitors tend to come at it from a different DNA whether it's an R&amp;D DNA or other type solution and it's not optimized for the problem at hand so I expect LitePoint will continue to do quite well at production testing albeit that market we can press.
So what has LitePoint done to improve their lot in life? A year ago they got designed in to a bunch of the Asian up and coming cellular players.
Unfortunately a number of them have not done terribly well this year so we have initial design wins but there hasn't been much activity for anybody over there.
So we'll continue to monitor that situation and hopefully improve our position when buying does eventually return.
But we've also have introduced some new products.
Some we'll talk to you more about in the future but these new products will take some time to latch.
And they will open up new markets and we expect the LitePoint high differentiation production optimized DNA will show up in these new products that you'll hear more about as we get into next year.
And so I do think cover that a little bit more the $200 million of new TAM we're talking about is really how we expect LitePoint to return to growth over the next couple of years.
The traditional cellular and connectivity space we expect the market size there will maintain its level.
It's not expected to grow and it's expected to remain very competitive.
But the emergence of this AD standard at 60 gigahertz is really different than the typical progression in Wi-Fi and connectivity of old where you went from G to N to AC.
This is a very different application and a different test insertion in mobile devices and other devices that will emerge.
So that's one.
And protocol testing is another area where LitePoint has now participated in and we're now moving products in to that set of applications.
So it's really TAM expansion with new products is the strategy at LitePoint.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Then a big picture question your shares have been somewhat range gone for a while and given your cash position and what choices you might have in terms of potentially raising additional capital what is management's strategy in terms of crossing over the hurdle of your stock price would love to hear your thoughts including your Visa on accelerated buyback.
This year we're returning significant capital $350 million about that amount.
And we're lowering our available U.S.
cash to about $400 million a little bit above that and that's what we want to maintain as a buffer for some possible severe downturn which we don't see but every 10 years you kind of have an event.
In terms of how we get the shares out of this range bound we have plans to grow each of our businesses quite considerably that could get us in the midterm to a $2 EPS stock price.
So the organic plan is job 1 and that includes Universal Robots is going to be a big contributor.
Semi test is going to continue what they've been doing and staying on that trend line of share gain with some of the improvements in the market based upon parallel tests slowing down and intensity increasing.
I think we'll give some help in the market size.
And then we'll also return every time well return a bit more capital and that could take some shares out.
So we have a plan that we're looking to formulize in the fourth quarter that will tighten up how we think we can get to $2 four years out and that very well could include another acquisition.
It doesn't have to but that certainly could be a part of the plan as well.
Excellent.
Thanks so much.
Your next question will come from the line of Steven Chin with UBS.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
So you mentioned in the press release that you would be making some selective inventory investments in Q4.
Just wanted to get some color on what that relates to what the magnitude of the inventory build might be and then what gives you confidence that 2016 we'll see this big pickup in demand.
The rough numbers are at the end of the fourth quarter if you look at our balance sheet carefully you'd probably see $50 million more of inventory.
Some of it will be in inventory.
Some will be in a prepaid account depending how the accounting works with our contract manufacturer.
So about $50 million of more inventory in the fourth quarter.
And we have high confidence with this demand based upon extensive very close discussions all along the way.
We've been in a similar situation a couple years ago too in the last odd year going in to an even year.
So we've been down this path before and we feel good about it and this is also inventory that can be used across a broad set of customers as well.
This whole even odd year has played out for many years because there's a bigger step in some of these new phones that come out in the even year and thats much more test time greater complexity so we see that continuing and that drives ultimately the demand.
Got it.
And then we heard commentary that Q4 might be seasonally week for some of the OSAT customers.
Just curious to hear whether youre seeing that weakness and thats into Q4 guidance so you're expecting a pickup after Q4 into early 2016.
We think we factored everything in that's knowable in to the fourth quarter guidance.
Some of the segments that remain strong are image sensor and mobility.
So they're holding up.
And we think next year should start off healthy.
So we're feeling good about the first quarter even though it's some time away.
I think if you look at - there's a broad spectrum of utilization depending on the segment.
Some segments are incredibly tight and capacity is being added and pulled on quite rapidly here in the fourth quarter and others are black as happens throughout the seasons.
So all in all to us it doesn't seem to be that different from prior Q4s that we've seen.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of C.J.
Muse with Evercore.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
First quick question is the $2.1 for SoC does that include the $100 million in leases? Yes it does.
Okay great.
Given your confidence for next year I think one of the concerns that the market has is the A10 shift is not shrinking and therefore there will be less demand.
At the same time you've talked about lower benefit of parallelism.
You talked about a 10% uptick in terms of packaging and test times there.
Would love if you could maybe dig a little bit deeper holistically for the whole year what's driving the confidence and what's mitigating the lack of the shrink in the mobility side and then also are you expecting within that image censor based in RF metric et cetera growing as well over the certain pockets that's given the confidence that overall mobility and overall SoC can grow year-on-year.
Well again without being specific around any particular part or customer I think that what we see at this point in the year are early samples from our customers where test program development occurring for parts that should ramp next year and we get a little bit of visibility into the test times and the sort of intensity of those parts that becomes much clear as we get into January.
But as we look at it when we look at those early finds we see that the trends that weve talked about are continuing and therefore we would expect to get an even year type impact from a broad set of devices not just any one particular part but even on the cellular side with RF transceivers and such you see the proliferation of more frequency bans in phones.
You see the adoption of more antennas and mi-mo.
All of those things contribute to incremental test intensity.
Thats very helpful.
In fact if I could just follow up I guess on the non-mobility parts of SoC I believe this year linear was a great year for catalog business auto down two years standing here today what kind of visibility you have there into next year.
Yes thats a harder one to read.
Linear started out very strong its cooled off a bit here.
It's very episodic is the history there and doesnt follow a good pattern.
So that piece of the markets I think standing here today is harder to prognosticate for next year.
On automotive I think what automotive is going to show - its historically shown is a very steady slow growth and the safety related enhancements to cars that will roll out over to next three to five years whether its autonomist driving or driver assistant.
Well really I think impact the test side of life a couple of years down the road.
When we were in 2017 and 2018 I think we will really see the automotive market take off for tests.
Right now the devices are somewhat in early development.
So I would expect automotive next year to be about the same in a kicker coming in 2017 and 2018.
Great very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Timothy Arcuri with Cowen and Company.
Thanks.
I had two questions.
I guess the first question is on the fourth quarter.
Usually when you revenue in Q4 is somewhere between what you book in Q3 and what you book in Q4 and so for you to revenue midpoint of 308 roughly it would imply that bookings have to be down and that seems a little odd given that systems should be up typically up seasonally in the fourth quarter.
So that would say that semi tests orders are to be down and yes things are bad for sure.
We know that but semi test orders in the fourth quarter are almost never down.
So I am just sort of wondering if you can bridge the gap between your revenue guidance and may be what you expect from a bookings perspective.
Tim the fourth quarter guidance is at this moment our best view of what will happen and as you know we tend to set the guidance somewhat cautiously given our history of least meeting or beating but thats what we see now and there are some customers that are likely get testers in early Q1 not late Q4 given lead times that we have now.
Some of the orders seems to be coming in late this quarter but we expect to be a good quarter so its just how to slop plan all shakes out and maybe there is a tad of conservatism added to it.
Okay so I guess Greg just on that point so that would argue I mean it would sort to seem to say that Q1 may be thats up a little better than a typical Q1 I mean Q1 typically out but it would seem like it might be up a little more this year than typically is.
Could be Tim.
Okay thanks.
And then just last sort of big picture question have you guys gone through and over the $1.1 billion which are getting from SoC have you tried to part this by end market and sort of focusing on how much thats coming from the industrial and the automotive markets.
We have although we dont spend a lot of time trying to do that because some of it is hard to bucket if its a wire if its a land device is going into a PC application or some other application but in general as we look at our business roughly half of our business and slightly more than half is related to mobility in some way shape or form in semi test and the SoC side.
So figure somewhere 55% 60% of our revenue comes from mobility related devices but that includes image sensors are in there power managements in there base band apps processors there some linear in there touch screen controllers micro controllers there is a lot of things in there that roll up to that number.
Automotive in linear are roughly about the same that may be somewhere between 15% to 20% each and we tend to be pretty low than in PCs but those are the kind of the four buckets we try to drop things in and watch.
Thanks so much.
Next question will come from the line of Tom Diffely with Davidson.
Yes good morning.
First I wanted to dive into the commentary you make about the decreasing efficiencies that parallel test going forward.
How do those trends vary between your memory and logic side of the business? I think that logic is more where we see the inflection points where deficiency is starting to diminish.
The memory side is really a harder area characterize in any general way because for example as NAND flash devices go from toggle NAN to the serial interfaces the connection to the device during test will become perhaps lower pin count or pumping more data through a narrower pipe.
So the test to resource is diminish per device.
So lets say CapEx per device may go down a bit.
The capability per device goes up but so I think the way you net it all out is in memory what  memory has been able to do is grow - bit grow quite dramatically and have a market that 's flat to $500 million through a variety of test optimization techniques and I expect that will continue.
I do not expect the memory market will show some form of growth whereas on the logic side we do see these inflection points happening.
Okay.
Do you see a wall for some of these tricks a few years down the road or is it situation where - or you can see looks like efficiencies are going to continue to work in? Well that's really hard.
Were not planning on a wall.
There is always for quite some time people have thought there might be a wall but I think the memory devices - the one thing that somewhat encouraging in memory that I will put out there as a carry but Im not then going to change my flat market is that the diversity of the types of DRAMs and the diversity of the types of non-volatile memories is growing.
And as that - one of the things that has helped get efficiency and test is that design for test optimization was possible because the proliferation of device types was relatively few and the design money in silicon area could be amortized over a lot of devices.
As memories get a little more niche in custom perhaps that will be less affordable and it maybe more economical to do test versus do design.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then looking at your bookings obviously the Asian bookings were down normal seasonality there but what drove the increase in Japan? As I mentioned  as we talked about them Japan has been very good market for us.
One of the segments there thats strong is image sensors.
So image sensor is a large part of that story.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of David Duley with Steelhead.
Yes thanks for taking my question.
Just a couple of clarification.
When you talk about the SoC market and the impact of this odd even from the big apps processor customer.
What generally is the delta in that segment of the market on an annual basis between the even and the odd years? Is it a $200 million increase or more or less could you give us some sort of idea what the swing factor here is? You could actually look at our financials and you can see we go from 14 to 16 we go back and forth.
So it can be roughly in that neighborhood.
Now this year we didnt fall back for the reasons we outlined before but if this was the historic pattern we would have fallen back close to $200 million.
You can also see those are even years the margin percent goes down but the dollars go up.
So that's the pattern we were largely referring to.
So if we would naturally apply that pattern to this upcoming year we might naturally looked at the SoC test business for you would be up at least $200 million.
It certainly could be up.
You got to keep in mind there was a 100 million of lease testers that hit this year that really were put in place last year and that was more of a financing settlement this year but the capacity was put in place last year.
So you might want to just think about that as well.
Okay.
And then I think when you bought the Universal Robot business you talked about 50% annual growth and that was without any - that was what was already in place with the backlog and the customers the company already had.
I think it was your plan to add some larger electronics customers.
Could you talk about what youre seeing thus far on that initiative and what kind of growth rate that distribution could add to that initial growth rate.
First of all that initial growth rate wasnt predicated on any backlog.
Its a high turns business and sustaining 50% over multiple years is really presumes penetration in a wide variety of market.
Now in electronics test area one of the things we described there is that the sales cycle for our customers for these large deployments tends to be longer than the typical Universal Robots sales cycle to a small to medium size enterprise.
A sale cycle there could be on the order of a handful of weeks or as with these large OEMs it could be six to nine months because they're just looking at different scales and evaluated at different levels.
So we are in the middle of several evaluations that our customers those started in the third quarter and we would expect to see results coming there sometime early next year.
And at the same time Universal Robots as I mentioned the example of Wistron Wistron is a large ODM.
They manufacture a variety of things laptops computers.
They have electronics assembly.
Theyve put 60 robots into a variety of tests around that piece.
So Universal Robot on their own has been penetrating electronic assembly and what we would expect to see is around test some incremental business in early next year.
So say it another way is the growth rate could accelerate sometime mid next year based on you bringing more customers to the table.
It very well may but remember they will be running - next year we would expect them to be running at a 50% rate close to 90 million and so what we would add on to that is speculative next year but its probably in the first year in order of a handful of 5 to 10 million kind of number.
Okay.
Thank you.
And operator we have time for just one more question please.
You have a question from the line of Krish Sankar with BoA.
Hi thank for squeezing me in.
Just a couple of quick questions.
Not to be a dead horse on this mobile SoC increase next year and I do remember couple of years ago when the demand went up and you guys have fully sold out loss on share to advance this I understand thats why were building up inventory.
Are you getting any indications from your customers to do it or youre just being prudent in anticipation of a sharp ramp for next year? We dont want to talk about specific customer but other signals we can read will suggest we should be well positioned so we feel very good about this mobility complexity jump we think it will happen every way we look at it it looks very good to us but I cant get any more specific than that.
Got it.
And then just as a follow-up with Universal Robots lets say you guys have raised profiles for cobots in general Im wondering have you seen any increase in competition associated with Japanese robotic makers in the last few months or do you think its still early that there is enough room for everybody to have the launch and not try to grab the other ones.
Yes I would say weve seen no impact or slowdown or anything related to what is and will continue to be a lot of players trying to participate in the market but the market is growing rapidly.
We are still leading supplier we intend to stay there nothing from the competitors at this point has resulted in any impact we see.
Got it Thanks Mark thanks Greg.
Thank you everyone for joining us this morning and those in the queue I will get back to you immediately after this call.
This concludes the call and we look forward to talking to you in the days and weeks ahead.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brandy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Review Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Mr.
Blanchard you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most recent financial results.
I'm joined this morning by our CEO Mark Jagiela and our Chief Financial Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 as well as our outlook for the first quarter of this year.
The press release containing our fourth quarter results was issued last evening and we're providing slides on the Investor page of the website that may be helpful to you in following today's discussion.
Those slides can be downloaded now or you can follow along live.
Replays of this call will be available via the same page after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well as our most recent SEC filings.
Additionally those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
We've posted additional information concerning those non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP financial measure were available on the Investor page of the website.
Also between now and our next earnings call Teradyne will be participating in investor conferences hosted by Goldman Sachs Barclays Susquehanna and Bank of America.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda.
First Mark will comment on our recent results and market conditions as we enter the first quarter.
Greg will then offer more details on our quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the first quarter.
We'll then answer your questions and this call is scheduled for one hour.
Mark? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
Today I'll provide a summary of our 2015 results followed by an outlook for 2016 including our capital allocation plans.
But first let me say that our strong bookings performance of over $500 million in the fourth quarter gives us strong momentum heading into 2016.
More on that in a minute.
2015 was a very good year for Teradyne.
We delivered our second consecutive year of revenue over $1.6 billion and we increased our operating profit from 19% to 21%.
Full year orders of over $1.8 billion were the highest in more than 10 years and all this was accomplished in a soft market year for our core SOC Test business.
As we've discussed in past calls the SOC Test market has developed an on-year off-year pattern with the odd years being softer than the even years due mainly to the relative difference in complexity advances in smartphones in those years.
In 2015 that pattern continued with the SOC market likely to come in at about $2.1 billion down from the $2.4 billion in 2014.
However this is up 10% from the comparable odd year of 2013 signaling a positive turn after several years of a declining market.
We continued our game plan of disciplined share gains in Semi Test ending the year up an estimated 1 point overall to a new record of 47%.
This comes from an estimated 1 point share gain in SOC Test to about 51% and an estimated 1 to 2 point share gain in Memory Test to 29%.
Our focus on the strongest segments of the market is a key part of our winning recipe.
In SOC the Mobility segment continues to dominate capacity buying and our UltraFLEX and J750 products continue to increase share.
Analog tester sales were also strong with Eagle Test sales up 30% for the year.
Microcontroller Test buying was lower for the year but growth in Image Sensor Test demand helped fill the gap.
In Memory sales grew 3% in a flat market as our Magnum V tester is winning by capitalizing on the growing trend toward higher flash interface speeds.
In 2015 our Wireless and System Test businesses also performed well.
Wireless Test improved profitability and increased market share while holding sales flat in a challenging market estimated to be down 15% from 2014 to about $425 million.
Lower growth in worldwide smartphone shipments pushed the market size lower offsetting the longer test times required for more complex wireless interfaces like LTE and 802.11ac with MIMO.
System Test sales grew about 30% due to improvements in Storage Test.
As HDD capacity buying returned and new SSD test applications grew as well.
Finally on the capital allocation front our balanced approach continued as we repurchased 300 million shares paid $51 million in dividends and added a major new axis of growth with the purchase of Universal Robots in June.
UR set fourth quarter and full year records for both quarters and sales.
We continued to lead the industry in the emerging market for collaborative robots and the introduction of our smallest lowest price UR3 to the product family in 2015 helped broaden our range of applications.
Now let me turn to 2016.
As I mentioned our bookings in the fourth quarter give us strong momentum coming into the New Year.
While the normal seasonal pattern would suggest an increase in fourth quarter orders of 10% to 20% we saw Semi Test orders jump over 90% from Q3 and over 80% from the fourth quarter of 2014.
While much of this surge is a pull-in of orders to deal with the increasing device and packaging complexity in SOC it is an early signal of confidence for 2016.
On the other hand uncertainties in the macroeconomic environment particularly China make estimating the full year SOC market challenging.
Our early initial estimate for the SOC market for this year is between $2.1 billion and $2.5 billion with a familiar pattern of the first half stronger than the second.
We expect the Memory Test market to be similar to past years at around $500 million.
As always we will focus on disciplined share gains in Semi Test by focusing on the strongest segments of the market.
Smartphones grew by an estimated 10% or 135 million units in 2015 and while unit volumes were expected to grow roughly 5% in 2016 the performance of smartphones continues to expand.
This growing performance is made possible by more complex semiconductor devices which for Teradyne Semiconductor Test and LitePoint businesses means more test time per chip to ensure the high quality that consumers expect from their smart devices.
While smartphones were the major drivers of our fourth quarter surge in test demand we see additional device and package complexity driven tailwinds on the horizon.
One example is the emerging 60 gigahertz band applications in Wi-Fi and automotive radar.
This band will require additional silicon content for both smartphones and cars.
This brings with it the need for an entirely new class of tester instruments that will expand our markets at both Semi Test and LitePoint.
The expansion of cameras and vision systems will continue to grow above market averages and our leading position in this segment will similarly allow us to grow share.
And while advanced packaging will reduce electronic system size and cost it will also raise complexity and require more testing than traditional cingulated parts.
At Universal Robots we are coming off a high growth year with annual sales of $61 million.
We expect both the market for collaborative robots and UR sales to expand again by about 50% in 2016.
UR's collaborative robots continue to gain traction at customers as customers increasingly recognize how their low entry cost and ease of deployment completely changes the economic equation for automating manufacturing operations.
Driven by compelling economics with ROIs often less than 12 months and the flexibility to perform repetitive or difficult tasks side-by-side with production workers we expect the collaborative robot market to grow at a high 50% plus per year rate for the foreseeable future.
In 2016 we will increase our OpEx in UR to both enable and capitalize on this growth.
To summarize our strategy for 2016 we will continue on the path that has delivered strong results for our customers stockholders and employees.
Number one make investments in engineering and distribution to ensure our products continue to grow market share by leading the industry in performance economics and ease of use.
Number two; maintain an efficient operating model that generates the returns to support those investments to power future growth.
And number three; maintain a capital allocation strategy that balances share repurchases dividends and attractive M&amp;A.
Looking specifically at capital allocation after repurchasing 300 million shares last year we have 200 million remaining on our existing authorization and expect to repurchase between 100 million to 200 million more this calendar year while paying about $50 million in dividends.
Additionally we continue to look at opportunities for profitable growth through M&amp;A.
Greg will provide details on our cash position in the U.S.
and offshore along with details on our 2015 repurchase program.
In summary Teradyne exited 2015 a stronger company financially competitively and we added a powerful growth dimension with Universal Robots.
Looking further into 2016 I am very excited about the market position of all the segments of Teradyne and our prospects for the year.
While we can't predict macroeconomic conditions I'm confident we have the people the products and the business processes that will allow Teradyne to thrive this year and beyond.
For additional details on Q4 and 2015 and our outlook for the first quarter I'll turn it over to Greg.
Treasurer &amp; VP</strong> Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll start with the key highlights of 2015 then I'll offer some comments on 2016 including our capital allocation plans and then I'll cover the fourth quarter results and first quarter outlook.
On the financial highlights front we had $1.64 billion of sales with a 21% operating profit rate and $323 million in free cash flow.
2015 was our first back-to-back year at over $1.6 billion in sales in over a decade.
Overcoming the historical odd year dips to about $1.4 billion in sales that we saw in 2011 and 2013.
The purchase of lease testers along with the SOC Test buy rate showing greater stability strength in Storage Test and the addition of Universal Robots have all contributed to break the oscillating revenue pattern.
In 2015 we deployed capital very strategically both to establish a new growth platform in industrial automation fund it with offshore cash and to buyback 6% on a net basis of our shares with domestic cash.
Our efficient operating model and proven ability to add new businesses allow us to both return significant capital and fund new high growth platforms concurrently.
The first piece of that capital deployment the purchase of UR is a major highlight of 2015.
UR is the standout leader in the fast growing collaborative robot space with its easy to train and redeploy cobots.
While it's early UR is off to a very strong start inside of Teradyne with fourth quarter sales of $22 million bringing its annual calendar year sales to $61 million up 56% from calendar 2014.
The second component of our capital deployment plan was the return of $351 million to shareholders through our buyback and dividend programs.
We bought back 15.6 million shares in 2015 at an average price of $19.21 and returned $51 million in dividends.
So all-in-all a good year and as you can see from our fourth quarter orders at $522 million we're capturing the beginning of another strong mobility complexity wave positioning us for a very solid 2016.
Now quickly to our 2016 capital allocation plans.
We plan on using between $100 million and $200 million for buybacks in 2016 depending on our M&amp;A pipeline and other factors.
Given our efficient operating model and greater diversification and stability we've reset our corporate-wide minimum cash level from $500 million to $400 million.
This balance of $400 million is about eight months worth of OpEx.
I should point out that we also have a pipeline of a small number of attractive M&amp;A opportunities which require that we preserve balance sheet flexibility.
Of course we'll constantly review the returns we can achieve from our M&amp;A pipeline against an even greater capital return.
The slide deck includes a schedule that shows our total cash and marketable securities balances along with our minimum cash needs.
You can also see that we have $588 million of offshore cash well above our $100 million minimum foreign balance.
This is the result of our lower offshore tax rate which when combined with our U.S.
rate results in an overall tax rate of about 21% for the full year 2015.
As we look deeper into 2016 we see another jump-up in mobility performance and complexity consistent with the even-year patterns we've talked about.
Add to this the lessening of the impacts of Parallel Tests and SOC Tests and added complexity in Devices and Packaging and we see another strong year ahead.
Beyond Semi Test we expect 50% plus growth for Universal Robots and healthy performance in both Wireless and System Test.
Before I add more color on 2016 let me quickly fill out the picture with some information on our performance and some key trends.
First we've shown that we are good stewards in businesses where others struggle.
Over the last five years despite the ebb and flow of test demand we've averaged 21% non-GAAP operating profit rate and approximately $260 million in annual free cash flow.
In Semi Test in just over the last three years we've gained 11 points of SOC Test share and 13 points in Memory Test reaching 51% share in SOC and 29% share in Memory Test while maintaining healthy gross margins and disciplined OpEx control.
We've done this by carefully targeting segments that have tailwinds such as mobility automotive and flash memory and avoiding those that are in decline or offer razor-thin margins such as MPU and peripheral equipment like package handlers.
We've designed products that win with clever architectural advantages in throughput accuracy and fast programming tools.
This has helped customers get their test economics high yields and fast time to market with Teradyne and in turn they have rewarded us with hard won market share and the top score in the VLSIresearch Customer Satisfaction award for the third year running.
We'll continue with this scalable formula while continuing to look for opportunities for further optimization.
Shifting quickly to SOC trends.
Device and package complexity are both increasing as higher performance is designed into thinner packages for mobile products.
As you know our business is driven forward by unit growth and complexity.
On the other side of the ledger our tester's own use of Moore's Law and parallel tests restrain growth.
These competing forces are breaking positive for the first time in years and the SOC Test capital intensity appears to have stabilized.
And significantly we're seeing more test drivers beyond smartphones gaining traction; in autos semi-content is forecasted to grow over 30% through 2020 and the fastest growing segment in auto is ATES (16:47) which is rich in device complexity and therefore test intensity.
While still early virtual reality is another driver of compute display and communications IC test demand expected later this decade.
We also expect packaging complexity to increase driving higher test times.
In Memory Test the major trend in NAND is for higher density and increasing bus interface speeds which is where Magnum excels.
It has broken into five of the top six flash memory manufacturers with its unique architecture for high throughput and performance headroom.
Turning now to Wireless Test with LitePoint strong product differentiation we delivered flat sales in a down market which pushed our market share in wireless production test to over 40% our highest ever.
We still have high concentration at one very good customer but we continue to make progress in broadening our customer base as well.
The lower than forecast smartphone production ramps from Asian makers where we won design-ins earlier were a headwind to these efforts in 2015.
Despite this and other market forces the business runs above the industry model 15% profit rate and has a rich pipeline of new products which we expect to establish market footholds in 2016 and higher volumes thereafter.
Longer term we expect multiyear periods of modest demand growth driven by incremental performance improvements in wireless products such as increased numbers of cellular (18:17) frequency bands extending up into the unlicensed 5 to 6 gigahertz band moving from a single Wi-Fi data stream to eight streams with MIMO and advanced standards such as 802.11ad.
Further out on the horizon is the large technology inflection of 5G.
In System (sic) [Storage] (18:34) Test the key highlights were successfully ramping our new 3.5-inch hard disc drive test into three different customers and scoring further SSD Test business which brought our total Storage Test sales to over $80 million up from more than twofold from 2014.
Overall Storage Test is a completely repositioned business with a versatile platform extendable to variety of test applications.
The end market fundamentals are strong with data center storage capacity growing at a forecasted 15% CAGR and SSDs at close to 40%.
At Universal Robots sales have grown over 50% annually for the last three years.
We maintain a significant product lead with faster train and easy-to-deploy cobots that are highly reliable and repeatable and are very safe to place alongside a human without caging or fencing apparatus.
UR cobots can do production tasks that are dirty dangerous or dull.
Some third parties tag the market  future market size to be over $3 billion by 2020 driven by greater adoption across diverse industries.
In 2015 UR further developed its distribution network expanding the number of distributors to about 200 and growing its UR capped accessories platform collectively turning our significant product lead into an ecosystem lead as well.
UR also successfully launched and is shipping in high volume its third cobot model the UR3 cobot which targets lighter test or tabletop applications.
Now moving to the segment level details.
Semi Test orders were $408 million the highest fourth quarter demand in over 15 years driven by Mobility.
SOC Test orders were $391 million and Memory Test orders were $17 million.
Semi Test service orders were $66 million of this total.
Semi Test sales were $205 million in the fourth quarter with SOC making up $180 million and Memory Test the balance.
Semi Test service revenue totaled $57 million in the fourth quarter.
Shifting to Wireless Test.
Orders were $30 million and sales were $32 million in the fourth quarter.
System Test orders were $66 million in the quarter and sales were $59 million.
Universal Robots had orders of $18 million and sales of $22 million in the fourth quarter.
Geographically UR sales were 45% in Europe 30% in North America and 25% in Asia.
At the company-level our sales were $318 million the non-GAAP operating profit rate was 10% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.13.
We had no 10% customer in the fourth quarter and one for the full year.
Non-GAAP gross margins were 55%.
You'll see our non-GAAP operating expenses were down $11 million to $141 million compared to the third quarter due to lower variable compensation accruals and approximately $5 million in certain one-time credits.
As planned our inventory increased $26 million in the fourth quarter as we added material to maintain attractive lead times.
Sales for the first quarter expected to be between $410 million and $440 million and the non-GAAP EPS range is $0.23 to $0.29 on 206 million diluted shares.
Q1 guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles.
Gross margins are expected at 53% and OpEx should be between 36% and 38% which includes some NREs and added Universal Robots spending.
We expect the first half of this year to have higher OpEx tied to new product programs but for the full year excluding UR we expect OpEx to be flat unlike sales levels.
The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our first quarter guidance is about 16%.
Our 2016 tax rate is expected to be about 20% down from prior guidance due to a higher mix of offshore profits and the reinstatement of the R&amp;D credit.
2016 we've earmarked $80 million to $100 million for CapEx about flat at the midpoint with 2015 levels of $90 million.
At the high end this includes a few tens of millions dollar for potential customer leases in 2016.
We don't expect the same volume of leases we placed in 2014; we may see some activity in our Semi Test segment.
So we start 2016 with our strongest start since 2004 driven by SOC Test strength.
And with Device and Packaging complexity going up while Parallel Test slows we see a healthy longer term picture for our largest business even before factoring in modest share gains.
Adding Universal Robots 50% plus annual growth ongoing healthy performance in System Test and Wireless Test we see a bright future ahead.
With that I'll turn the call back to Andy.
Thanks Greg.
Brandy we'd now like to take some of the questions.
And as a reminder please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Our first question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini with SIG.
Thanks for taking my question.
It seems like over the past several calls we come back to the topic of what is really the true TAM for the advanced packaging and I ask that because you had a very strong booking in your Semi Test and I think some of this has to do with the necessary build-out for advanced packaging that requires more wafer level test.
And I do understand that there is increased test time but again it's very important for us to understand to what extent this build-out for advanced packaging could sustain.
So to the extent that you can provide some color either quantitatively or qualitatively would be great? And I have a follow-up.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Well the build-out for advanced packaging at one level has been going on for several years.
Now this coming year will be a particularly larger shift to that kind of technology.
But our view is whether it's an advanced package or cingulated die packaging the incremental tester demand is somewhat invariant.
Now an advanced package is going to require a little bit more test time because of the complexity and the premium on wafer yields but incrementally as the world shifts more and more to advanced package we'll see incremental tester demand ride that incremental package.
Now if you look at advanced package part today it might be 10% longer test time because of the nature of that technology but over time if we look at 2017 2018 and 2019 that ratio of test time will increase beyond 10%.
As more and more die get put on the package the premium for good yields will continue to rise.
So I think advanced package in and of itself isn't necessarily a tooling exercise it's incremental capacity that goes in that requires incrementally longer test times beyond what a cingulated die would require.
Sure.
But how does  so if this is done at a foundry level then some of the OSAT guys will be doing less tests.
That context how should we think about the trade-off between one type of customer doing less and there's a new customer that is doing more of advanced packaging? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I think that right.
That's true of all technology shifts.
So the package type that's been handled in a certain OSAT as that volume declines and shifts to advanced packaging it just happens to occur at a different site.
And you know but overall that new site and that new package is going to have a longer test time.
It could occur  the OSATs themselves are developing their own versions of advanced package and so it could very well be that they'll be competing packaging technologies as there are today around advanced packaging and that both sides will grow in this new era of multi-die on a silicon substrate.
Got it.
And just a one quick follow-up for Greg.
Given the fact that your onshore cash has gone down and there's only $120 million left above the minimum is there anything that you're thinking or is there any discretion that you have to increase the cash onshore that could help boost the capital return program? Treasurer &amp; VP</span></strong> Mehdi absent frankly borrowing money not really.
We can't get the offshore cash back without some tax consequence.
But we certainly could borrow but we're trying to preserve the borrowing capacity for attractive M&amp;A.
Borrowing is out of favor now.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Atif Malik with Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on a good quarter and a strong guide.
Mark I fully agree with you that the test buy rates have stabilized since mid-2004.
The third-party data is showing it.
But we haven't seen the multiple expansion in your stock because of that and I believe a part of that has to do with this odd even effect of the years.
But with test buy rates stabilizing and you guys benefiting from the secular growth in advanced mobility packaging and auto and industrial kind of outperforming the broader semiconductor market what can break this odd/even pattern moving forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So I do think the odd/even pattern is diminishing.
You know the thing that drove the odd/even pattern was a combination of two things: unit volume growth and complexity growth.
So in even years as you looked at unit volume growth across the past four years it's been declining.
So that particular lever will go down.
The complexity issue that an even year will be more intense than an odd year will persist but begin to slow down as well.
When we look back at last year what I can see is the complexity advances in applications processors and LTE that went into the phones was higher than a typical odd year.
So I do see -- I would project that over the next two or three years we're going to find that little cycle dampen such that it's down below $100 million kind of number.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then Greg can you talk about the gross margin effect from the advanced mobility packaging testers moving forward? Treasurer &amp; VP</span></strong> What I'll talk about is this year we expect gross margins for the full year to look like gross margins in 2014 and 2012 that being 54%.
And with this large concentrated buying we tend to fall back to that number.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Farhan Ahmad with Credit Suisse.
Thanks for taking my question.
My first question is regarding the fourth quarter bookings the bookings came in very strong and you mentioned that it was primarily driven by smartphone related strength.
I wanted to ask is the smartphone strength pretty broad-based across customers and how's the customer concentration in the orders that you have received? Was it pretty much like driven by like one or two customers or was there broad-based strength? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well there's always been a concentration in that market.
But I would say that it wasn't atypical in fourth quarter.
Several providers of silicon or smartphones were strong in the fourth quarter.
So it wasn't sort of one customer but a typical mix of I would say market increase going into the next year.
Got it.
And do you know like what's driving that because it seems kind of surprising that the fourth quarter is strong.
Was it just like apps processor or was it RF apps processor and different applicationa that are going into smartphone and it's just that the build cycles for the smartphone that are a little bit earlier this year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think it's that the build cycles are a little bit earlier.
Certain manufacturers always have announcements of new phones in the late Q1 early Q2 period so that has always been part of the beginning of a bookings growth in the fourth quarter.
What's atypical is that some other manufacturers have moved I would say one to two months in on the typical build cycle.
Got it.
And then one question on China.
Like obviously like China end market is not doing very well but on a separate note China semi incentives have been pretty strong in terms of reported announcements of capital investment in advanced packaging and test area whether through M&amp;A or even like new OSATs.
So I just wanted to probe you a little bit there like are you seeing any strength particular strength out of China in terms of like new OSATs that are entering the space or like how's the exposure to China in your revenues is that something that you're seeing is inflecting higher? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Certainly China is growing faster than most regions for us.
The OSAT investments they're making are sort of driven by demand.
It's not I would say incremental.
It's really the growth of silicon that drives the aggregate increase in demand and in China several major  early on there were a series of small fabless companies in China trying to get a foothold in as design houses in silicon as being a silicon provider but what's emerged over the past few years is some of the major handset manufacturers have really developed robust internal silicon design capability.
So we expect that sort of native complex mobility related device volumes will grow above average out of China silicon design houses in the next few years.
And so that's obviously a place we've got a footprint and are focusing a lot of our sales energy.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
That's all I had.
Our next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri with Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi thanks.
I had a couple things.
I guess first of all I'm just trying to understand the guidance a little bit.
Greg so you built $408 million in Semi Test and the revenue guidance is $425 million for the whole company for Q1.
If I look at the coverage usually it's just sort of a simple exercise but if I look at the bookings in Semi Test in one quarter and then I sort of look at what you do in revenue during the next quarter it seems like you ought to do more in revenue in March.
Now maybe that's because some of those shipments are spread out into June.
So I guess my first question is is it seems a little conservative particularly given that you just saw about $150 million more in Semi Test orders than we thought and that's pretty much the amount that the SOC market will grow this year so I guess you could conclude that you've sort of already seen the bump from Info so maybe you can talk about that? Treasurer &amp; VP</span></strong> Tim the way the bookings  obviously they've come in very strong there are shipments that are scheduled to ship in April.
So they're just going to  some of them are going to miss March.
So we see Q4 Q1 should be very strong demand and those shipments are going to take place Q1 Q2.
And we see mobility as very strong this year stronger than last year.
But it's just how some of these shipments are falling into particular months.
Some are going to fall just outside of Q1.
Okay.
Then I guess Greg just as a bottoms-up I'm just kind of looking at where the Street is.
And I'm -- your stock is down 5% and everyone's asking why that's the case because it seems like a pretty constructive set of numbers.
So when I get to the bottoms-up math it seems like you're guiding if I take the SOC market up like you say and I had you gain a couple bps of share couple hundred bps of share and then I have you gain a couple hundred bps of share also in Memory you could gain maybe $150 million year-over-year in Semi Test.
You've told us that UR is going to double this year and if I assume LitePoint is flat and I assume that the Systems business is flat that gives me an incremental $200 million in revenue year-over-year.
So that would sort of say that this year's revenue ought to be in the $1.8 billion $1.85 billion range which is above where Wall Street's thinking right now.
So is that math wrong? I know you don't want to guide full year but is $1.8 billion $1.85 billion reasonable? Treasurer &amp; VP</span></strong> Yes.
We don't guide revenues.
It's too difficult for us to do.
But I think if I had to speculate as to what's going on is why there's some confusion is our first quarter OpEx is higher than what you would expect.
So I think that may throw some folks off.
And I tried to say in my prepared remarks that in the first half as I said of NREs and other one-time spending tied to some new product programs and that's going to lessen and it should not be present in the second half.
So Teradyne's spending is going to be consistent with last year except for we're going to invest in Universal Robots and that's tied to high growth.
So my only sort of  maybe it's not a direct response Tim is I think the OpEx may throw some off but I tried to explain it  I tried to explain right here as well.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yep.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Diffely with D.A.
Davidson.
Yes good morning.
One more question on the Mobility demand.
So is this demand solely driven by unit and test times going up or are there certain chips or functions that need a new tester to perform the test? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There's very little new tester capability in this.
It's really units and complexity that's driving it.
Okay.
And then so when you look at your demand how much of it is just having a new player versus the industry needs more capacity? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think overall what's going on it's the industry that needs more capacity versus new player.
And that capacity is not atypical from what we've seen before.
And in our case the one thing perhaps that's different when we look at the packaging change that's going on in conjunction with the complexity change of the silicon itself is there's a double effect here.
So typically we would see demand increase just because let's say apps processors or power management ICs or image sensors were increasing in complexity.
That drives up test time.
We've seen that in prior years.
This year you have to multiply that by maybe 1.1 in order to get the effect of a little bit more fault coverage in the advanced package world.
Okay.
All right.
And then Greg you talked about a minimum cash level of $400 million.
Do you have a minimum on-shore cash level that you're targeting? Treasurer &amp; VP</span></strong> Yes that's $300 million and $100 million is offshore which makes the $400 million.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of C.J.
Muse with Evercore.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
I guess first question I guess a couple parts around the SOC side.
Can you talk about what would get the overall run rate to the high end of the range? And as part of that conversation can you speak to whether or not there are any leases this year? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So again it's very difficult to look out.
The things that could happen and get it at the high or above the high end of range first would be -- we're projecting a relatively weaker microcontroller and automotive market this year.
Now that's very hard for us to read but this is based just on what we see occurring toward the end of the year and some of the conservatism in the customer base.
Some of the M&amp;A activity going on also slows down and gives a little bit of a visibility cloud there.
So as that clears up there could be a snapback of tooling needed to get the new entity back up and running full speed.
So we're preparing ourselves for that.
On Mobility that looks strong.
One of the things though that occurred if we look at fourth quarter is as we were in the November period of time the forecast for 2016 capacity for Mobility was quite a bit more robust than it ended up toward the end of December as the macroeconomic conditions in China and the stock market started to waiver people became much more cautious.
So it could very well be that all that passes by and we see mobility larger than we expect automotive and MCUs larger than we expect.
And that drives it up to the $2.5 billion number or higher.
That's helpful.
And then I guess a question on the OpEx side.
I know you really can't guide full year OpEx but maybe I can ask it this way.
Right now in Q1 you're running about $6 million above your target model for UR investments.
Can you share with us what the aggregate uplift in UR investments will be for the year relative to your target model? And then as part of that question when should we see revenues come in from that uptick in your investments in service and field ops? Treasurer &amp; VP</span></strong> Okay C.J.
UR we would expect the revenue to come in similar to how it has come in every year.
Its falls back a bit in the first quarter and then increases each quarter thereafter and has a high concentration in the fourth quarter with end of year budget money or what have you.
And we expect UR after about $60 million sales to be $90 million plus.
So we are investing there opening more offices hiring people sales hunters application people.
So there is more spending and advertising going into that.
UR was about a 15% profit rate for us in  well for their calendar year they were 15% in 2015.
In 2016 if we see higher growth we may invest a bit more to get the next round of growth and stay ahead.
But in terms of let's just say our OpEx I think the key thing to try to outline for you guys is taking out UR we expect OpEx for the company at like sales to be flat and that includes we're funding the salary increases people get each year through productivity or workforce shaping or finding lower cost so flat with emphasis.
In UR there will be more spending and if you say how much it ranges.
Depends what we see.
So we can meter it anywhere from say $7 million a quarter OpEx is now maybe we go to $10 million maybe we go to $11 million it all depends what we see.
But the higher we go the more you're going to see the sales and/or the sales right around the corner.
So I hope that answered your question with that.
Yeah that's great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Chin with UBS.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just following up on the pull-ins in the fourth quarter just to clarify it sounds like first quarter and maybe second quarter a little bit are benefiting from those pull-ins but then should we think about modeling the rest of the year a little bit lower than historically? And then just for the full year that nothing really changed it's just sort of a more lumpy year than what we've seen typically? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's really hard for us to see what's going to happen.
The question really is what's going to happen out in third quarter.
Typically second and third quarter are the peak quarters for the year.
And this earlier tooling that's occurring means that the installations are starting a little bit earlier.
The revenue will start a little bit earlier.
But I would struggle to say what does that imply for the third quarter.
First and second should absolutely  that's about as far as we have visibility not even maybe beyond April at this point.
But it could very well be the third quarter is strong as well.
Got it.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just as my follow-up just more of a high level on the SOC Test market returning to a growth CAGR.
Have you seen any additional data points of this or either quantitatively or anecdotally that gives you more confidence that the market can actually return to secular growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> At the microcosm level yes absolutely.
Part of the theory and thesis that it returns to growth is predicated on a slowing effect of Parallel Test and as we look at mobility devices we've seen that slowing occur much faster than we expected over the past two years.
So that is a early early indicator to us that this is really inflecting back in a positive direction.
Now there's other segments of the market such as automotive linear and microcontroller that still will be on a lag a little bit mobility in terms of its has some towed around parallelism.
But what we look at is over the course of 2002 until 2012 2013 an increasing deployment of parallelism.
2014 and 2015 in these big big mobility segments that has stalled and in some cases inflected back the other way.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yeah hi.
Thanks for taking my questions and really congrats on such a strong results out there.
Two quick questions.
Not to beat this OpEx question to death but is it fair to assume the second half of the year OpEx for you guys should come down relative to the first half? Treasurer &amp; VP</span></strong> Yes the second half should come down relative to the first half and that decrease will be in all areas other than Universal Robots.
I would expect Universal Robots to increase OpEx throughout the year.
But the other NREs temporary contractors racing to get some new products completed that's lined up quite considerably in the first half of the year which is unusual to have this much going on in multiple divisions and it's all contributed at the same time in Q1 and linking into Q2.
But again I try to be clear that for the full year we expect OpEx to be flat except for UR at like sales levels.
And again that includes funding salary increases.
Got it.
Got it.
And then I think you guys did explain the gross margin.
You do see some volume pricing discount.
Is it the main reason for the gross margin being lower or is there also a headwind from the fact that the microcontroller order market might be weaker so that is actually being a little bit of head room on the gross margin side? Treasurer &amp; VP</span></strong> It's ultimately mix.
You can pick different things and get to the same place.
So I could have looked at it that way but the biggest swing factor for us has been the concentrated buying in the even years albeit last year was a good year but as you know we sold lease testers that were partially on in the field for a while.
54% is kind of a normal margin that you'd expect at this level of buying.
Fair enough.
Thanks a lot.
Just a quick follow-up if I could.
Off your $2.3 billion roughly in SOC market size is there a way to quantify how much of that is Mobility? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's always a challenge to do that.
Roughly $2.3 billion somewhere  let me just look it up here.
Somewhere close to $1 billion of that might be Mobility.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Jagadish Iyer with Redstone Technology.
Yes.
Mark two questions.
I'm just trying to reconcile just as a follow-up to the prior question I'm just trying to reconcile given all the commentary that we have heard from the smartphone makers what gives you the optimism that the SOC market is going to be up year-over-year? Why can't it be flat or even down given what all we are seeing on the smartphone market? Is there something that we are missing? And then I have a follow-up.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah is your question up or down in the test market or in the silicon market? Semi Test in the Semi Test.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Semi Test yeah.
So the thing that gives me confidence is what I was describing earlier looking at the test times and the diminishing parallelism.
So the complexity of the devices we know at this point that are going to be launched this year so that's done.
The relative time to test the devices we know pretty much.
It's not completely baked but we've got a pretty good range on that.
So the combination of time times time and complexity is a known quantity.
So what is more speculative is units and for units various people are saying smartphone and mobility units could be flat could be up 5% could be up 7%.
We kind of model it to be probably zero to 5%.
So if it's more than that that's upside.
So the known quantities that we see are time to test let's say the unit test time for silicon in a phone.
And the thing we have to somewhat guess at is the growth rate of phones.
Okay.
And then on the Wireless Test side I just see that the market seems to be coming down.
Is there something that is kind of happening there or do we see further declines going out this year and going into next year? Are there any other offerings that you could make in terms of improving your participation in that market? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah that market as we mentioned in our opening comments was about $425 million in size last year.
When we look at this year there's no real major technology wave inflection coming that could drive that significantly higher.
So we're looking at this year to be roughly flat with last year.
The thing over the horizon that will come is the 802.11ad standard in the 60-gigahertz band.
The interesting thing about that is up until now all the success of connectivity standards as you go from B to G to N to AC that's been all integrated and incorporated into a single piece of silicon.
And the test equipment to test those integrated devices has essentially been a LitePoint box that gets reused generation to generation.
At 60-gigahertz it's a whole new ballgame it's a different piece of silicon it's not integrated it can't be integrated.
It's just a very different beast and requires a different test insertion.
So we look at the 802.11ad deployment starting in 2017 as the next connectivity wave.
The other thing Greg mentioned is further out in the cellular side will be 5G technologies but that's beyond 2017.
So what we're doing at LitePoint in addition to going after the AD is looking at other adjacent markets such as Protocol Testing.
So testing not the electronic capability and calibrating the electronic capability of the chips and the devices but also at a user level at user experience level testing the parts.
So that's another example of a product we'll be introducing this year that will ramp next year in a new market.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Duley with Steelhead.
Thanks for taking my question.
A bunch of questions on the advanced packaging front thus far.
And I guess simply put we're kind of trying to figure out how the test intensity changes.
Maybe you could just give us an example an application processor moves into a fan-out package what's the increase in overall test time that you might see from that kind of an event? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So the device simply moving into  if that was the only device moving into that advanced package there would be very little test time impact.
But in conjunction with that move other passive devices for example may move into that substrate.
That increases the test time.
So resisters capacitors other things you would typically find perhaps on a printed circuit board in a phone or a flex print board will move onto the substrate.
Those things from a semiconductor test point of view were never in the mix for being tested.
So that adds some complexity.
But that's not the big trend.
Over the horizon we'll be incorporating more and more other pieces of silicon into that package.
So the AP alone gives what I was describing earlier maybe a 10% bump to test time but as you also put in power management ICs RF transceivers Wi-Fi chips onto that substrate then that intensity increases beyond that 10% factor.
So if you added up the test time of let's say the five or six chips the key chips in a phone cingulated then instead of cingulated manufacturing incorporate all the die in a single advanced packaged substrate you're going to see everything else being equal a test time that's 1.2 plus times longer than if they were cingulated.
And that's  that still may be a year or two away  first step.
Okay.
And could you talk a little bit about what you think the impact of the order pull-ins were in the fourth quarter how much do you think did get pulled in from the first quarter or later this year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's probably on the order of a couple hundred million.
So when we look across Q4 and Q1 we expect that the combined two-quarter period will actually show bookings up pretty significantly over our prior Q4 and Q1 average.
So as far as we can have visibility at this point the net momentum in Q1 in other words that $200 million order didn't come out of Q1 per se.
Q1 still looks pretty strong in terms of orders.
So yes $200 million showed up in Q4 but it's not yet clear to us that that means we're going to be down $200 million across Q1 and Q2.
So you think that Q1 orders will still be robust and..? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
In other words I don't expect that they would be $200 million down simply because we received $200 million of advanced orders in Q4.
Okay.
Final thing from me is you talked about improving Mobility demand.
Did you see improvement from the Android food chain or is this more the iOS food chain? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I don't want to get into the specifics around that.
Okay.
Thank you.
And operator we have time for just one more call please.
Certainly.
Our final question comes from the line of Patrick Ho with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
I just have one question on the cobot market as a whole.
Given your early entry into that market you see the opportunities for growth right now.
How do you see the competitive environment shaping up both for 2016 over the next couple of years and I guess the reference point that I'm trying to use is the Wireless Test market you've got it you had some really early growth but then obviously the competition helped I guess crater that market how do you see the cobot market shaping up both for 2016 and over the next few years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Great question.
So first of all just to go back to the wireless space it was a little bit different in wireless.
LitePoint was a late comer to that market but it came with a disruptive (58:17) product for manufacturing.
So it came in disrupted the big players.
Everybody grew like mad in 2012 in Wireless Test including LitePoint.
And what's occurred since then as the markets contracted there's four or five big guys in a shrinking room.
LitePoint is picking up share.
It's gone from 20% share in that boom period to 40% share today.
But they were a late comer so very different.
On the collaborative robot side of life here we're in a market where UR is clearly the leader and out ahead.
60% 70% share.
So everybody else is trying to catch up and that as Greg described is why we are spending our time and strategy and money around developing the ecosystem to support our product line our protocols in advance of this wave in the market developing.
The growth rate in collaborative robots is something that we're convinced is going to be at a very high greater than 50% level for many many years.
And so we've get to get out and stay out ahead of it.
We are ahead.
And everybody that's in a traditional robot business and emerging startups will eventually try to enter this market.
We're convinced of that.
But if we have the ecosystem in place to make our products the easiest to deploy the access to integrators who can solve whether it's pharmaceutical chemistry assembly machine tending all these different applications that today we have we will be the easiest place to go for automating these tasks.
So little bit of long-winded answer but it's to my mind a very different position we start with here.
It's a leading position and it's very promising.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Well great.
Thanks everyone for joining us today and we look forward to talking with you in the days and weeks ahead.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.